 ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

General 

Cavco Industries, Inc., a Delaware corporation, was formed on June 30, 2003 as a successor corporation to previous Cavco entities operating since 1965. Headquartered in Phoenix, Arizona, the Company designs and produces factory-built homes primarily distributed through a network of independent and Company-owned retailers, planned community operators and residential developers. We are the second largest producer of manufactured homes in the United States, based on reported wholesale shipments, marketed under a variety of brand names, which include Cavco Homes, Fleetwood Homes, Palm Harbor Homes, Fairmont Homes and Chariot Eagle. The Company is also a leading builder of park model RVs, vacation cabins and systems-built commercial structures, as well as modular homes built primarily under the Nationwide Homes brand. Our mortgage subsidiary, CountryPlace Acceptance Corp. ("CountryPlace"), is an approved Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac seller/servicer, a Ginnie Mae mortgage backed securities issuer and offers conforming mortgages, non-conforming mortgages and chattel loans to purchasers of factory-built and site-built homes. Our insurance subsidiary, Standard Casualty Co. ("Standard Casualty"), provides property and casualty insurance to owners of manufactured homes. The terms "Cavco," "us," "we," "our," the "Company," and any other similar terms refer to Cavco Industries, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries, unless otherwise indicated in this Annual Report on Form 10-K ("Annual Report"). 

We construct our homes using an assembly-line process in which each module or floor section is assembled in stages. Our assembly-line process is designed to be flexible enough to accommodate significant customization, as requested by our customers. The Company operates 19 &#32;homebuilding facilities located in the Pacific, Mountain, Midwest, South Central and South Atlantic regions. These factories range in size from 41,000 to 341,000 square feet. 

We distribute our homes through 45 &#32;Company-owned U.S. retail outlets and a network of independent distribution points in 44 &#32;states, Canada, Japan and Mexico. A significant number of these independent distribution points are located in Arizona, California, Florida, Texas, Oregon and Kentucky. Thirty-two &#32;of our Company-owned retail stores are located in Texas. See "Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations &#8212; Industry and Company Outlook." 

CountryPlace originates single-family residential mortgages and chattel loans, and services, for itself and others, conforming mortgages, non-conforming land-home mortgages and manufactured home chattel loans. CountryPlace is authorized by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development ("HUD") to directly endorse Federal Housing Administration ("FHA") Title I and Title II mortgage insurance, is an approved lender with the U.S. Department of Veteran Affairs ("VA") and the U.S. Department of Agriculture ("USDA") under its Single Family Housing Guaranteed Loan Program, is approved by the Government National Mortgage Association ("GNMA" or "Ginnie Mae") to issue GNMA-insured mortgage-backed securities and is authorized to sell mortgages to, and service mortgages for, the Federal National Mortgage Association ("FNMA" or "Fannie Mae") and the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation ("FHLMC" or "Freddie Mac"). A conforming mortgage or loan is one that conforms to the guidelines of a Government-Sponsored Enterprise ("GSE"), such as Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac or a government agency, such as FHA; a non-conforming mortgage or loan does not conform to these guidelines (see Note 5 &#32;to the Consolidated Financial Statements). 

Standard Casualty is domiciled in Texas and is primarily a specialty writer of manufactured home physical damage insurance. Standard Casualty holds insurance licenses in multiple states; however, a significant portion of its writings occur in Texas and Arizona. In addition to writing direct policies, Standard Casualty assumes and cedes reinsurance in the ordinary course of business (see Note 13 &#32;to the Consolidated Financial Statements). 

See Note 23 &#32;to the Consolidated Financial Statements for financial information regarding our business segments (factory-built housing and financial services), both of which are discussed below. 

Industry Overview 

General. &#32;Manufactured housing provides an alternative in urban, suburban and rural areas to other forms of new low-cost housing such as site-built housing and condominiums, and to existing housing such as pre-owned homes and apartments. According to statistics published by the Institute for Building Technology and Safety ("IBTS") and the United States Department of Commerce, Bureau of the Census, for the 2015 &#32;calendar year, manufactured housing wholesale shipments of homes constructed in accordance with the National Manufactured Home Construction and Safety Standards promulgated by HUD ("HUD code") accounted for an estimated 12.3% &#32;of all new single-family homes sold. 

According to data reported by the Manufactured Housing Institute ("MHI"), during calendar year 2015 , our industry shipped approximately 71,000 &#32;HUD code manufactured homes. This followed approximately 64,000 &#32;homes shipped in 2014 , 60,000 &#32;in 2013 , 55,000 &#32;in 2012 &#32;and 52,000 &#32;shipped in calendar year 2011, the lowest levels since shipment statistics began to be recorded in 1959. Annual home shipments from 2006 to 2015 were less than the annual home shipments for each of the 40 years from 1963 to 2005. For the past 10 and 20-year periods, annual home shipments averaged 70,000 &#32;and 158,000 , respectively. While industry HUD code manufactured home shipments improved modestly during the three most recent years, the manufactured housing industry continues to operate at relatively low levels compared to historical shipment statistics. 

We believe the segment of the housing market in which manufactured housing is most competitive includes consumers with household incomes under $60,000. This segment has a high representation of young single persons and young married couples, as well as persons age 55 and older. The comparatively low cost of fully-equipped manufactured housing is attractive to these consumers. Persons in rural areas and those who presently live in manufactured homes also make up a significant portion of the demand for new manufactured housing. Innovative engineering and design, as well as efficient production techniques, continue to position manufactured homes to meet the demand for affordable housing in markets such as rural areas and manufactured housing communities. The markets for affordable factory-built housing are very competitive as well as cyclical and seasonal. The industry is sensitive to employment levels, consumer confidence, availability of financing and general economic conditions. 

Protracted Industry Downturn. &#32;Since mid-1999, the manufactured housing industry has experienced a prolonged and significant downturn. This downturn has resulted in part from the fact that, beginning in 1999, consumer lenders in the sector began to tighten underwriting standards and curtail credit availability in response to higher than anticipated rates of loan defaults and significant losses upon the repossession and resale of the manufactured homes securing defaulted loans. From 2004 to 2007, the industry&#8217;s downturn was exacerbated by the aggressive financing methods available to customers of developers and marketers of standard site-built homes, which had the effect of diverting potential manufactured housing buyers to more expensive site-built homes. Since 2008, the global credit crisis and general deterioration of economic conditions have extended the depressed market conditions in which our industry operates. These factors have resulted in low wholesale shipment levels and underutilized manufacturing and retail locations. 

As a result of the foregoing factors, and based on industry data as of the end of 2015 , the number of active industry manufacturing facilities was 121 , a decrease of 202 &#32;facilities since the end of 1999, representing a 63% &#32;reduction. Weak industry conditions have adversely affected the results of operations of all of the major producers of manufactured homes, including our Company. 

Business Strategies 

Our marketing strategy is to offer a line of manufactured homes that appeal to a wide range of home buyers. Our principal focus is on two large and diverse markets, which include the sale of high-value homes to entry-level and move-up buyers and to persons age 55 and older. We also market to special niches such as subdivision developers and vacation home buyers. 

Our production strategy is to develop and maintain the resources necessary to build to varied and unique customer specifications in an efficient factory production environment. This enables us to attract retailers and consumers who want the flexibility to build homes to meet their specific needs, but still seek the value created by building a home on a factory production line. 

Our competitive strategy is to build homes of superior quality, offer innovative designs and floor plans, demonstrate exceptional value and provide the engineering and technical resources to enable custom home building and be responsive and efficient in servicing the customer after the sale. We strive to maintain a competitive advantage by reacting quickly to changes in the marketplace and to the specific needs of our retailers and consumers. 

The purchase of the Fleetwood Homes, Inc. ("Fleetwood") and Palm Harbor Homes, Inc. ("Palm Harbor") assets in August 2009 and April 2011, respectively, provided further operating capacity, increased home production capabilities and distribution and entry into financial and insurance businesses specific to the Company&#8217;s industry, allowing the Company to be vertically integrated. The transactions further expanded the Company&#8217;s geographic reach at a national level by adding factories and retail locations serving the Northwest, West, South, South Central and Mid-Atlantic regions. 

In addition, the purchase of Chariot Eagle, LLC ("Chariot Eagle") and Fairmont Homes, LLC ("Fairmont Homes"), in March 2015 and May 2015, respectively, provides for further operating capacity, increased home production capabilities and distribution into new markets such as the Midwest, the western Great Plains states, the Northeast and several provinces in Canada. These operations included manufacturing facilities in Ocala, Florida; Nappanee, Indiana; and two factories in Montevideo, Minnesota. 

Products 

We are the second largest producer of manufactured homes in the United States, based on reported wholesale shipments, marketed under a variety of brand names including Cavco Homes, Fleetwood Homes, Palm Harbor Homes, Fairmont Homes and Chariot Eagle. The Company is also a leading producer of modular homes, built primarily under the Nationwide Homes brand, as well as park model RVs, vacation cabins and systems-built commercial structures. 

Approximately 83% &#32;of our products are constructed in accordance with the HUD code. We also build park model RVs, constructed to standards approved by the American National Standards Institute, a private, non-profit organization that administers and coordinates a voluntary standardization and conformity program. Park model RVs are less than 400 square feet in size, are primarily used as vacation dwellings and seasonal living, and are placed in planned communities, recreational home parks and resorts. We also produce a wide variety of modular homes, which include single and multi-section/modular ranch-style dwellings, split-level homes, Cape Cod style homes, two and three story homes and multi-family units. We also build commercial modular structures including apartment buildings, condominiums, hotels, workforce housing, schools and housing for U.S. military troops (e.g., barracks). Commercial buildings are constructed in the same facilities in which we build our residential homes using similar assembly line processes and techniques. These commercial projects are generally engineered to the purchaser&#8217;s specifications. The buildings are transported to the customer&#8217;s site in the same manner as homes and are often set by crane and finished at the site. 

We produce our residential homes in a variety of floor plans. Most of these homes are single-story and generally range in size from approximately 500 to 3,300 square feet, but may be larger in the case of multi-level modular homes. In fiscal years 2016 &#32;and 2015 , we sold 12,339 &#32;and 9,999 &#32;homes, respectively. 

Each home typically contains a living room, dining area, kitchen, one to five bedrooms and one or more bathrooms, and is equipped with central heating and hot water systems, kitchen appliances, carpeting and window treatments. Feature upgrades include fireplaces, central air conditioning, tile roofs, high ceilings, skylights, hardwood floors, custom cabinetry, granite countertops and energy conservation elements. We also offer a variety of structural and decorative customizations to meet the home buyer's specifications. With manufacturing centers strategically positioned across the nation, we utilize local market research to design homes to meet the demands of our customers. We have the ability to react and modify floor plans and designs to consumers&#8217; specific needs. By offering a full range of homes from entry-level models to large custom homes and with the ability to engineer designs in-house, we can accommodate virtually any customer request. 

We are focused on building quality, energy efficient homes for the modern home buyer. Green building involves the creation of an energy efficient envelope, including higher utilization of renewable materials. These homes provide environmentally-friendly maintenance requirements, generally lower utility costs, specially designed ventilation systems, best use of space and passive solar orientation. 

Our manufactured homes are constructed and equipped at our factories. The finished home is then primarily transported by independent trucking companies either to a retail sales center, planned community, housing development, work site or the customer's site. Retailers or other independent installers are responsible for placing the home on site and, in most instances, arranging for connections to utilities and providing installation and finish-out services. Although our manufactured homes are designed to be transportable, very few are moved from their original site after installation. 

We are constantly introducing new floor plans, decors, exteriors, features and accessories to appeal to changing trends in different regions of the country. Our factory-built homes are designed after extensive field research and consumer feedback. We have developed engineering systems which, through the use of computer-aided technology, permit customization of homes and assist with product development and enhancement. We work with a variety of partners, meeting an expanding range of housing needs from a home buyer&#8217;s private land to planned neighborhoods to recreational or resort properties to accommodations for workforces in agriculture and industry. 

Factory-built Housing 

Manufacturing Operations . Our homes are constructed in plant facilities using an assembly-line process employing from 75 &#32;to 300 &#32;employees at each facility. Most of our homes are constructed in one or more sections (also known as floors or modules) on a permanently affixed steel or wood support chassis. Each section is assembled in stages beginning with the construction of the chassis, followed by the addition of other constructed and purchased components and ending with a final quality control inspection. The efficiency of the assembly-line process and the benefits of constructing homes in a controlled factory environment enables us to produce quality homes in less time and at a lower cost per square foot than building homes on individual sites. 

We operate 19 &#32;manufacturing facilities in Millersburg and Woodburn, Oregon; Nampa, Idaho; Riverside, California; Phoenix and Goodyear, Arizona; Austin, Fort Worth, Seguin and Waco, Texas; Montevideo, Minnesota (2); Nappanee, Indiana; Lafayette, Tennessee; Martinsville and Rocky Mount, Virginia; Douglas, Georgia; and Ocala and Plant City, Florida. These manufacturing facilities range from approximately 41,000 to 341,000 square feet of floor space. The production schedules for our manufacturing facilities are based on wholesale orders received from independent and Company-owned retailers, which fluctuate from week to week. In general, however, our facilities are structured to operate on a one shift per day, five days per week basis, and we currently manufacture a typical home in approximately six production days. During the fiscal quarters ended April 2, 2016 &#32;and March 28, 2015 , our rates of production were approximately 84 &#32;and 61 &#32;home sections per day, respectively. 

Manufactured housing is a regional business and the primary geographic market for a typical manufacturing facility is within a 350-mile radius. Each of our manufacturing facilities serves multiple retailers along with a large number of one-time purchasers. Because we produce homes to fill existing wholesale orders, our manufacturing plants generally do not carry finished goods inventories, except for homes awaiting delivery. 

The principal materials used in the production of our manufactured homes include wood, wood products, steel, aluminum, gypsum wallboard, windows, doors, fiberglass insulation, carpet, vinyl, fasteners, plumbing materials, appliances and electrical items. We buy these materials from various third-party manufacturers and distributors. The inability to obtain any materials used in the production of our homes, whether resulting from material shortages, limitation of supplier facilities or other events affecting production of component parts, may affect our ability to meet or maintain production requirements. 

At April 2, 2016 , we had a backlog of home orders with wholesale sales values of approximately $47.9 million , compared to a backlog of $47.4 million &#32;at March 28, 2015 . Retailers may cancel orders prior to production without penalty. After production of a particular home has commenced, the order becomes noncancelable and the retailer is obligated to take delivery of the home. Accordingly, until production of a particular home has commenced, we do not consider our order backlog to be firm orders. Because of the seasonality of the housing market, the level of our order backlog historically declines during the winter months. 

Revenue and Distribution . The Company sold 12,339 , 9,999 &#32;and 9,379 &#32;homes in fiscal years 2016 , 2015 &#32;and 2014 , respectively, through Company-owned and independent distribution channels. 

As of April 2, 2016 , we had a total of 45 &#32;Company-owned retail centers, located in Oregon, Arizona, New Mexico, Texas, Oklahoma, Louisiana, Virginia, North Carolina and Florida. Thirty-two &#32;of the Company-owned retail stores are located in Texas. Our Company-owned sales centers are generally located on main roads or highways for high visibility. Each of our Company-owned retail sales centers has a sales office, which is generally a factory-built structure, and a variety of model homes of various sizes, floor plans, features and prices. Customers may order a home that will be built at a manufacturing facility or they may purchase a home from an inventory of homes maintained at the location, including a model home. Model homes may be displayed in a residential setting with sidewalks and landscaping. Each sales center usually employs a manager and one to five salespersons, who are compensated through a combination of salary and commission. As of April 2, 2016 , Company-owned sales centers had an average inventory of 16 &#32;new homes per location. We internally finance our home inventories. 

As of April 2, 2016 , we had a network of independent distribution points, of which 15% &#32;were in Arizona, 13% &#32;in Texas, 10% &#32;in California, 9% &#32;in Florida, 7% &#32;in Oregon and 5% &#32;in Kentucky. The remaining 41% &#32;were in 38 &#32;other states, Canada, Japan and Mexico. As is common in the industry, our independent distributors typically sell manufactured homes produced by other manufacturers in addition to those we produce. Some independent retailers operate multiple sales outlets. No independent retailer accounted for 10% or more of our factory-built housing revenue during any fiscal year within the three-year period ended April 2, 2016 . 

We continually seek to increase our wholesale shipments by growing sales at our existing independent retailers and by finding new independent retailers to sell our homes. We provide comprehensive sales training to retail sales associates and bring them to our manufacturing facilities for product training and to view new product designs as they are developed. These training seminars facilitate the sale of our homes by increasing the skill and knowledge of the retail sales consultants. In addition, we display our products in trade shows and support our retailers through the distribution of floor plan literature, brochures, decor selection displays, point of sale promotional material, as well as internet-based marketing assistance. 

Independent retailers frequently finance a portion of their home purchases through wholesale floor plan financing arrangements. In most cases, we receive a deposit or a commitment from the retailer's lender for each home ordered. We then manufacture the home and it is shipped at the retailer's expense. Payment is due from the lender upon shipment of the product. For a description of wholesale floor plan financing arrangements used by independent retailers and our obligations in connection with these arrangements, see "Financing&#8212;Commercial Financing" below. 

Warranties. &#32;We provide the retail home buyer a one-year limited warranty covering defects in material or workmanship in home structure, plumbing and electrical systems. Nonstructural components of a cosmetic nature are warranted for 120 days, except in specific cases where state laws require longer warranty terms. Our warranty does not extend to installation and setup of the home, which is generally arranged by the retailer. Appliances, carpeting, roofing and certain other components are warranted by their original manufacturer for various lengths of time. Refer to our discussion of the Magnuson-Moss Warranty Federal Trade Commission Improvement Act under "Government Regulation" below. 

Financial Services 

Finance . We provide a source of home buyer financing to our customers on competitive terms through our subsidiary, CountryPlace. CountryPlace offers conforming mortgages, non-conforming mortgages and chattel loans to purchasers of numerous brands of factory-built homes sold by Company-owned retail sales centers and certain independent retailers, builders, communities and developers. CountryPlace is authorized to directly endorse FHA Title I and Title II mortgage insurance, is an approved lender with the VA and the USDA under its Single Family Housing Guaranteed Loan Program, is approved to issue GNMA-insured mortgage-backed securities, and is authorized to sell mortgages to, and service mortgages for Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. Most loans originated through CountryPlace are sold to investors. CountryPlace also provides various loan servicing functions for non-affiliated entities under contract. 

All of CountryPlace&#8217;s loan contracts held are fixed rate and have monthly scheduled payments of principal and interest. The scheduled payments for each contract would, if made on their respective due dates, result in a full amortization of the contract. Loan contracts secured by collateral that is geographically concentrated could experience higher rates of delinquencies, default and foreclosure losses than loan contracts secured by collateral that is more geographically dispersed. CountryPlace has loan contracts secured by factory-built homes located in 29 &#32;states, including Texas, Florida, New Mexico, Arizona and Alabama. 

Changes in laws or other events that adversely affect liquidity in the secondary mortgage market could hurt our business. The GSEs, principally Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac, and Ginnie Mae, as well as the FHA, play a significant role in buying home mortgages and creating investment securities that are either sold to investors or held in their portfolios. These organizations provide essential liquidity to the secondary mortgage market. Any new federal laws or regulations that restrict or curtail their activities, or any other events or conditions that prevent or restrict these enterprises from continuing their historic businesses, could affect the ability of our customers to obtain loans or could increase home loan interest rates, fees and credit standards. This could reduce demand for our homes and/or the loans that we originate and adversely affect our results of operations. 

We believe that providing financing alternatives to our customers improves our responsiveness to the financing needs of prospective purchasers and provides us with opportunities for additional sources of loan origination and servicing revenues. 

Insurance . Standard Casualty specializes in homeowner property and casualty insurance products for the manufactured housing industry. Standard Casualty is domiciled in Texas and is primarily a specialty writer of manufactured home physical damage insurance. Standard Casualty holds insurance licenses in multiple states; however, a significant portion of its writings occur in Texas and Arizona. In addition to writing direct policies, Standard Casualty assumes and cedes reinsurance in the ordinary course of business. In Texas, the policies are written through one affiliated managing general agent, which produces all premiums, except surety, and through local agents, most of which are manufactured home retailers. All business outside the state of Texas is written on a direct basis through local agents. 

Financing 

Commercial Financing. &#32;Certain of our wholesale factory-built housing sales to independent retailers were purchased through wholesale floor plan financing arrangements. Under a typical floor plan financing arrangement, an independent financial institution specializing in this line of business provides the retailer with a loan for the purchase price of the home and maintains a security interest in the home as collateral. The financial institution customarily requires us, as the manufacturer of the home, to enter into a separate repurchase agreement with the financial institution under which we are obligated, upon default by the retailer and under certain other circumstances, to repurchase the financed home at declining prices over the term of the repurchase agreement (which in most cases is 18 to 36 months). The price at which we may be obligated to repurchase a home under these agreements is based upon the amount financed, plus certain administrative and shipping expenses. Our obligation under these repurchase agreements ceases upon the purchase of the home by the retail customer. The maximum amount of our contingent obligations under such repurchase agreements was approximately $46.6 million &#32;as of April 2, 2016 &#32;compared to $28.3 million &#32;as of March 28, 2015 . The risk of loss under these agreements is spread over many retailers and is further reduced by the resale value of the homes. 

The availability of inventory financing for the industry&#8217;s wholesale distribution chain continues to improve. Faced with illiquid capital markets in late calendar year 2008, each of the manufactured housing sector&#8217;s remaining inventory finance companies (floor plan lenders) initiated significant changes and one company ceased lending activities in the industry entirely. Other finance programs are subject to more restrictive terms that continue to evolve, and in some cases, require the financial involvement of the Company. As a result, the Company has entered into certain commercial loan programs whereby the Company provides a significant amount of the funds that independent financiers lend to distributors to finance retail inventories of our products. In addition, the Company has entered into direct commercial loan arrangements with distributors of our products under which the Company provides funds for financing purchases (see Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements). The Company&#8217;s involvement in commercial loans has increased the availability of manufactured home financing to distributors, communities and developers. We believe that our taking part in the wholesale financing of homes is helpful to the borrowers and allows our homes continued exposure to potential home buyers. These initiatives support the Company&#8217;s ongoing efforts to expand our distribution base in all of our markets with existing and new customers. However, the initiatives expose the Company to risks associated with the creditworthiness of certain customers and business partners, including independent retailers, developers, communities and inventory financing partners, many of whom may be adversely affected by the volatile conditions in the economy and financial markets. 

Consumer Financing. &#32;Sales of factory-built homes are significantly affected by the availability and cost of consumer financing. There are three basic types of consumer financing in the factory-built housing industry: chattel or personal property loans for purchasers of a home with no real estate involved (generally HUD code homes); non-conforming mortgages for purchasers of the home and the land on which the home is placed; and conforming mortgage loans which comply with the requirements of FHA, Veterans Affairs or GSE loans. 

Beginning in mid-1999, lenient credit standards for chattel loans originated in prior years resulted in increased numbers of repossessions of manufactured homes and excessive inventory levels at that time. The poor performance of manufactured home loan portfolios made it difficult for consumer finance companies in the industry to obtain long-term capital in the asset-backed securitization market. As a result, many consumer finance companies curtailed their lending or exited the manufactured housing loan industry entirely. Since then, the lenders who remained in the business tightened their credit standards and, in some cases, increased fees and interest rates for chattel loans, which reduced lending volumes and lowered sales volumes of manufactured homes. 

Consumer financing for the retail purchase of manufactured homes needs to become generally more available before marked emergence from current low home shipment levels can occur. Restrictive underwriting guidelines, irregular appraisal processes, higher interest rates compared to site-built homes, regulatory burdens, a limited number of institutions lending to manufactured home buyers and limited secondary market availability for manufactured home loans are significant constraints to industry growth. We are working directly with other industry participants to develop manufactured home consumer financing models to better attract industry financiers interested in furthering or expanding lending opportunities in the industry. We have invested in community-based lending initiatives that provide home-only financing to new residents of certain manufactured home communities. We are also working through industry trade associations to encourage favorable legislative and GSE action to address the mortgage financing needs of potential buyers of affordable homes. Only limited progress has been made in this area and meaningful positive impact in the form of increased home orders has yet to be realized. 

Competition 

The manufactured housing industry is highly competitive at both the manufacturing and retail levels, with competition based upon several factors, including price, product features, reputation for service and quality, depth of distribution, promotion, merchandising and the terms of retail customer financing. We compete with approximately 35 &#32;other producers of manufactured homes, as well as companies offering for sale homes repossessed from wholesalers or consumers. In addition, manufactured homes compete with new and existing site-built homes, as well as apartments, townhouses and condominiums. 

There are a number of other national manufacturers competing for a significant share of the manufactured housing market in the United States, including Clayton Homes, Inc., Champion Home Builders, Inc. and Skyline Corporation. Certain of these competitors possess greater financial, manufacturing, distribution and marketing resources. 

Although many lenders to factory-built home buyers have reduced their volume or exited the business, there are significant competitors to CountryPlace in the markets we serve. These competitors include national, regional and local banks, independent finance companies, mortgage brokers and mortgage banks, such as: 21st Mortgage Corporation, an affiliate of Clayton Homes, Inc. and Berkshire Hathaway, Inc.; Triad Finance Corporation; and CU Factory Built Lending, LP. Certain of these competitors are larger than CountryPlace and have access to substantially more capital and cost efficiencies. 

The market for homeowners insurance is highly competitive. Standard Casualty competes principally in property and casualty insurance for owners of manufactured homes with companies such as National Lloyds and Columbia Lloyds. We compete based on price, the breadth of our product offerings, product features, customer service, claim handling and use of technology. 

Government Regulation 

Our manufactured homes are subject to a number of federal, state and local laws, codes and regulations. Construction of manufactured housing is governed by the National Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974, as amended, or the Home Construction Act. In 1976, HUD issued regulations under the Home Construction Act establishing comprehensive national construction standards. In 1994, the codes were amended and expanded to, among other things, address specific requirements for homes destined for geographic areas subject to severe weather conditions. The HUD regulations, known collectively as the Federal Manufactured Home Construction and Safety Standards, cover all aspects of manufactured home construction, including structural integrity, fire safety, wind loads, thermal protection and ventilation. Such regulations preempt conflicting state and local regulations on such matters, and are subject to periodic change. Our manufacturing facilities, and the plans and specifications of the HUD code manufactured homes they produce, have been approved by a HUD-certified inspection agency. Further, an independent HUD-certified third-party inspector regularly reviews our manufactured homes for compliance with HUD regulations during construction. Failure to comply with applicable HUD regulations could expose us to a wide variety of sanctions, including mandated closings of our manufacturing facilities. We believe our manufactured homes are in substantial compliance with all present HUD requirements. Our park model RVs are not subject to HUD regulations, but we believe that our park model RVs meet all present standards of the American National Standards Institute. 

Manufactured and site-built homes are all typically built with wood products that contain formaldehyde resins. HUD regulates the allowable concentrations of formaldehyde in certain products used in manufactured homes and requires manufacturers to warn purchasers as to formaldehyde-associated risks. The Environmental Protection Agency ("EPA") and other governmental agencies have in the past evaluated the effects of formaldehyde. We use materials in our manufactured homes that meet HUD standards for formaldehyde emissions and believe we comply with HUD and other applicable government regulations in this regard. 

The transportation of manufactured homes on highways is subject to regulation by various federal, state and local authorities. Such regulations may prescribe size and road use limitations and impose lower than normal speed limits and various other requirements. 

We have leased space for our manufacturing facility in Goodyear, Arizona since 1993. The leased premises is part of what is referred to as the Phoenix-Goodyear Airport (South) Superfund Site ("PGAS"), which was designated as a National Priorities List ("NPL") site under the authority of the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act in 1983. The reason for the site's NPL designation was because of extensive soil and groundwater contamination (trichloroethylene, chromium and cadmium) that resulted from historic manufacturing by the Goodyear Tire and Rubber Company ("Goodyear Tire") and the United States Department of Defense. Pursuant to a consent decree entered into with the EPA, Goodyear Tire is responsible for taking certain remedial actions at the PGAS site. 

On September 30, 2015, the EPA issued its Third Five-Year Review Report for Phoenix Goodyear Airport (North and South Areas) Superfund Site (the "Third Five-Year Report") and reported that "[t]he remedy at PGAS is currently protective of human health and environment because there is no complete exposure pathway to contaminated groundwater or soil. Soil contamination has been addressed and the vapor intrusion pathway is not complete. Monitoring of COG production wells continues to ensure that the public is not being exposed to contaminated groundwater that exceeds the MCLs." In order to ensure the remedy will be protective in the long-term, the EPA has recommended that the following action be taken: modify the sampling plans to include all COCs, assess the need for new cleanup level for arsenic, and determine the necessity of institutional controls. The next five year review is due within five years of September 30, 2015. The preceding summary of the Third Five-Year Report does not purport to be complete, and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the report itself which is available at https://yosemite.epa.gov/r9/sfund/r9sfdocw.nsf/vwsoalphabetic/Phoenix-Goodyear+Airport+Area#repositories. 

Our lease specifically refers to the consent decree with the EPA and provides that, as between our Landlord (now JRC Goodyear, LLC) and us, the Landlord will be responsible for any liabilities resulting from the existing contamination at the site and that the Landlord will indemnify, defend, and hold us, our directors, our officers, our employees, our agents, and our successors, harmless for such liabilities. During the 23 years that we have conducted manufacturing operations at the Goodyear, Arizona facility, we have never received any inquiry or notice from the EPA or the Arizona Department of Environmental Quality suggesting that we may be liable for any costs associated with the remediation of the PGAS site. There are no underground storage tanks at the Goodyear, Arizona facility. 

Our manufactured homes are subject to local zoning and housing regulations. In certain cities and counties in areas where our homes are sold, local governmental ordinances and regulations have been enacted which restrict the placement of manufactured homes on privately-owned land or which require the placement of manufactured homes in manufactured home communities. Such ordinances and regulations may adversely affect our ability to sell homes for installation in communities where they are in effect. A number of states have adopted procedures governing the installation of manufactured homes. Utility connections are subject to state and local regulations which must be complied with by the retailer or other person installing the home. 

Certain warranties we issue may be subject to the Magnuson-Moss Warranty Federal Trade Commission Improvement Act ("Magnuson-Moss Warranty Act"), which regulates the descriptions of warranties on consumer products. In the case of warranties subject to the Magnuson-Moss Warranty Act, the Company is subject to a number of additional regulatory requirements. For example, warranties that are subject to the Magnuson-Moss Warranty Act must be included in a single easy-to-read document that is generally made available prior to purchase. The Magnuson-Moss Warranty Act also prohibits certain attempts to disclaim or modify implied warranties and the use of deceptive or misleading terms. A claim for a violation of the Magnuson-Moss Warranty Act can be the subject of an action in federal court in which consumers may be able to recover attorneys' fees. The description and substance of our warranties are also subject to a variety of state laws and regulations. A number of states require manufactured home producers to post bonds to ensure the satisfaction of consumer warranty claims. 

A variety of laws affect the financing of the homes we manufacture. The Federal Consumer Credit Protection Act ("Truth-in-Lending Act") and Regulation Z promulgated thereunder require written disclosure of information relating to such financing, including the amount of the annual percentage interest rate and the finance charge. The Federal Fair Credit Reporting Act also requires certain disclosures to potential customers concerning credit information used as a basis to deny credit. The Federal Equal Credit Opportunity Act and Regulation B promulgated thereunder prohibit discrimination against any credit applicant based on certain specified grounds. The Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act ("RESPA") and Regulation X promulgated thereunder require certain disclosures regarding the nature and costs of real estate settlements. The Federal Trade Commission has adopted or proposed various Trade Regulation Rules dealing with unfair credit and collection practices and the preservation of consumers' claims and defenses. Installment sales contracts, direct loans and mortgage loans eligible for inclusion in a Ginnie Mae program are subject to the credit underwriting requirements of the FHA. A variety of state laws also regulate the form of financing documents and the allowable deposits, finance charge and fees chargeable pursuant to financing documents. 

In 2010, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act ("Dodd-Frank Act") was passed into law. The Dodd-Frank Act is a sweeping piece of legislation, and the financial services industry continues to assess its implications and implement necessary changes in procedures and business practices. Although Congress detailed some significant changes, and new rules have been implemented, the full impact remains unknown and may not be fully known for years, as regulations that are intended to implement the Dodd-Frank Act continue to be adopted by the appropriate agencies, and the text of the Dodd-Frank Act is analyzed by impacted stakeholders and possibly the courts. The Dodd-Frank Act established the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau ("CFPB") to regulate consumer financial products and services. 

In 2014, certain CFPB mortgage finance rules required under the Dodd-Frank Act became effective. The rules apply to consumer credit transactions secured by a dwelling, which include real property mortgages and chattel loans (financed without land) secured by manufactured homes. The rules defined standards for origination of "Qualified Mortgages," established specific requirements for lenders to prove borrowers' ability to repay loans and outlined the conditions under which Qualified Mortgages are subject to safe harbor limitations on liability to borrowers. The rules also established interest rates and other cost parameters for determining which Qualified Mortgages fall under safe harbor protection. Among other issues, Qualified Mortgages with interest rates and other costs outside the limits are deemed "rebuttable" by borrowers and expose the lender and its assignees (including investors in loans, pools of loans, and instruments secured by loans or loan pools) to possible litigation and penalties. 

While many manufactured homes are currently financed with agency-conforming mortgages in which the ability to repay is verified, and interest rates and other costs are within the safe harbor limits established under the CFPB mortgage finance rules, certain loans to finance the purchase of manufactured homes, especially chattel loans and non-conforming land-home loans, may fall outside the safe harbor limits. The CFPB rules have caused some lenders to curtail underwriting such loans, and some investors are reluctant to own or participate in owning such loans because of the uncertainty of potential litigation and other costs. As a result, some prospective buyers of manufactured homes may be unable to secure the financing necessary to complete purchases. In addition, compliance with the law and ongoing issuance of rule implementation has caused lenders to incur additional costs to implement new processes, procedures, controls and infrastructure required to comply with the regulations. Compliance may constrain lenders' ability to profitably price certain loans. Failure to comply with these regulations, changes in these or other regulations, or the imposition of additional regulations, could affect our earnings, limit our access to capital and have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. 

The CFPB rules amending the Truth-in-Lending Act ("TILA") and the RESPA expand the types of mortgage loans that are subject to the protections of the Home Ownership and Equity Protections Act of 1994 ("HOEPA"), revise and expand the tests for coverage under HOEPA, and impose additional restrictions on mortgages that are covered by HOEPA. As a result, certain manufactured home loans are now subject to HOEPA limits on interest rates and fees. Loans with rates or fees in excess of the limits are deemed High Cost Mortgages and provide additional protections for borrowers, including with respect to determining the value of the home. Most loans for the purchase of manufactured homes have been written at rates and fees that would not appear to be considered High Cost Mortgages under the new rule. Although some lenders may continue to offer loans that are now deemed High Cost Mortgages, the rate and fee limits appear to have deterred some lenders from offering loans to certain borrowers due to the limits on rates and fees or be reluctant to enter into loans subject to the provisions of HOEPA. As a result, some prospective buyers of manufactured homes may be unable to secure financing necessary to complete manufactured home purchases. 

Additionally, the Dodd-Frank Act amended provisions of TILA to require rules for appraisals on principal residences securing higher-priced mortgage loans ("HPML"). Certain loans secured by manufactured homes, primarily chattel loans, could be considered HPMLs. Among other things, the rules require creditors to provide copies of appraisal reports to borrowers prior to loan closing. To implement these amendments, the CFPB adopted the HPML Appraisal Rule effective December 30, 2014 and loans secured by new manufactured homes were exempt from the rule until July 18, 2015. While the effects of these new requirements are not fully known, some prospective home buyers may be deterred from completing a manufactured home purchase as a result of appraised values. 

The Dodd-Frank Act also required integrating disclosures provided by lenders to borrowers under TILA and RESPA. The final rule became effective October 3, 2015. The TILA-RESPA Integrated Disclosure ("TRID") mandated extensive changes to the mortgage loan closing process and necessitated significant changes to mortgage origination systems. Since its implementation, technical ambiguities in the rule have resulted in lender and investor uncertainty regarding acceptable cures and tolerances for disclosure and estimate errors. It is not yet fully known how the GSEs and HUD will view TRID compliance, how they will apply their own interpretations of TRID to their repurchase and claims review processes, or how the market for private-label securitizations may be impacted. 

The American Housing Rescue and Foreclosure Prevention Act was enacted in 2008 to provide assistance by way of legislation for the housing industry, including manufactured homes. Among other things, the act provided for increased loan limits for chattel (home-only Title I) loans to $69,678, up 43% from the previous limit of $48,600 set in 1992. New Federal Housing Administration ("FHA") Title I program guidelines became effective on June 1, 2010 and provide Ginnie Mae the ability to securitize manufactured home FHA Title I loans. These guidelines were intended to allow lenders to obtain new capital, which can then be used to fund new loans for our customers. Chattel loans have languished for several years and these changes were meant to broaden chattel financing availability for prospective homeowners. However, we are aware of only a small number of loans currently being securitized under the Ginnie Mae program. 

The Secure and Fair Enforcement for Mortgage Licensing Act of 2008 ("SAFE Act") established requirements for the licensing and registration of all individuals that are Mortgage Loan Originators ("MLOs"). MLOs must be registered or licensed by the states. Traditionally, manufactured housing retailers have assisted home buyers with securing financing for the purchase of homes. This assistance may have included assisting with loan applications and presenting terms of loans. Under the SAFE Act, these activities are prohibited unless performed by a registered or licensed MLO. Although the definition of an MLO contains exemptions for administrative and other specific functions and industries, manufactured housing retailers are no longer able to negotiate rates and terms for loans unless they are licensed as MLOs. Compliance may have required manufactured housing retailers to alter business practices related to assisting home buyers in securing financing. This may have resulted in penalties assessed against or litigation costs incurred by retailers found to be in violation, reduced home sales from home buyers&#8217; inability to secure financing without retailer assistance, or increased costs to home buyers or reduced transaction profitability for retailers as a result of the additional cost of mandatory MLO involvement. 

If passed by Congress and signed into law, the proposed Preserving Access to Manufactured Housing Act (Senate Bill 682 and House of Representatives Bill 650) would amend some Dodd-Frank Act provisions that affect manufactured housing financing. The bill would revise the triggers by which small-sized manufactured home loans are considered "High-Cost" under HOEPA and clarify the MLO licensing requirements for manufactured home retailers and their employees. 

Our sale of insurance products is subject to various state insurance laws and regulations which govern allowable charges and other insurance practices. Standard Casualty&#8217;s insurance operations are regulated by the state insurance boards where it underwrites its policies. Underwriting, premiums, investments and capital reserves (including dividend payments to stockholders) are subject to the rules and regulations of these state agencies. 

In 2010, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act ("Health Reform Law"), was passed into law. As enacted, the Health Reform Law reforms, among other things, certain aspects of health insurance. The Health Reform Law could continue to increase our healthcare costs, adversely impacting the Company's earnings. 

Governmental authorities have the power to enforce compliance with their regulations, and violations may result in the payment of fines, the entry of injunctions or both. Although we believe that our operations are in substantial compliance with the requirements of all applicable laws and regulations, these requirements have generally become more strict in recent years. Accordingly, we are unable to predict the ultimate cost of compliance with all applicable laws and enforcement policies. 

See also "Regulatory Developments" in Part II, Item 7 of this Annual Report. 

Seasonality 

The housing industry is subject to seasonal fluctuations based on new home buyer purchasing patterns. Still, diversification among Cavco&#8217;s product lines and operations have served to partially offset the extent of seasonal fluctuations. Demand for our core single-family new home products typically peaks each spring and summer before declining in the winter, consistent with the overall housing industry. Demand patterns for park model RVs and homes used primarily for retirement seasonal living partially offset the general housing seasonality. Cabins used for camping and vacation use are placed in a variety of climates that further mitigates the effects of seasonality on our sales volume. Cavco&#8217;s Company-owned retail stores experience decreased home buyer traffic during holidays and popular vacation periods; however, the one to three month retail sales process tends to somewhat mitigate the impact of these irregular traffic patterns. 

Cavco&#8217;s mortgage subsidiary experiences minimal seasonal fluctuation in its mortgage origination activities as a result of the time needed for loan application approval processes and subsequent home loan closing activities. The mortgage subsidiary realizes no seasonal impacts from its mortgage servicing operations. Revenue for the home insurance subsidiary is not impacted by seasonality as it recognizes revenue from policy sales ratably over each policy&#8217;s term year. The insurance subsidiary is subject to the effects of seasonal storms in Texas, where most of its policies are underwritten. Spring storm activity typically spikes each April and May, the prime season for Texas weather events. During the quarter ended June 27, 2015, record setting storm activity in Texas produced high insurance claims volume. The severity of the hail and wind related damage to insured homes were considerably greater than most spring storm seasons. Losses from these catastrophic events were somewhat limited by reinsurance contracts in place, which responded as intended as part of the Company&#8217;s loss mitigation structure. While the severity of weather events has and can be expected to vary over time, the insurance subsidiary is a well-established and time-tested business. The entity has been a solid performer for the Company over time despite occasional periods of high claims experience. 

Employees 

We have approximately 3,750 &#32;employees. We believe that our relationship with our employees is good. 

Available Information 

We make available free of charge through our Internet site, www.cavco.com , the following filings as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"): the Annual Report on Form 10-K, the Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, the Conflict Minerals Report on Form SD, the Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those Reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 ("Exchange Act"). 

