 Item 1. Business 

Principal Financial Group, Inc. ("PFG") is a leader in global investment management offering businesses, individuals and institutional clients a wide range of financial products and services, including retirement, asset management and insurance through our diverse family of financial services companies. We had $527.4 billion in assets under management ("AUM") and approximately 19.1 million customers worldwide as of December 31, 2015. 

Our global investment management businesses serve a broad range of investors in more than 70 countries through offices in 18 countries, including in the major financial centers worldwide. We provide long-term investment strategies to institutional, retirement, high net worth and retail clients by offering a range of capabilities including equity, fixed income, real estate and other alternative investments, as well as fund offerings. 

In the U.S., we primarily focus on small and medium-sized businesses, which we define as companies with fewer than 1,000 employees, by offering a broad array of retirement and employee benefit solutions and individual insurance solutions to meet the needs of the business owner and their employees. We are a leading provider of corporate defined contribution plans in the U.S. We are also a leading employee stock ownership plan consultant. In addition, we are a leading provider of nonqualified plans, defined benefit plans and plan termination annuities. We are also one of the largest providers of specialty benefits insurance product solutions in the U.S. We believe small and medium-sized businesses are an underserved market, offering attractive growth opportunities in the U.S. retirement and employee benefit markets. 

Additionally, we believe we have a significant opportunity to leverage our U.S. retirement expertise in select international markets that have adopted or are moving toward private sector defined contribution pension systems. Our international asset management and accumulation businesses focus on the opportunities created as aging populations around the world drive increased demand for retirement accumulation, retirement asset management and retirement income management solutions. 

Our Reportable Segments 

In the fourth quarter of 2015 we implemented changes to our organizational structure to better align businesses, distribution teams and product offerings for future growth. Principal Funds, which included our mutual fund business and Princor Financial Services Corporation ("Princor"), our retail broker-dealer and registered investment advisor, as well as Principal Financial Advisors ("PFA") were previously reported in our Retirement and Investor Services segment. Our mutual fund business and PFA are now reported as part of our Principal Global Investors segment, while Princor is now reported as part of our Corporate segment. The Retirement and Investor Services segment has been renamed to Retirement and Income Solutions. Additionally, information used by our chief operating decision maker in assessing segment performance has changed to pre-tax operating earnings. We retrospectively applied this change to the results of our Principal International segment to remove income taxes of equity method subsidiaries that had previously been included in operating revenue and pre-tax operating earnings. Our segment results have been modified to reflect these changes, which did not have an impact on our consolidated financial statements. 

We organize our businesses into the following reportable segments: 

&#149; Retirement and Income Solutions; &#149; Principal Global Investors; &#149; Principal International and &#149; U.S. Insurance Solutions. We also have a Corporate segment, which consists of the assets and activities that have not been allocated to any other segment. 

See Item 8. "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 16, Segment Information" for financial results of our segments. 

Retirement and Income Solutions Segment 

Our asset accumulation activities in the U.S. date back to the 1940s when we first began providing pension plan products and services. We now offer a comprehensive portfolio of products and services for retirement savings and retirement income: 

&#149; To businesses of all sizes with a concentration on small and medium-sized businesses, we offer products and services for defined contribution plans, including 401(k) and 403(b) plans, defined benefit pension plans, nonqualified executive benefit plans and employee stock ownership plan ("ESOP") services. For more basic retirement services, we offer SIMPLE Individual Retirement Accounts ("IRA") and payroll deduction plans; &#149; To large institutional clients, we also offer investment-only products, including investment only guaranteed investment contracts ("GICs"); and 4 

&#149; To employees of businesses and other individuals, we offer the ability to accumulate savings for retirement and other purposes through mutual funds, individual annuities and bank products. We organize our Retirement and Income Solutions operations into two business groupings: 

&#149; Retirement and Income Solutions &#151; Fee: includes full service accumulation, trust services and individual variable annuities; and &#149; Retirement and Income Solutions &#151; Spread: includes individual fixed annuities, investment only, full service payout and banking services. Retirement and Income Solutions &#151; Fee 

Full Service Accumulation 

We offer a wide variety of investment and administrative products and services for defined contribution plans, including 401(k) and 403(b) plans; defined benefit pension plans; nonqualified executive benefit plans and ESOPs. A 403(b) plan is a plan described in Section 403(b) of the Internal Revenue Code that provides retirement benefits for employees of tax-exempt organizations and public schools. 

Products 

Full service accumulation products respond to the needs of plan sponsors seeking both administrative and investment services for defined contribution plans or defined benefit plans. The investment component of both the defined contribution and defined benefit plans may be in the form of a guaranteed account, separate account, a mutual fund offering or a collective investment trust. In addition, defined contribution plan sponsors may also offer their own employer securities as an investment option under the plan. 

We deliver both administrative and investment services to our defined contribution plan and defined benefit plan customers through annuity contracts, collective investment trusts and mutual funds. Group annuity contracts and collective investment trusts used to fund qualified plans are not required to be registered with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). Our mutual fund service platform is called Principal Advantage. It is a qualified plan service package based on our series mutual fund, Principal Funds, Inc. ("PFI"). We offer investments covering the full range of stable value, equity, fixed income, real estate and international investment options managed by our Principal Global Investors segment as well as third party asset managers. In addition, full service accumulation offers plan sponsors trust services through an affiliated trust company. 

As of December 31, 2015, we provided full service accumulation products to (a) over 34,900 defined contribution plans, of which approximately 29,900 were 401(k) plans, including $121.5 billion in assets and covering 4.4 million eligible plan participants, and (b) to over 2,200 defined benefit plans, including $16.9 billion in assets and covering over 306,200 eligible plan participants. As of December 31, 2015, approximately 57% of our full service accumulation account values were managed by our Principal Global Investors segment. Third party asset managers provide asset management services with respect to the remaining assets. 27% of our full service accumulation account values is managed entirely by the third party asset managers that are not under contract to sub-advise a PFG product, 10% is sub-advised and 6% represents employer securities. 

Markets and Distribution 

We offer our full service accumulation products and services to plans, including qualified and nonqualified defined contribution plans and defined benefit plans. Our primary target market is plans sponsored by small and medium-sized businesses, which we believe remains under-penetrated. According to Retirement Resources, Inc., in 2014, only 22% of businesses with between 10 and 49 employees, 48% of businesses with between 50 and 99 employees, 53% of businesses with between 100 and 249 employees and 61% of businesses with between 250 and 500 employees offered a 401(k) plan. The same study indicates that 73% of employers with between 500 and 1,000 employees, 82% of employers with between 1,000 and 5,000 employees and 86% of employers with 5,000 or more employees offered a 401(k) plan in 2014. 

We distribute our full service accumulation products and services nationally, primarily through a captive retirement services sales force. As of December 31, 2015, 103 retirement services sales representatives in 42 offices, operating as a wholesale distribution network, maintained relationships with over 15,300 independent advisors, consultants and agents. Retirement services sales representatives are an integral part of the sales process alongside the referring consultant or independent advisor. We compensate retirement services sales representatives through a blend of salary and production-based incentives, while we pay independent advisors, consultants and agents a commission or fee. 

As of December 31, 2015, we had a separate staff of over 280 service and education specialists located in the sales offices. These specialists play a key role in the ongoing servicing of plans by providing local services to our customers, such as reviewing plan performance, investment options and plan design; communicating the customers' needs and feedback to us and helping employees understand the benefits of their plans. The following summarizes our distribution channels: 

&#149; We distribute our annuity-based products through intermediaries who are primarily state licensed individuals. 5 

&#149; Principal Advantage platform is targeted at defined contribution plans through broker-dealer distribution channels. Principal Advantage gives us access to Financial Industry Regulatory Authority-registered distributors who are not traditional sellers of annuity-based products and broadens opportunities for us in the investment advisor and broker-dealer distribution channels. &#149; Through our Retire Secure strategy we provide financial education and other assistance to individual investors who are participants/members of employer-based accumulation solutions to help them achieve financial security. We believe our approach to full service accumulation plan services distribution, which gives us a local sales and service presence, differentiates us from many of our competitors. We have also established a number of marketing and distribution relationships to increase the sales of our products and services. 

Individual Variable Annuities 

We offer variable annuities to individuals and plans. Individual variable annuities are savings vehicles through which the customer makes one or more deposits of varying amounts and intervals. 

Products 

Our individual variable deferred annuities provide customers with the flexibility to allocate their deposits to mutual funds managed by the Principal Global Investors segment or unaffiliated third party asset managers. As of December 31, 2015, 92% of our $9.0 billion in variable annuity account balances was allocated to mutual funds managed by the Principal Global Investors segment and our guaranteed option. The remaining 8% was allocated to mutual funds managed by unaffiliated third party asset managers. Generally speaking, the customers bear the investment risk for the variable options and have the right to allocate their assets among various separate mutual funds. The value of the annuity fluctuates in accordance with the experience of the mutual funds chosen by the customer. Customers have the option to allocate all or a portion of their account to our guaranteed option, in which case we credit interest at rates we determine, subject to contractual minimums. 

Customers may elect a living benefit guarantee (commonly known in the industry as a guaranteed minimum withdrawal benefit, or "GMWB"). We bear the GMWB investment risk. Our goal is to hedge the GMWB investment risk through the use of sophisticated risk management techniques. As of December 31, 2015, $5.9 billion of the $9.0 billion of variable annuity account value had the GMWB rider. Our major source of revenue from variable annuities is mortality and expense fees we charge to the customer, generally determined as a percentage of the market value of the assets held in a separate investment sub-account. Account balances of variable annuity contracts with the GMWB rider were invested in separate account investment options as follows: 

&#160; &#160; December 31, 2015 &#160; December 31, 2014 &#160; &#160; &#160; (in millions) &#160; Balanced funds &#160; $ 5,403.1 &#160; $ 5,019.0 &#160; Equity funds &#160; &#160; 292.7 &#160; &#160; 381.4 &#160; Bond funds &#160; &#160; 163.0 &#160; &#160; 210.7 &#160; Money market funds &#160; &#160; 6.3 &#160; &#160; 7.0 &#160; Specialty funds &#160; &#160; 1.4 &#160; &#160; 1.8 &#160; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; Total &#160; $ 5,866.5 &#160; $ 5,619.9 &#160; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; Percent of total variable annuity account values &#160; &#160; 66 % &#160; 63 % &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; 

Markets and Distribution 

Our target markets for individual variable annuities include owners, executives and employees of small and medium-sized businesses and individuals seeking to accumulate and/or eventually receive distributions of assets for retirement. We market variable annuities to individuals for both qualified and nonqualified retirement savings. 

We sell our individual variable annuity products through our affiliated financial representatives, who accounted for 95%, 93% and 92% of annuity sales for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. The remaining sales were made through banks, brokerage general agencies, mutual fund companies, Principal Connection and unaffiliated broker-dealer firms. Principal Connection is our direct response distribution channel for retail financial services products to individuals. Principal Connection's services are available over the phone, on the internet or by mail. Affiliated financial representatives continued to be the primary distribution channel of our variable deferred annuities. 

Retirement and Income Solutions &#151; Spread 

Individual Fixed Annuities 

Individual fixed annuities may be categorized in two ways: (1) deferred, in which case assets accumulate until the contract is surrendered, the customer dies or the customer begins receiving benefits under an annuity payout option, or (2) payout, in which case payments are made for a fixed period of time or for life. 

Products 

Fixed Deferred Annuities. Our individual fixed deferred annuities consist of both single premium deferred annuity contracts and flexible premium deferred annuity contracts ("FPDAs"). Some FPDA contracts limit the period of time deposits are allowed (e.g., only one year). For certain contracts, the principal amount is guaranteed. We credit the customer's account with a fixed interest rate for a specified number of years. Thereafter, we reset the interest rate credited to the contract based upon our discretion, subject to contractual minimums, by taking into account market and other conditions. We also offer a fixed deferred annuity where the interest credited is linked to an external equity index, subject to maximum and minimum values. One source of income from fixed deferred annuities is the difference between the investment income earned on the underlying general account assets and the interest rate credited to the contracts. We bear the investment risk because, while we credit customers' accounts with a stated interest rate, we cannot be certain the investment income we earn on our general account assets will exceed that rate. The Principal Global Investors segment manages the assets supporting these contracts. 

Fixed Income Annuities. Our individual fixed income annuities consist of single premium immediate annuity contracts ("SPIAs") and deferred income annuity contracts ("DIAs"). SPIAs and DIAs are products where the customer pays a premium in return for periodic benefit payments. SPIA payments begin immediately and DIA payments begin after a deferral period, during which a return-of-premium death benefit is included. Payments may be contingent upon the survival of one or two individuals or payments may be fixed, meaning payments are contractually guaranteed and do not depend on the continuing survival of any individual. Our major source of income from fixed immediate annuities is the difference between the investment income earned on the underlying general account assets and the interest rate implied in the calculation of annuity benefit payments. We bear the investment risk because we cannot be certain the investment income we earn on our general account assets will exceed the rate implied in the SPIA and DIA contracts. The Principal Global Investors segment manages the assets supporting these contracts. 

Markets and Distribution 

Our target markets for individual fixed annuities include owners, executives and employees of small and medium-sized businesses and individuals seeking to accumulate and/or eventually receive distributions of assets for retirement. We market fixed annuities to individuals for both qualified and nonqualified retirement savings. 

We sell our individual fixed annuity products through our affiliated financial representatives, who accounted for 6%, 11% and 9% of annuity sales for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. The remaining sales were made through banks, brokerage general agencies, mutual fund companies, Principal Connection and unaffiliated broker-dealer firms. The majority of overall annuity sales, however, were from non-affiliated distribution channels, as a result of focused efforts to increase fixed annuity sales through these channels. 

Investment Only 

Products 

The two primary products for which we provide investment only services are: GICs and funding agreements. 

GICs and funding agreements pay a specified rate of return. The rate of return can be a floating rate based on an external market index or a fixed rate. Our investment only products contain provisions disallowing or limiting early surrenders, including penalties for early surrenders and minimum notice requirements. 

Deposits to investment only products are predominantly in the form of single payments. As a result, the level of new deposits can fluctuate from one fiscal quarter to another. The amounts earned by us are derived in part from the difference between the investment income earned by us and the amount credited to the customer. The Principal Global Investors segment manages the assets supporting the contractual promises. 

Markets and Distribution 

We market GICs and funding agreements primarily to plan sponsors and other institutions. We also offer GICs as part of our full service accumulation products. We sell our GICs primarily to tax-qualified retirement plans. We sell our funding agreements directly to institutions that may or may not be pension funds and unconsolidated special purpose vehicles domiciled either in the U.S. or offshore for funding agreement-backed note programs. The funding agreements sold as part of these funding agreement-backed note programs work by having investors purchase debt obligations from the special purpose vehicle which, in turn, purchases the funding agreement from us with terms similar to those of the debt obligations. The strength of this market is dependent on debt capital market conditions. As a result, our sales through this channel can vary widely from one quarter to another. In addition to the special purpose vehicle selling the funding agreement-backed notes to U.S. and foreign institutional investors, the special purpose vehicle may also sell notes to U.S. retail investors through a SEC-registered shelf debt issuance program. 

Full Service Payout 

Products 

Full service payout products respond primarily to the needs of pension plan sponsors in the form of single premium group annuities, which are immediate or deferred annuities that provide a current or future specific income amount, fully guaranteed by us. The majority of our business originates from defined benefit plans that are being terminated. In these situations, the plan sponsor transfers all its obligations under the plan to an insurer by paying a single premium. Generally, plan sponsors restrict their purchases to insurance companies with superior or excellent financial quality ratings because the Department of Labor has mandated that annuities be purchased only from the "safest available" insurers. 

Since premium received from full service payout products is generally in the form of single payments, the level of new premiums can fluctuate depending on the number of large-scale annuity sales in a particular fiscal quarter. The Principal Global Investors segment manages the assets supporting full service payout account values. 

Markets and Distribution 

Our primary distribution channel for full service payout products is comprised of several specialized home office sales consultants working through consultants and brokers that specialize in this type of business. Our sales consultants also make sales directly to institutions. Our nationally dispersed retirement services sales representatives act as a secondary distribution channel for these products. 

Banking Services 

IRAs are provided by Principal Bank, primarily funded by retirement savings rolled over from qualified retirement plans. Principal Bank is a federal savings bank that formed in February 1998. As of December 31, 2015, Principal Bank had over 315,000 customers and approximately $2.2 billion in assets. Principal Bank operates under a limited purpose charter and may only accept deposits held in a fiduciary capacity, may not hold demand deposits or own commercial loans and cannot originate loans. 

Products 

The IRAs offered by Principal Bank provide Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation ("FDIC")-insured retirement solutions for its customers. The IRAs are held in savings accounts, money market accounts and certificates of deposit. The deposit products provide a relatively stable source of funding and liquidity for Principal Bank and are backed by purchases of investment securities and residential mortgage loans. 

Markets and Distribution 

Principal Bank offers bank products and services to participants rolling out of qualified retirement plans primarily serviced by affiliates of PFG. Principal Bank services customers through the telephone, mail and internet. 

Principal Global Investors Segment 

Our Principal Global Investors segment manages assets for sophisticated investors around the world, using a multi-boutique strategy that provides diverse investment capabilities including equity, fixed income, real estate and other alternative investments. We also have experience in asset allocation, stable value management and other structured investment strategies. We focus on providing services to our other segments in addition to our retail mutual fund and third party institutional clients. We maintain offices in Australia, Beijing, Brazil, Dubai, Germany, Hong Kong, Japan, the Netherlands, Singapore, the United Kingdom and the United States. 

We deliver our products and services through our network of specialized investment groups and boutiques including Principal Global Equities; Principal Global Fixed Income; Aligned Investors; Principal Real Estate Investors, LLC; Principal Enterprise Capital, LLC; Spectrum Asset Management, Inc.; Post Advisory Group, LLC; Columbus Circle Investors; Edge Asset Management, Inc.; Morley Financial Services, Inc.; Macro Currency Group; Finisterre Capital LLP; Origin Asset Management LLP; and Principal Portfolio Strategies. As of December 31, 2015, Principal Global Investors and its boutiques managed $360.8 billion in assets. 

We have been providing mutual funds to customers since 1969. We offer mutual funds to individuals, businesses and institutional investors for use within variable life contracts, variable annuity contracts and employer-sponsored pension plans; as a rollover investment option and for general investment purposes. We plan to grow into a top advisor-sold mutual fund company with a sales force focused on multiple channels. As of December 31, 2015, as reported by the Strategic Insight, we are ranked 15 th according to AUM (long-term funds) of the intermediary sold mutual fund companies. 

We also maintain various other domestic and global fund platforms, separately managed accounts and segregated accounts for some larger institutional and retail investors. 

Our products and services are provided for a fee as defined by client mandates. Our fees are generally driven by AUM. 

Boutiques 

Our multi-boutique strategy is diversified across the following primary asset classes and service delivery options. 

Equity Investments. As of December 31, 2015, Principal Global Equities, Aligned Investors and Principal Real Estate Investors, LLC along with Columbus Circle Investors, Edge Asset Management, Inc. and Origin Asset Management LLP managed $136.9 billion in global equity assets. Our equity capabilities encompass large-cap stocks, mid-cap stocks, small-cap stocks and real estate investment trusts in developed and emerging markets worldwide. 

Fixed Income Investments. As of December 31, 2015, Principal Global Fixed Income and Principal Real Estate Investors, LLC along with Spectrum Asset Management, Inc.; Post Advisory Group, LLC; Edge Asset Management, Inc. and Morley Financial Services, Inc. managed $160.3 billion in global fixed income assets. Collectively, our experience in fixed income management spans multiple economic and credit market cycles and encompasses all major fixed income sectors, including commercial backed securities ("CMBS"), and security types. Our research and risk management capabilities in worldwide debt markets provide a strong foundation for broadly diversified "multi-sector" portfolios, tailored to specific client objectives. 

Alternative Investments. We offer products and services through other alternative asset classes including managing private real estate equity, commercial mortgages and bridge/mezzanine loans through Principal Real Estate Investors, LLC; managing real estate operating companies through Principal Enterprise Capital, LLC; managing currency mandates through our Macro Currency Group boutique and managing hedge fund mandates through the Finisterre Capital LLP and Columbus Circle Investors boutiques. As of December 31, 2015, we managed $59.9 billion in alternative asset classes. 

Principal Portfolio Strategies. Principal Portfolio Strategies is a specialized asset allocation boutique offering multi-asset and/or multi-manager portfolio construction services that aim to deliver reliable, risk-adjusted investment outcomes to individual investors, institutional investors and participants in employer-sponsored plans. 

Products and Services 

Products offered by the Principal Global Investors segment include individually managed accounts, separately managed accounts for high net worth individuals and several fund platforms for retail and institutional investors, as described below. 

Principal Funds, Inc. PFI is a series mutual fund that, as of December 31, 2015, offered 84 investment options for defined contribution plans, individuals, institutional investors, adviser fee-based programs, and other retirement plan clients. We report the results for this fund in the Retirement and Income Solutions segment or Principal Global Investors segment based on the distribution channel associated with the AUM. 

Principal Variable Contracts Funds, Inc. Principal Variable Contracts Funds, Inc. is a series mutual fund that provides investment options for variable annuity and variable life insurance contracts issued by the Principal Life Insurance Company ("Principal Life") and other insurance companies not affiliated with Principal Life. AUM backing our variable annuity contracts is reported in the Retirement and Income Solutions segment. AUM backing our variable life insurance contracts is reported in the U.S. Insurance Solutions segment. 

Other Principal Global Investors Funds. Principal Global Investors maintains various fund platforms including Qualifying Investor Alternative Fund and Undertaking for Collective Investment in Transferable Securities funds domiciled in Dublin, Collective Investment Trusts, Business Trusts and other boutique sponsored funds. These funds are generally managed by our boutiques. 

Markets and Distribution 

Our products and services are distributed through various channels to reach and meet the needs of a broad investor base. We distribute our services through institutional and retail sales representatives, relationship management, and client service professionals, who work with consultants and directly with investors to acquire and retain institutional clients, retail clients, and other investors. We also maintain relationships with independent broker-dealers to distribute our products and services, maintaining relationships with over 54,000 independent brokers, consultants, and agents. As of December 31, 2015, Principal Global Investors and its boutiques had approximately 848 third party institutional clients in 41 countries with $122.0 billion of AUM. 

Principal International Segment 

Our Principal International segment has operations in Brazil, Chile, China, Hong Kong Special Administrative Region ("SAR"), India, Mexico and Southeast Asia. We focus on countries and territories with growing middle classes, favorable demographics, and increasing long-term savings, ideally with defined contribution retirement markets. We entered these locations through acquisitions, start-up operations and joint ventures. 

The activities of our Principal International segment reflect our efforts to accelerate the growth of our AUM by capitalizing on the international trend toward private sector defined contribution pension systems and individual long-term savings. We offer pension accumulation products and services, mutual funds, asset management, income annuities and life insurance accumulation products. 

Markets, Products and Distribution 

Brazil. We offer pension accumulation and income annuity products through a co-managed joint venture, Brasilprev Seguros e Previdencia S.A. ("Brasilprev"). We own 25% of the economic interest and 50.01% of the voting shares as of December 31, 2015. The partner is Banco do Brasil ("Banco"), the largest bank in Latin America, which had approximately 5,400 Brazilian branches as of September 30, 2015. 

Brasilprev has the exclusive distribution rights of its pension accumulation and annuity products through the Banco network until October 2032. Our joint venture provides products for the retirement needs of individuals and employers. Banco's employees sell these products directly to individual clients through its bank branches. In addition, our joint venture reaches corporate clients through two wholesale distribution channels: (1) a network of independent brokers who sell to the public and (2) Banco's corporate account executives who sell to existing and prospective corporate clients. 

We offer mutual fund and asset management services through Claritas Administra&#231;&#227;o de Recursos Ltda. ("Claritas"), an independent Brazilian mutual fund and asset management company. We own 71.4% of the economic interest as of December 31, 2015, and the remainder is owned by employee-partners. The company manages equity funds, balanced funds, managed accounts and other strategies for affluent clients and institutions and sells through its multi-channel distribution network. 

Chile. We offer a complete array of pension accumulation and income annuity products. We also offer mutual fund, asset management services and life insurance accumulation products. 

We offer mandatory employee-funded pension and voluntary savings plans through Administradora de Fondos de Pensiones Cuprum S.A. ("Cuprum"). We own 97.97% of Cuprum as of December 31, 2015, and the rest is publicly floated. Cuprum's products are sold through a proprietary sales network of approximately 750 sales employees as of December 31, 2015. 

We offer income annuity and life insurance accumulation products through Principal Compa&#241;&#237;a de Seguros de Vida Chile S.A., our wholly owned life insurance company. The annuity products are distributed through a network of brokers and independent agents. Life insurance accumulation products are also offered to individuals through brokers and financial advisors. 

We offer voluntary savings plans and mutual funds through Principal Administradora General de Fondos S.A., our wholly-owned mutual fund company. Products are distributed to retail clients through our proprietary sales force, financial advisors, brokerage houses and alliances with financial institutions. 

We offer asset management services through Principal Asset Management Chile S.A. This wholly owned company sells its products through a proprietary sales force. 

China. We offer mutual funds and asset management services to individuals and institutions through a joint venture, CCB Principal Asset Management Co., Ltd. We own 25% and China Construction Bank ("CCB") is the majority partner with 65% ownership as of December 31, 2015. We sell mutual funds primarily through our partner bank, CCB. The bank provides extensive distribution capabilities for the joint venture in terms of brand awareness and the number of branch outlets, which number approximately 15,000 as of June 30, 2015. 

Hong Kong SAR. We offer both pension accumulation and mutual fund products to corporate and retail clients through wholly owned companies. 

We offer two types of schemes, Mandatory Provident Fund ("MPF") to serve the mandatory retirement market and Occupational Retirement Schemes Ordinance ("ORSO") to serve the voluntary retirement market. We distribute products through a proprietary sales force that maintains relationships with third party intermediaries such as insurance companies, independent financial advisors, brokers and employee benefit consultants. We also target individual account holders who have changed jobs or are looking to consolidate their retirement accounts. We serviced approximately 500,000 MPF accounts as of December 31, 2015. On September 1, 2015, we acquired AXA's MPF and ORSO business. In addition, we have an agreement for the exclusive distribution of pension products through AXA's extensive agency network in Hong Kong through 2030. 

We sell mutual funds to retail customers seeking to accumulate assets for retirement and other long-term investment needs. Our mutual funds are distributed through a proprietary sales force that maintains relationships with third party intermediaries such as banks, insurance companies, independent financial advisors, securities brokers, direct-to-customer fund platforms and private wealth management firms. To further grow our mutual fund business we expect to leverage our operations in the Hong Kong SAR and our asset management joint venture in China to pursue potential opportunities created by the mutual recognition of fund products between Hong Kong and China. 

India. We offer mutual funds and asset management services to both retail and corporate customers through our joint venture Principal Pnb Asset Management Company Private Limited. We own 78.6% as of December 31, 2015, and the partner is Punjab National Bank, a large Indian commercial bank with a network of approximately 6,600 branches as of September 30, 2015. Mutual funds are sold through bank branches, proprietary sales offices, independent distributors and direct sales. 

We also have a proprietary distribution company, Principal Retirement Advisors Private Limited, that focuses on promoting and advising on retirement and long-term investment products in the India market. 

Mexico. We offer pension accumulation, mutual funds, income annuities and asset management services through our wholly-owned companies. 

We offer mandatory pension plans through Principal Afore, S.A. de C.V., Principal Grupo Financiero. We manage and administer individual retirement accounts under the mandatory privatized social security system for all employees in Mexico. As of November 30, 2015, we had approximately 3.6 million individual retirement accounts. We distribute products and services through a proprietary sales force of approximately 615 sales representatives as of December 31, 2015, as well as independent brokers who sell directly to individuals. In addition, we have an agreement for the exclusive distribution of Principal Afore's products through HSBC Bank's extensive network in Mexico through 2017. 

We offer mutual funds and asset management services through Principal Fondos de Inversi&#243;n, S.A. de C.V., Operadora de Fondos de Inversi&#243;n, Principal Grupo Financiero. We distribute products and services through a sales force of approximately 100 employees as of December 31, 2015, and through distribution agreements with other financial entities. We offer both domestic and international products, typically sold directly to clients. 

We also administer previously sold income annuities and life products. 

Southeast Asia. We offer mutual funds, asset management services and pension accumulation products through our joint venture CIMB-Principal Asset Management Berhad ("CPAM"). We own 40% in CIMB-Principal and 50% in CIMB Principal Islamic as of December 31, 2015, and the partner is CIMB Group, the second largest bank by assets in Malaysia as of September 1, 2015 with a strong presence in many Asian countries. CPAM also manages a significant amount of institutional asset mandates. 

CPAM has wholly owned subsidiaries in Singapore (CIMB-Principal Asset Management (S) Pte. Ltd.), Indonesia (PT CIMB-Principal Asset Management) and Thailand (CIMB-Principal Asset Management Company Limited). 

CPAM distributes conventional and Islamic mutual funds through the branches of its partner bank (approximately 1,060 bank branches throughout Malaysia, Indonesia, Thailand and Singapore) and through an agency sales force of approximately 6,700 agents selling to retail customers as of December 31, 2015. CPAM also distributes its mutual funds through third party institutions including other banks and security houses. 

U.S. Insurance Solutions Segment 

Our U.S. Insurance Solutions segment offers group and individual insurance solutions. We focus on providing comprehensive insurance solutions for small and medium-sized businesses and their owners and executives. We organize our operations into two divisions: Specialty Benefits Insurance and Individual Life Insurance. However, we share key resources in our core areas such as strategic leadership, distribution, and marketing. 

Specialty Benefits Insurance 

Specialty benefits insurance, which includes group dental, vision, life and disability insurance and individual disability insurance, is an important component of the employee benefit offering at small and medium-sized businesses. We offer traditional employer sponsored and voluntary products for group dental, vision, life and disability. We also offer group dental, vision and disability on a fee-for-service basis. Our individual disability insurance is also sold on an individual or multi-life basis. 

Products and Services 

Group Dental and Vision Insurance. We began selling group dental and vision insurance in the late 1960s. Our plans provide partial reimbursement for dental and vision expenses. As of December 31, 2015, we had over 42,000 group dental and vision insurance policies in force covering over 1.1 million employee lives. According to Life Insurance and Market Research Association ("LIMRA"), we were the 8th largest group dental insurer in terms of number of contracts/employer groups in force in 2014. In addition to indemnity and preferred provider organization dental offered on both an employer paid and voluntary basis, we offer a prepaid dental plan in Arizona through our Employers Dental Services, Inc. subsidiary. We offer a discount dental product nationally and a dental network of preferred providers primarily in California through our First Dental Health subsidiary. Our indemnity vision product and our managed care vision product are offered on both an employer paid and voluntary basis. 

Group Life Insurance. Group life insurance was one of our first group products beginning in the early 1940s. Our group life insurance provides coverage to employees and their dependents for a specified period. As of December 31, 2015, we had nearly 53,000 group policies providing $128 billion of group life insurance in force to approximately 2.1 million employee lives. According to LIMRA, in 2014 we were ranked 3rd in the U.S. in terms of the number of group life insurance contracts in force. We currently sell traditional group life insurance that does not provide for accumulation of cash values on both an employer paid and voluntary basis. Our group life insurance business remains focused on the traditional, annually renewable term product. Group term life and group universal life accounted for 98% and 2%, respectively, of our total group life insurance in force as of December 31, 2015. We no longer market group universal life insurance to new employer groups. 

Group Disability Insurance. Group disability insurance has also been sold since the early 1940s. Our group disability insurance provides a benefit to insured employees who become disabled. In most instances, this benefit is in the form of a monthly income. Our group disability products include both short-term and long-term disability, offered on both an employer paid and voluntary basis. As of December 31, 2015, long-term disability represented 61% of total group disability premium, while short-term disability represented 39% of total group disability premium. In addition, we provide disability management services, also called rehabilitation services, to assist individuals in returning to work as quickly as possible following disability. We also work with disability claimants to improve the approval rate of Social Security benefits, thereby reducing payment of benefits by the amount of Social Security payments received. As of December 31, 2015, we served approximately 1.6 million employee lives through more than 40,000 contracts. According to LIMRA, our group short-term disability business was ranked 6th and our group long-term disability business was ranked 4th in the U.S. as of December 31, 2014, in terms of number of contracts/employer groups in force. We also offer voluntary critical illness insurance, which provides a lump-sum cash benefit to pay for additional expenses associated with the five most common critical illnesses. 

Individual Disability Insurance. Individual disability insurance has been sold since the early 1950s. Our individual disability insurance products provide income protection to the insured member and/or business in the event of disability. In most instances, this benefit is in the form of a monthly income. In addition to income replacement, we offer products to pay business-related costs such as overhead expenses for a disabled business owner, buy-out costs for business owners purchasing a disabled owner's interest in the business, expenditures for replacement of a key person and business loan payments. We also offer a product to protect retirement savings in the event of disability. As of December 31, 2015, we served approximately 171,000 individual disability policyholders. According to LIMRA, our individual disability business was ranked 5th in the U.S. in terms of premium in force in the non-cancellable segment of the market and 6th overall, as of December 31, 2014. 

Fee-for-Service. We offer administration of group dental, disability and vision benefits on a fee-for-service basis. 

Individual Life Insurance 

We began as an individual life insurer in 1879 when we began selling traditional life insurance products to individuals. We now specialize in providing solutions for small to medium-sized companies to protect against risk and loss, assist with succession planning and wealth transfer and to build and protect wealth for retirement. We also provide solutions to meet the personal needs of business owners, executives and affluent individuals. Our U.S. operations administered approximately 568,000 individual life insurance policies with over $260 billion of individual life insurance in force as of December 31, 2015. 

Products and Services 

Our Business Owner and Executive Solutions platform as well as our nonqualified deferred compensation offering combines administration and consulting to service our clients' needs. We target the business and personal insurance needs of owners and executives of small and medium-sized businesses with an increasing focus on providing insurance solutions for nonqualified executive benefits. In addition, we market our products to meet traditional retail insurance needs. We offer a variety of individual life insurance products, including universal life insurance, variable universal life insurance and term life insurance. 

Universal and Variable Universal Life Insurance. Universal and variable universal life insurance products offer the policyholder the option of adjusting both the premium and the death benefit amounts of the insurance contract. Universal life insurance typically includes a cash value account that accumulates at a credited interest rate based on the investment returns of the block of business. Variable universal life insurance is credited with the investment returns of the various investment options selected. For the year ended December 31, 2015, 66% of individual life insurance annualized first year premium sales were generated from universal and variable universal life insurance products. Universal and variable universal life insurance represented 32% of individual life insurance in force as of December 31, 2015. 

After a deduction for policy level expenses, we credit net deposits to an account maintained for the policyholder. For universal life contracts, the entire account balance is invested in the general account. Interest is credited to the policyholder's account based on the earnings on general account investments, subject to contractual minimums. For variable universal life contracts, the policyholder may allocate the account balance among our general account and a variety of mutual funds underlying the contract. Interest is credited on amounts allocated to the general account in the same manner as for universal life. Net investment performance on mutual funds is allocated directly to the policyholder accounts; the policyholder bears the investment risk. Some of our universal life and variable universal life insurance contracts contain what are commonly referred to as "secondary" or "no-lapse" guarantee provisions. A no-lapse guarantee keeps the contract in force, even if the contractholder's account balance is insufficient to cover all of the contract charges, provided that the contractholder has continually paid a specified minimum premium. 

Traditional Life Insurance. Traditional life insurance includes participating whole life, adjustable life products and non-participating term life insurance products. Participating products and non-participating term life insurance products represented 34% of our individual life insurance annualized first year premium sales for the year ended December 31, 2015, and 68% of individual life insurance in force as of December 31, 2015. Adjustable life insurance products provide a guaranteed benefit in return for the payment of a fixed premium and allow the policyholder to set the coverage period, 

premium and face amount combination. Term insurance products provide a guaranteed death benefit for a specified period of time in return for the payment of a fixed premium. Policyholder dividends are not paid on term insurance. 

U.S. Insurance Solutions Markets and Distribution 

For each of our products, administration and distribution channels are customized to meet customer needs and expectations for that product. 

We market our group life, disability, dental and vision insurance products to small and medium-sized businesses, primarily targeting our sales toward owners and human resources professionals. We sell our group life, disability, dental and vision products in all 50 states and the District of Columbia. We continually adapt our products and pricing to meet local market conditions. We market our fee-for-service capabilities to employers that self-insure their employees' dental, disability and vision benefits. We market our fee-for-service businesses in all 50 states and the District of Columbia. 

The group insurance market continues to see a shift to voluntary/worksite products due to various pressures on employers. In keeping with this market change, which shifts the funding of such products from the employer to the employee, we continue to place an enhanced focus on our voluntary benefits platform. We believe the voluntary/worksite market presents growth opportunities, and we will continue to develop strategies to capitalize on this expanding market. 

As of December 31, 2015, we had 119 sales representatives and 144 service representatives in 28 local markets. Our sales representatives accounted for 98% of our group insurance sales for the year ended December 31, 2015. The service representatives play a key role in servicing the case by providing local, responsive services to our customers and their brokers, such as renewing contracts, revising plans, solving administrative issues and communicating the customers' needs and feedback to us. 

We sell our individual life and individual disability income products in all 50 states and the District of Columbia, primarily targeting owners and executives of small and medium-sized businesses. Small and medium-sized business sales represented 58% of individual life sales and 61% of individual disability sales for the year ended December 31, 2015. Much of our life insurance sales efforts focus on the Business Owner and Executive Solutions market. This strategy offers solutions to address business owner financial challenges such as exiting the business, business transition, retaining key employees and retirement planning. Key employees also have needs to supplement retirement income, survivor income, and business protection. We believe the Business Owner and Executive Solutions segment offers growth opportunities and we will continue to develop strategies to capitalize on this expanding market. 

We distribute our individual life and individual disability insurance products through our affiliated financial representatives and independent brokers, as well as other marketing and distribution alliances. Affiliated financial representatives were responsible for 25% of individual life insurance sales based on first year annualized premium and 14% of individual disability sales for the year ended December 31, 2015. We had 1,261 affiliated financial representatives in 33 offices as of December 31, 2015. Although they are independent contractors, we have a close tie with affiliated financial representatives and we offer them benefits, training and access to tools and expertise. To meet the needs of the various marketing channels, particularly the independent brokers, we employ wholesale distributors &#151; Regional Vice Presidents for individual life and Regional Vice Presidents for individual disability. A key differentiator in the nonqualified executive benefit sale is our Regional Vice Presidents-Nonqualified Plans, who are not only wholesalers but also consultants and subject-matter experts providing point-of-sale support in closing cases. 

Corporate Segment 

Our Corporate segment manages the assets representing capital that has not been allocated to any other segment. Financial results of the Corporate segment primarily reflect our financing activities (including interest expense and preferred stock dividends), income on capital not allocated to other segments, inter-segment eliminations, income tax risks and certain income, expenses and other adjustments not allocated to the segments based on the nature of such items. Results of Princor, our retail broker-dealer and registered investment advisor, and our exited group medical insurance business are reported in this segment. 

Competition 

Competition in our segments is based on a number of factors including: scale, service, product features, price, investment performance, commission structure, distribution capacity, financial strength ratings and name recognition. We compete with a large number of financial services companies such as banks, mutual funds, broker-dealers, insurers and asset managers. Some of these companies offer a broader array of products, more competitive pricing, greater diversity of distribution sources, better brand recognition or, with respect to insurers, higher financial strength ratings. Some may also have greater financial resources with which to compete or may have better investment performance at various times. We believe we distinguish ourselves from our competitors through our: 

&#149; full service platform; &#149; strong customer relationships; &#149; focus on investment performance and &#149; expansive product portfolio. 13 

Ratings 

Insurance companies are assigned financial strength ratings by rating agencies based upon factors relevant to policyholders. Financial strength ratings are generally defined as opinions as to an insurer's financial strength and ability to meet ongoing obligations to policyholders. Information about ratings provides both industry participants and insurance consumers meaningful insights on specific insurance companies. Higher ratings generally indicate financial stability and a stronger ability to pay claims. 

Principal Life and Principal National Life Insurance Company ("PNLIC") have been assigned the following insurer financial strength ratings: 

Rating Agency &#160; Financial Strength Rating &#160; Rating Structure A.M. Best Company, Inc. &#160; A+ ("Superior") with a stable outlook &#160; Second highest of 16 rating levels Fitch Ratings Ltd. &#160; AA&#150; ("Very Strong") with a stable outlook &#160; Fourth highest of 19 rating levels Moody's Investors Service &#160; A1 ("Good") with a stable outlook &#160; Fifth highest of 21 rating levels Standard &#38; Poor's &#160; A+ ("Strong") with a stable outlook &#160; Fifth highest of 24 rating levels 

A.M. Best's ratings for insurance companies range from "A++" to "S". A.M. Best indicates that "A++" and "A+" ratings are assigned to those companies that in A.M. Best's opinion have superior ability to meet ongoing insurance obligations. Fitch's ratings for insurance companies range from "AAA" to "C". Fitch "AA" ratings indicate very strong capacity to meet policyholder and contractholder obligations. Moody's Investors Service ratings for insurance companies range from "Aaa" to "C". Moody's Investors Service indicates that "A" ratings are assigned to those companies that offer good financial security. Standard &#38; Poor's ratings for insurance companies range from "AAA" to "NR". Standard &#38; Poor's indicates that "A" ratings are assigned to those companies that have strong financial security characteristics. In evaluating a company's financial and operating performance, these rating agencies review its profitability, leverage and liquidity, as well as its book of business, the adequacy and soundness of its reinsurance, the quality and estimated market value of its assets, the adequacy of its policy reserves, the soundness of its risk management programs, the experience and competency of its management and other factors. All of the four rating agencies maintain a 'stable' outlook on the U.S. life insurance sector. The rating agencies have indicated they expect gradually increasing interest rates will help stabilize earnings on spread businesses and rising equity markets will grow assets under management. 

We believe our strong ratings are an important factor in marketing our products to our distributors and customers, as ratings information is broadly disseminated and generally used throughout the industry. Our ratings reflect each rating agency's opinion of our financial strength, operating performance and ability to meet our obligations to policyholders and are not evaluations directed toward the protection of investors. Such ratings are neither a rating of securities nor a recommendation to buy, hold or sell any security, including our common stock. For more information on ratings, see Item 7. "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations &#151; Liquidity and Capital Resources &#151; Financial Strength and Credit Ratings." 

Regulation 

Our businesses are subject to regulation and supervision by U.S. federal and state regulatory authorities as well as non-U.S. regulatory authorities for our operations outside the U.S., which can have a significant effect on our business. Our businesses are also affected by U.S. federal, state and local tax laws as well as tax laws for jurisdictions outside the U.S. 

PFG, our parent holding company, is not licensed as an insurer, investment advisor, broker-dealer, bank or other regulated entity. However, because it is the holding company for all of our operations, it is subject to regulation of our regulated entities, including as an insurance holding company. We are subject to legal and regulatory requirements applicable to public companies, including public reporting and disclosure, securities trading, accounting and financial reporting and corporate governance. 

U.S. Insurance Regulation 

We are subject to the insurance holding company laws in the states where our insurance companies are domiciled. Principal Life and PNLIC are domiciled in Iowa and their principal insurance regulatory authority is the Insurance Division of the Department of Commerce of the State of Iowa. Our other U.S. insurance companies are principally regulated by the insurance departments of the states in which they are domiciled. These laws generally require each insurance company directly or indirectly owned by the holding company to register with the insurance department in the insurance company's state of domicile and to furnish financial and other information about the operations of the companies within the holding company system. Transactions affecting the insurers in the holding company system must be fair and at arm's length. Most states have insurance laws that require regulatory approval of a direct or indirect change in control of an insurer or an insurer's holding company and laws requiring prior notification of state insurance departments of a change in control of a non-domiciliary insurance company doing business in that state. 

Annually, our U.S. insurance companies must submit an opinion from a board-appointed qualified actuary to state insurance regulators, where licensed, on whether the statutory assets held backing statutory reserves are sufficient to meet contractual obligations and related expenses of the insurer. If such an opinion cannot be rendered noting the 

sufficiency of assets, then the insurance company must set up additional statutory reserves drawing from available statutory surplus until such an opinion can be given. 

State insurance departments have broad administrative powers over the insurance business, including insurance company licensing and examination, agent licensing, establishment of reserve requirements and solvency standards, premium rate regulation, admittance of assets to statutory surplus, policy form approval, unfair trade and claims practices regulation and other matters. State insurance statutes also typically place restrictions and limitations on the amount of dividends or other distributions payable by insurance company subsidiaries to their parent companies. See Item 7. "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations &#151; Liquidity and Capital Resources" for further details. 

In order to enhance the regulation of insurer solvency, the National Association of Insurance Commissioners ("NAIC") has established risk-based capital standards. The standards require life insurers to submit a report to state regulators on an annual basis regarding their risk-based capital based upon four categories of risk: asset risk, insurance risk, interest rate risk and business risk. As of December 31, 2015, the statutory surplus of each of our U.S. life insurance companies exceeded the minimum level of risk-based capital requirements required before state insurance departments would take action against an insurer. 

State and federal insurance and securities regulatory authorities and other state law enforcement agencies and attorneys general regularly make inquiries and conduct examinations or investigations regarding our compliance with, among other things, insurance laws and securities laws. 

Each state has insurance guaranty association laws under which insurers doing business in a state can be assessed, up to prescribed limits, in order to cover contractual benefit obligations of insolvent insurance companies. The guaranty associations levy assessments on each member insurer in a jurisdiction on the basis of the proportionate share of the premiums written by such insurer in the lines of business in which the insolvent insurer is engaged. Some jurisdictions permit the member insurers to recover the assessments paid through full or partial premium tax offsets. 

Securities Regulation 

Insurance and investment products such as variable annuities, variable life insurance and some funding agreements that constitute securities and mutual fund products are subject to securities laws and regulations, including state securities regulation as well as federal regulation under the SEC, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority and other regulatory authorities. These regulations affect investment advice, sales and related activities for these products. 

We also have entities which are registered as investment advisers with the SEC under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940. 

Employee Retirement Income Security Act 

As we provide products and services for U.S. employee benefit plans, we are subject to regulation under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act ("ERISA"). ERISA provisions include reporting and disclosure requirements and standards of conduct. 

Banking Regulation 

Principal Bank, a wholly owned subsidiary, is a federal savings bank regulated by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency. Principal Bank's deposits are insured by the FDIC, making the Bank subject to certain of the FDIC's regulations. 

Environmental Regulation 

As we own and operate real property, we are subject to federal, state and local environmental laws and could be subject to environmental liabilities and costs associated with required remediation of our properties. We routinely have environmental assessments performed for real estate being acquired or used as collateral for commercial mortgages we use for investment. 

Regulation of International Businesses 

Our international businesses are supervised by regulatory authorities in the jurisdictions in which they operate. 

Risk Management 

Like all financial services companies, we are exposed to a wide variety of financial, operational and other risks, as described in Item 1A. "Risk Factors." Effective enterprise risk management is, therefore, a key component of our business model. Enterprise risk management helps us to: 

&#149; identify and manage those risks that present profitable growth opportunities, and avoid those that do not and &#149; balance the sometimes competing demands of our various stakeholders, meet our customer obligations, satisfy regulatory requirements and optimize shareholder returns relative to the risks we take. We utilize an integrated risk management framework to help us identify, assess, monitor, report, manage and aggregate our material risks within established risk appetites and risk tolerances. The framework delivers important perspective that is used in strategic and tactical decision making and is adaptable to changes in our businesses and in the external environments in which we operate. Our approach also requires a commitment to continuous improvement and periodic validation. 

Our governance structure includes Board of Directors oversight, internal risk committees, a corporate risk management function and embedded risk professionals in our business units and functional areas. Our Board of Directors, Audit Committee, Finance Committee, Human Resource Committee and Nominating and Governance Committee provide oversight no less frequently than quarterly, addressing relevant aspects of our risk profile. 

Our internal risk committees meet on a regular and frequent basis to discuss various issues and review profile status. Each business unit and key functional area has its own committee that is responsible for oversight of the material risks within the unit or area. These committees may include corporate leaders. We also have internal committees that provide oversight around a certain risk or group of related risks across the organization. This matrix approach helps us maintain comprehensive risk coverage and preserve an integrated view of risks. The Enterprise Risk Management Committee, comprised of members from the executive management team, exercises enterprise-wide oversight for our most significant risk profiles. 

The business units and functional areas are responsible for identifying, assessing, monitoring, reporting and managing their own risks. Chief Risk Officers embedded within each business unit or risk professionals in functional areas help align risk management practice with the strategies of the unit as well as with enterprise-wide objectives. The Corporate Chief Risk Officer and supporting staff are separate from the business units and provide objective oversight, framework enablement and aggregated risk analysis. Internal Audit provides independent assurance around effective risk management design and control execution. 

Risk appetites, tolerances and limits have been established from an enterprise-wide and business unit perspective for specific risk categories, where appropriate. We monitor a variety of risk metrics on an ongoing basis and take the appropriate steps to manage our established risk appetites and tolerances. Quarterly risk reporting provides a feedback loop between business units, functional areas, our internal risk committees and the corporate risk management function. This reporting also includes perspectives on emerging risk. To the extent potentially significant business activities or operational initiatives are considered, analysis of the possible impact on our risk profile takes place. This analysis includes, but is not limited to, the capital implications; the impact on near term and long-term earnings; the ability to meet our targets with respect to return on equity, liquidity, debt/capital, cash coverage, business risk and operational risk; and the impact to our reputation. 

Employees 

As of December 31, 2015, we had 14,895 employees. None of our employees are subject to collective bargaining agreements governing employment with us. We believe that our employee relations are satisfactory. 

Internet Website 

Our Internet website can be found at www.principal.com. We make available free of charge, on or through our Internet website, access to our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is filed with or furnished to the SEC. Also available free of charge on our Internet website is our code of business conduct and ethics, corporate governance guidelines and charters for the Audit, Finance, Human Resources and Nominating and Governance committees of our Board of Directors. Also see Item 10. "Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance." 

