 ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

OUR COMPANY 

We are a leading provider of wireless communications solutions for a broad array of applications to customers globally. Our business activities are organized into our Wireless DataCom and Satellite business segments. 

WIRELESS DATACOM 

Our Wireless DataCom segment offers solutions to address the markets for Mobile Resource Management (MRM) applications, the broader Machine-to-Machine (M2M) communications space and other emerging markets that require connectivity anytime and anywhere. Our M2M and MRM solutions enable customers to optimize their operations by collecting, monitoring and efficiently reporting business-critical data and desired intelligence from high-value remote and mobile assets. Our extensive portfolio of intelligent communications devices, scalable cloud service enablement platforms, and targeted software applications streamline otherwise complex M2M or MRM deployments for our customers. We are focused on delivering products, software services and solutions globally for energy, government, heavy equipment, transportation and automotive vertical markets. In addition, we anticipate new opportunities and future growth for our MRM and M2M solutions in heavy equipment, trucking and transportation, machine telematics, remote monitoring and control and various aftermarket automotive and connected car applications, including insurance telematics, as well as other emerging markets. 

Our broad portfolio of wireless communications products includes asset tracking devices, mobile telemetry units, fixed and mobile wireless gateways and full-featured and multi-mode wireless routers. These wireless networking elements underpin a wide range of both CalAmp and third party solutions worldwide and are ideal for applications demanding reliable, business-critical communications. Our MRM and M2M devices have been widely deployed with more than six million devices currently in service around the world. Our customers select our products based on optimized feature sets, configurability, manageability, long-term support, reliability and, in particular, overall value. Our deep understanding of our customers&#146; dynamic needs and their respective vertical markets, applications and business requirements remain key differentiators for us. 

In addition to our comprehensive device portfolio, we offer scalable cloud-based telematics Platform-as-a-Service (PaaS) and targeted Software-as-a-Service (SaaS) applications that generate recurring subscription revenues for our Wireless DataCom segment. Our cloud-based service enablement and telematics platforms facilitate integration of our own applications, as well as those of third parties, through Application Programming Interfaces (APIs), which our partners leverage to rapidly deliver full-featured MRM and M2M solutions to their customers and markets. By leveraging comprehensive device management capabilities from our cloud-based offerings, any connected CalAmp device can be remotely managed, configured and upgraded throughout the entire deployment lifecycle. Already integrated with numerous global Mobile Network Operator (MNO) account management systems, our proven commercial platforms were architected to leverage these carrier backend systems to provide our customers access to services that are essential for creating and supporting dynamic end-to-end solutions. 

Our proven, scalable and targeted SaaS offerings and related core competencies enable rapid and cost-effective deployment of high-value solutions for our customers and provide an opportunity to incrementally grow our recurring revenues. Over the last several years, we have steadily grown our base of PaaS and SaaS subscribers both organically and through acquisitions. 

The solutions offered through our Wireless DataCom segment address a wide variety of applications across key vertical markets. These markets are typically characterized by large enterprises with significant remote and/or mobile assets that perform business-critical tasks and services and are otherwise difficult to manage in real time. In such situations, our solutions provide a clear and demonstrable return on investment. Our products and solutions benefit our customers in the following ways: 

&#9679; Increasing productivity, improving communications and optimizing performance of fleets and mobile workers. Applications include tracking, dispatch and route optimization, fleet diagnostics and maintenance, work flow improvement, driver behavior monitoring and training and work-alone safety initiatives. 

&#9679; Securing, tracking and managing financed vehicles and assets. Applications include asset tracking for sub-prime vehicle finance lenders and Buy Here Pay Here dealers, stolen vehicle recovery, dealer lot planning and management, rental equipment tracking and remote car start. &#160; 

&#9679; Enabling comprehensive tracking and management services for cargo and containers. Applications include local and long haul trailer tracking, management and logistics, container tracking and status, refrigerated container monitoring and control, high value asset and cargo monitoring and delivery assurance combined with local and intermodal pallet/cargo logistics and tracking. &#160; 

&#9679; Providing monitoring, control and automation of remote industrial equipment and critical infrastructure. Applications include freshwater and wastewater management, irrigation system control, traffic monitoring systems, oil and gas flow, transportation and distribution, automated reading of commercial utility meters, and monitor and control of substations and other critical energy grid infrastructure. &#160; 

&#9679; Facilitating mission critical communication and coordination among public safety and emergency services personnel and systems. Applications include real-time, two-way data access for emergency and public safety personnel and systems, vehicle area networking and peripheral equipment communications, remote and mobile video surveillance, and computer-aided dispatch and situation monitoring. &#160; 

&#9679; Facilitating comprehensive monitoring, tracking and telematics for heavy equipment and commercial trucking. Applications include heavy equipment maintenance, usage optimization and tracking, rental equipment tracking and usage, yellow iron and attachment management, indoor/outdoor forklift and loader location, crash detection and telematics, and transportation regulatory compliance, such as hours of service and onboard electronic recording requirements. &#160; 

&#9679; Enabling usage-based insurance, enhanced claims processing and the delivery of comprehensive valued-added services for the vehicle insurance industry. Applications include driver behavior, scoring and feedback, crash discrimination, automated first notice of loss, accident damage assessment and estimation, distracted driving prevention, teen driver tracking and management, roadside assistance, and predictive maintenance. &#160; 

&#9679; Rapidly enabling the delivery of comprehensive managed services for machine and equipment OEMs. Applications include service, maintenance, tracking, monitoring and control for generators, turbines, compressors, small engines (e.g., outboard motors, ATVs, electric carts) and power tools. &#160; 

&#9679; Providing reliable, easy-to-use wireless communications solutions for fixed, mobile and portable enterprise data applications. Examples include connected transport and mobile data access, digital signage, kiosk/high-value vending and video surveillance. 

LoJack Acquisition 

Subsequent to the end of fiscal 2016, the Company acquired LoJack Corporation (&#147;LoJack&#148;) for an aggregate purchase price of $130.7 million in an all-cash transaction. The acquisition of LoJack aligns with CalAmp&#146;s strategy to deliver innovative, next generation connected vehicle telematics technologies, thereby accelerating the Company&#146;s roadmap in this large and fast growing market. CalAmp's leading portfolio of wireless connectivity devices, software, services and applications, combined with LoJack&#146;s world-renowned brand, proprietary stolen vehicle recovery product, unique law enforcement network and strong relationships with auto dealers, heavy equipment providers and global licensees, is expected to create a market leader that is well-positioned to drive the broad adoption of connected car solutions and vehicle telematics technologies and applications worldwide. The combined enterprise will offer customers access to integrated, turnkey offerings that enable a multitude of high value applications encompassing vehicle security and enhanced driver safety. Furthermore, the combination of CalAmp&#146;s and LoJack&#146;s technology offerings is expected to provide global customers with connected vehicle applications to help ensure that retail auto dealers remain competitive and relevant in today&#146;s rapidly evolving markets. 

SATELLITE 

Our Satellite segment develops, manufactures and sells direct-broadcast satellite (DBS) outdoor customer premise equipment and whole home video networking devices enabling the delivery of digital and high definition satellite television services. Our satellite products are sold primarily to EchoStar, an affiliate of Dish Network, for incorporation into complete subscription satellite television systems. 

Subsequent to the end of fiscal 2016, EchoStar notified us that, as a result of a consolidation of its supplier base in specific areas of its business to better align with its future requirements and its reduced demand for the products that we currently supply, it has determined that it will discontinue purchasing products from CalAmp at the end of the current product demand forecast. EchoStar&#146;s current product demand forecast extends through August 2016. As a result of EchoStar&#146;s decision, we expect sales to this customer will cease after the second quarter of fiscal 2017. We are currently evaluating our Satellite business, but in light of the fact that EchoStar accounts for essentially all of the revenue of our Satellite segment, we expect that this portion of our operations will be discontinued during fiscal 2017. We do not believe that the loss of EchoStar as a customer will have a material adverse effect on our business. 

For financial information about our operating segments and geographic areas, refer to Note 16 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements set forth in Part II, &#147;Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data&#148; of this report, incorporated herein by reference. 

MANUFACTURING 

Electronic devices, components and made-to-order assemblies used in our products are generally obtained from a number of suppliers, although certain components are obtained from sole source suppliers. Some devices or components are standard items while others are manufactured to our specifications by our suppliers. The Company believes that most raw materials are available from alternative suppliers. However, any significant interruption in the delivery of such items, particularly those that are sole source materials or components, could have an adverse effect on the Company's operations. 

We outsource printed circuit board assembly, system subassembly and testing, as well as full turn-key production of some products, to contract manufacturers in the Pacific Rim. We continue to increase this outsourcing effort to maintain flexibility and remain competitive on product costs. In addition, in fiscal 2014 we added a new contract manufacturer to our supply base. This enables us to dual source some product manufacturing. 

A substantial portion of our products, components and subassemblies are procured from foreign suppliers and contract manufacturers located primarily in Hong Kong, mainland China, Taiwan and other Pacific Rim countries. Any significant shift in U.S. trade policy toward these countries, or a significant downturn in the economic or financial condition of or any political instability in these countries, could cause disruption of the Company&#146;s supply chain or otherwise disrupt the Company&#146;s operations, which could adversely impact the Company&#146;s business. 

We are certified to the ISO (International Organization for Standardization) 9001: 2008 Quality management systems standard. 

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT 

Each of the markets in which we compete is characterized by rapid technological change, evolving industry standards and new product features to meet market requirements. During the last three years, we have focused our research and development resources primarily on wireless communication systems for heavy equipment, fleet management, utilities and industrial monitoring and controls for mobile and fixed location data communication applications, tracking products and services for MRM applications, and satellite DBS products. In fiscal 2016, we have also focused our research and development resources on connected car solutions, vehicle telematics, and crash detection and discrimination. We have developed key technology platforms that can be leveraged across many of our businesses and applications. These include cloud-based telematics application enablement software platforms and the end-user software applications, cellular and satellite communications network-based asset tracking units, and 3G and 4G broadband router products for fixed and mobile applications. In addition, development resources have been allocated to broadening existing product lines, reducing product costs, and improving performance through product redesign efforts. 

Research and development expenses in fiscal years 2016, 2015 and 2014 were $19,803,000, $19,854,000 and $21,052,000, respectively. During this three-year period, our research and development expenses have ranged between 7% and 9% of annual consolidated revenues. 

SALES AND MARKETING 

Our revenues are derived mainly from customers in the United States, which represented 83%, 79% and 81% of consolidated revenues in fiscal years 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively. 

Our Wireless DataCom segment sells its products and services through dedicated direct and indirect sales channels with employees distributed across the U.S. The Wireless DataCom segment&#146;s sales and marketing activities are supported internationally with sales personnel in Latin America, the Middle East and Europe. 

Our Satellite segment sells its products primarily to EchoStar, an affiliate of Dish Network, for incorporation into complete subscription satellite television systems. The sales and marketing functions for the Satellite segment are located at our facility in Oxnard, California. 

COMPETITION 

Our markets are highly competitive. In addition, if the markets for our products grow, we anticipate increased competition from new companies entering such markets, some of whom may have financial and technical resources substantially greater than ours. We believe that competition in our markets is based primarily on innovation, reputation, reliability, responsiveness and price. Our continued success in these markets will depend in part upon our ability to continue to innovate, design quality products and deploy services at competitive prices and provide superior support to our customers. 

Wireless DataCom 

We believe that the principal competitors for our wireless products and services include Danlaw, Freewave, General Electric, GenX, Geotab, Meteorcomm, Mobile Devices, Sierra Wireless, Spireon, Telogis, Xirgo and Zonar Systems. 

Satellite 

We believe that the principal competitors for our DBS products include Global Invacom, Microelectronics Technology, Sharp and Wistron NeWeb Corporation. Because we are typically not the sole source supplier of our DBS products, we are exposed to ongoing price and margin pressures in this business. 

BACKLOG 

Total backlog as of February 28, 2016 and 2015 was $57.6 million and $51.7 million, respectively. Substantially all of the backlog is expected to be converted to sales in fiscal 2017. 

INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY 

Patents 

At February 28, 2016, we had 30 U.S. patents and 6 foreign patents in our Wireless DataCom business. In addition to our awarded patents, we have 13 patent applications in process. 

Trademarks 

CalAmp and Dataradio are among the federally registered trademarks of the Company. 

EMPLOYEES 

At February 28, 2016, we had approximately 415 employees and approximately 75 contracted workers. None of our employees or contract workers are represented by a labor union. The contracted production workers are engaged through independent temporary labor agencies. 

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS 

The executive officers of the Company are as follows: 

NAME &#160; AGE POSITION Michael Burdiek &#160; 56 &#160; President and Chief Executive Officer Garo Sarkissian 49 &#160; Senior Vice President, Corporate Development Richard Vitelle 62 Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Corporate Secretary MICHAEL BURDIEK joined the Company as Executive Vice President in 2006 and was appointed President of the Company's Wireless DataCom segment in 2007. Mr. Burdiek was appointed Chief Operating Officer in 2008 and was promoted to President and COO in 2010. In 2011, he was promoted to CEO and was appointed to the Company&#146;s Board of Directors. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Burdiek was the President and CEO of Telenetics Corporation, a publicly held manufacturer of data communications products. From 2004 to 2005, he worked as an investment partner and advisor in the private equity sector. From 1987 to 2003, Mr. Burdiek held a variety of executive management positions with Comarco, Inc., a publicly held company. Mr. Burdiek began his career as a design engineer with Hughes Aircraft Company. 

GARO SARKISSIAN joined the Company in 2005 and serves as Senior Vice President, Corporate Development. Prior to joining the Company, from 2003 to 2005 he served as Principal and Vice President of Business Development for Global Technology Investments (GTI), a private equity firm. Prior to GTI, from 1999 to 2003, Mr. Sarkissian held senior management and business development roles at California Eastern Laboratories, a private company developing and marketing radio frequency (RF), microwave and optical components. Mr. Sarkissian began his career as an RF engineer and developed state-of-the-art RF power products over a span of 10 years for M/A Com and NEC. 

RICHARD VITELLE joined the Company in 2001 and serves as Executive Vice President, CFO and Secretary/Treasurer. Prior to joining the Company, he served as Vice President of Finance and CFO of SMTEK International, Inc., a publicly held electronics manufacturing services provider, where he was employed for a total of 11 years. Earlier in his career, Mr. Vitelle served as a senior manager with Price Waterhouse. 

The Company's executive officers are appointed by and serve at the discretion of the Board of Directors. 

AVAILABLE INFORMATION 

The Company's primary Internet address is www.calamp.com. The Company makes its Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) periodic reports (Forms 10-Q and Forms 10-K) and current reports (Forms 8-K) available free of charge through its website as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed electronically with the SEC. Within the Investors section of our website, we provide information concerning corporate governance, including our Corporate Governance Guidelines, Board committee charters and composition, Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, and other information. The content of our website is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K or into any other report or document we file with the SEC, and any references to our websites are intended to be inactive textual references only. 

Materials that the Company files with the SEC may be read and copied at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC also maintains an Internet website at http://www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding the Company that the Company files electronically with the SEC. 

