 Item 1. Business.

Introduction

UMED Holdings, Inc. (the "Company") was originally incorporated as Dynalyst Manufacturing Corporation on March 13, 2002 and adopted a name change to Universal Media Corporation upon completion of a reverse acquisition of Dynalyst Manufacturing Corporation in August of 2009. In March 2011, we changed our name to UMED Holdings, Inc. ("UMED").

UMED is a diversified holding company that owns and operates businesses in a variety of industries including energy and mining. Our focus is to acquire businesses as wholly-owned subsidiaries that meet some key requirements: (1) solid management that will not have to be replaced in the near future, (2) the ability to grow with steady growth to follow, and (3) an emphasis on emerging core industry markets, such as energy, metals and agriculture.

In this Form 10-K, we refer to ourselves as "UMED," "We," Us," "the Company," and "Our."

Our executive offices are located at: UMED Holdings, Inc., 8851 Camp Bowie Blvd. West, Suite 240, Fort Worth, Texas 76116 tel. voice: 817-346-6900, fax: 817-887-1943. Our Web site is www.umedholdings.com 

Our growth is dependent on attaining profit from our operations and our raising capital through the sale of stock or debt. There is no assurance that we will be able to raise any equity financing or sell any of our products at a profit.

Our independent registered public accounting firm issued a going concern qualification in their report dated April 14, 2016, which raises substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern.

Our stock is traded on the OTC QB and our trading symbol is "UMED."

Corporate History

UMED Holdings, Inc. ("UMED," or the "company") was incorporated in Texas on March 13, 2002. UMED owns technology for converting natural gas to liquids, primarily diesel and jet fuel ("GTL") and mining claims on federal Bureau of Land Management (BLM) in Southwest Arizona. The Company is in the process of seeking funding to build the GTL units and begin the mining operations on the BLM land.

The Company staked the BLM placer mining claims on 1,440 acres in Arizona in September 2011, and, since then, has maintained the claims and will establish an exploration and development plan, when capital is available.

The Company purchased 100% of Mamaki of Hawaii, Inc. in 2012 and sold it in 2015 as discussed in Notes 5 and 13 in financial statements included in this Form 10-K filing.

In August of 2012, the Company acquired Greenway Innovative Energy, Inc. and has received two patents from the US Patent Office for its GTL technology. The Company's current plan is to concentrate on obtaining the capital needed to build the small scale model at the University of Texas at Arlington (UTA) and then the initial GTL field unit.

In August 2012, the Company acquired 50% of Rig Support Services, Inc. (nka Logistix Technology Systems, Inc.), which is developing a unique and valuable technology and asset management Tool for the Oil and Gas Industry. In February 2013, we acquired the remaining 50%. In June 2015, the Company wrote off its investment in Logistix as discussed in Note 6 in the financial statements included in this Form 10-K filing.

&#160;

As shown in the accompanying consolidated financial statement, the Company has incurred a cumulative deficit of $12,450,131 80 as of December 31, 2015. The ability of the Company to continue as a going concern is in doubt and dependent upon on the ability of the Company to obtain necessary capital and financing to fund ongoing operations and achieving a profitable level of operations. UMED does not have the financial resources and does not have any commitments for funding from unrelated parties or any other firm agreements that will provide working capital to its business segments. We cannot give any assurance that UMED will locate any funding or enter into any agreements that will provide the required operating capital. UMED has been depended on the sale of equity and advances from shareholders to provide it with working capital to date. 

UMED Strategy

UMED is a diversified holding company that owns and operates businesses in a variety of industries including energy and mining. Our focus is to acquire businesses as wholly-owned subsidiaries that meet some key requirements: (1) solid management that will not have to be replaced in the near future, (2) the ability to grow with steady growth to follow, and (3) an emphasis on emerging core industry markets, such as energy and metals.

Operationally, the Company plans to initially focus on building the small scale model at UTA and the initial GTL field production unit, and drill test holes and test the samples on its Arizona placer mining claims to determine the potential value of the various metals that may be located on the claims.

Competition

Most of our competitors have greater financial and other resources than we have, and there is no assurance that we will be able to successfully compete.

Currently, there is significant competition for personnel and financial capital to be deployed in the oil and gas extraction industries and mining and mineral extraction industries. Therefore, it is difficult for smaller companies such as UMED to attract investment for its various business activities. We cannot give any assurances that we will be able to compete for capital funds, and without adequate financial resources management cannot assure that the company will be able to compete in our business activities.

Intellectual Property

&#160;

As of December 31, 2015, the Company's wh olly-owned subsidiary Greenway Innovative Energy, Inc. (GIE) owns US Patents 8,574,501 and 8,795,597 B2 covering its mobile Gas-to-Liquids ("GTL") conversion unit for the purpose of converting natural gas to clean synthetic fuels. 

In the United States, a patent's term may be up to 21 years if the earliest claimed filing date is that of a provisional application. Other legal provisions may, however, shorten or lengthen a patent's term. In the United States, a patent's term may, in certain cases, be lengthened by patent term adjustment, which compensates a patentee for administrative delays by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office in examining and granting a patent. Alternatively, a patent's term may be shortened if a patent is terminally disclaimed over a commonly owned patent or a patent naming a common inventor and having an earlier expiration date.

Employees

We currently employ two executives, our Interim Chief Executive Officer, Ransom Jones, and our Chief Financial Officer, Randy Moseley. Mr. Moseley has a written employment agreement discussed in Note 15 to the financial statements.

Greenway Innovative Energy, Inc. employees consist of Chief Executive Officer, Conrad Greer, President Ray Wright and Vice President Pat Six, who work under agreements with Greenway. Greenway plans to use outside consultants to perform the engineering and design work on the GTL Unit, at such time as capital funds are available.

&#160;

We do not have any other employees at this time. In the future, when we need other persons for aspects of the exploratory work and other functions, we will hire persons under service agreements as consultants, part-time and full time employees as necessary. We do not have any arrangements for the hiring of any persons at this time.

Available Information about US

The public may read and copy any materials we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549, on official business days during the hours of 10:00 am to 3:00 pm. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the Commission at 1-800-SEC-0330. The Commission maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the Commission at (http://www.sec.gov). Our Internet site is www.umedholdings.com.

