 ITEM 1. BUSINESS Overview 

RXi Pharmaceuticals Corporation (&#147; RXi ,&#148; &#147; we ,&#148; &#147; our &#148; or the &#147; Company &#148;) is a clinical-stage RNAi company developing innovative therapeutics in dermatology and ophthalmology that address significant unmet medical needs. Our development programs are based on our proprietary self-delivering RNAi (sd-rxRNA &#174; ) platform and Samcyprone&#153;, a topical immunomodulator. Our clinical development programs include, but are not limited to, RXI-109, an sd-rxRNA, for the treatment of dermal and ocular scarring, and Samcyprone&#153; for the treatment of such disorders as warts, alopecia areata, non-malignant skin tumors and cutaneous metastases of melanoma. In addition to these clinical programs, we have a pipeline of discovery and preclinical product candidates in our core therapeutic areas, as well as in other areas of interest. The Company&#146;s pipeline, coupled with our extensive patent portfolio, provides for product and business development opportunities across a broad spectrum of therapeutic areas. 

Our Pipeline 

Our pipeline is focused on three areas: dermatology, ophthalmology and cosmetic product development. Our RNAi therapies are designed to &#147;silence,&#148; or down-regulate, the expression of a specific gene that may be over-expressed in a disease condition and our immunotherapy agent treats diseases by inducing, enhancing or suppressing an immune response. The following is a summary of our current product candidates and their development status: 

&#160;

&#160;

Dermatology Franchise 

RXI-109 &#150; Dermal Scarring 

The Company&#146;s lead product candidate and first RNAi clinical product candidate, RXI-109, is a self-delivering RNAi compound (sd-rxRNA) designed to reduce the expression of connective tissue growth factor (&#147; CTGF &#148;), a critical regulator of several biological pathways involved in fibrosis, including scar formation in the skin. RXI-109 is first being evaluated in connection with the management of hypertrophic scars. Hypertrophic scars are abnormal scars that are raised above the normal skin surface and can be reddened or darker than the existing skin tone. RXI-109 commenced human clinical trials in 2012 and is currently being evaluated in Phase 2 clinical trials to prevent or reduce dermal scarring following surgery or trauma. 

The Company conducted two Phase 1 clinical trials evaluating RXI-109 in a surgical setting. Both trials demonstrated the safety and tolerability of RXI-109 in ascending single and multi-doses, and also provided the first evidence of clinical activity in a surgical setting. With the successful completion of the Phase 1 trials, the Company initiated its Phase 2 program for RXI-109 with Study 1301, a Phase 2a clinical trial evaluating the use of RXI-109 to prevent the recurrence of hypertrophic scars following scar revision surgery, in November 2013. This was followed by a second Phase 2 clinical trial in April 2014, Study 1401, which evaluated the use of RXI-109 to prevent the recurrence of keloids, raised and reddened or darkened scars resulting from increased collagen production, after surgical revision. Enrollment and dosing for both of these studies has been completed. 

Preliminary data observations from Study 1301 were used in the design of the Company&#146;s third Phase 2 clinical trial in hypertrophic scars, Study 1402, which commenced in July 2014. In October 2015, we reported that preliminary data from Study 1402 demonstrated that scars at revision sites were less visible after treatment with RXI-109 than untreated revision sites over the course of three months in those same subjects. Based in part on this new information, two more cohorts were added to Study 1402 in November 2015. The Company expects early results and later read-outs for Study 1402 in 2016. 

Scarring represents a high unmet medical need as there are currently no U.S. Food and Drug Administration (&#147; FDA &#148;) approved therapies in the U.S. for the treatment and prevention of scars in the skin. Scar revision surgery is a common option, but often the scar recurs. If approved, RXI-109 could be a &#147;first-in-class&#148; RNAi treatment for the prevention or reduction of post-surgical dermal scarring. Given the large number of surgical procedures, there is a significant market for a scar prevention therapeutic such as RXI-109. 

Samcyprone &#153; &#150; Warts 

In December 2014, the Company broadened its clinical pipeline with an exclusive, global license to Samcyprone&#153;, our second clinical candidate. Samcyprone&#153; is a proprietary topical formulation of diphenylcyclopropenone (&#147; DPCP &#148;), an immunomodulator that works by initiating a T-cell response. The use of Samcyprone&#153; allows sensitization using much lower concentrations of DPCP than are used with existing compounded DPCP solutions, avoiding hyper-sensitization to subsequent challenge doses. Samcyprone&#153; is currently being developed for the treatment of skin disorders such as warts, alopecia areata, non-malignant skin tumors and cutaneous metastases of melanoma. Further, in March 2015, the FDA granted Orphan Drug Designation to the Company for Samcyprone&#153; for the treatment of malignant melanoma stage IIb to IV. 

The Company initiated its first Phase 2 clinical trial with Samcyprone&#153;, Study 1502, for the treatment of cutaneous warts in December 2015. The Company expects to fully enroll Study 1502 by the end of 2016 with early read-outs also expected in the second half of 2016. 

Cutaneous warts are extremely common, being experienced by most people at some time during their lives. Although most warts will spontaneously disappear without treatment, treatment of these lesions is sought for recalcitrant warts and to prevent recurrence. There are many different treatment modalities for warts, including physical destruction and immunomodulation. However, treatment of warts is complicated by low success rates, prolonged duration of therapy and the potential for recurrence. There is a clear unmet need for new therapies for warts and if approved, Samcyprone&#153; could be a more effective and convenient treatment than the currently available therapies. 

Additional Dermatology Programs 

In addition to our dermal scarring and wart programs, we continue to advance our preclinical and discovery programs with our sd-rxRNA technology. The Company has selected collagenase (&#147; MMP1 &#148;) and tyrosinase (&#147; TYR &#148;) as gene targets for our 

&#160;

self-delivering platform. MMP1 is a matrix metalloproteinase involved in the breakdown of extracellular matrix. Reduction of MMP1 may be beneficial in the treatment of skin aging disorders, arthritis, acne scarring, blistering skin disorders, corneal erosions, endometriosis and possible cancer metastasis. TYR is a key enzyme in the synthesis of melanin. Melanin is produced by melanocytes and is the pigment that gives human skin, hair and eyes their color. The inhibition of TYR can play a key role in the management of diseases including cutaneous hyperpigmentation disorders such as lentigines (freckles, age spots and liver spots) and possibly melanoma. In addition to our cosmetic program (described below), the Company is actively evaluating similar sd-rxRNA compounds that target MMP1 and TYR for possible therapeutic development. 

Ophthalmology Franchise 

RXI-109 &#150; Retinal Scarring 

As in dermal scarring, CTGF is known to play a role in retinal scarring. RXI-109 can also be used to target CTGF in the eye, where it is known to be involved in retinal scarring. Building on the work in our dermal clinical program, the Company filed a new investigational drug application (&#147; IND &#148;) in July 2015 for RXI-109 as a potential therapeutic for the scarring component of retinal diseases in the eye, such as wet age-related macular degeneration (&#147; AMD &#148;). In November 2015, we initiated a Phase 1/2 clinical trial to evaluate the safety and clinical activity of RXI-109 in reducing the progression of retinal scarring. Initial safety read-outs are expected in the second half of 2016. 

Currently, there is no effective way to prevent the formation or progression of retinal scars that may occur as a consequence of the number of debilitating ocular diseases. In advanced neo-vascular or wet-AMD, our first area of study, retinal scarring can result in continued vision loss even if the patient is being treated with an anti-vascular endothelial growth factor (&#147; VEGF &#148;) therapy. RXI-109 has the potential to fill this unmet medical need by reducing this continuing damage to the retina and in doing so help preserve these patients&#146; vision for a longer period of time. 

Additional Ophthalmology Programs 

In addition to the clinical trial for the use of RXI-109 as a potential therapeutic for retinal scarring, we are advancing other early-stage ophthalmology programs. To date, preclinical studies have shown that CTGF protein levels are reduced in a dose-dependent manner in both the retina and cornea following an intravitreal injection of RXI-109 in monkeys. Scarring of the cornea resulting from injury, disease or vision correction surgery can have a dramatic impact on vision. In some cases, a corneal transplant may be needed. CTGF expression levels have been found to be increased during corneal wound healing in rat corneas and in human corneal fibroblasts, and it has been proposed that a reduction of CTGF may be an important step towards reducing corneal scarring. The Company is currently involved in a number of collaborations to develop a topical delivery for disorders of the cornea. 

The Company also continues its exploratory efforts to identify potential sd-rxRNA lead compounds and targets from the RNAi-related assets acquired from OPKO Health Inc. (&#147; OPKO &#148;) in March 2013. 

Cosmetic Franchise 

RXi&#146;s cosmetic development program is based on our proprietary sd-rxRNA technology. Cosmetics are compounds that affect the appearance of the skin and make no preventative or therapeutic claims. These compounds may be developed more rapidly than therapeutics, therefore the path to market may be much shorter and less expensive. 

In October 2015, we announced the selection of lead compounds targeting MMP1 and TYR for cosmetic development. RXI-185, an sd-rxRNA compound targeting MMP1, and RXI-231, an sd-rxRNA compound targeting TYR, are being developed as cosmetic ingredients that may improve skin appearance. The Company&#146;s next steps include plans to complete functional and safety testing for both compounds, as well as to develop a method for skin penetration that would be compatible with our compounds. Topical delivery can be enhanced in a number of ways and the Company is exploring these both internally and with a number of research collaborations. 

&#160;

Market Opportunity 

As there are currently no FDA-approved drugs to prevent scar formation, a therapeutic of this type could have great benefit for trauma and surgical patients, particularly as a treatment during the surgical revision of existing unsatisfactory scars. There are over 42 million medical procedures in the U.S. each year that could potentially benefit from a therapeutic treatment that could successfully reduce or prevent scarring; thus, the market potential is quite large. According to the American Society for Plastic Surgery, there are approximately 177,000 scar revision surgeries in the United States every year. In addition to cosmetic and reconstructive surgeries, medical interventions which could incorporate an anti-scarring agent include treatment of scarring that results from trauma, surgery or burns (especially relating to raised or hypertrophic scarring or contracture scarring), and surgical revision of existing unsatisfactory scars. 

Overexpression of CTGF is implicated in dermal scarring, subretinal fibrosis and other fibrotic diseases. Because of this, we believe that RXI-109 or other CTGF-targeting RNAi compounds may be able to treat the fibrotic component of numerous indications. These indications are as wide ranging as acute spinal injury, endometriosis, organ fibrosis including liver and pulmonary fibrosis, cutaneous scleroderma and vascular restenosis, in addition to numerous ocular diseases that result in retinal scarring. If the current clinical trials of RXI-109 produce successful results, we may explore opportunities in these additional indications that can be accessed by local administration, starting with intradermal or intravitreal injection. Although the Company does not intend to develop systemic uses of RXI-109 at this time, the Company is open to business development and out-licensing opportunities for those applications. 

DPCP, the active ingredient in Samcyprone&#153;, is a small molecule that has been used since the late 1970s to stimulate regrowth of hair in patients with alopecia areata. Recent publications have supported its use as an immunomodulator for the treatment of alopecia areata, warts and cutaneous metastases of malignant melanoma, a combined market potential of over an estimated $1 billion. Although it has been used by physicians for several decades, it has never been reviewed or approved by a regulatory authority as a drug. DPCP is a new chemical entity under a U.S. IND. If FDA approval is granted, Samcyprone&#153;, RXi&#146;s proprietary formulation of DPCP, is expected to achieve market exclusivity. 

Introduction to RNAi 

RNAi is a naturally occurring phenomenon where short, double-stranded RNA molecules interfere with the expression of targeted genes. The discovery of RNAi is regarded as a significant advancement in the scientific community, as evidenced by the 2006 Nobel Prize in Medicine awarded to the co-discoverers of RNAi, including Dr. Craig Mello, one of the founders of RXi and the Chairman of our Scientific Advisory Board. 

RNAi offers a novel approach to the drug development process because RNAi compounds can potentially be designed to target any one of the thousands of human genes, many of which are &#147;undruggable&#148; by other modalities. The specificity of RNAi is achieved by an intrinsic, well-understood biological mechanism based on designing the sequence of an RNAi compound to match the sequence of the targeted gene. The sequence of the entire human genome is now known, and the mRNA coding sequence for many proteins is already available. Supported by numerous gene-silencing reports and our own research, we believe that this sequence information can be used to design RNAi compounds to interfere with the expression of almost any specific gene. 

Our RNAi Therapeutic Platform 

The first design of RNAi compounds to be pursued for the development of human therapeutics were short, double-stranded RNAs that included at least one overhanging single-stranded region and limited modifications, known as small-interfering RNA, or siRNA, which we will also refer to as classic siRNA. 

We believe that classic siRNAs have drawbacks that may limit the usefulness of those agents as human therapeutics, and that we may be able to utilize the technologies we have licensed and developed internally to optimize RNAi compounds for use as human therapeutic agents. It is the combination of the length, the nucleotide sequence and the configuration of chemical modifications that are important for effective RNAi therapeutics. 

Drug delivery has been the primary challenge in developing RNAi therapeutics since its initial discovery. One conventional solution to the delivery problem involves encapsulation into a lipid-based particle, such as a liposome, to improve circulation time and cellular uptake. Scientists at RXi have used an alternative approach to delivery in which drug-like properties were built into the RNAi compound itself. These novel compounds are termed &#145;self-delivering&#146; RNAi compounds or sd-rxRNA. 

&#160;

sd-rxRNAs are hybrid oligonucleotide compounds that the Company believes combine the beneficial properties of both conventional RNAi and antisense technologies. Traditional, single-stranded antisense compounds have favorable tissue distribution and cellular uptake properties. However, they do not have the intracellular potency that is a hallmark of double-stranded RNAi compounds. Conversely, the duplex structure and hydrophilic character of traditional RNAi compounds results in poor tissue distribution and cellular uptake. In an attempt to combine the best properties of both technologies, sd-rxRNA have a single-stranded phosphorothioate region, a short duplex region, and contain a variety of nuclease-stabilizing and lipophilic chemical modifications. The combination of these features allows sd-rxRNA to achieve efficient spontaneous cellular uptake and potent, long-lasting intracellular activity. 

We believe that our next generation sd-rxRNA compounds offer significant advantages over classic siRNA used by other companies developing RNAi therapeutics, highlighted by the following characteristics: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Potent RNAi activity in the absence of a delivery vehicle; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; More resistant to nuclease degradation; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Readily manufactured; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Potentially more specific for the target gene; and &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; More reliable at blocking immune side effects than classic siRNA. Our Route of Administration 

The route by which an RNAi therapeutic is brought into contact with the body depends on the intended organ or tissue to be treated. Delivery routes can be simplified into two major categories: (1) local (when a drug is delivered directly to the tissue of interest); and (2) systemic (when a drug accesses the tissue of interest through the circulatory system). Local delivery may avoid some hurdles associated with systemic approaches such as rapid clearance from circulation and inefficient tissue extravasation (crossing the endothelial barrier from the blood stream). However, the local delivery approach can only be applied to a limited number of organs or tissues ( e.g. , skin, eye, lung and potentially the central nervous system). 

The key to therapeutic success with RNAi lies in delivering intact RNAi compounds to the target tissue and the interior of the target cells. To accomplish this, we have developed a comprehensive platform that includes chemically synthesized RNAi compounds that are optimized for stability and efficacy and combine delivery at the site of action with a local delivery approach. 

Our sd-rxRNA molecules have unique properties that improve tissue and cell uptake. We have studied sd-rxRNA molecules in animal models for dermal and ocular delivery. Direct administration of sd-rxRNA via intradermal injection with no additional delivery vehicle to the skin or to the eye demonstrates that target gene silencing can be measured after local administration. The dose levels required for these direct-injection methods are small and suitable for clinical development. The Company has a number of clinical trials currently ongoing with RXI-109, an sd-rxRNA compound, for local delivery in the skin and the eye. Other target tissues that are potentially accessible for local delivery using sd-rxRNA compounds include the lung, the central nervous system, mucosal tissues and sites of inflammation and tumor (direct administration). 

The built-in drug-like properties of sd-rxRNAs, including an extended circulation time and better tissue distribution, may make them amenable for system delivery. Target tissues that are potentially accessible using sd-rxRNA compounds by systemic delivery include kidney, fat, heart, lung, sites of inflammation, tumors and vascular endothelium. Further optimization efforts are required to expand this technology to systemic applications. 

&#160;

Introduction to Immunomodulators 

Immunotherapy is the treatment of disease by inducing, enhancing or suppressing an immune response. Active agents in immunotherapy are collectively called immunomodulators. They are a diverse array of recombinant, synthetic and natural preparations that help to regulate or normalize the immune system. 

Our Immunomodulator Therapeutic Pipeline 

Samcyprone&#153;, licensed by the Company in 2014, is a proprietary topical formulation of DPCP. DPCP has been used for decades as a treatment to stimulate hair re-growth in patients with alopecia areata and more recently as a treatment for recalcitrant wart removal and as an aid in the reduction of cutaneous metastases of melanoma. As it is currently used, a doctor must prescribe DPCP to be formulated by a compounding facility, generally in acetone. There are no standardized methods of formulation or procedures for use. Because it works by causing an immune response, the level of response can vary greatly from person to person. Moreover, some pharmacies will not even compound it, even if it is prescribed. 

The Company&#146;s formulation of DPCP, called Samcyprone&#153;, works by initiating a T-cell response. T-cells or T lymphocytes are a type of white blood cell that play a key role in cell-mediated immunity. The use of Samcyprone&#153; will allow for lower sensitizing and challenge doses than in current use and should result in an improved safety margin and a more consistent immune response. 

There will be several advantages to using an FDA regulated formulation like the one we are developing. First, the amount of DPCP used in our own ointment formulation will be lower than that generally used in acetone formulation. This should result in reduced side effects that happen due to accidental over-sensitization when a higher than necessary concentration is used. Second, we are developing an optimized dosing regimen so that a standardized response can be expected. And third, the ointment formulation will be easier to prescribe and to use than an acetone formulation, allowing for ease of application at the appropriate site on the skin.

The mechanism of action of Samcyprone&#153; is linked to DPCP&#146;s ability to alter the expression of multiple genes involved in the immune response. Research with Samcyprone&#153; may also allow us to discover specific targets and develop new sd-rxRNA compounds for the potential treatment of immunological disorders that are relevant to the skin, as well as various systemic diseases. 

Intellectual Property 

We protect our proprietary information by means of United States and foreign patents, trademarks and copyrights. In addition, we rely upon trade secret protection and contractual arrangements to protect certain of our proprietary information and products. We have pending patent applications that relate to potential drug targets, compounds we are developing to modulate those targets, methods of making or using those compounds and proprietary elements of our drug discovery platform. 

Much of our technology and many of our processes depend upon the knowledge, experience and skills of key scientific and technical personnel. To protect our rights to our proprietary know-how and technology, we require all employees, as well as our consultants and advisors when feasible, to enter into confidentiality agreements that require disclosure and assignment to us of ideas, developments, discoveries and inventions made by these employees, consultants and advisors in the course of their service to us, and we vigorously defend that position with partners, as well as with employees who leave the Company. 

We have also obtained rights to various patents and patent applications under licenses with third parties, which require us to pay royalties, milestone payments, or both. The degree of patent protection for biotechnology products and processes, including ours, remains uncertain, both in the United States and in other important markets, because the scope of protection depends on decisions of patent offices, courts and lawmakers in these countries. There is no certainty that our existing patents or others, if obtained, will afford us substantial protection or commercial benefit. Similarly, there is no assurance that our pending patent applications or patent applications licensed from third parties will ultimately be granted as patents or that those patents that have been issued or are issued in the future will stand if they are challenged in court. We assess our license agreements on an ongoing basis, and may from time to time terminate licenses to technology that we do not intend to employ in our technology platforms, or in our product discovery or development activities. 

&#160;

Patents and Patent Applications 

We are actively prosecuting twenty-eight patent families covering our compounds and technologies, including RXI-109 and Samcyprone&#153;. A combined summary of these patents and patent applications is set forth below in the following table: 

&#160;

&#160; &#160; Pending Applications &#160; &#160; Issued Patents &#160; United States

&#160; &#160; 19 &#160; &#160; &#160; 28 &#160; Canada

&#160; &#160; 6 &#160; &#160; &#160; 1 &#160; Europe

&#160; &#160; 8 &#160; &#160; &#160; 31 &#160; Japan

&#160; &#160; 4 &#160; &#160; &#160; 5 &#160; Other Markets

&#160; &#160; 10 &#160; &#160; &#160; 8 &#160; Patents and Patent Applications Relating to RNAi 

Our portfolio includes 72 issued patents, thirteen of which cover our self-delivering RNAi platform. These thirteen patents broadly cover both the composition and methods of use of our self-delivering platform technology and uses of our sd-rxRNAs targeting CTGF for the treatment of fibrotic disorders, including RXI-109 for the treatment of dermal and ocular fibrosis. These patents are scheduled to expire between 2029 and 2031. Furthermore, there are 44 patent applications, encompassing what we believe to be important new RNAi compounds and their use as therapeutics and/or cosmetics, chemical modifications of RNAi compounds that improve the compounds&#146; suitability for therapeutic uses (including delivery) and compounds directed to specific targets ( i.e. , that address specific disease states). 

The patents and any patents that may issue from these pending patent applications will, if issued, be set to expire between 2022 and 2035, not including any patent term extensions that may be afforded under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (and the equivalent provisions in foreign jurisdictions) for any delays incurred during the regulatory approval process relating to human drug products (or processes for making or using human drug products). 

Patent and Patent Applications Relating to Samcyprone&#153; 

The Samcyprone&#153; portfolio includes one issued patent and three patent applications. The patent and patent applications cover both the compositions and methods of use of Samcyprone&#153; for the treatment of warts, human papilloma virus (HPV) skin infections, skin cancer (including melanoma) and immunocompromised patients. 

The patent and any patents that may issue from the pending applications will be set to expire between 2019 and 2031, not including any patent term extensions that may be afforded under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (and the equivalent provisions in foreign jurisdictions) for any delays incurred during the regulatory approval process relating to human drug products (or processed for making or using human drug products). 

Intellectual Property License Agreements 

We have secured exclusive and non-exclusive rights to develop therapeutics by licensing key RNAi technologies, Samcyprone&#153; and patent rights from third parties. These rights relate to chemistry and configuration of compounds, delivery technologies of compounds to cells and therapeutic targets. As we continue to develop our own proprietary compounds, we continue to evaluate both our in-licensed portfolio as well as the field for new technologies that could be in-licensed to further enhance our intellectual property portfolio and unique position in the RNAi and immunotherapy space. 

Advirna. In September 2011, we entered into agreements with Advirna, LLC (&#147; Advirna &#148;) pursuant to which Advirna assigned to us its existing patent and technology rights related to sd-rxRNA technology in exchange for our agreement to issue 5% of the Company&#146;s fully-diluted shares, pay an annual maintenance fee of $100,000 and pay a one-time milestone payment of $350,000 upon the issuance of the first patent with valid claims covering the assigned technology. The common shares of the Company were issued to Advirna in 2012 and the one-time milestone payment was paid in 2014. Additionally, we will be required to pay a 1% royalty to Advirna on any license revenue received by us with respect to future licensing of the assigned Advirna patent and technology rights. We also granted back to Advirna a license under the assigned patent and technology rights for fields of use outside human therapeutics and diagnostics. 

&#160;

Our rights under the Advirna agreement will expire upon the later of: (i) the expiration of the last-to-expire of the &#147;patent rights&#148; (as defined therein) or (ii) the abandonment of the last-to-be abandoned of such patents, unless earlier terminated in accordance with the provisions of the agreement. 

We may terminate the Advirna agreement at any time upon 90 days&#146; written notice to Advirna, and Advirna may terminate the agreement upon 90 days&#146; prior written notice in the event that we cease using commercially reasonable efforts to research, develop, license or otherwise commercialize the patent rights or &#147;royalty-bearing products&#148; (as defined therein), provided that we may refute such claim within such 90-day period by showing budgeted expenditures for the research, development, licensing or other commercialization consistent with other technologies of similar stage of development and commercial potential as the patent rights or royalty-bearing products. Further, either party at any time may provide to the other party written notice of a material breach of the agreement. If the other party fails to cure the identified breach within 90 days after the date of the notice, the aggrieved party may terminate the agreement by written notice to the party in breach. 

Hapten . In December 2014, the Company entered into an Assignment and License Agreement with Hapten Pharmaceuticals, LLC (&#147; Hapten &#148;) under which Hapten agreed, effective at a closing that was subject to the satisfaction of certain closing conditions which occurred in February 2015, to sell and assign to us certain patent rights and related assets and rights, including an investigational new drug application and clinical data, for Hapten&#146;s Samcyprone&#153; products for therapeutic and prophylactic use. Under the Assignment and License Agreement and upon the closing, Hapten received a one-time upfront cash payment of $100,000 and we issued to Hapten 200,000 shares of Company common stock. Pursuant to the Assignment and License Agreement, Hapten will be entitled to receive: (i) future milestone payments tied to the achievement of certain clinical and commercial objectives (all of which payments may be made at our option in cash or through the issuance of common stock) and (ii) escalating royalties based on product sales by us and any sublicensees. 

We have certain customary diligence obligations under the Assignment and License Agreement requiring us to use commercially reasonable efforts to develop and commercialize one or more products covered by the Assignment and License Agreement, which obligations, if not performed, could result in rights assigned or licensed to us reverting back to Hapten. 

In addition to the license agreements listed above, the Company has entered into and may enter into other license agreements that may benefit us as we develop our RNAi and Samcyprone&#153; pipelines. 

Other Strategic Agreements 

OPKO . In March 2013, the Company entered into an Asset Purchase Agreement with OPKO, in which we acquired substantially all of its RNAi-related assets, which included patents and patent applications, licenses, clinical and preclinical data and other related assets. In exchange for the assets that we purchased from OPKO, we issued 1,666,666 shares of our common stock and agreed to pay, if applicable: (i) up to $50 million in development and commercialization milestones for the successful development and commercialization of each &#147;Qualified Drug&#148; (as defined therein) and (ii) royalty payments equal to: (a) a mid-single-digit percentage of &#147;Net Sales&#148; (as defined therein) with respect to each Qualified Drug sold for an ophthalmologic use during the applicable &#147;Royalty Period&#148; (as defined therein) and (b) a low-single-digit percentage of Net Sales with respect to each Qualified Drug sold for a non-ophthalmologic use during the applicable Royalty Period. 

We have certain customary diligence obligations under the Asset Purchase Agreement requiring us to use commercially reasonable efforts to develop and commercialize one or more products covered by the Asset Purchase Agreement, which obligations, if not performed, could result in assets transferred and rights assigned or licensed to us reverting back to OPKO. 

MirImmune . In March 2015, RXi granted an exclusive license to MirImmune, Inc. (&#147; MirImmune &#148;) to utilize the Company&#146;s novel and proprietary sd-rxRNA technology for MirImmune&#146;s use in developing ex-vivo cell-based cancer immunotherapies. Under the terms of the agreement, MirImmune will be responsible for all research, development, manufacturing, regulatory and 

&#160;

commercialization activities for the licensed products. MirImmune will develop ex-vivo cell-based therapeutics utilizing our sd-rxRNA technology to target immune inhibitory pathways (checkpoints) which are responsible for limiting the efficacy of cancer immunotherapies. The Company is eligible to receive an annual licensing fee, clinical milestone payments and royalties on sales from MirImmune. Further, upon the achievement of gating milestones, the Company will have the right to acquire a double-digit equity stake in MirImmune. 

The Company does not expect to realize any significant milestone payments or royalties under this agreement in the near term. However, if successful, this collaboration has the potential to result in novel, more effective and patient friendly cancer treatments that could contribute to developments in personalized medicine. 

Research and Development 

To date, our research programs have primarily focused on developing technology necessary to make RNAi compounds available by local administration for diseases for which we intend to develop an RNAi therapeutic, identifying and testing RNAi compounds against therapeutically relevant targets in the fields of dermatology and ophthalmology and identifying lead product candidates and moving those product candidates into the clinic. Since we commenced operations, research and development has comprised a significant proportion of our total operating expenses and is expected to comprise the majority of our spending for the foreseeable future. 

There are risks in any new field of drug discovery that preclude certainty regarding the successful development of a product. We cannot reasonably estimate or know the nature, timing and costs of the efforts necessary to complete the development of, or the period in which material net cash inflows are expected to commence from, any product candidate. Our inability to make these estimates results from the uncertainty of numerous factors, including but not limited to: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Our ability to advance product candidates into preclinical research and clinical trials; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; The scope and rate of progress of our preclinical program and other research and development activities; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; The scope, rate of progress and cost of any clinical trials we commence; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; The cost of filing, prosecuting, defending and enforcing patent claims and other intellectual property rights; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Clinical trial results; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; The terms and timing of any collaborative, licensing and other arrangements that we may establish; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; The cost and timing of regulatory approvals; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; The cost of establishing clinical and commercial supplies of our product candidates and any products that we may develop; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; The cost and timing of establishing sales, marketing and distribution capabilities; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; The effect of competing technological and market developments; and &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; The effect of government regulation and insurance industry efforts to control healthcare costs through reimbursement policy and other cost management strategies. Failure to complete any stage of the development of our product candidates in a timely manner could have a material adverse effect on our operations, financial position and liquidity. 

Research and Development Expenses 

Research and development expenses consist of compensation-related costs for our employees dedicated to research and development activities, fees related to our Scientific Advisory Board members, expenses related to our ongoing research and development efforts primarily related to our clinical trials, drug manufacturing, outside contract services, licensing and patent fees and laboratory supplies and services for our research programs. 

Total research and development expenses for the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014 was $6,925,000 and $5,680,000, respectively. 

&#160;

Competition 

We believe that numerous companies are investigating or plan to investigate a variety of proposed anti-scarring therapies in clinical trials or are working in the RNAi area generally. Many other companies are pursuing non-RNAi-based therapies for one or more fibrotic disease indications, including ocular scarring or other indications that we may seek to pursue. The companies include large and small pharmaceuticals, chemical and biotechnology companies, as well as universities, government agencies and other private and public research organizations. 

We believe that other companies currently developing anti-scarring therapies, both dermal and ocular, include CoDa Therapeutics, Inc., Sirnaomics, Inc., FirstString Research, Inc., Promedior, Inc., FibroGen, Inc., MiRagen Therapeutics, Inc., Ophthotech Corporation, Vascular BioSciences, Allergan plc, and Suneva Medical, Inc. 

We believe that other companies working in the RNAi area, generally, include Alnylam Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Benitec Limited, Silence Therapeutics plc, Quark Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Arbutus Biopharma, Arrowhead Research Corporation, Dicerna Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Sylentis, S.A. and Roche Innovation Center Copenhagen A/S, as well as a number of large pharmaceutical companies. 

We do not believe that there are any companies developing treatments directly competing with Samcyprone&#153; for warts or for alopecia areata or cutaneous metastases of malignant melanoma. However, there are several existing treatments for each condition with which Samcyprone&#153; could potentially compete. Current topical medicinal treatments for warts include salicylic acid, off label use of Imiquimod and Picato &#174; and the most common ablative treatments include removal through medical procedures, such as cryotherapy, surgery or chemical peels. There currently are no FDA-approved treatments specifically for alopecia areata and the most common treatments used by medical professionals include cortisone injections or pills, topical ointments, such as minoxidil or anthralin, and topical immunotherapy with the use of chemicals such as DPCP or dinitrochlorobenzene. Finally, common treatment therapies for cutaneous metastases of malignant melanoma include cryotherapy, photodynamic therapy, laser therapy, chemotherapy and immunotherapy, such as the use of Imiquimod. 

Government Regulation 

The United States and many other countries extensively regulate the preclinical and clinical testing, manufacturing, labeling, storage, record-keeping, advertising, promotion, export, marketing and distribution of drugs and biologic products. The FDA regulates pharmaceutical and biologic products under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, the Public Health Service Act and other federal statutes and regulations. 

To obtain approval of our future product candidates from the FDA, we must, among other requirements, submit data supporting safety and efficacy for the intended indication as well as detailed information on the manufacture and composition of the product candidate. In most cases, this will require extensive laboratory tests and preclinical and clinical trials. The collection of these data, as well as the preparation of applications for review by the FDA involve significant time and expense. The FDA also may require post-marketing testing to monitor the safety and efficacy of approved products or place conditions on any approvals that could restrict the therapeutic claims and commercial applications of these products. Regulatory authorities may withdraw product approvals if we fail to comply with regulatory standards or if we encounter problems at any time following initial marketing of our products. 

The first stage of the FDA approval process for a new biologic or drug involves completion of preclinical studies and the submission of the results of these studies to the FDA. These data, together with proposed clinical protocols, manufacturing information, analytical data and other information submitted to the FDA in an IND application, must become effective before human clinical trials may commence. Preclinical studies generally involve FDA regulated laboratory evaluation of product characteristics and animal studies to assess the efficacy and safety of the product candidate. 

After the IND becomes effective, a company may commence human clinical trials. These are typically conducted in three sequential phases, but the phases may overlap. Phase 1 trials consist of testing the product candidate in a small number of patients or healthy volunteers, primarily for safety at one or more doses. Phase 2 trials, in addition to safety, evaluate the efficacy of the product candidate in a patient population somewhat larger than Phase 1 trials. Phase 3 trials typically involve additional testing for safety and 

&#160;

clinical efficacy in an expanded population at multiple test sites. A company must submit to the FDA a clinical protocol, accompanied by the approval of the Institutional Review Board (&#147; IRB &#148;) at the institutions participating in the trials, prior to commencement of each clinical trial. 

To obtain FDA marketing authorization, a company must submit to the FDA the results of the preclinical and clinical testing, together with, among other things, detailed information on the manufacture and composition of the product candidate, in the form of a new drug application (an &#147; NDA &#148;), or, in the case of a biologic, a biologics license application (a &#147; BLA &#148;). 

The amount of time taken by the FDA for approval of an NDA or BLA will depend upon a number of factors, including whether the product candidate has received priority review, the quality of the submission and studies presented, the potential contribution that the compound will make in improving the treatment of the disease in question and the workload at the FDA. 

The FDA may, in some cases, confer upon an investigational product the status of a fast track product. A fast track product is defined as a new drug or biologic intended for the treatment of a serious or life threatening condition that demonstrates the potential to address unmet medical needs for this condition. The FDA can base approval of an NDA or BLA for a fast track product on an effect on a surrogate endpoint, or on another endpoint that is reasonably likely to predict clinical benefit. If a preliminary review of clinical data suggests that a fast track product may be effective, the FDA may initiate review of entire sections of a marketing application for a fast track product before the sponsor completes the application. 

We anticipate that our products will be manufactured by our strategic partners, licensees or other third parties. Before approving an NDA or BLA, the FDA will inspect the facilities at which the product is manufactured and will not approve the product unless the manufacturing facilities are in compliance with the FDA&#146;s current good manufacturing practices (&#147; cGMP &#148;), which are regulations that govern the manufacture, holding and distribution of a product. Manufacturers of biologics also must comply with the FDA&#146;s general biological product standards. Our manufacturers also will be subject to regulation under the Occupational Safety and Health Act, the Nuclear Energy and Radiation Control Act, the Toxic Substance Control Act and the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act and other applicable environmental statutes. Following approval, the FDA periodically inspects drug and biologic manufacturing facilities to ensure continued compliance with the cGMP. Our manufacturers will have to continue to comply with those requirements. Failure to comply with these requirements subjects the manufacturer to possible legal or regulatory action, such as suspension of manufacturing or recall or seizure of product. Adverse patient experiences with the product must be reported to the FDA and could result in the imposition of marketing restrictions through labeling changes or market removal. Product approvals may be withdrawn if compliance with regulatory requirements is not maintained or if problems concerning safety or efficacy of the product occur following approval. 

The labeling, advertising, promotion, marketing and distribution of a drug or biologic product also must be in compliance with FDA and Federal Trade Commission requirements which include, among others, standards and regulations for off-label promotion, industry sponsored scientific and educational activities, promotional activities involving the internet, and direct-to-consumer advertising. We also will be subject to a variety of federal, state and local regulations relating to the use, handling, storage and disposal of hazardous materials, including chemicals and radioactive and biological materials. In addition, we will be subject to various laws and regulations governing laboratory practices and the experimental use of animals. In each of these areas, as above, the FDA has broad regulatory and enforcement powers, including the ability to levy fines and civil penalties, suspend or delay issuance of product approvals, seize or recall products and deny or withdraw approvals. 

We will also be subject to a variety of regulations governing clinical trials and sales of our products outside the United States. Whether or not FDA approval has been obtained, approval of a product candidate by the comparable regulatory authorities of foreign countries and regions must be obtained prior to the commencement of marketing the product in those countries. The approval process varies from one regulatory authority to another and the time may be longer or shorter than that required for FDA approval. In the European Union, Canada and Australia, regulatory requirements and approval processes are similar, in principle, to those in the United States. 

&#160;

Environmental Compliance 

Our research and development activities involve the controlled use of potentially harmful biological materials as well as hazardous materials, chemicals and various radioactive compounds. We are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the use, storage, handling and disposal of these materials and specific waste products. We are also subject to numerous environmental, health and workplace safety laws and regulations, including those governing laboratory procedures, exposure to blood-borne pathogens and the handling of bio-hazardous materials. The cost of compliance with these laws and regulations could be significant and may adversely affect capital expenditures to the extent we are required to procure expensive capital equipment to meet regulatory requirements. 

Employees 

As of March 15, 2016, we had sixteen full-time employees, ten of whom were engaged in research and development, and six of whom were engaged in management, administration and finance. None of our employees are represented by a labor union or covered by a collective bargaining agreement, nor have we experienced any work stoppages. 

Corporate Information 

RXi was incorporated in the state of Delaware in 2011. Our executive offices are located at 257 Simarano Drive, Suite 101, Marlborough, MA 01752, and our telephone number is (508) 767-3861. 

Investor Information 

The Company&#146;s website address is http://www.rxipharma.com . We make available on our website, free of charge, copies of our annual reports on Form 10-K, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and our current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as soon as reasonably practicable after these reports are filed electronically with, or otherwise furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (the &#147; SEC &#148;). 

You may read and copy any materials the Company files with the SEC at the SEC&#146;s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. You may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding RXi and other issuers that file electronically with the SEC. The SEC&#146;s website address is http://www.sec.gov . 

&#160;

