 Item 1. Business 

We are a biopharmaceutical company committed to applying our scientific leadership in the field of cellular metabolism to transform the lives of patients with cancer and rare genetic metabolic disorders, or RGDs, which are a subset of orphan genetic metabolic diseases. Metabolism is a complex biological process involving the uptake and assimilation of nutrients in cells to produce energy and facilitate many of the processes required for cellular division and growth. We focus our efforts on using cellular metabolism, an unexploited area of biological research with disruptive potential, as a platform for developing potentially transformative small molecule medicines. Our most advanced cancer product candidates are AG-221 and AG-120, which target mutated isocitrate dehydrogenase 2 and 1, or IDH2 and IDH1, respectively, and AG-881, which targets both mutated IDH1 and mutated IDH2. These mutations are found in a wide range of hematological malignancies and solid tumors. The lead product candidate in our RGD programs, AG-348, targets pyruvate kinase-R for the treatment of pyruvate kinase deficiency. Pyruvate kinase deficiency is a rare disorder that often results in severe hemolytic anemia due to inherited mutations in the pyruvate kinase enzyme within red blood cells. 

The clinical development strategy for all of our product candidates includes a precision approach with initial study designs that allow for genetically or biomarker defined patient populations, enabling the potential for proof of concept early in clinical development, along with the potential for accelerated approval. Our ability to identify, validate and drug novel targets is enabled by a set of core capabilities. Key proprietary aspects of our core capabilities in cellular metabolism include our ability to measure the activities of numerous metabolic pathways in cells or tissues in a high throughput fashion and our expertise in &#147;flux biochemistry.&#148; This refers to the dynamic analysis of how metabolites, which are intermediates or small molecule products of metabolism, accumulate or diminish as they are created or chemically altered by multiple networks of metabolic enzymes. Complex mathematical modeling of metabolic pathways, enzymatic activity and the flux of metabolites through metabolic enzymatic reactions within diseased tissues allow us to identify novel biological parameters that can be measured to characterize a disease state or the effect of therapy, or biomarkers, and targets for drug discovery. 

Our Strategy 

We aim to build a multi-product company, based on our expertise in cellular metabolism, that discovers, develops and commercializes first- and best-in-class medicines to treat cancer and RGDs. Key elements of our strategy include: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Aggressively pursuing the development of novel medicines to transform the lives of patients with cancer and RGDs. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Maintaining our competitive advantage and focus in the field of cellular metabolism. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Continuing to build a product engine for cancer and RGDs to generate novel and important medicines. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Building a preeminent independent biopharmaceutical company by engaging in discovery, development and commercialization of our medicines. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Maintaining a commitment to precision medicine in drug development. Our Guiding Principles 

We aim to build a long-term company with a disciplined focus on developing medicines that transform the lives of patients with cancer and RGDs. We maintain a culture of high integrity that embraces the following guiding principles, which we believe will provide long-term benefits for all our stakeholders: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Follow the science and do what is right for patients. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Maintain a culture of incisive decision-making driven by deep scientific interrogation and &#147;respectful irreverence.&#148; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Foster collaborative spirit that includes all employees regardless of function or level. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Leverage deep strategic relationships with our academic and commercial partners to improve the quality of our discovery and development efforts. Cellular Metabolism 

Cellular metabolism refers to the set of life-sustaining chemical transformations within the cells of living organisms. The conversion of nutrients into energy via enzyme-catalyzed reactions allows organisms to grow and reproduce, maintain their structures, and respond to their environments. The chemical reactions of metabolism are organized into metabolic pathways, in which one chemical is transformed through a series of steps into another chemical, by a sequence of enzymes. Enzymes catalyze quick and efficient reactions, serve as key regulators of metabolic pathways, and respond to changes in the cell&#146;s environment or signals from other cells. We believe our deep understanding of metabolic pathways within normal cells enables us to identify altered metabolic pathways within abnormal cells such as in rapidly proliferating cancers and RGDs. 

Fundamental differences in the metabolism of normal cells and rapidly proliferating cancer cells were first discovered by Otto Warburg more than 80 years ago&#151;an observation that earned him the Nobel Prize. Warburg demonstrated that in contrast to normal cells, which convert nutrients, such as sugar, into energy via a process known as the Krebs cycle, cancer cells ferment their sugar into lactic acid&#151;a process known as aerobic glycolysis. It is now known that this allows the cancer cells to generate the building blocks they need to grow rapidly. The ability of the cancer cell to &#147;rewire&#148; its metabolic pathways to fuel its growth and survival has spawned an entirely new field of cancer biology known as cancer metabolism or tumor metabolism. 

Cancer and cancer metabolism 

Cancer is a disease characterized by unregulated cell growth. Cancer typically develops when the repair of genetic material in normal cells begins to fail and genes that regulate cell growth become disrupted. Carcinogens, or cancer causing agents, such as radiation, chemicals and hormones, can trigger changes to the genetic material of a cell, and typically prompt this disruption. Cells that have been disrupted may become cancerous, leading to changes in the cells&#146; DNA, and ultimately uncontrolled growth. Cancer cells can spread to other areas of the body, or metastasize, and form tumors, which can destroy normal tissue or organs. Risk factors for cancer include family history, age, diet, and exogenous factors, such as exposure to ultraviolet sunlight and smoking. Cancers can be classified in stages to document disease severity, measured in stages of I to IV, generally based on tumor size, involvement of lymph nodes, and metastases. 

The most common methods of treating patients with cancer are surgery, radiation and drug therapy. A cancer patient often receives treatment with a combination of these methods. These treatment regimens are often associated with side effects, including fatigue, infection, nausea and vomiting and pain. Surgery and radiation therapy are particularly effective in patients in whom the disease is localized. Physicians generally use systemic drug therapies in situations in which the cancer has spread beyond the primary site or cannot otherwise be treated through surgery. The goal of drug therapy is to kill cancer cells or to damage cellular components required for rapid growth and survival of cancer cells. In many cases, drug therapy entails the administration of several different drugs in combination. Over the past several decades, drug therapy has evolved from non-specific drugs that kill both healthy and cancerous cells to drugs that target specific molecular pathways involved in cancer. 

Cytotoxic chemotherapies 

The earliest approach to cancer treatment was to develop drugs, referred to as cytotoxic drugs, that kill rapidly proliferating cancer cells through non-specific mechanisms, such as disrupting cell metabolism or causing damage to cellular components required for survival and rapid growth. While these drugs, (e.g., CYTOXAN &#174; , 

&#160;

Adriamycin &#174; ) have been effective in the treatment of some cancers they act in an indiscriminate manner, killing healthy as well as cancerous cells. Due to their mechanism of action, many cytotoxic drugs have a narrow dose range above which the toxicity causes unacceptable or even fatal levels of damage and below which the drugs are not effective in eradicating cancer cells. 

Targeted therapies 

The next approach to pharmacological cancer treatment was to develop drugs, referred to as targeted therapeutics, that target specific biological molecules in the human body that play a role in rapid cell growth and the spread of cancer. Targeted therapeutics are designed to preferentially kill cancer cells and spare normal cells, to improve efficacy and minimize side effects. The drugs are designed to either attack a target that causes uncontrolled growth of cancer cells because of either a specific genetic alteration primarily found in cancer cells but not in normal cells or a target that cancer cells are more dependent on for their growth in comparison to normal cells. Examples of effective targeted therapies include Herceptin &#174; , Avastin &#174; and Zelboraf &#174; . 

Emerging areas 

Several new approaches to develop novel cancer treatments are underway. They include: treatment with drugs or other methods that stimulate the normal immune system to attack the cancer (immuno-oncology); antibody drug conjugates (e.g., Kadcyla &#174; ) that carry a powerful chemotherapy payload that is only released into the cancer cell; and drugs that target the changes in gene activity that occurs in cancer cells (epigenetics). 

Cancer metabolism is a new and exciting field of biology that provides a fundamentally different approach to treating cancer. Cancers become addicted to certain fuel sources and inherently alter their cellular machinery to change how they consume and utilize nutrients. Cancer cells increase the transport of nutrients into the cell by 200-400 fold compared to normal cells while also mutating metabolic enzymes to generate metabolites that fuel growth and altering gene expression of enzymes to divert energy production. Collectively, these changes afford cancer cells the ability to generate the building blocks that drive tumor growth. Inhibiting key enzymes in cancer cell specific metabolic pathways has the potential to disrupt tumor cell proliferation and survival without affecting normal cells, thus providing a powerful new intervention point for discovery and development of novel targeted cancer therapeutics. Our research is directed at identifying such metabolic targets and discovering medicines against them. 

Validation of the concept of cancer cell metabolic rewiring and excessive nutrient uptake comes from the widespread use of positron emission tomography, or PET, to detect cancers. This medical imaging technology relies on the uptake of nutrients, namely sugar, into cells. Patients are injected with a radioactively labeled form of sugar, which is more rapidly consumed by cancer cells given their profound requirement for nutrients relative to normal tissues. PET imaging precisely locates cancerous areas throughout the body and provides for both a diagnostic and prognostic tool throughout cancer therapy. 

The metabolic rewiring of cancer cells can also be linked to specific genetic alterations in oncogenes (which are genes that transform normal cells into tumor cells) and tumor suppressor genes (which are genes that are anti-oncogenic) responsible for cell signaling. These mutations in signaling pathways can drive excessive uptake of nutrients and altered metabolic pathways, thereby causing cancer formation. This cross talk between cell signaling and metabolism offers multiple opportunities to treat cancer by combining our therapies directed against metabolic enzymes with existing or emerging standards of care. 

Rare genetic metabolic disorders 

Rare genetic metabolic disorders, a subset of orphan genetic metabolic diseases, are a broad group of more than 600 orphan genetic diseases caused by mutations of single metabolic genes. In these disorders, the defect of a single metabolic enzyme disrupts the normal functioning of a metabolic pathway, leading to either aberrant accumulation of &#147;upstream&#148; metabolites which may be toxic or interfere with normal function or reduced ability to synthesize essential &#147;downstream&#148; metabolites or other critical cellular components. RGDs are also referred to as congenital metabolic diseases or rare genetic disorders of metabolism. 

&#160;

Most of these diseases are rare or ultra-rare orphan diseases, often with severe or life-threatening features. A disorder is considered orphan if it affects fewer than 200,000 people in the United States, or fewer than five per 10,000 people in the European Union. In a study in British Columbia, the overall incidence of RGDs was estimated to be 70 per 100,000 live births or one in 1,400 births, overall representing more than approximately 15% of single gene disorders in the population. Incidence of a single RGD can vary widely but is generally rare, usually equal to or less than one per 100,000 births. Many RGDs are likely to be under-diagnosed given the lack of available therapies or diagnostics and the rarity of the condition. 

Current treatment options for these disorders are limited. Diet modification or nutrient supplementation can be beneficial in some RGDs. Several of these disorders, from a group known as lysosomal storage diseases, have been treated successfully with enzyme replacement therapy, or ERT, the therapeutic administration of a functional version of the defective enzyme. Examples of ERTs for lysosomal storage disorders include Fabrazyme &#174; for Fabry disease, Myozome &#174; for Pompe disease, Cerezyme &#174; for Gaucher disease, and Elaprase &#174; for Hunter syndrome. 

Unfortunately, most mutations driving RGDs are intracellular and not amenable for treatment with enzyme replacement therapies. As a result, despite the promising progress made for patients with a small group of these diseases, the vast majority of patients with RGDs have few therapeutic options available, and the standard of care is palliative, meaning treatment of symptoms with no effect on underlying disease mechanisms. We are taking a novel small molecule approach to correct the metabolic defects within diseased cells with a goal of developing transformative medicines for patients. 

We focus on RGDs that share the following common set of features: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; single gene defect; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; severe clinical presentation with evidence that disease damage is progressive but potentially reversible; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; adequate number of patients for prospective clinical trials; and &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; an assessment of the target, based upon a detailed mutational, structural, and metabolomic analysis, to determine if a small molecule approach to correcting the disease is possible. Precision Medicine Approach 

Our understanding of cellular metabolism within diseased tissues enables the development of methods to measure the effect of a drug on the target of interest and the patient, or pharmacodynamic markers, and patient selection strategies for clinical development. Utilizing our approach we identify altered metabolic pathways within abnormal cells. Altered metabolic pathways generate disease-specific metabolic fingerprints, comprising patterns of metabolite levels, which are the amounts of particular metabolites, that can be exploited in both discovery and development of novel therapeutics. Metabolites make ideal biomarkers because they are readily measured in the target tissues and blood. Metabolic biomarkers can identify appropriate patients for clinical trials, serve as pharmacodynamics markers to characterize medicine/target engagement in patients, and permit the monitoring of patient response to therapy. 

We will only progress our drug candidates forward into phase 1 clinical trials if we have the ability to select patients who are most likely to respond to a given therapy based on biomarkers, for example, genetic or metabolic markers. While many factors are considered critical to maximize the probability of technical success in the drug development process, perhaps none is more important than identifying highly specific and selective molecules aimed at the best possible targets for therapy coupled with the patients most likely to respond to that therapy. Our goal is to develop increasing confidence in the target and the patient population prior to entering human clinical trials and then initiate those first human trials in a patient population that has been selected based on target dependence using a biomarker. This approach, known as personalized or precision medicine, is used in the industry to lead to the potential for clear proof of concept in early human trials, along with the potential for accelerated approval. 

&#160;

Our Development Programs 

We believe that leveraging our core capabilities in cellular metabolism combined with a precision medicine approach has significantly enhanced our ability to build a research and development engine that is focused in the therapeutic areas of cancer and RGDs. This engine has permitted us to discover proprietary first-in-class orally available small molecules as potential lead product candidates for each of several novel programs in development. All of our lead programs focus on diagnostically identified patient populations with the potential for early clinical proof of concept and accelerated approval paths. 

The following table summarizes key information about our most advanced product candidates as of February 1, 2016, each of which is described and discussed in further detail below: 

&#160;

Product 

Candidate 

&#160; Biomarker(s) &#160; Initial Indications 

&#160; Stage of Development 

&#160;

&#160; Commercial Rights Cancer metabolism: 

&#160; &#160; AG-221

(IDH2 mutant inhibitor)

&#160; Genotyping of IDH2 mutation; 2HG &#160; IDH2 mutant positive hematologic malignancies &#160; Phase 1/2 clinical trial on-going; phase 1b combination clinical trial on-going; phase 3 IDHENTIFY clinical trial on-going &#160; Agios: milestones and royalties

&#160;

&#160; &#160; IDH2 mutant positive solid tumors including AITL &#160; Phase 1/2 clinical trial on-going &#160; Celgene: worldwide AG-120

(IDH1 mutant inhibitor)

&#160; Genotyping of IDH1 mutation; 2HG &#160; IDH1 mutant positive hematologic malignancies &#160; Phase 1 clinical trial on-going; phase 1b combination clinical trial on-going &#160; Agios: Milestones, cross-royalties, and U.S. rights &#160; &#160; IDH1 mutant positive solid tumors &#160; Phase 1 clinical trial on-going &#160; Celgene: ex-U.S. rights, cross-royalties AG-881

(pan-IDH mutant inhibitor)

&#160; Genotyping of pan-IDH mutation; 2HG &#160; Pan-IDH mutant positive hematologic malignancies &#160; Phase 1 clinical trial on-going &#160; Agios: Milestones

Agios and Celgene:

&#160; &#160; Pan-IDH mutant positive solid tumors &#160; Phase 1 clinical trial on-going &#160; Joint worldwide collaboration Rare genetic metabolic disorders: &#160; &#160; AG-348

(Pyruvate kinase- R activator)

&#160; Genetic testing for mutation in the pyruvate

kinase-R gene

&#160; Patients with pyruvate kinase deficiency &#160; Phase 2 DRIVE PK clinical trial on-going &#160; Agios: worldwide AG-519

(Pyruvate kinase-R activator)

&#160; Genetic testing for mutation in the pyruvate

kinase-R gene

&#160; Patients with pyruvate kinase deficiency &#160; Phase 1 clinical trial in healthy volunteers on-going &#160; Agios: worldwide &#160;

Targeting Mutated Isocitrate Dehydrogenase (IDH) for the Treatment of Cancer 

The isocitrate dehydrogenase, or IDH, protein is a critical enzyme in the citric acid cycle, also known as the tricarboxylic acid, or Krebs, cycle. The Krebs cycle is centrally important to many biochemical pathways and is one of the earliest established components of cellular metabolism. The Krebs cycle converts an essential cellular metabolite called isocitrate into another metabolite, alpha-ketoglutarate ( &#097; -ketoglutarate), both of which are critically important for cellular function and the creation of energy. In humans, there are three forms of the IDH enzyme, IDH1, IDH2, and IDH3, but only IDH1 and IDH2 appear to be mutated in cancers. IDH1 and IDH2 catalyze the same reaction but in different cellular compartments: IDH1 is found in the cytoplasm of the cell and IDH2 in the mitochondria. Tumor cells are generally observed to carry either an IDH1 or IDH2 mutation, but not both. 

Using our proprietary metabolic platform, we and our collaborators examined the mutated pathway and discovered that the mutated IDH enzymes had adopted a novel &#147;gain of function&#148; activity that allows only the mutated IDH enzyme to produce large amounts of a metabolite called 2-hydroxygluturate, or 2HG. We believe that the excessive levels of the metabolite 2HG produced by the tumor fuel cancer growth and survival via multiple cellular changes that lead to a block in cell maturation, or differentiation. We believe that inhibition of these mutated proteins will lead to clinical benefit for the subset of cancer patients whose tumors carry these mutations. We have identified selective development candidates that target and inhibit the mutated forms of IDH1 and IDH2. To date, our early clinical data of AG-221 and AG-120, our lead inhibitors of mutant IDH2 and IDH1, respectively, demonstrate a mechanism of response that is consistent with preclinical studies, including substantial reduction of plasma 2HG levels, as well as evidence of cellular differentiation and normalization of cell counts in the bone marrow and blood. This differentiation effect is distinct from that seen with traditional chemotherapeutics commonly used to treat acute myeloid leukemia, or AML. 

To date, IDH1 and IDH2 mutations have been found to be prevalent in a broad range of advanced hematologic and solid tumors. The following tables summarize our current initial estimates on the occurrence of IDH2 and IDH1 mutations in hematologic and solid tumors. We believe our estimates may expand as more cancer treatment centers screen for these IDH mutations. 

&#160;

Mutation 

&#160; Indications 

&#160; % with IDH mutations &#160; IDH1 

&#160; Low grade glioma &#38; 2 ary Glioblastomas (GBM) &#160; &#160; 68-74 &#160; &#160; Chondrosarcoma &#160; &#160; 40-52 &#160; &#160; Acute Myeloid Leukemia (AML) &#160; &#160; 6-10 &#160; &#160; Myelodysplastic Syndromes (MDS) / Myeloproliferative neoplasms (MPN) &#160; &#160; 3 &#160; &#160; Intrahepatic Cholangiocarcinoma &#160; &#160; 11-24 &#160; &#160; Ollier/Maffucci &#160; &#160; 80 &#160; &#160; Others* (colon, melanoma, lung, prostate) &#160; &#160; 1-3 &#160; IDH2 

&#160; Acute Myeloid Leukemia (AML) &#160; &#160; 9-13 &#160; &#160; MDS/MPN &#160; &#160; 3-6 &#160; &#160; Angio-immunoblastic non-Hodgkin lymphoma ( NHL) &#160; &#160; 30 &#160; &#160; Intrahepatic Cholangiocarcinoma &#160; &#160; 2-6 &#160; &#160; Giant Cell Tumor of the Bone &#160; &#160; 80 &#160; &#160; D-2-hydroxyglutarate (D2HG) Aciduria &#160; &#160; 50 &#160; &#160; Others* (melanoma, glioma) &#160; &#160; 3-5 &#160; Based on literature analysis; estimates will continue to evolve with additional future data. 

&#160;

* Includes &#147;basket&#148; of emerging unconfirmed indications &#160;

AG-221: lead IDH2 program 

AG-221 is an orally available, selective, potent inhibitor of the mutated IDH2 protein, making it a highly targeted therapeutic candidate for the treatment of patients with cancers that harbor IDH2 mutations, including those with acute myeloid leukemia, or AML, who have a historically poor prognosis. In June 2014, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) granted us orphan drug designation for AG-221 for treatment of patients with AML. In August 2014, we announced that the FDA granted fast track designation to AG-221 for treatment of patients with AML that harbor an IDH2 mutation. We have been evaluating AG-221 in several clinical trials evaluating both hematological and solid tumor cancers with IDH2 mutations. To date, all clinical data reported by us in hematological cancers highlights that the mechanism of response is consistent with preclinical studies, including substantial reduction of plasma 2HG levels, as well as evidence of cellular differentiation and normalization of cell counts in the bone marrow and blood. This differentiation effect is distinct from that seen with traditional chemotherapeutics commonly used to treat AML. 

In September 2013, we initiated our first phase 1 multicenter, open-label, dose-escalation clinical trial to assess the safety, clinical activity, and tolerability of AG-221 in patients with advanced hematologic malignancies with an IDH2 mutation. In June 2014, Celgene exercised its option to an exclusive global license for development and commercialization of AG-221 under a collaboration agreement between us and Celgene, which focuses on cancer metabolism, or the 2010 Agreement. Under the 2010 Agreement, Celgene is responsible for all development costs for AG-221. We are eligible to receive up to $120.0 million in milestone payments and a tiered royalty on any net sales of products containing AG-221. In January 2016, in conjunction with the initiation of AG-221 phase 3 trials we received a milestone payment of $25.0 million. We also have the right to conduct a portion of any commercialization activities for AG-221 in the United States. In addition to contributing our scientific and translational expertise, we will continue to conduct some clinical development and regulatory activities within the AG-221 development program in collaboration with Celgene. 

In October 2014, we initiated four expansion cohorts in our ongoing phase 1 clinical trial of AG-221 in patients with IDH2 mutant-positive hematologic malignancies to assess the safety and tolerability of AG-221 at 100 mg once daily oral dose in approximately 100 patients with IDH2 mutant-positive hematologic malignancies, including AML. In the expansion cohorts, we evaluated relapsed or refractory AML patients 60 years of age and older, relapsed or refractory AML patients under age 60, untreated AML patients who decline standard of care chemotherapy and patients with other IDH2 mutant-positive advanced hematologic malignancies. 

In May 2015, we announced that our ongoing phase 1 clinical trial of AG-221 had been expanded to add an additional more homogenous cohort of 125 patients with IDH2 mutant-positive AML who are in second or later relapse, are refractory to second-line induction or reinduction treatment, or have relapsed after allogeneic transplantation. Consistent with the previous expansion cohorts, AG-221 is administered at a dose of 100 mg once daily. The primary objectives of the trial are to confirm the safety and clinical activity of AG-221 in a select, highly resistant AML population. 

In October 2015, Celgene, in collaboration with us, initiated IDHENTIFY, an international phase 3, multi-center, open-label, randomized clinical trial designed to compare the efficacy and safety of AG-221 versus conventional care regimens in patients 60 years or older with IDH2 mutant-positive AML that is refractory to or relapsed after second- or third-line therapy. 

In December 2015, we reported additional clinical data, as of September 1, 2015, from the dose escalation phase and expansion cohorts of the ongoing phase 1 clinical trial, which was transitioned to a phase 1/2 trial in May 2015, evaluating single agent AG-221, which included 209 response-evaluable enrolled patients with IDH2 mutant-positive AML. The new data were presented at the 2015 American Society of Hematology (ASH) Annual Meeting and Exposition in Orlando, Florida and showed investigator-assessed objective responses in 79 out of 209 response-evaluable patients. Of the 79 patients who achieved an objective response, there were 37 complete remissions (CR), three complete remissions with incomplete platelet recovery (CRp), 14 marrow complete remissions (mCR), three complete remissions with incomplete hematologic recovery (CRi) and 22 partial 

&#160;

remissions (PR). A CR is determined by using well-established criteria, which requires no evidence of leukemia in the bone marrow and blood accompanied by full restoration of all blood counts to normal ranges. A CRp means all the criteria for CR are met except that platelet counts are outside of the normal range. Platelets are one of the three major types of blood cells. A mCR means that there is no evidence for leukemia in the marrow but the blood counts have not fully restored. A CRi means there is no evidence for leukemia in the marrow but the neutrophils, a subset of white blood cells responsible for fighting bacterial infections, are outside the normal range. A partial response means all the criteria for CR are met except that the immature defective blood cells, or leukemia, in the bone marrow are in the 5% to 25% range and have been decreased by at least 50% over pretreatment. Of the 159 patients with relapsed or refractory AML, 59 achieved an objective response, including 29 CRs, one CRp, nine mCRs, three CRis and 17 PRs. Of the 24 patients with AML who declined standard of care chemotherapy, 10 achieved an objective response, including four CRs, one CRp, one mCR and four PRs. Of the 14 patients with MDS, seven achieved an objective response, including three CRs, one CRp and three mCRs. Responding relapsed or refractory AML patients were on the trial for up to 18 months with a median duration of treatment of 6.8 months, ranging from 1.8 to 18 months. Responses were durable, with median response duration of 6.9 months in patients with relapsed or refractory AML. A safety analysis was conducted for all 231 treated patients. The majority of adverse events reported by investigators were mild to moderate, with the most common being nausea, diarrhea, fatigue and febrile neutropenia. The serious adverse events, or SAEs, observed during the trial were mainly disease related. Twenty-three percent of patients had treatment-related SAEs, including notably differentiation syndrome (4 percent), leukocytosis (4 percent) and nausea (2 percent). Drug-related Grade 5 SAEs included atrial flutter (one patient), cardiac tamponade (one patient), pericardial effusion (one patient) and respiratory failure (one patient). Dose escalation has been completed and a maximum tolerated dose, or MTD, has not been reached. The first four expansion cohorts have completed enrollment. AG-221 continued to show favorable drug exposure and pharmacokinetics at all doses tested with substantial reductions in plasma levels of 2HG, which is produced by the mutated IDH2 and IDH1 proteins, to the level observed in healthy volunteers. In 2016, Celgene, in collaboration with us, intends to initiate an expansion arm of our phase 1/2 clinical trial, evaluating AG-221 in high-risk MDS patients. 

Also in December 2015, we announced the initiation of a phase 1b, multicenter, international, open-label clinical trial to evaluate the safety and clinical activity of AG-221 or AG-120 in combination with induction and consolidation therapy in patients with newly diagnosed AML with an IDH2 or IDH2 mutation who are eligible for intensive chemotherapy. The trial will evaluate continuous dosing for up to one year with AG-221 administered at an initial oral dose of 100 mg once daily in patients with an IDH2 mutation or AG-120 administered at an initial oral dose of 500 mg once daily in patients with an IDH1 mutation. AG-221 or AG-120 will be administered with two types of AML induction therapies (cytarabine with either daunorubicin or idarubicin) and two types of AML consolidation therapies (mitoxantrone with etoposide [ME] or cytarabine). 

In the first quarter of 2016, Celgene, in collaboration with us, intends to initiate a phase 1/2 frontline combination clinical trial, to be conducted by Celgene, of either AG-221 or AG-120 in combination with VIDAZA &#174; (azacitidine) in newly diagnosed AML patients not eligible for intensive chemotherapy, with a phase 1 component to determine the safety of the combinations, followed by a phase 2 randomized component evaluating the safety and clinical activity of each investigational combination versus single-agent VIDAZA &#174; using a primary endpoint of overall response rate. 

In October 2014, we announced the initiation of a phase 1/2 multicenter clinical trial of AG-221 in patients with advanced solid tumors, including gliomas, as well as angioimmunoblastic T-cell lymphoma, including AITL, in each case that carry an IDH2 mutation. This phase 1/2 multicenter, open-label, dose-escalation clinical trial of AG-221, conducted in collaboration with Celgene, is designed to assess the safety, clinical activity, and tolerability of AG-221 among patients who have an IDH2 mutant-positive advanced solid tumor or AITL. The phase 1/2 clinical trial includes a dose expansion phase where three cohorts of patients with glioma, AITL and other solid tumors that are IDH2 mutant-positive are receiving AG-221 to further evaluate safety, tolerability and clinical activity in advanced solid tumors. 

&#160;

AG-120: lead IDH1 program 

AG-120 is an orally available, selective, potent inhibitor of the mutated IDH1 protein, making it a highly targeted therapeutic candidate for the treatment of patients with cancers that harbor IDH1 mutations. Mutations in IDH1 have been identified in difficult to treat hematologic and solid tumor cancers, including AML, chondrosarcoma and cholangiocarcinoma where both the treatment options and prognosis for patients are poor. In March 2014, we initiated two phase 1, multicenter, open-label, dose-escalation and expansion clinical trials for AG-120, one designed to assess the safety, clinical activity and tolerability of AG-120 in patients with advanced hematologic malignancies and the second designed to evaluate the safety, clinical activity and tolerability of AG-120 in patients with advanced solid tumors, each as a single agent. Both trials are only enrolling patients that carry an IDH1 mutation. On May 18, 2015, we announced that the FDA granted fast track designation to AG-120 for treatment of patients with AML that harbor an IDH1 mutation. On June 10, 2015, the FDA granted us orphan drug designation for AG-120 for treatment of patients with AML. 

Four expansion cohorts have been added to the ongoing phase 1 clinical trial of AG-120 in patients with advanced hematologic malignancies. These four expansion cohorts will evaluate AG-120 in 200 patients with IDH1 mutant-positive advanced hematologic malignancies. The first cohort will evaluate a more homogenous population of 125 AML patients who are in second or later relapse, are refractory to second-line induction or reinduction treatment, or have relapsed after allogeneic transplantation. The second cohort will evaluate 25 untreated AML patients. The third cohort will evaluate 25 patients with other non-AML IDH1 mutant-positive relapsed or refractory advanced hematologic malignancies. The fourth cohort will evaluate patients with relapsed IDH1 mutant-positive AML not eligible for the first arm or standard of care chemotherapy. AG-120 is administered at a 500 mg once daily oral dose, in 28-day cycles. The trial&#146;s primary objectives are to confirm the safety and clinical activity of AG-120. 

In November 2015, we reported clinical data from the dose-escalation portion of our ongoing phase 1 clinical trial evaluating AG-120 in patients with IDH1 mutant-positive advanced solid tumors, including glioma, intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma, or IHCC, and chondrosarcomas who received AG-210 administered from 200 mg to 1200 mg total daily doses. The data were presented at the AACR-NCI-EORTC International Conference on Molecular Targets and Cancer Therapeutics in Boston. As of the September 3, 2015 data cut-off, 62 patients had been treated with single agent AG-120, of which 55 were response-evaluable. Seven of the 11 response-evaluable patients with IDH1 mutant-positive chondrosarcoma had stable disease, with five of these patients maintaining stable disease for six months or more. One of the 20 patients with IDH1 mutant-positive IHCC had a partial response and 11 patients had stable disease, with six such patients maintaining stable disease for six months or more. Ten of the 20 patients with IDH1 mutant-positive glioma had stable disease, with four of these patients maintaining stable disease for six months or more. One of the four patients with other IDH1 mutant-positive solid tumors had stable disease. Treatment with AG-120 showed substantial reduction of 2HG in plasma and tumor tissue, and imaging results suggest that AG-120 can lower 2HG levels in the brain. AG-120 was well tolerated, with the majority of adverse events reported by investigators being mild to moderate. The most common investigator-reported adverse events were nausea, diarrhea, vomiting, anemia and QT prolongation. The majority of reported SAEs were disease related. A MTD has not been reached. We are currently enrolling four expansion cohorts of 25 patients each in (i) low grade glioma with at least six months of prior scans to assess volumetric changes, (ii) second-line cholangiocarcinoma, (iii) high grade, or metastatic, chondrosarcoma, and (iv) other solid tumors with an IDH1 mutation, who will receive the recommended dose of 500 mg of AG-120 once daily. 

In December 2015, we reported new data, as of October 1, 2015, from the ongoing phase 1 clinical trial evaluating single agent AG-120, which included 87 enrolled patients with IDH1 mutant-positive advanced hematologic malignancies, of which 78 were from the dose-escalation phase and nine were from the expansion phase. The data were presented at the 2015 ASH Annual Meeting and Exposition in Orlando, Florida and showed investigator-assessed objective responses in 27 out of 78 response-evaluable patients on AG-120. Of the 27 patients who achieved an objective response, there were 12 CRs, seven CRps, six mCRs, one CRi and one PR. 

&#160;

Patients were on the trial treatment for up to 14.1 months, with a median duration of treatment of 2.9 months, ranging from 0.1 to 14.1 months. Data continued to show durable clinical activity for AG-120, with responses maintained for up to 12.5 months and a median duration of response of 5.6 months. AG-120 continued to show favorable drug exposure and pharmacokinetics at all doses tested and also substantially reduced plasma levels of 2HG to the level observed in healthy volunteers. The mechanism of response is consistent with differentiation, as evidenced by the maturation of the leukemic cells into infection fighting white blood cells, or neutrophils. The majority of adverse events reported by investigators were mild to moderate, with the most common being fatigue, diarrhea, pyrexia and nausea. A MTD has not been reached, and dose escalation is now complete. 

As described above, in December 2015, we announced the initiation of a phase 1b, multicenter, international, open-label clinical trial of AG-221 or AG-120 in combination with induction and consolidation therapy in patients with newly diagnosed AML with an isocitrate dehydrogenase (IDH) mutation who are eligible for intensive chemotherapy. 

Together with Celgene, we intend to initiate a global registration-enabling phase 3 clinical trial in frontline AML patients who harbor an IDH1 mutation in the second half of 2016. In addition, we intend to (i) initiate a randomized phase 2 clinical trial of AG-120 in patients with IDH1 mutant-positive cholangiocarcinoma in the second half of 2016 and (ii) as described above, initiate a phase 1/2 frontline combination clinical trial, to be conducted by Celgene, of either AG-221 or AG-120 in combination with VIDAZA &#174; (azacitidine) in newly diagnosed AML patients not eligible for intensive chemotherapy in the first quarter of 2016, with a phase 1 component to determine the safety of the combinations, followed by a phase 2 randomized component evaluating the safety and clinical activity of each investigational combination versus single-agent VIDAZA &#174; using a primary endpoint of overall response rate. 

Celgene exercised its exclusive option to license development and commercialization rights to AG-120 outside the United States in January 2015. We had previously elected to exercise our option to retain development and commercialization rights to AG-120 in the United States in January 2014. Upon Celgene&#146;s exercise of its exclusive option under the terms of our 2010 Agreement, Celgene leads development and commercialization outside the United States, and we lead development and commercialization in the United States. Celgene is responsible for future development and commercialization costs specific to countries outside the United States, we are responsible for future development and commercialization costs specific to the United States, and we and Celgene will equally fund the future global development costs of AG-120 that are not specific to any particular region or country. Celgene is eligible to receive tiered royalties on any net sales in the United States. We are eligible to receive tiered royalties on any net sales outside the United States and up to $120.0 million in payments on achievement of certain milestones. We also are eligible to receive an additional one-time payment of $25.0 million upon the dosing of the last patient in an Agios-sponsored phase 2 clinical trial for AG-120. 

AG-881: lead pan-IDH program 

AG-881 is an orally available, selective, brain-penetrant, pan-IDH mutant inhibitor, which provides added flexibility to our current portfolio of IDH mutant inhibitors. AG-881 successfully completed IND-enabling studies in April 2015. We and Celgene are jointly collaborating on a worldwide development program, wherein we share worldwide development costs and profits and Celgene would book any worldwide commercial sales. We will lead commercialization in the United States with both companies sharing equally in field-based commercial activities, and Celgene will lead commercialization outside of the United States with us providing one third of field-based commercial activities in the major EU markets. In June 2015, we initiated a phase 1 clinical trial for AG-881 in patients with advanced solid tumors. This phase 1 multi-center, open-label clinical trial is to evaluate the safety, pharmacokinetics, pharmacodynamics and clinical activity of AG-881 in advanced solid tumors, including gliomas. AG-881 will be administered continuously as a single agent dosed orally in a 28-day cycle. The first portion of the trial includes a dose-escalation phase in which cohorts of patients will receive ascending oral doses of AG-881 to determine the maximum tolerated dose and/or the recommended phase 2 dose based on safety and tolerability. The second portion of the trial is a dose expansion phase where patients will receive AG-881 to further evaluate the safety, tolerability and clinical activity of the recommended phase 2 dose. 

&#160;

In August 2015, we initiated a second dose escalation and expansion phase 1 clinical trial for AG-881 in patients with advanced IDH1 or IDH2 mutant-positive hematologic malignancies whose cancer has progressed on a prior IDH inhibitor therapy. This phase 1 multi-center, open-label clinical trial is to evaluate the safety, pharmacokinetics, pharmacodynamics and clinical activity of AG-881 in advanced hematological malignancies. AG-881 will be administered continuously as a single agent dosed orally in a 28-day cycle. The first portion of the trial includes a dose-escalation phase in which cohorts of patients will receive ascending oral doses of AG-881 to determine the maximum tolerated dose and/or the recommended phase 2 dose based on safety and tolerability. The second portion of the trial is a dose expansion phase where patients will receive AG-881 to further evaluate the safety, tolerability and clinical activity of the recommended phase 2 dose. 

Pyruvate Kinase Deficiency Program 

Pyruvate kinase, or PK, is the enzyme involved in the second to last reaction in glycolysis&#151;the conversion of glucose into lactic acid. This enzyme is critical for the survival of the cell and has several tissue-specific isoforms (PKR, PKL, PKM1 and PKM2). PKR is the isoform of pyruvate kinase that is present in red blood cells. Mutations in PKR cause defects in red cell glycolysis and lead to a hematological RGD known as pyruvate kinase deficiency, or PK deficiency. Glycolysis is the only pathway available for red blood cells to maintain the production of ATP, or Adenosine-5&#146;-triphosphate, which transports chemical energy within cells for metabolism. Accordingly, total absence of the PKR gene is not compatible with life. PK deficiency leads to a shortened life span for red blood cells and is the most common form of non-spherocytic hemolytic anemia in humans. The disease is autosomal recessive, meaning children inherit one mutated form of PKR from one parent and the second mutated form from the other parent. Children with the disease produce PKR enzyme that has only a fraction of the normal level of activity (generally &#60;50%). Parents of affected children have only one copy of the mutated PKR enzyme and are clinically normal. 

PK deficiency is a rare genetic disorder and disease understanding is still evolving. Several published epidemiology studies estimated prevalence of PK deficiency between three to nine affected patients per million. We estimate that there are approximately 2,400 diagnosed patients in the United States and EU5 countries (United Kingdom, France, Germany, Italy, Spain), and we believe that the disease is likely under-diagnosed. There is no unique ethnic or geographic representation of the disease. The disease manifests by mild to severe forms of anemia caused by the excessive premature destruction of red blood cells. The precise mechanism for the destruction is not well understood but is thought to result from membrane instability secondary to the metabolic defect caused by the low level of PKR enzyme. The hemolysis is &#147;extra-vascular&#148; in that the red blood cells are destroyed in small capillaries or organs and not spontaneously breaking open in the circulation. 

AG-348: lead pyruvate kinase (PK) deficiency program 

AG-348 is an orally available small molecule and a potent activator of the wild-type (normal) and mutated PKR enzyme, which has resulted in restoration of ATP levels and a decrease in 2,3-DPG levels in blood sampled from patients with PK deficiency in nonclinical studies. The wild-type PKR activity of AG-348 allowed the study of enzyme activation in healthy volunteers, providing an opportunity to understand the safety, dosing and pharmacodynamic activity of AG-348 prior to entering a proof-of-concept study in patients. On March 24, 2015, the FDA granted us orphan drug designation for AG-348 for treatment of patients with PK deficiency. 

In April 2014, we initiated a single ascending dose, or SAD, escalation phase 1 clinical trial for AG-348 in healthy volunteers and in June 2014, we initiated a multiple ascending dose, or MAD, escalation phase 1 clinical trial for healthy volunteers. In late 2014, we reported the SAD trial was completed and met its primary endpoint. The MAD trial completed dosing in early 2015 and has also met its primary endpoint. The primary endpoint is defined in the protocol to identify a safe and pharmacodynamically active dose and dosing schedule for AG-348 to be used in subsequent clinical studies in patients with pyruvate kinase deficiency. 

In December 2014, during a poster session at ASH 2014, we reported the first clinical data from the phase 1 SAD and MAD clinical trials of AG-348 in healthy volunteers. These results provided early proof-of-mechanism for 

&#160;

AG-348 as a novel, first-in-class, oral activator of both wild-type and mutated PKR enzymes. In these phase 1 clinical trials, dosing of AG-348 over 14-days in healthy volunteers resulted in a dose-dependent activation of the PKR pathway as evidenced by a substantial increase in ATP and decrease in 2,3-DPG levels, which are key biomarkers of PKR activity and primary indicators of PK deficiency. These data support the hypothesis that AG-348 treatment may similarly enhance PKR activity in patients with PK deficiency and thus correct the underlying defect of the disease. Results presented were from 64 healthy volunteers who received either AG-348 or placebo, which included 48 people from the completed SAD trial and 16 people in the first two cohorts of the MAD trial, which recently completed dosing. Complete safety results were reported from the SAD phase 1 clinical trial and showed that AG-348 was well tolerated. Although the MAD trial remained blinded, no serious adverse events had been reported in the first two analyzed cohorts. AG-348 also showed a favorable pharmacokinetic profile with rapid absorption, low variability and dose-proportional increase in exposure following both single and multiple doses. The observed dose-dependent changes in 2,3-DPG and ATP blood levels seen are consistent with a substantial increase in PKR enzymatic activity. 

On June 12, 2015, we reported final clinical data from the phase 1 MAD clinical trial of AG-348 in healthy volunteers and the first data from a natural history study of PK deficiency. The data were presented at the 20th Congress of the European Hematology Association (EHA) in Vienna, Austria. Results presented were from 48 healthy volunteers who received either AG-348 or placebo for fourteen days at 15 mg, 60 mg, 120 mg, 360 mg or 700 mg twice daily or 120 mg once daily in six sequential cohorts. The study showed that AG-348 was well tolerated, with most adverse events occurring in the highest dose group (700 mg), with all but one being mild to moderate. Thirty-two of 36 healthy volunteers receiving AG-348 completed the study. Two volunteers receiving AG-348 withdrew due to adverse events, including drug eruption (60 mg) and Grade 3 liver function test abnormalities (700 mg), which resolved after treatment discontinuation. Two additional AG-348 volunteers (both 700 mg) withdrew consent due to nausea or vomiting. Serum hormone changes consistent with reversible aromatase inhibition were observed. AG-348 also showed a favorable pharmacokinetic profile with rapid absorption, low to moderate variability and a dose-proportional increase in exposure following multiple doses. 

As predicted by the mechanism of action of AG-348, there was a robust activation of pyruvate kinase as evidenced by a decrease in 2,3-DPG (2,3-diphosphoglycerate) and increase in ATP (adenosine triphosphate) in blood of healthy volunteers. The decrease in 2,3-DPG was approximately 50 percent for doses 120 mg and higher with levels returning back to baseline approximately 72 hours after AG-348 was discontinued. There was also an approximately 50 percent increase in ATP in blood with AG-348 at doses 60 mg and higher in healthy volunteers. 

In June 2015, we initiated DRIVE PK, a global phase 2, first-in-patient, open-label safety and efficacy clinical trial of AG-348 in adult, transfusion-independent patients with PK deficiency. The multi-center, randomized trial will include two arms with 25 patients each. The patients in the first arm will receive 50 mg twice daily, and the patients in the second arm will receive 300 mg twice daily. The trial will include a six-month dosing period with the opportunity for continued treatment beyond six months based on safety and clinical activity. In July 2015, we dosed the first-patient in this phase 2 clinical trial, and we expect to present the first data from the trial in the first half of 2016. 

We have worldwide development and commercial rights to AG-348 and expect to fund the future development and commercialization costs related to this program. 

AG-519: a second novel PKR activator 

AG-519 is an orally available small molecule and our second product candidate that is a potent activator of the PKR enzyme. We initiated a placebo-controlled phase 1 clinical trial of AG-519 in healthy volunteers in the first quarter of 2016. This trial will be an integrated single ascending dose and multiple ascending dose trial. We expect to present data from this trial in the first half of 2016. We have worldwide development and commercial rights to AG-519 and expect to fund the future development and commercialization costs related to this program. 

&#160;

Collaboration with Celgene 

2010 Agreement and amendments 

In April 2010, we entered into the 2010 Agreement with Celgene, a related party through ownership of the Company&#146;s common stock. The agreement was amended in October 2011 and July 2014, as described below. The goal of the collaboration is to discover, develop and commercialize disease-altering therapies in oncology based on the Company&#146;s cancer metabolism research platform. We will initially lead discovery, preclinical and early clinical development for all cancer metabolism programs under the collaboration. 

The discovery phase of the 2010 Agreement was scheduled to expire in April 2014, subject to Celgene&#146;s option to extend the discovery phase for up to an additional two years with additional funding made to us. In December 2013, Celgene elected to extend the term of the initial discovery phase from four years to five years, to April 2015, in exchange for the payment of a $20.0 million extension fee which we received in May 2014. In December 2014, Celgene elected to exercise its final option to extend the term of the initial discovery phase one additional year, to April 2016, in exchange for the payment of a $20.0 million extension fee which was received in May 2015. 

Pursuant to the 2010 Agreement, we are responsible for nominating development candidates, of which two required confirmation by the Joint Research Committee, or JRC, during the discovery phase. During the year ended December 31, 2012 we nominated our first development candidate (AG-221) and during the year ended December 31, 2013 we nominated our second development candidate (AG-120), both of which have been confirmed by the JRC pursuant to the 2010 Agreement. For each development candidate, Celgene elected to progress such development candidate into preclinical development requiring us to conduct studies to meet the requirements for filing an Investigational New Drug application, or IND, or IND-enabling studies. Subsequently, we were required to file an IND for each of the two development candidates and, upon the FDA&#146;s acceptance of the INDs, Celgene requested that we conduct an initial phase 1 clinical trial. 

Discovery programs with development candidates . Celgene may elect to progress into preclinical development each discovery program for which we nominate and the JRC confirms a development candidate during the discovery phase. If Celgene makes such an election, we will, at our expense, conduct studies required to meet the requirements for filing an IND, or IND-enabling studies, and, following their successful completion as confirmed by the JRC, we will file an IND to commence clinical studies of such development candidate. If the FDA accepts the IND, Celgene may request that we conduct an initial phase 1 clinical trial at our expense, for which Celgene will pay us at least $5.0 million upon the earlier of the determination of the maximum tolerated dose or Celgene&#146;s election to license the program, unless such program becomes a split licensed program, as described below. 

Celgene may elect to convert each discovery program for which we have nominated a development candidate into a co-commercialized licensed program, the attributes of which are described below. We have the right, exercisable during a specified period following FDA acceptance of the applicable IND, to convert one of every three co-commercialized licensed programs into a split licensed program, for which we will retain the United States rights, other attributes of which are further described below. We may elect to opt out of any split licensed program, after which such split licensed program will revert to a co-commercialized licensed program, and Celgene will have the right, but not the obligation, to commercialize medicines from such program in the United States. Our IDH2 program is a co-commercialized licensed program and not a split licensed program. In June 2014, Celgene exercised its option to an exclusive global license for the development and commercialization of our IDH2 program, AG-221. We elected to retain U.S. rights to our IDH1 program, AG-120, in January 2014. Celgene exercised its rights to this program in during the three months ended March 31, 2015. In addition, Celgene may license certain discovery programs that we do not nominate or the JRC does not confirm as a development candidate and for which Celgene will lead and fund global development and commercialization. 

We will retain our rights to the development candidates and certain other compounds from any discovery program for which we nominate and the JRC confirms a development candidate but that Celgene does not elect 

&#160;

to progress into preclinical development or convert into a co-commercialized licensed program. In addition, if the JRC or Celgene elects not to continue collaboration activities with respect to a particular target, either we or Celgene would have the right to independently undertake a discovery program on such target and would have rights to specified compounds from such program, subject to certain &#147;buy-in&#148; rights granted to the other party. 

Further development and commercialization of programs . The agreement provides for three types of licensed programs discussed above: co-commercialized licensed programs, split licensed programs, and buy-in programs. Celgene&#146;s and our rights and obligations under each licensed program vary depending on the type of licensed program, as described below. 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Co-commercialized licensed programs: Celgene will lead and, following either IND acceptance by the FDA or, if Celgene requests us to conduct the initial phase 1 clinical trial, upon completion of such phase 1 clinical trial, will fund global development and commercialization of each co-commercialized licensed program. We have the right to participate in a portion of commercialization activities in the United States for medicines from co-commercialized programs in accordance with the applicable commercialization plan. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Split licensed programs: Celgene will lead development and commercialization outside the United States, and we will lead development and commercialization in the United States, for each split licensed program. We and Celgene will equally fund the global development costs of each split licensed program that are not specific to any particular region or country, Celgene will be responsible for development and commercialization costs specific to countries outside the United States, and we will be responsible for development and commercialization costs specific to the United States. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Buy-in programs: The party that was conducting an independent program that became a buy-in program will lead the development and commercialization of such program. The party that elects to buy in to such program will be responsible for funding a portion of development costs incurred after acceptance of an IND for a buy-in program compound, and the lead party will be responsible for all other development costs and all commercialization costs for medicines from such buy-in program. In addition, Celgene may license certain discovery programs for which we did not nominate or the JRC did not confirm a development candidate during the discovery phase and for which Celgene will lead and fund global development and commercialization. We refer to these as picked licensed programs. 

Collaboration governance . The collaboration is managed by a set of joint committees comprised of equal numbers of representatives from each of Celgene and us. The joint steering committee, or JSC, oversees and coordinates the overall conduct of the collaboration. The JRC oversees and coordinates discovery, research and preclinical activities with respect to each discovery program during the discovery phase. A joint development committee, or JDC, for each licensed program will oversee and coordinate development (including manufacturing of clinical supply) of medicines under such licensed program. The joint commercialization committee, or JCC, will oversee the commercialization (including manufacturing of commercial supply) of medicines under the licensed programs. 

Diligence . We and Celgene each must use commercially reasonable efforts to perform all activities for which such party is responsible under the collaboration. 

Exclusivity . During the discovery phase, we may not directly or indirectly develop, manufacture or commercialize, except pursuant to the agreement, any product or product candidate for any cancer indication with specified activity against certain metabolic targets (except in connection with certain specified third-party collaborations), or with specified activity against any collaboration target (or any target for which Celgene is conducting an independent program that we elected not to buy in to) for any indication. Following the discovery phase until termination or expiration of the agreement, either in its entirety or with respect to the relevant program, we may not directly or indirectly develop, manufacture or commercialize, outside of the collaboration, 

&#160;

any therapeutic modality with specified activity against any collaboration target that is within a licensed program or against any former collaboration target against which Celgene is conducting an independent program under the agreement. Pursuant to the terms of the first amendment to the agreement, we have the right to develop, manufacture and commercialize outside of the collaboration certain medicines directed against PKR for certain indications, including PK deficiency, subject to specified conditions, including a right of first negotiation that Celgene may exercise if we intend to license our PKR program to any third party. 

Financial terms. Under the terms of the 2010 Agreement, we received an upfront payment of approximately $121.2 million. In addition, Celgene purchased 5,190,551 shares of our series B convertible preferred stock at a price of $1.70 per share, resulting in net proceeds to us of approximately $8.8 million. In connection with the 1-for-2.75 reverse stock split of our common stock, the shares of these series B preferred stock converted into 1,887,473 shares of common stock upon the closing of our initial public offering in July 2013. Celgene made a payment to us of $20.0 million pursuant to an October 2011 amendment in consideration of extending the discovery phase until April 14, 2014. In December 2013, Celgene elected to extend the discovery phase of the 2010 Agreement by one year, extending the initial period of exclusivity from four years to five years, until April 2015. As a result of the December 2013 extension, we received a $20.0 million extension payment from Celgene in May 2014. In December 2014, Celgene elected to extend the discovery phase of the 2010 Agreement by one additional year, extending the period of exclusivity from five years to six years, until April 2016. As a result of the December 2014 extension, we received a $20.0 million extension payment from Celgene in May 2015. 

Under the 2010 Agreement, we are eligible to receive up to $120.0 million in potential milestone payments payable for each program selected by Celgene. The potential milestone payments for each such program are comprised of: (i) a $25.0 million milestone payment upon achievement of a specified clinical development milestone event, which was earned in January 2016 in relation to our co-commercialized program (AG-221), (ii) up to $70.0 million in milestone payments upon achievement of specified regulatory milestone events, and (iii) a $25.0 million milestone payment upon achievement of a specified commercial milestone event. We are also eligible to receive additional milestone payments specific to co-commercialized licensed programs and split licensed programs. In addition, we are eligible to receive a substantive milestone payment of $22.5 million upon achievement of an early clinical development milestone event for certain co-commercialized licensed programs. In connection with the first split licensed program under the collaboration, our IDH1 program, AG-120, we are eligible to receive an additional one-time payment of $25.0 million upon the dosing of the last patient in an Agios-sponsored phase 2 clinical trial. 

In addition to the milestone payments described above, for each co-commercialized licensed program, we will be reimbursed for all eligible development costs of the related phase 1 multiple ascending dose clinical trial. The initial costs will be reimbursed as a milestone payment equal to the greater of $5.0 million or eligible development costs incurred by us upon the earlier of the determination of the maximum tolerated dose or Celgene&#146;s election to license the program. Subsequent to the initial milestone payment, development costs will be reimbursed on a quarterly basis. In addition to the milestone payments described above, for each split licensed program, we are eligible for reimbursement of the costs of disease-specific expansion cohort(s) that support the initiation of a subsequent pivotal clinical trial. Costs will be reimbursed as a milestone payment equal to the lesser of $10.0 million or fifty percent of the eligible costs for the disease-specific expansion cohort(s) upon the first patient dosed under the pivotal clinical trial. The maximum amount for the milestone payment will be $10.0 million for each split licensed program regardless of the number of disease-specific expansion cohorts and pivotal trials undertaken for each split licensed program. 

We are eligible to receive royalties at tiered, low- to mid-teen percentage rates on net sales and we have the option to participate in the development and commercialization of certain products in the United States. The royalty payments will be recognized as revenue in the period in which they are earned. No other milestone or royalty payments under the 2010 Agreement have been earned. 

&#160;

In July 2014, we amended the 2010 Agreement to allow for more flexibility in the design and conduct of phase 1 clinical trials and additional nonclinical and/or clinical activities that we agreed to perform at Celgene&#146;s request. The amendment further modified the mechanism and timing for payments to be made with respect to such development activities. 

Termination. Celgene may terminate the 2010 Agreement for convenience in its entirety or with respect to one or more programs upon ninety days written notice to us. Either we or Celgene may terminate the 2010 Agreement, in its entirety or with respect to one or more programs, if the other party is in material breach and fails to cure such breach within the specified cure period; however, if such breach relates solely to a specific program, the non-breaching party may terminate the 2010 Agreement solely with respect to such program. Either we or Celgene may terminate the 2010 Agreement in the event of specified insolvency events involving the other party. 

If Celgene terminates the 2010 Agreement as a result of our uncured material breach, then certain of our rights and certain of Celgene&#146;s obligations described above would change with respect to the terminated program(s), including, for example: the licenses we granted to Celgene would become perpetual; milestone payments to which we may be entitled may be reduced or eliminated; royalties to which we may be entitled may be reduced or eliminated; we would lose the development and commercialization rights for the United States for any terminated split licensed program; and we would grant Celgene specified rights, and take specified actions, to assist Celgene in continuing the development, manufacture and commercialization of medicines for the United States from each terminated split licensed program. 

If Celgene terminates the 2010 Agreement for convenience or if we terminate the agreement as a result of Celgene&#146;s uncured material breach, the licenses we granted to Celgene with respect to the terminated program(s) will end, and we will have specified rights for, and Celgene will take specified actions to assist us in continuing, the development, manufacture and commercialization of medicines from each terminated program. 

AG-881 Agreements 

On April 27, 2015, we entered into a joint worldwide development and profit share collaboration and license agreement with Celgene and our wholly owned subsidiary, Agios International Sarl, which was organized in Switzerland in April 2015, and we entered into a collaboration and license agreement with Celgene International II Sarl (collectively, the &#147;AG-881 Agreements&#148;). The AG-881 Agreements establish a worldwide collaboration focused on the development and commercialization of AG-881 products. Under the terms of the AG-881 Agreements, we received initial upfront payments totaling $10.0 million in May 2015 and are eligible to receive milestone-based payments described below. We will split all worldwide development costs with Celgene equally, subject to specified exceptions, as well as any profits from any net sales of, or commercialization losses related to, licensed AG-881 products. Celgene will book commercial sales of licenses AG-881 products, if any, on a worldwide basis. 

Financial terms. We are eligible to receive up to $70.0 million in potential milestone payments related to AG-881 under the AG-881 Agreements. The potential milestone payments are comprised of: (i) a $15.0 million milestone payment for filing of first NDA in a major market and (ii) up to $55.0 million in milestone payments upon achievement of specified regulatory milestone events. We may also receive royalties at tiered, low- to mid-teen percentage rates on net sales if Celgene elects to not participate in the development and commercialization of AG-881. 

Commercialization. Under the terms of the AG-881 Agreements, we will lead commercialization of licensed AG-881 products within the United States and Celgene will lead commercialization of licensed AG-881 products outside of the United States. Depending on the market, we and Celgene will each have the right to provide a portion of field-based marketing activities. 

Opt-out right. Under the AG-881 Agreements, we may elect to opt out of the cost and profit split of the collaboration at any time after April 27, 2016 by providing at least 12 months written notice to Celgene. If we opt 

&#160;

out, Celgene will have the sole right to develop, manufacture and commercialize licensed AG-881 products throughout the world, at its cost, and we will undertake transitional activities reasonably necessary to transfer the development, manufacture and commercialization of licensed AG-881 products to Celgene, at our cost. 

If we elect to opt-out of the AG-881 Agreements, then, in lieu of the profit or loss sharing described above, we would be eligible to receive royalties at tiered, low to mid-teen percentage rates on Celgene&#146;s net sales of licensed AG-881 products. 

Term. The term of the AG-881 Agreements will continue, unless earlier terminated, as described below, as long as we and Celgene continue to develop or commercialize licensed AG-881 products, or, in the event we opt out of the AG-881 Agreements, until expiration of the royalty term for AG-881 products. 

Termination. Celgene may terminate the AG-881 Agreements for convenience upon ninety days written notice to us. Either we or Celgene may terminate the AG-881 Agreements if the other party is in material breach and fails to cure such breach within the specified cure period. Either we or Celgene may terminate the AG-881 Agreements in the event of specified insolvency events involving the other party. If one of the AG-881 Agreements terminates, the other will terminate automatically. 

Exclusivity. Until termination or expiration of the AG-881 Agreements, neither we nor Celgene may directly or indirectly develop, manufacture or commercialize, outside of the AG-881 Agreements or the 2010 Agreement, any therapeutic modality with specified activity against both IDH1 and IDH2. 

Intellectual Property 

Our commercial success depends in part on our ability to obtain and maintain proprietary or intellectual property protection for our product candidates and our core technologies, including novel biomarker and diagnostic discoveries, and other know-how, to operate without infringing on the proprietary rights of others and to prevent others from infringing our proprietary or intellectual property rights. Our policy is to seek to protect our proprietary and intellectual property position by, among other methods, filing U.S., international and foreign patent applications related to our proprietary technology, inventions and improvements that are important to the development and implementation of our business. We also rely on trade secrets, know-how and continuing technological innovation to develop and maintain our proprietary and intellectual property position. 

We file patent applications directed to our key product candidates, including AG-221, AG-120, AG-881, AG-348 and AG-519, in an effort to establish intellectual property positions regarding new chemical entities relating to these product candidates as well as uses of new chemical entities in the treatment of diseases. We also seek patent protection with respect to biomarkers that may be useful in selecting the right patient population for therapies with our product candidates. As of December 31, 2015, we had a portfolio of pending U.S. and foreign patent applications. A significant portion of our pending patent applications pertain to our key development programs, including AG-221, AG-120, AG-881, AG-348 and AG-519, some of which have been issued as patents. 

In addition to the pending patent applications and issued patents covering our most advanced product candidates, our portfolio also includes pending patent applications relating to diagnostic methods for detecting various IDH1 and IDH2 mutations, as well as compositions of matter and methods of use directed to modulating other metabolic targets. 

The term of individual patents depends upon the legal term for patents in the countries in which they are obtained. In most countries, including the United States, the patent term is 20 years from the earliest filing date of a non-provisional patent application. In the United States, a patent&#146;s term may be lengthened by patent term adjustment, which compensates a patentee for administrative delays by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, or the USPTO, in examining and granting a patent, or may be shortened if a patent is terminally disclaimed over an 

&#160;

earlier filed patent. The term of a patent that covers a drug or biological product may also be eligible for patent term extension when FDA approval is granted, provided statutory and regulatory requirements are met. In the future, if and when our product candidates receive approval by the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities, we expect to apply for patent term extensions on issued patents covering those products, depending upon the length of the clinical trials for each medicine and other factors. There can be no assurance that any of our pending patent applications will issue or that we will benefit from any patent term extension or favorable adjustment to the term of any of our patents. 

As with other biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies, our ability to maintain and solidify our proprietary and intellectual property position for our product candidates and technologies will depend on our success in obtaining effective patent claims and enforcing those claims if granted. However, patent applications that we may file or license from third parties may not result in the issuance of patents. We also cannot predict the breadth of claims that may be allowed or enforced in our patents. Any issued patents that we may receive in the future may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. For example, we cannot be certain of the priority of inventions covered by pending third-party patent applications. If third parties prepare and file patent applications in the United States that also claim technology or therapeutics to which we have rights, we may have to participate in interference proceedings in the USPTO to determine priority of invention, which could result in substantial costs to us, even if the eventual outcome is favorable to us. In addition, because of the extensive time required for clinical development and regulatory review of a product candidate we may develop, it is possible that, before any of our product candidates can be commercialized, any related patent may expire or remain in force for only a short period following commercialization, thereby reducing any advantage of any such patent. 

In addition to patents, we rely upon unpatented trade secrets and know-how and continuing technological innovation to develop and maintain our competitive position. We seek to protect our proprietary information, in part, using confidentiality agreements with our collaborators, scientific advisors, employees and consultants, and invention assignment agreements with our employees. We also have agreements requiring assignment of inventions with selected consultants, scientific advisors and collaborators. The confidentiality agreements are designed to protect our proprietary information and, in the case of agreements or clauses requiring invention assignment, to grant us ownership of technologies that are developed through a relationship with a third party. 

With respect to our proprietary cellular metabolism technology platform, we consider trade secrets and know-how to be our primary intellectual property. Trade secrets and know-how can be difficult to protect. In particular, we anticipate that with respect to this technology platform, these trade secrets and know-how will over time be disseminated within the industry through independent development, the publication of journal articles describing the methodology, and the movement of personnel skilled in the art from academic to industry scientific positions. 

Competition 

The pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries are characterized by rapidly advancing technologies, intense competition and a strong emphasis on proprietary products. While we believe that our technology, development experience and scientific knowledge provide us with competitive advantages, we face potential competition from many different sources, including major pharmaceutical, specialty pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, academic institutions and governmental agencies and public and private research institutions. Any product candidates that we successfully develop and commercialize will compete with existing therapies and new therapies that may become available in the future. 

We compete in the segments of the pharmaceutical, biotechnology and other related markets that address cancer metabolism and RGDs. There are other companies working to develop therapies in the field of cancer metabolism and RGDs. These companies include divisions of large pharmaceutical companies and biotechnology companies of various sizes. 

Cancer metabolism . In the field of cancer metabolism, our principal competitors include AstraZeneca; Calithera Biosciences; Cornerstone Pharmaceuticals, Inc.; Eli Lilly and Company; Forma Therapeutics Holdings, LLC; 

&#160;

GlaxoSmithKline plc; Merck &#38; Co.; Novartis International AG, or Novartis; Pfizer, Inc.; and Roche Holdings, Inc. and its subsidiary Genentech, Inc. For example, Novartis is currently conducting a phase 1 clinical trial of its IDH1 mutant inhibitor, IDH305, in patients with advanced malignancies. 

The most common methods of treating patients with cancer are surgery, radiation and drug therapy, including chemotherapy, hormone therapy and targeted drug therapy. There are a variety of available drug therapies marketed for cancer. In many cases, these drugs are administered in combination to enhance efficacy. While our product candidates may compete with many existing drug and other therapies, to the extent they are ultimately used in combination with or as an adjunct to these therapies, our product candidates will not be competitive with them. Some of the currently approved drug therapies are branded and subject to patent protection, and others are available on a generic basis. Many of these approved drugs are well-established therapies and are widely accepted by physicians, patients and third-party payors. In general, although there has been considerable progress over the past few decades in the treatment of cancer and the currently marketed therapies provide benefits to many patients, these therapies all are limited to some extent in their efficacy and frequency of adverse events and none are successful in treating all patients. As a result, the level of morbidity and mortality from cancer remains high. 

In addition to currently marketed therapies, there are also a number of medicines in late stage clinical development to treat cancer, including immuno-cancer therapies. These medicines in development may provide efficacy, safety, convenience and other benefits that are not provided by currently marketed therapies. As a result, they may provide significant competition for any of our product candidates for which we obtain market approval. 

Rare genetic metabolic disorders . In the field of RGDs, our principal competitors include Alexion Pharmaceuticals, Inc.; BioMarin Pharmaceutical, Inc.; Genzyme, a Sanofi company; and Shire Biochem, Inc. 

The most common methods for treating patients with RGDs are dietary restriction, dietary supplementation or replacement, treatment of symptoms and complications, gene therapy, organ transplant and enzyme replacement therapies. There are a number of marketed enzyme replacement therapies available for treating patients with RGDs. In some cases, these treatment methods are used in combination to improve efficacy. While our product candidates may compete with existing medicines and other therapies, to the extent they are ultimately used in combination with or as an adjunct to these therapies, our product candidates will not be competitive with them. In addition to currently marketed therapies, there are also a number of products that are either enzyme replacement therapies or gene therapies in various stages of clinical development to treat RGDs. These products in development may provide efficacy, safety, convenience and other benefits that are not provided by currently marketed therapies. As a result, they may provide significant competition for any of our product candidates for which we obtain market approval. 

Many of our competitors may have significantly greater financial resources and expertise in research and development, manufacturing, preclinical testing, conducting clinical trials, obtaining regulatory approvals and marketing approved medicines than we do. Mergers and acquisitions in the pharmaceutical, biotechnology and diagnostic industries may result in even more resources being concentrated among a smaller number of our competitors. These competitors also compete with us in recruiting and retaining qualified scientific and management personnel and establishing clinical trial sites and patient registration for clinical trials, as well as in acquiring technologies complementary to, or necessary for, our programs. Smaller or early stage companies may also prove to be significant competitors, particularly through collaborative arrangements with large and established companies. 

The key competitive factors affecting the success of all of our product candidates, if approved, are likely to be their efficacy, safety, convenience, price, the effectiveness of companion diagnostics in guiding the use of related therapeutics, the level of generic competition and the availability of reimbursement from government and other third-party payors. 

&#160;

Our commercial opportunity could be reduced or eliminated if our competitors develop and commercialize medicines that are safer, more effective, have fewer or less severe side effects, are more convenient or are less expensive than any medicines that we may develop. Our competitors also may obtain FDA or other regulatory approval for their medicines more rapidly than we may obtain approval for ours, which could result in our competitors establishing a strong market position before we are able to enter the market. In addition, our ability to compete may be affected in many cases by insurers or other third-party payors seeking to encourage the use of generic medicines. There are many generic medicines currently on the market for the indications that we are pursuing, and additional medicines are expected to become available on a generic basis over the coming years. If our therapeutic product candidates are approved, we expect that they will be priced at a significant premium over competitive generic medicines. 

Manufacturing 

We do not own or operate, and currently have no plans to establish, any manufacturing facilities. We currently rely, and expect to continue to rely, on third parties for the manufacture of our product candidates for preclinical and clinical testing, as well as for commercial manufacture of any products that we may commercialize. To date, we have obtained materials for AG-221, AG-120, AG-881, AG-348 and AG-519 for our ongoing and planned clinical testing from third-party manufacturers. We obtain our supplies from these manufacturers on a purchase order basis and do not have any long-term supply arrangements in place. We do not currently have arrangements in place for redundant supply for bulk drug substance. For all of our product candidates, we intend to identify and qualify additional manufacturers to provide the active pharmaceutical ingredient and fill-and-finish services prior to submission of a new drug application to the FDA. 

AG-221, AG-120, AG-881, AG-348 and AG-519 are organic compounds of low molecular weight, generally called small molecules. They can be manufactured in reliable and reproducible synthetic processes from readily available starting materials. The chemistry is amenable to scale-up and does not require unusual equipment in the manufacturing process. We expect to continue to develop drug candidates that can be produced cost-effectively at contract manufacturing facilities. 

We generally expect to rely on third parties for the manufacture of any companion diagnostics we develop. 

Research and Development Expenses 

For the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014, and 2013, company-sponsored research and development expenses were $141.8 million, $100.4 million and $54.5 million, respectively. 

Review and Approval of Drugs in the United States 

In the United States, the FDA approves and regulates drugs under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, or FDCA, and implementing regulations. The failure to comply with requirements under the FDCA and other applicable laws at any time during the product development process, approval process or after approval may subject an applicant and/or sponsor to a variety of administrative or judicial sanctions, including refusal by the FDA to approve pending applications, withdrawal of an approval, imposition of a clinical hold, issuance of warning letters and other types of letters, product recalls, product seizures, total or partial suspension of production or distribution, injunctions, fines, refusals of government contracts, restitution, disgorgement of profits, or civil or criminal investigations and penalties brought by the FDA and the Department of Justice or other governmental entities. 

Our product candidates must be approved by the FDA through the NDA. An applicant seeking approval to market and distribute a new drug product in the United States must typically undertake the following: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; completion of preclinical laboratory tests, animal studies and formulation studies in compliance with the FDA&#146;s good laboratory practice, or GLP, regulations; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; submission to the FDA of an IND, which must take effect before human clinical trials may begin; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; approval by an independent institutional review board, or IRB, representing each clinical site before each clinical trial may be initiated; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; performance of adequate and well-controlled human clinical trials in accordance with good clinical practices, or GCP, to establish the safety and efficacy of the proposed drug product for each indication; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; preparation and submission to the FDA of a NDA requesting marketing for one or more proposed indications; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; review by an FDA advisory committee, where appropriate or if applicable; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; satisfactory completion of one or more FDA inspections of the manufacturing facility or facilities at which the product, or components thereof, are produced to assess compliance with current Good Manufacturing Practices, or cGMP, requirements and to assure that the facilities, methods and controls are adequate to preserve the product&#146;s identity, strength, quality and purity; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; satisfactory completion of FDA audits of clinical trial sites to assure compliance with GCPs and the integrity of the clinical data; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; payment of user fees and securing FDA approval of the NDA; and &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; compliance with any post-approval requirements, including the potential requirement to implement a Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy, or REMS, and the potential requirement to conduct post-approval studies. Preclinical studies 

Before an applicant begins testing a compound with potential therapeutic value in humans, the drug candidate enters the preclinical testing stage. Preclinical studies include laboratory evaluation of product chemistry, toxicity and formulation, and the purity and stability of the drug substance, as well as in vitro and animal studies to assess the potential safety and activity of the drug for initial testing in humans and to establish a rationale for therapeutic use. The conduct of preclinical studies is subject to federal regulations and requirements, including GLP regulations. The results of the preclinical tests, together with manufacturing information, analytical data, any available clinical data or literature and plans for clinical trials, among other things, are submitted to the FDA as part of an IND. Some long-term preclinical testing, such as animal tests of reproductive adverse events and carcinogenicity, may continue after the IND is submitted. 

Applicants usually must complete some long-term nonclinical testing, such as animal tests of reproductive adverse events and carcinogenicity, and must also develop additional information about the chemistry and physical characteristics of the drug and finalize a process for manufacturing the drug in commercial quantities in accordance with cGMP requirements. The manufacturing process must be capable of consistently producing quality batches of the drug candidate and, among other things, the manufacturer must develop methods for testing the identity, strength, quality and purity of the final drug product. Additionally, appropriate packaging must be selected and tested and stability studies must be conducted to demonstrate that the drug candidate does not undergo unacceptable deterioration over its shelf life. 

Human clinical trials in support of an NDA 

Clinical trials involve the administration of the investigational product to human subjects under the supervision of qualified investigators in accordance with GCP requirements, which include, among other things, the requirement that all research subjects provide their informed consent in writing before their participation in any clinical trial. Clinical trials are conducted under written study protocols detailing, among other things, the inclusion and exclusion criteria, the objectives of the study, the parameters to be used in monitoring safety and the effectiveness criteria to be evaluated. A protocol for each clinical trial and any subsequent protocol amendments must be submitted to the FDA as part of the IND. An IND automatically becomes effective 30 days after receipt by the FDA, unless before that time the FDA raises concerns or questions related to a proposed 

&#160;

clinical trial and places the trial on clinical hold. In such a case, the IND sponsor and the FDA must resolve any outstanding concerns before the clinical trial can begin. As a result, submission of an IND may not result in the FDA allowing clinical trials to commence. Following commencement of a clinical trial under an IND, the FDA may place a clinical hold on that trial. A clinical hold is an order issued by the FDA to the sponsor to delay a proposed clinical investigation or to suspend an ongoing investigation. A partial clinical hold is a delay or suspension of only part of the clinical work requested under the IND. For example, a specific protocol or part of a protocol is not allowed to proceed, while other protocols may do so. No more than 30 days after imposition of a clinical hold or partial clinical hold, the FDA will provide the sponsor a written explanation of the basis for the hold. Following issuance of a clinical hold or partial clinical hold, an investigation may only resume after the FDA has notified the sponsor that the investigation may proceed. The FDA will base that determination on information provided by the sponsor correcting the deficiencies previously cited or otherwise satisfying the FDA that the investigation can proceed. 

In addition, an IRB representing each institution participating in the clinical trial must review and approve the plan for any clinical trial before it commences at that institution, and the IRB must conduct a continuing review and reapprove the study at least annually. The IRB must review and approve, among other things, the study protocol and informed consent information to be provided to study subjects. An IRB must operate in compliance with FDA regulations. Information about certain clinical trials must be submitted within specific timeframes to the National Institutes of Health for public dissemination on their ClinicalTrials.gov website. 

Human clinical trials are typically conducted in four sequential phases, which may overlap or be combined: 

Phase 1. The drug is initially introduced into a small number of healthy human subjects or, in certain indications such as cancer, patients with the target disease or condition (e.g., cancer) and tested for safety, dosage tolerance, absorption, metabolism, distribution, excretion and, if possible, to gain an early indication of its effectiveness and to determine optimal dosage. 

Phase 2. The drug is administered to a limited patient population to identify possible adverse effects and safety risks, to preliminarily evaluate the efficacy of the product for specific targeted diseases and to determine dosage tolerance and optimal dosage. 

Phase 3. These clinical trials are commonly referred to as &#147;pivotal&#148; studies, which denotes a study which presents the data that the FDA or other relevant regulatory agency will use to determine whether or not to approve a drug. The drug is administered to an expanded patient population, generally at geographically dispersed clinical trial sites, in well-controlled clinical trials to generate enough data to statistically evaluate the efficacy and safety of the product for approval, to establish the overall risk-benefit profile of the product and to provide adequate information for the labeling of the product. 

Phase 4 . Post-approval studies may be conducted after initial marketing approval. These studies are used to gain additional experience from the treatment of patients in the intended therapeutic indication. 

Progress reports detailing the results of the clinical trials must be submitted at least annually to the FDA and more frequently if serious adverse events occur. In addition, IND safety reports must be submitted to the FDA for any of the following: serious and unexpected suspected adverse reactions; findings from other studies or animal or in vitro testing that suggest a significant risk in humans exposed to the drug; and any clinically important increase in the case of a serious suspected adverse reaction over that listed in the protocol or investigator brochure. The FDA or the sponsor or the data monitoring committee may suspend or terminate a clinical trial at any time on various grounds, including a finding that the research subjects are being exposed to an unacceptable health risk. Similarly, an IRB can suspend or terminate approval of a clinical trial at its institution, or an institution it represents, if the clinical trial is not being conducted in accordance with the IRB&#146;s requirements or if the drug has been associated with unexpected serious harm to patients. The FDA will typically inspect one or more clinical sites to assure compliance with GCP and the integrity of the clinical data submitted. 

A sponsor may choose, but is not required, to conduct a foreign clinical study under an IND. When a foreign clinical study is conducted under an IND, all FDA IND requirements must be met unless waived. When the 

&#160;

foreign clinical study is not conducted under an IND, the sponsor must ensure that the study complies with FDA certain regulatory requirements in order to use the study as support for an IND or application for marketing approval. Specifically, on April 28, 2008, the FDA amended its regulations governing the acceptance of foreign clinical studies not conducted under an investigational new drug application as support for an IND or a new drug application. The final rule provides that such studies must be conducted in accordance with GCP, including review and approval by an independent ethics committee, or IEC, and informed consent from subjects. The GCP requirements in the final rule encompass both ethical and data integrity standards for clinical studies. The FDA&#146;s regulations are intended to help ensure the protection of human subjects enrolled in non-IND foreign clinical studies, as well as the quality and integrity of the resulting data. They further help ensure that non-IND foreign studies are conducted in a manner comparable to that required for IND studies. 

Concurrent with clinical trials, companies often complete additional animal studies and must also develop additional information about the chemistry and physical characteristics of the drug as well as finalize a process for manufacturing the product in commercial quantities in accordance with cGMP requirements. The manufacturing process must be capable of consistently producing quality batches of the drug candidate and, among other things, must develop methods for testing the identity, strength, quality, purity, and potency of the final drug. Additionally, appropriate packaging must be selected and tested and stability studies must be conducted to demonstrate that the drug candidate does not undergo unacceptable deterioration over its shelf life. 

Review of an NDA by the FDA 

Assuming successful completion of required clinical testing and other requirements, the results of the preclinical studies and clinical trials, together with detailed information relating to the product&#146;s chemistry, manufacture, controls and proposed labeling, among other things, are submitted to the FDA as part of an NDA requesting approval to market the drug product for one or more indications. Under federal law, the submission of most NDAs is additionally subject to an application user fee, currently exceeding $2.3 million, and the sponsor of an approved NDA is also subject to annual product and establishment user fees, currently exceeding $114,000 per product and $585,000 per establishment. These fees are typically increased annually. Certain exceptions and waivers are available for some of these fees, such as an exception from the application fee for drugs with orphan designation and a waiver for certain small businesses, an exception from the establishment fee when the establishment does not engage in manufacturing the drug during a particular fiscal year, and an exception from the product fee for a drug that is the same as another drug approved under an abbreviated pathway. 

The FDA conducts a preliminary review of an NDA generally within 60 calendar days of its receipt and strives to inform the sponsor by the 74th day after the FDA&#146;s receipt of the submission to determine whether the application is sufficiently complete to permit substantive review. The FDA may request additional information rather than accept an NDA for filing. In this event, the application must be resubmitted with the additional information. The resubmitted application is also subject to review before the FDA accepts it for filing. Once the submission is accepted for filing, the FDA begins an in-depth substantive review. The FDA has agreed to specified performance goals in the review process of NDAs. Under that agreement, 90% of applications seeking approval of New Molecular Entities, or NMEs, are meant to be reviewed within ten months from the date on which FDA accepts the NDA for filing, and 90% of applications for NMEs that have been designated for &#147;priority review&#148; are meant to be reviewed within six months of the filing date. For applications seeking approval of drugs that are not NMEs, the ten-month and six-month review periods run from the date that FDA receives the application. The review process and the Prescription Drug User Fee Act goal date may be extended by the FDA for three additional months to consider new information or clarification provided by the applicant to address an outstanding deficiency identified by the FDA following the original submission. 

Before approving an NDA, the FDA typically will inspect the facility or facilities where the product is or will be manufactured. These pre-approval inspections may cover all facilities associated with an NDA submission, including drug component manufacturing (e.g., active pharmaceutical ingredients), finished drug product manufacturing, and control testing laboratories. The FDA will not approve an application unless it determines 

&#160;

that the manufacturing processes and facilities are in compliance with cGMP requirements and adequate to assure consistent production of the product within required specifications. Additionally, before approving an NDA, the FDA will typically inspect one or more clinical sites to assure compliance with GCP. 

In addition, as a condition of approval, the FDA may require an applicant to develop a REMS. REMS use risk minimization strategies beyond the professional labeling to ensure that the benefits of the product outweigh the potential risks. To determine whether a REMS is needed, the FDA will consider the size of the population likely to use the product, seriousness of the disease, expected benefit of the product, expected duration of treatment, seriousness of known or potential adverse events, and whether the product is a new molecular entity. REMS can include medication guides, physician communication plans for healthcare professionals, and elements to assure safe use, or ETASU. ETASU may include, but are not limited to, special training or certification for prescribing or dispensing, dispensing only under certain circumstances, special monitoring, and the use of patient registries. The FDA may require a REMS before approval or post-approval if it becomes aware of a serious risk associated with use of the product. The requirement for a REMS can materially affect the potential market and profitability of a product. 

The FDA is required to refer an application for a novel drug to an advisory committee or explain why such referral was not made. Typically, an advisory committee is a panel of independent experts, including clinicians and other scientific experts, that reviews, evaluates and provides a recommendation as to whether the application should be approved and under what conditions. The FDA is not bound by the recommendations of an advisory committee, but it considers such recommendations carefully when making decisions. 

Fast track, breakthrough therapy and priority review designations 

The FDA is authorized to designate certain products for expedited review if they are intended to address an unmet medical need in the treatment of a serious or life-threatening disease or condition. These programs are fast track designation, breakthrough therapy designation and priority review designation. 

Specifically, the FDA may designate a product for fast track review if it is intended, whether alone or in combination with one or more other products, for the treatment of a serious or life-threatening disease or condition, and it demonstrates the potential to address unmet medical needs for such a disease or condition. For fast track products, sponsors may have greater interactions with the FDA and the FDA may initiate review of sections of a fast track product&#146;s application before the application is complete. This rolling review may be available if the FDA determines, after preliminary evaluation of clinical data submitted by the sponsor, that a fast track product may be effective. The sponsor must also provide, and the FDA must approve, a schedule for the submission of the remaining information and the sponsor must pay applicable user fees. However, the FDA&#146;s time period goal for reviewing a fast track application does not begin until the last section of the application is submitted. In addition, the fast track designation may be withdrawn by the FDA if the FDA believes that the designation is no longer supported by data emerging in the clinical trial process. 

Second, in 2012, Congress enacted the Food and Product Administration Safety and Innovation Act, or FDASIA. This law established a new regulatory scheme allowing for expedited review of products designated as &#147;breakthrough therapies.&#148; A product may be designated as a breakthrough therapy if it is intended, either alone or in combination with one or more other products, to treat a serious or life-threatening disease or condition and preliminary clinical evidence indicates that the product may demonstrate substantial improvement over existing therapies on one or more clinically significant endpoints, such as substantial treatment effects observed early in clinical development. The FDA may take certain actions with respect to breakthrough therapies, including holding meetings with the sponsor throughout the development process; providing timely advice to the product sponsor regarding development and approval; involving more senior staff in the review process; assigning a cross-disciplinary project lead for the review team; and taking other steps to design the clinical trials in an efficient manner. 

Third, the FDA may designate a product for priority review if it is a product that treats a serious condition and, if approved, would provide a significant improvement in safety or effectiveness. The FDA determines, on a case-

&#160;

by-case basis, whether the proposed product represents a significant improvement when compared with other available therapies. Significant improvement may be illustrated by evidence of increased effectiveness in the treatment of a condition, elimination or substantial reduction of a treatment-limiting product reaction, documented enhancement of patient compliance that may lead to improvement in serious outcomes, and evidence of safety and effectiveness in a new subpopulation. A priority designation is intended to direct overall attention and resources to the evaluation of such applications, and to shorten the FDA&#146;s goal for taking action on a marketing application from ten months to six months. 

Under Section 524 of the FDCA, the FDA is authorized to award a priority review voucher to sponsors of certain tropical disease product applications that meet the criteria specified in the Act. A priority review voucher may be used by the sponsor who obtains it or it may be transferred to another sponsor who may use it to obtain priority review for a different application. Priority review vouchers can result in the acceleration of review and approval of a product candidate by up to four months; the sponsor using the voucher must pay an extra user fee to support the review of the application, however. That fee is not subject to waivers, exemptions or reductions. In order to be eligible for a tropical disease priority review voucher, the application must be: for a listed tropical disease; submitted under Section 505(b)(1) of the FDCA or Section 351 of the Public Health Service Act after September 27, 2007; for a product that contains no active ingredient that has been approved in any other application under those statutory provisions; and must qualify for priority review. The FDA has identified in guidance those product applications for the prevention or treatment of tropical diseases that may qualify for a priority review voucher. 

Accelerated approval pathway 

The FDA may grant accelerated approval to a product for a serious or life-threatening condition that provides meaningful therapeutic advantage to patients over existing treatments based upon a determination that the product has an effect on a surrogate endpoint that is reasonably likely to predict clinical benefit. The FDA may also grant accelerated approval for such a condition when the product has an effect on an intermediate clinical endpoint that can be measured earlier than an effect on irreversible morbidity or mortality, or IMM, and that is reasonably likely to predict an effect on irreversible morbidity or mortality or other clinical benefit, taking into account the severity, rarity, or prevalence of the condition and the availability or lack of alternative treatments. Products granted accelerated approval must meet the same statutory standards for safety and effectiveness as those granted traditional approval. 

For the purposes of accelerated approval, a surrogate endpoint is a marker, such as a laboratory measurement, radiographic image, physical sign, or other measure that is thought to predict clinical benefit, but is not itself a measure of clinical benefit. Surrogate endpoints can often be measured more easily or more rapidly than clinical endpoints. An intermediate clinical endpoint is a measurement of a therapeutic effect that is considered reasonably likely to predict the clinical benefit of a product, such as an effect on IMM. The FDA has limited experience with accelerated approvals based on intermediate clinical endpoints, but has indicated that such endpoints generally may support accelerated approval where the therapeutic effect measured by the endpoint is not itself a clinical benefit and basis for traditional approval, if there is a basis for concluding that the therapeutic effect is reasonably likely to predict the ultimate clinical benefit of a product. 

The accelerated approval pathway is most often used in settings in which the course of a disease is long and an extended period of time is required to measure the intended clinical benefit of a product, even if the effect on the surrogate or intermediate clinical endpoint occurs rapidly. Thus, accelerated approval has been used extensively in the development and approval of products for treatment of a variety of cancers in which the goal of therapy is generally to improve survival or decrease morbidity and the duration of the typical disease course requires lengthy and sometimes large trials to demonstrate a clinical or survival benefit. 

The accelerated approval pathway is usually contingent on a sponsor&#146;s agreement to conduct, in a diligent manner, additional post-approval confirmatory studies to verify and describe the product&#146;s clinical benefit. As a result, a product candidate approved on this basis is subject to rigorous post-marketing compliance requirements, including the completion of phase 4 or post-approval clinical trials to confirm the effect on the clinical endpoint. 

&#160;

Failure to conduct required post-approval studies, or confirm a clinical benefit during post-marketing studies, would allow the FDA to withdraw the product from the market on an expedited basis. All promotional materials for product candidates approved under accelerated regulations are subject to prior review by the FDA. 

The FDA&#146;s decision on an NDA 

On the basis of the FDA&#146;s evaluation of the NDA and accompanying information, including the results of the inspection of the manufacturing facilities, the FDA may issue an approval letter or a complete response letter. An approval letter authorizes commercial marketing of the product with specific prescribing information for specific indications. A complete response letter generally outlines the deficiencies in the submission and may require substantial additional testing or information in order for the FDA to reconsider the application. If and when those deficiencies have been addressed to the FDA&#146;s satisfaction in a resubmission of the NDA, the FDA will issue an approval letter. The FDA has committed to reviewing such resubmissions in two or six months depending on the type of information included. Even with submission of this additional information, the FDA ultimately may decide that the application does not satisfy the regulatory criteria for approval. 

If the FDA approves a product, it may limit the approved indications for use for the product, require that contraindications, warnings or precautions be included in the product labeling, require that post-approval studies, including phase 4 clinical trials, be conducted to further assess the drug&#146;s safety after approval, require testing and surveillance programs to monitor the product after commercialization, or impose other conditions, including distribution restrictions or other risk management mechanisms, including REMS, which can materially affect the potential market and profitability of the product. The FDA may prevent or limit further marketing of a product based on the results of post-market studies or surveillance programs. After approval, many types of changes to the approved product, such as adding new indications, manufacturing changes and additional labeling claims, are subject to further testing requirements and FDA review and approval. 

Post-approval requirements 

Drugs manufactured or distributed pursuant to FDA approvals are subject to pervasive and continuing regulation by the FDA, including, among other things, requirements relating to recordkeeping, periodic reporting, product sampling and distribution, advertising and promotion and reporting of adverse experiences with the product. After approval, most changes to the approved product, such as adding new indications or other labeling claims, are subject to prior FDA review and approval. There also are continuing, annual user fee requirements for any marketed products and the establishments at which such products are manufactured, as well as new application fees for supplemental applications with clinical data. 

In addition, drug manufacturers and other entities involved in the manufacture and distribution of approved drugs are required to register their establishments with the FDA and state agencies, and are subject to periodic unannounced inspections by the FDA and these state agencies for compliance with cGMP requirements. Changes to the manufacturing process are strictly regulated and often require prior FDA approval before being implemented. FDA regulations also require investigation and correction of any deviations from cGMP and impose reporting and documentation requirements upon the sponsor and any third-party manufacturers that the sponsor may decide to use. Accordingly, manufacturers must continue to expend time, money, and effort in the area of production and quality control to maintain cGMP compliance. 

Once an approval is granted, the FDA may withdraw the approval if compliance with regulatory requirements and standards is not maintained or if problems occur after the product reaches the market. Later discovery of previously unknown problems with a product, including adverse events of unanticipated severity or frequency, or with manufacturing processes, or failure to comply with regulatory requirements, may result in revisions to the approved labeling to add new safety information; imposition of post-market studies or clinical trials to assess new safety risks; or imposition of distribution or other restrictions under a REMS program. Other potential consequences include, among other things: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; restrictions on the marketing or manufacturing of the product, suspension of the approval, or complete withdrawal of the product from the market or product recalls; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; fines, warning letters or holds on post-approval clinical trials; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; refusal of the FDA to approve pending NDAs or supplements to approved NDAs, or suspension or revocation of product license approvals; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; product seizure or detention, or refusal to permit the import or export of products; or &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; injunctions or the imposition of civil or criminal penalties. The FDA strictly regulates marketing, labeling, advertising and promotion of products that are placed on the market. Drugs may be promoted only for the approved indications and in accordance with the provisions of the approved label. The FDA and other agencies actively enforce the laws and regulations prohibiting the promotion of off-label uses, and a company that is found to have improperly promoted off-label uses may be subject to significant liability. 

In addition, the distribution of prescription pharmaceutical products is subject to the Prescription Drug Marketing Act, or PDMA, and its implementing regulations, as well as the Drug Supply Chain Security Act, or DSCA, which regulate the distribution and tracing of prescription drugs and prescription drug samples at the federal level, and set minimum standards for the regulation of drug distributors by the states. The PDMA, its implementing regulations and state laws limit the distribution of prescription pharmaceutical product samples, and the DSCA imposes requirements to ensure accountability in distribution and to identify and remove counterfeit and other illegitimate products from the market. 

Abbreviated new drug applications for generic drugs 

In 1984, with passage of the Hatch-Waxman Amendments to the FDCA, Congress established an abbreviated regulatory scheme authorizing the FDA to approve generic drugs that are shown to contain the same active ingredients as, and to be bioequivalent to, drugs previously approved by the FDA pursuant to NDAs. To obtain approval of a generic drug, an applicant must submit an abbreviated new drug application, or ANDA, to the agency. An ANDA is a comprehensive submission that contains, among other things, data and information pertaining to the active pharmaceutical ingredient, bioequivalence, drug product formulation, specifications and stability of the generic drug, as well as analytical methods, manufacturing process validation data and quality control procedures. ANDAs are &#147;abbreviated&#148; because they generally do not include preclinical and clinical data to demonstrate safety and effectiveness. Instead, in support of such applications, a generic manufacturer may rely on the preclinical and clinical testing previously conducted for a drug product previously approved under an NDA, known as the reference-listed drug, or RLD. 

Specifically, in order for an ANDA to be approved, the FDA must find that the generic version is identical to the RLD with respect to the active ingredients, the route of administration, the dosage form, the strength of the drug and the conditions of use of the drug. At the same time, the FDA must also determine that the generic drug is &#147;bioequivalent&#148; to the innovator drug. Under the statute, a generic drug is bioequivalent to a RLD if &#147;the rate and extent of absorption of the drug do not show a significant difference from the rate and extent of absorption of the listed drug.&#148; 

Upon approval of an ANDA, the FDA indicates whether the generic product is &#147;therapeutically equivalent&#148; to the RLD in its publication &#147;Approved Drug Products with Therapeutic Equivalence Evaluations,&#148; also referred to as the &#147;Orange Book.&#148; Physicians and pharmacists consider a therapeutic equivalent generic drug to be fully substitutable for the RLD. In addition, by operation of certain state laws and numerous health insurance programs, the FDA&#146;s designation of therapeutic equivalence often results in substitution of the generic drug without the knowledge or consent of either the prescribing physician or patient. 

Under the Hatch-Waxman Amendments, the FDA may not approve an ANDA until any applicable period of non-patent exclusivity for the RLD has expired. The FDCA provides a period of five years of non-patent data exclusivity for a new drug containing a new chemical entity. For the purposes of this provision, a new chemical 

&#160;

entity, or NCE, is a drug that contains no active moiety that has previously been approved by the FDA in any other NDA. An active moiety is the molecule or ion responsible for the physiological or pharmacological action of the drug substance. In cases where such NCE exclusivity has been granted, an ANDA may not be filed with the FDA until the expiration of five years unless the submission is accompanied by a Paragraph IV certification, in which case the applicant may submit its application four years following the original product approval. 

The FDCA also provides for a period of three years of exclusivity if the NDA includes reports of one or more new clinical investigations, other than bioavailability or bioequivalence studies, that were conducted by or for the applicant and are essential to the approval of the application. This three-year exclusivity period often protects changes to a previously approved drug product, such as a new dosage form, route of administration, combination or indication. Three-year exclusivity would be available for a drug product that contains a previously approved active moiety, provided the statutory requirement for a new clinical investigation is satisfied. Unlike five-year NCE exclusivity, an award of three-year exclusivity does not block the FDA from accepting ANDAs seeking approval for generic versions of the drug as of the date of approval of the original drug product. The FDA typically makes decisions about awards of data exclusivity shortly before a product is approved. 

505(b)(2) NDAs 

As an alternative path to FDA approval for modifications to formulations or uses of products previously approved by the FDA pursuant to an NDA, an applicant may submit an NDA under Section 505(b)(2) of the FDCA. Section 505(b)(2) was enacted as part of the Hatch-Waxman Amendments and permits the filing of an NDA where at least some of the information required for approval comes from studies not conducted by, or for, the applicant. If the 505(b)(2) applicant can establish that reliance on FDA&#146;s previous findings of safety and effectiveness is scientifically and legally appropriate, it may eliminate the need to conduct certain preclinical or clinical studies of the new product. The FDA may also require companies to perform additional studies or measurements, including clinical trials, to support the change from the previously approved reference drug. The FDA may then approve the new product candidate for all, or some, of the label indications for which the reference drug has been approved, as well as for any new indication sought by the 505(b)(2) applicant. 

Hatch-Waxman patent certification and the 30-month stay 

Upon approval of an NDA or a supplement thereto, NDA sponsors are required to list with the FDA each patent with claims that cover the applicant&#146;s product or an approved method of using the product. Each of the patents listed by the NDA sponsor is published in the Orange Book. When an ANDA or 505(b)(2) applicant files its application with the FDA, the applicant is required to certify to the FDA concerning any patents listed for the reference product in the Orange Book, except for patents covering methods of use for which the ANDA applicant is not seeking approval. Specifically, the applicant must certify with respect to each patent that: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; the required patent information has not been filed; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; the listed patent has expired; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; the listed patent has not expired, but will expire on a particular date and approval is sought after patent expiration; or &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; the listed patent is invalid, unenforceable or will not be infringed by the new product. A certification that the new product will not infringe the already approved product&#146;s listed patents or that such patents are invalid or unenforceable is called a Paragraph IV certification. If the applicant does not challenge the listed patents or indicates that it is not seeking approval of a patented method of use, the application will not be approved until all the listed patents claiming the referenced product have expired (other than method of use patents involving indications for which the applicant is not seeking approval). 

If the ANDA or 505(b)(2) applicant has provided a Paragraph IV certification to the FDA, the applicant must also send notice of the Paragraph IV certification to the NDA and patent holders once the ANDA or the 505(b)(2) 

&#160;

application has been accepted for filing by the FDA. The NDA and patent holders may then initiate a patent infringement lawsuit in response to the notice of the Paragraph IV certification. The filing of a patent infringement lawsuit within 45 days after the receipt of a Paragraph IV certification automatically prevents the FDA from approving the ANDA or 505(b)(2) application until the earlier of 30 months after the receipt of the Paragraph IV notice, expiration of the patent, or a decision in the infringement case that is favorable to the applicant. The ANDA or 505(b)(2) application also will not be approved until any applicable non-patent exclusivity listed in the Orange Book for the branded reference drug has expired. 

Pediatric studies and exclusivity 

Under the Pediatric Research Equity Act, an NDA or supplement thereto must contain data that are adequate to assess the safety and effectiveness of the drug product for the claimed indications in all relevant pediatric subpopulations, and to support dosing and administration for each pediatric subpopulation for which the product is safe and effective. With enactment of FDASIA 2012, sponsors must also submit pediatric study plans prior to the assessment data. Those plans must contain an outline of the proposed pediatric study or studies the applicant plans to conduct, including study objectives and design, any deferral or waiver requests, and any other information required by regulation. The applicant, the FDA, and the FDA&#146;s internal review committee must then review the information submitted, consult with each other, and agree upon a final plan. The FDA or the applicant may request an amendment to the plan at any time. 

The FDA may, on its own initiative or at the request of the applicant, grant deferrals for submission of some or all pediatric data until after approval of the product for use in adults, or full or partial waivers from the pediatric data requirements. Additional requirements and procedures relating to deferral requests and requests for extension of deferrals are contained in FDASIA. Unless and until FDA promulgates a regulation stating otherwise, the pediatric data requirements do not apply to products with orphan designation. 

Pediatric exclusivity is another type of non-patent marketing exclusivity in the United States and, if granted, provides for the attachment of an additional six months of marketing protection to the term of any existing regulatory exclusivity, including the non-patent and orphan exclusivity. This six-month exclusivity may be granted if an NDA sponsor submits pediatric data that fairly respond to a written request from the FDA for such data. The data do not need to show the product to be effective in the pediatric population studied; rather, if the clinical trial is deemed to fairly respond to the FDA&#146;s request, the additional protection is granted. If reports of requested pediatric studies are submitted to and accepted by the FDA within the statutory time limits, whatever statutory or regulatory periods of exclusivity or patent protection cover the product are extended by six months. This is not a patent term extension, but it effectively extends the regulatory period during which the FDA cannot approve another application. With regard to patents, the six-month pediatric exclusivity period will not attach to any patents for which an ANDA or 505(b)(2) applicant submitted a paragraph IV patent certification, unless the NDA sponsor or patent owner first obtains a court determination that the patent if valid and infringed by the proposed product. 

Orphan drug designation and exclusivity 

Under the Orphan Drug Act, the FDA may designate a drug product as an &#147;orphan drug&#148; if it is intended to treat a rare disease or condition, generally meaning that it affects fewer than 200,000 individuals in the United States, or more in cases in which there is no reasonable expectation that the cost of developing and making a drug product available in the United States for treatment of the disease or condition will be recovered from sales of the product. A company must request orphan drug designation before submitting an NDA for the drug and rare disease or condition. If the request is granted, the FDA will disclose the identity of the therapeutic agent and its potential use. Orphan drug designation does not shorten the PDUFA goal dates for the regulatory review and approval process, although it does convey certain advantages such as tax benefits and exemption from the PDUFA application fee. 

If a product with orphan designation receives the first FDA approval for the disease or condition for which it has such designation or for a select indication or use within the rare disease or condition for which it was designated, 

&#160;

the product generally will receive orphan drug exclusivity. Orphan drug exclusivity means that the FDA may not approve another sponsor&#146;s marketing application for the same drug for the same indication for seven years, except in certain limited circumstances. Orphan exclusivity does not block the approval of a different drug for the same rare disease or condition, nor does it block the approval of the same drug for different indications. If a drug designated as an orphan drug ultimately receives marketing approval for an indication broader than what was designated in its orphan drug application, it may not be entitled to exclusivity. Orphan exclusivity will not bar approval of another product under certain circumstances, including if a subsequent product with the same drug for the same indication is shown to be clinically superior to the approved product on the basis of greater efficacy or safety, or providing a major contribution to patient care, or if the company with orphan drug exclusivity is not able to meet market demand. 

Patent term restoration and extension 

A patent claiming a new drug product or its method of use may be eligible for a limited patent term extension, also known as patent term restoration, under the Hatch-Waxman Act, which permits a patent restoration of up to five years for patent term lost during product development and the FDA regulatory review. Patent term extension is generally available only for drug products whose active ingredient has not previously been approved by the FDA. The restoration period granted is typically one-half the time between the effective date of an IND and the submission date of an NDA, plus the time between the submission date of an NDA and the ultimate approval date. Patent term extension cannot be used to extend the remaining term of a patent past a total of 14 years from the product&#146;s approval date. Only one patent applicable to an approved drug product is eligible for the extension, and the application for the extension must be submitted prior to the expiration of the patent in question. A patent that covers multiple drugs for which approval is sought can only be extended in connection with one of the approvals. The United States PTO reviews and approves the application for any patent term extension in consultation with the FDA. 

FDA approval and regulation of companion diagnostics 

If safe and effective use of a therapeutic depends on an in vitro diagnostic, then the FDA generally will require approval or clearance of that diagnostic, known as a companion diagnostic, at the same time that the FDA approves the therapeutic product. In August 2014, the FDA issued final guidance clarifying the requirements that will apply to approval of therapeutic products and in vitro companion diagnostics. According to the guidance, for novel drugs, a companion diagnostic device and its corresponding therapeutic should be approved or cleared contemporaneously by the FDA for the use indicated in the therapeutic product&#146;s labeling. 

If FDA determines that a companion diagnostic device is essential to the safe and effective use of a novel therapeutic product or indication, FDA generally will not approve the therapeutic product or new therapeutic product indication if the companion diagnostic device is not approved or cleared for that indication. Approval or clearance of the companion diagnostic device will ensure that the device has been adequately evaluated and has adequate performance characteristics in the intended population. The review of in vitro companion diagnostics in conjunction with the review of our therapeutic treatments for cancer will, therefore, likely involve coordination of review by the FDA&#146;s Center for Drug Evaluation and Research and the FDA&#146;s Center for Devices and Radiological Health Office of In Vitro Diagnostics Device Evaluation and Safety. 

Under the FDCA, in vitro diagnostics, including companion diagnostics, are regulated as medical devices. In the United States, the FDCA and its implementing regulations, and other federal and state statutes and regulations govern, among other things, medical device design and development, preclinical and clinical testing, premarket clearance or approval, registration and listing, manufacturing, labeling, storage, advertising and promotion, sales and distribution, export and import, and post-market surveillance. Unless an exemption applies, diagnostic tests require marketing clearance or approval from the FDA prior to commercial distribution. The two primary types of FDA marketing authorization applicable to a medical device are premarket notification, also called 510(k) clearance, and premarket approval, or PMA approval. 

&#160;

The PMA process, including the gathering of clinical and preclinical data and the submission to and review by the FDA, can take several years or longer. It involves a rigorous premarket review during which the applicant must prepare and provide the FDA with reasonable assurance of the device&#146;s safety and effectiveness and information about the device and its components regarding, among other things, device design, manufacturing and labeling. PMA applications are subject to an application fee, which exceeds $250,000 for most PMAs. In addition, PMAs for certain devices must generally include the results from extensive preclinical and adequate and well-controlled clinical trials to establish the safety and effectiveness of the device for each indication for which FDA approval is sought. In particular, for a diagnostic, a PMA application typically requires data regarding analytical and clinical validation studies. As part of the PMA review, the FDA will typically inspect the manufacturer&#146;s facilities for compliance with the Quality System Regulation, or QSR, which imposes elaborate testing, control, documentation and other quality assurance requirements. 

PMA approval is not guaranteed, and the FDA may ultimately respond to a PMA submission with a not approvable determination based on deficiencies in the application and require additional clinical trial or other data that may be expensive and time-consuming to generate and that can substantially delay approval. If the FDA&#146;s evaluation of the PMA application is favorable, the FDA typically issues an approvable letter requiring the applicant&#146;s agreement to specific conditions, such as changes in labeling, or specific additional information, such as submission of final labeling, in order to secure final approval of the PMA. If the FDA&#146;s evaluation of the PMA or manufacturing facilities is not favorable, the FDA will deny approval of the PMA or issue a not approvable letter. A not approvable letter will outline the deficiencies in the application and, where practical, will identify what is necessary to make the PMA approvable. The FDA may also determine that additional clinical trials are necessary, in which case the PMA approval may be delayed for several months or years while the trials are conducted and then the data submitted in an amendment to the PMA. If the FDA concludes that the applicable criteria have been met, the FDA will issue a PMA for the approved indications, which can be more limited than those originally sought by the applicant. The PMA can include post-approval conditions that the FDA believes necessary to ensure the safety and effectiveness of the device, including, among other things, restrictions on labeling, promotion, sale and distribution. Once granted, PMA approval may be withdrawn by the FDA if compliance with post approval requirements, conditions of approval or other regulatory standards are not maintained or problems are identified following initial marketing. 

After a device is placed on the market, it remains subject to significant regulatory requirements. Medical devices may be marketed only for the uses and indications for which they are cleared or approved. Device manufacturers must also establish registration and device listings with the FDA. A medical device manufacturer&#146;s manufacturing processes and those of its suppliers are required to comply with the applicable portions of the QSR, which cover the methods and documentation of the design, testing, production, processes, controls, quality assurance, labeling, packaging and shipping of medical devices. Domestic facility records and manufacturing processes are subject to periodic unscheduled inspections by the FDA. The FDA also may inspect foreign facilities that export products to the United States. 

Review and Approval of Drugs in Europe and other Foreign Jurisdictions 

In addition to regulations in the United States, a manufacturer is subject to a variety of regulations in foreign jurisdictions to the extent they choose to sell any drug products in those foreign countries. Even if a manufacturer obtains FDA approval of a product, it must still obtain the requisite approvals from regulatory authorities in foreign countries prior to the commencement of clinical trials or marketing of the product in those countries. To obtain regulatory approval of an investigational drug or biological product in the European Union, a manufacturer must submit a marketing authorization application to the European Medicines Agency or EMA. For other countries outside of the European Union, such as countries in Eastern Europe, Latin America or Asia, the requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials, product licensing, pricing and reimbursement vary from country to country. In all cases, clinical trials are to be conducted in accordance with GCP and the applicable regulatory requirements and the ethical principles that have their origin in the Declaration of Helsinki. 

&#160;

Clinical trial approval in the European Union 

Pursuant to the currently applicable Clinical Trials Directive 2001/20/EC and the Directive 2005/28/EC on Good Clinical Practice, an applicant must obtain the approval from the competent national authority of the EU Member State in which the clinical trial is to be conducted. If the clinical trial is conducted in different EU Member States, the competent authorities in each of these EU Member States must provide their approval for the conduct of the clinical trial. Furthermore, the applicant may only start a clinical trial at a specific study site after the competent ethics committee has issued a favorable opinion. 

In April 2014, the European Union adopted a new Clinical Trials Regulation (EU) No 536/2014, which is set to replace the current Clinical Trials Directive 2001/20/EC. The new Clinical Trials Regulation will be directly applicable in and binding in all 28 EU Member States without the need for any national implementing legislation. The new Clinical Trials Regulation (EU) No 536/2014 will become applicable no earlier than 28 May 2016. It will overhaul the current system of approvals for clinical trials in the European Union. Specifically, the new legislation aims at simplifying and streamlining the approval of clinical trials in the EU. Under the new coordinated procedure for the approval of clinical trials, the sponsor of a clinical trial will be required to submit a single application for approval of a clinical trial to a reporting EU Member State (RMS) through an EU Portal. The submission procedure will be the same irrespective of whether the clinical trial is to be conducted in a single EU Member State or in more than one EU Member State. The Clinical Trials Regulation also aims to streamline and simplify the rules on safety reporting for clinical trials. 

Marketing authorization 

In the European Union, marketing authorizations for medicinal products can be obtained through several different procedures founded on the same basic regulatory process. 

The centralized procedure provides for the grant of a single marketing authorization that is valid for all EU Member States. The centralized procedure is compulsory for medicinal products produced by certain biotechnological processes, products designated as orphan medicinal products, and products with a new active substance indicated for the treatment of certain diseases. It is optional for those products that are highly innovative or for which a centralized process is in the interest of patients. Under the centralized procedure in the European Union, the maximum timeframe for the evaluation of a marketing authorization application is 210 days, excluding clock stops, when additional written or oral information is to be provided by the applicant in response to questions asked by the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human use or CHMP. Accelerated evaluation may be granted by the CHMP in exceptional cases. These are defined as circumstances in which a medicinal product is expected to be of a &#147;major public health interest.&#148; Three cumulative criteria must be fulfilled in such circumstances: the seriousness of the disease, such as heavy disabling or life-threatening diseases, to be treated; the absence or insufficiency of an appropriate alternative therapeutic approach; and anticipation of high therapeutic benefit. In these circumstances, the EMA ensures that the opinion of the CHMP is given within 150 days. 

The decentralized procedure provides for approval by one or more other concerned EU Member States of an assessment of an application for marketing authorization conducted by one EU Member State, known as the reference EU Member State. In accordance with this procedure, an applicant submits an application for marketing authorization to the reference EU Member State and the concerned EU Member States. This application is identical to the application that would be submitted to the EMA for authorization through the centralized procedure. The reference EU Member State prepares a draft assessment and drafts of the related materials within 120 days after receipt of a valid application. The resulting assessment report is submitted to the concerned EU Member States who, within 90 days of receipt must decide whether to approve the assessment report and related materials. If a concerned EU Member State cannot approve the assessment report and related materials due to concerns relating to a potential serious risk to public health, disputed elements may be referred to the European Commission, whose decision is binding on all EU Member States. In accordance with the mutual recognition procedure, the sponsor applies for national marketing authorization in one EU Member State. Upon 

&#160;

receipt of this authorization the sponsor can then seek the recognition of this authorization by other EU Member States. Authorization in accordance with either of these procedures will result in authorization of the medicinal product only in the reference EU Member State and in the other concerned EU Member States. 

A marketing authorization may be granted only to an applicant established in the European Union. Regulation No. 1901/2006 provides that prior to obtaining a marketing authorization in the European Union, an applicant must demonstrate compliance with all measures included in a Pediatric Investigation Plan, or PIP, approved by the Pediatric Committee of the EMA, covering all subsets of the pediatric population, unless the EMA has granted a product-specific waiver, class waiver, or a deferral for one or more of the measures included in the PIP. Regulatory Data Exclusivity in the European Union. 

In the European Union, innovative medicinal products authorized in the European Union on the basis of a full marketing authorization application (as opposed to an application for marketing authorization that relies on data available in the marketing authorization dossier for another, previously approved, medicinal product) are entitled to eight years of data exclusivity. During this period, applicants for authorization of generics of these innovative products cannot rely on data contained in the marketing authorization dossier submitted for the innovative medicinal product. Innovative medicinal products are also entitled to ten years&#146; market exclusivity. During this ten year period no generic of this medicinal product can be placed on the EU market. The overall ten-year period will be extended to a maximum of eleven years if, during the first eight years of those ten years, the marketing authorization holder obtains an authorization for one or more new therapeutic indications which, during the scientific evaluation prior to authorization, is held to bring a significant clinical benefit in comparison with existing therapies. Even if a compound is considered to be a new chemical entity so that the innovator gains the prescribed period of data exclusivity, another company may market another version of the product if such company obtained marketing authorization based on an MAA with a complete independent data package of pharmaceutical tests, preclinical tests and clinical trials. 

Periods of authorization and renewals in the European Union 

A marketing authorization is valid for five years, in principle, and it may be renewed after five years on the basis of a reevaluation of the risk-benefit balance by the EMA or by the competent authority of the relevant EU Member State. To that end, the marketing authorization holder must provide the EMA or the relevant competent authority of the EU Member State with a consolidated version of the file in respect of quality, safety and efficacy, including all variations introduced since the marketing authorization was granted, at least six months before the marketing authorization ceases to be valid. Once renewed, the marketing authorization is valid for an unlimited period, unless the European Commission or the relevant competent authority of the EU Member State decides, on justified grounds relating to pharmacovigilance, to proceed with one additional five-year renewal period. Any marketing authorization that is not followed by the marketing of the medicinal product on the EU market (in the case of the centralized procedure) or on the market of the EU Member State which delivered the marketing authorization within three years after authorization ceases to be valid. 

Regulatory requirements after marketing authorization 

Similarly to the United States, both marketing authorization holders and manufacturers of medicinal products are subject to comprehensive regulatory oversight by the EMA and the competent authorities of the individual EU Member States both before and after grant of the manufacturing and marketing authorizations. 

The holder of an EU marketing authorization for a medicinal product must also comply with EU pharmacovigilance legislation and its related regulations and guidelines which entail many requirements for conducting pharmacovigilance, or the assessment and monitoring of the safety of medicinal products. These rules can impose on central marketing authorization holders for medicinal products the obligation to conduct a labor intensive collection of data regarding the risks and benefits of marketed products and to engage in ongoing assessments of those risks and benefits, including the possible requirement to conduct additional clinical studies. 

&#160;

The manufacturing process for medicinal products in the European Union is highly regulated and regulators may shut down manufacturing facilities that they believe do not comply with regulations. Manufacturing requires a manufacturing authorization, and the manufacturing authorization holder must comply with various requirements set out in the applicable EU laws, regulations and guidance, including Directive 2001/83/EC, Directive 2003/94/EC, Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 and the European Commission Guidelines for Good Manufacturing Practice. These requirements include compliance with EU cGMP standards when manufacturing medicinal products and active pharmaceutical ingredients, including the manufacture of active pharmaceutical ingredients outside of the European Union with the intention to import the active pharmaceutical ingredients into the European Union. Similarly, the distribution of medicinal products into and within the European Union is subject to compliance with the applicable EU laws, regulations and guidelines, including the requirement to hold appropriate authorizations for distribution granted by the competent authorities of the EU Member States. 

In the European Union, the advertising and promotion of our products are subject to EU Member States&#146; laws governing promotion of medicinal products, interactions with physicians, misleading and comparative advertising and unfair commercial practices. In addition, other legislation adopted by individual EU Member States may apply to the advertising and promotion of medicinal products. These laws require that promotional materials and advertising in relation to medicinal products comply with the product&#146;s Summary of Product Characteristics, or SmPC, as approved by the competent authorities. Promotion of a medicinal product that does not comply with the SmPC is considered to constitute off-label promotion. The off-label promotion of medicinal products is prohibited in the European Union. The applicable laws at the EU level and in the individual EU Member States also prohibit the direct-to-consumer advertising of prescription-only medicinal products. These laws may further limit or restrict the advertising and promotion of our products to the general public and may also impose limitations on our promotional activities with health care professionals. 

Orphan drug designation and exclusivity in the European Union 

Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 and Regulation (EC) No. 847/2000 provide that a product can be designated as an orphan medicinal product by the European Commission if its sponsor can establish: that the product is intended for the diagnosis, prevention or treatment of (1) a life-threatening or chronically debilitating condition affecting not more than five in ten thousand persons in the European Union when the application is made, or (2) a life-threatening, seriously debilitating or serious and chronic condition in the European Union and that without incentives the medicinal product is unlikely to be developed. For either of these conditions, the applicant must demonstrate that there exists no satisfactory method of diagnosis, prevention or treatment of the condition in question that has been authorized in the European Union or, if such method exists, the medicinal product will be of significant benefit to those affected by that condition. Once authorized, orphan medicinal products are entitled to ten years of market exclusivity in all EU Member States and in addition a range of other benefits during the development and regulatory review process including scientific assistance for study protocols, authorization through the centralized marketing authorization procedure covering all member countries and a reduction or elimination of registration and marketing authorization fees. However, marketing authorization may be granted to a similar medicinal product with the same orphan indication during the ten year period with the consent of the marketing authorization holder for the original orphan medicinal product or if the manufacturer of the original orphan medicinal product is unable to supply sufficient quantities. Marketing authorization may also be granted to a similar medicinal product with the same orphan indication if this product is safer, more effective or otherwise clinically superior to the original orphan medicinal product. The period of market exclusivity may, in addition, be reduced to six years if it can be demonstrated on the basis of available evidence that the original orphan medicinal product is sufficiently profitable not to justify maintenance of market exclusivity. 

Pharmaceutical Coverage, Pricing and Reimbursement 

In the United States and markets in other countries, patients who are prescribed treatments for their conditions and providers performing the prescribed services generally rely on third-party payors to reimburse all or part of the associated healthcare costs. Patients are unlikely to use our products unless coverage is provided and reimbursement is adequate to cover a significant portion of the cost of our products. Significant uncertainty exists 

&#160;

as to the coverage and reimbursement status of products approved by the FDA and other government authorities. Even if our product candidate is approved, sales of our products will depend, in part, on the extent to which third-party payors, including government health programs in the United States such as Medicare and Medicaid, commercial health insurers and managed care organizations, provide coverage, and establish adequate reimbursement levels for, such products. The process for determining whether a payor will provide coverage for a product may be separate from the process for setting the price or reimbursement rate that the payor will pay for the product once coverage is approved. Third-party payors are increasingly challenging the prices charged, examining the medical necessity, and reviewing the cost-effectiveness of medical products and services and imposing controls to manage costs. Third-party payors may limit coverage to specific products on an approved list, also known as a formulary, which might not include all of the approved products for a particular indication. 

In order to secure coverage and reimbursement for any product that might be approved for sale, a company may need to conduct expensive pharmacoeconomic studies in order to demonstrate the medical necessity and cost-effectiveness of the product, in addition to the costs required to obtain FDA or other comparable marketing approvals. Nonetheless, product candidates may not be considered medically necessary or cost effective. A decision by a third-party payor not to cover our product candidate could reduce physician utilization of our products once approved and have a material adverse effect on our sales, results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, a payor&#146;s decision to provide coverage for a product does not imply that an adequate reimbursement rate will be approved. Further, one payor&#146;s determination to provide coverage for a drug product does not assure that other payors will also provide coverage and reimbursement for the product, and the level of coverage and reimbursement can differ significantly from payor to payor. Third-party reimbursement and coverage may not be available to enable us to maintain price levels sufficient to realize an appropriate return on our investment in product development. 

The containment of healthcare costs also has become a priority of federal, state and foreign governments and the prices of drugs have been a focus in this effort. Governments have shown significant interest in implementing cost-containment programs, including price controls, restrictions on reimbursement and requirements for substitution of generic products. Adoption of price controls and cost-containment measures, and adoption of more restrictive policies in jurisdictions with existing controls and measures, could further limit a company&#146;s revenue generated from the sale of any approved products. Coverage policies and third-party reimbursement rates may change at any time. Even if favorable coverage and reimbursement status is attained for one or more products for which a company or its collaborators receive marketing approval, less favorable coverage policies and reimbursement rates may be implemented in the future. 

Outside the United States, ensuring adequate coverage and payment for our product candidate will face challenges. Pricing of prescription pharmaceuticals is subject to governmental control in many countries. Pricing negotiations with governmental authorities can extend well beyond the receipt of regulatory marketing approval for a product and may require us to conduct a clinical trial that compares the cost effectiveness of our product candidate or products to other available therapies. The conduct of such a clinical trial could be expensive and result in delays in our commercialization efforts. 

In the European Union, pricing and reimbursement schemes vary widely from country to country. Some countries provide that products may be marketed only after a reimbursement price has been agreed. Some countries may require the completion of additional studies that compare the cost-effectiveness of a particular drug candidate to currently available therapies or so called health technology assessments, in order to obtain reimbursement or pricing approval. For example, the European Union provides options for its member states to restrict the range of products for which their national health insurance systems provide reimbursement and to control the prices of medicinal products for human use. European Union member states may approve a specific price for a product or it may instead adopt a system of direct or indirect controls on the profitability of the company placing the product on the market. Other member states allow companies to fix their own prices for products, but monitor and control prescription volumes and issue guidance to physicians to limit prescriptions. Recently, many countries in the European Union have increased the amount of discounts required on 

&#160;

pharmaceuticals and these efforts could continue as countries attempt to manage healthcare expenditures, especially in light of the severe fiscal and debt crises experienced by many countries in the European Union. The downward pressure on health care costs in general, particularly prescription drugs, has become intense. As a result, increasingly high barriers are being erected to the entry of new products. Political, economic and regulatory developments may further complicate pricing negotiations, and pricing negotiations may continue after reimbursement has been obtained. Reference pricing used by various European Union member states, and parallel trade, i.e., arbitrage between low-priced and high-priced member states, can further reduce prices. There can be no assurance that any country that has price controls or reimbursement limitations for pharmaceutical products will allow favorable reimbursement and pricing arrangements for any of our products, if approved in those countries. 

Healthcare Law and Regulation 

Healthcare providers and third-party payors play a primary role in the recommendation and prescription of drug products that are granted marketing approval. Arrangements with providers, consultants, third-party payors and customers are subject to broadly applicable fraud and abuse, anti-kickback, false claims laws, reporting of payments to physicians and teaching physicians and patient privacy laws and regulations and other healthcare laws and regulations that may constrain our business and/or financial arrangements. Restrictions under applicable federal and state healthcare laws and regulations, include the following: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; the United States federal Anti-Kickback Statute, which prohibits, among other things, persons and entities from knowingly and willfully soliciting, offering, paying, receiving or providing remuneration, directly or indirectly, in cash or in kind, to induce or reward either the referral of an individual for, or the purchase, order or recommendation of, any good or service, for which payment may be made, in whole or in part, under a federal healthcare program such as Medicare and Medicaid; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; the federal civil and criminal false claims laws, including the civil False Claims Act, and civil monetary penalties laws, which prohibit individuals or entities from, among other things, knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, to the federal government, claims for payment that are false, fictitious or fraudulent or knowingly making, using or causing to made or used a false record or statement to avoid, decrease or conceal an obligation to pay money to the federal government; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; the federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, which created additional federal criminal laws that prohibit, among other things, knowingly and willfully executing, or attempting to execute, a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program or making false statements relating to healthcare matters; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; HIPAA, as amended by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act, and their respective implementing regulations, including the Final Omnibus Rule published in January 2013, which impose obligations, including mandatory contractual terms, with respect to safeguarding the privacy, security and transmission of individually identifiable health information; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; the federal false statements statute prohibits knowingly and willfully falsifying, concealing &#183;or covering up a material fact or making any materially false statement in connection with the delivery of or payment for healthcare benefits, items or services; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; the federal transparency requirements known as the federal Physician Payments Sunshine Act, under the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care Education Reconciliation Act, or the Affordable Care Act, which requires certain manufacturers of drugs, devices, biologics and medical supplies to report annually to the Centers for Medicare &#38; Medicaid Services, or CMS, within the United States Department of Health and Human Services, information related to payments and other transfers of value made by that entity to physicians and teaching hospitals, as well as ownership and investment interests held by physicians and their immediate family members; and &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; analogous state and foreign laws and regulations, such as state anti-kickback and false claims laws, which may apply to healthcare items or services that are reimbursed by non-governmental third-party payors, including private insurers. &#160;

Some state laws require pharmaceutical companies to comply with the pharmaceutical industry&#146;s voluntary compliance guidelines and the relevant compliance guidance promulgated by the federal government in addition to requiring drug manufacturers to report information related to payments to physicians and other health care providers or marketing expenditures. State and foreign laws also govern the privacy and security of health information in some circumstances, many of which differ from each other in significant ways and often are not preempted by HIPAA, thus complicating compliance efforts. 

Healthcare Reform 

A primary trend in the United States healthcare industry and elsewhere is cost containment. There have been a number of federal and state proposals during the last few years regarding the pricing of pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical products, limiting coverage and reimbursement for drugs and other medical products, government control and other changes to the healthcare system in the United States. 

By way of example, the United States and state governments continue to propose and pass legislation designed to reduce the cost of healthcare. In March 2010, the United States Congress enacted the Affordable Care Act, which, among other things, includes changes to the coverage and payment for products under government health care programs. Among the provisions of the Affordable Care Act of importance to our potential drug candidates are: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; an annual, nondeductible fee on any entity that manufactures or imports specified branded prescription drugs and biologic agents, apportioned among these entities according to their market share in certain government healthcare programs, although this fee would not apply to sales of certain products approved exclusively for orphan indications; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; expansion of eligibility criteria for Medicaid programs by, among other things, allowing states to offer Medicaid coverage to certain individuals with income at or below 133% of the federal poverty level, thereby potentially increasing a manufacturer&#146;s Medicaid rebate liability; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; expanded manufacturers&#146; rebate liability under the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program by increasing the minimum rebate for both branded and generic drugs and revising the definition of &#147;average manufacturer price,&#148; or AMP, for calculating and reporting Medicaid drug rebates on outpatient prescription drug prices and extending rebate liability to prescriptions for individuals enrolled in Medicare Advantage plans; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; addressed a new methodology by which rebates owed by manufacturers under the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program are calculated for drugs that are inhaled, infused, instilled, implanted or injected; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; expanded the types of entities eligible for the 340B drug discount program; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; established the Medicare Part D coverage gap discount program by requiring manufacturers to provide a 50% point-of-sale-discount off the negotiated price of applicable brand drugs to eligible beneficiaries during their coverage gap period as a condition for the manufacturers&#146; outpatient drugs to be covered under Medicare Part D; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; a new Patient-Centered Outcomes Research Institute to oversee, identify priorities in, and conduct comparative clinical effectiveness research, along with funding for such research; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; the Independent Payment Advisory Board, or IPAB, which has authority to recommend certain changes to the Medicare program to reduce expenditures by the program that could result in reduced payments for prescription drugs. However, the IPAB implementation has been not been clearly defined. PPACA provided that under certain circumstances, IPAB recommendations will become law unless Congress enacts legislation that will achieve the same or greater Medicare cost savings; and &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; established the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Innovation within CMS to test innovative payment and service delivery models to lower Medicare and Medicaid spending, potentially including prescription drug spending. Funding has been allocated to support the mission of the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Innovation from 2011 to 2019. &#160;

Other legislative changes have been proposed and adopted in the United States since the Affordable Care Act was enacted. For example, in August 2011, the Budget Control Act of 2011, among other things, created measures for spending reductions by Congress. A Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction, tasked with recommending a targeted deficit reduction of at least $1.2 trillion for the years 2012 through 2021, was unable to reach required goals, thereby triggering the legislation&#146;s automatic reduction to several government programs. This includes aggregate reductions of Medicare payments to providers of up to 2% per fiscal year, which went into effect in April 2013 and will remain in effect through 2024 unless additional Congressional action is taken. In January 2013, President Obama signed into law the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012, which, among other things, further reduced Medicare payments to several providers, including hospitals, imaging centers and cancer treatment centers, and increased the statute of limitations period for the government to recover overpayments to providers from three to five years. 

There have been, and likely will continue to be, legislative and regulatory proposals at the foreign, federal and state levels directed at broadening the availability of healthcare and containing or lowering the cost of healthcare. Such reforms could have an adverse effect on anticipated revenue from product candidates that we may successfully develop and for which we may obtain marketing approval and may affect our overall financial condition and ability to develop product candidates. 

Segment Reporting 

We are engaged solely in the discovery and development of medicines for the treatment of cancer and rare genetic metabolic disorders. Accordingly, we have determined that we operate in one operating segment. 

Our Scientific Founders and Advisors 

Founders 

The founders of Agios are eminent scientists and authorities in cancer who have pioneered key advances in the field of cancer metabolism. Together, they provide scientific leadership and expertise in this field. 

Lewis C. Cantley, Ph.D. Dr. Cantley is director of the Cancer Center at Weill Cornell Medical College and New York-Presbyterian Hospital and a member of the National Academy of Sciences and American Academy of Arts and Sciences. Dr. Cantley is a foremost expert in understanding the biochemical pathways linking cancer and energy metabolism. His key contributions include: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; discovering the phosphatidylinositol-3-kinase (PI3K) signaling pathway; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; characterizing the mechanism by which PI3K is activated by growth factors and oncogenes and elucidating pathways downstream of PI3K, including the AKT/PKB signaling pathway; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; pioneering the application of fluorescence resonance energy transfer (FRET) for studying small molecule cell membrane transport; and &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; discovering pyruvate kinase M2 (PKM2) as a &#147;hub&#148; to integrate growth factor signaling and aerobic glycolysis, an evolution in the understanding of the Warburg effect. Tak W. Mak, Ph.D. Dr. Mak is professor of medical biophysics, University of Toronto; director of the Advanced Medical Discovery Institute; director of the Campbell Family Institute for Breast Cancer Research; foreign associate of the National Academy of Sciences; and fellow of the Royal Society. Dr. Mak is a preeminent researcher of the biology of the immune system, the biology of apoptosis and the pathogenesis of cancer. His key contributions include: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; discovering the T-Cell receptor; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; characterizing the tumorigenic functions of the tumor suppressor protein p53 and the kinase Chk2; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; identifying CPT1C as a tumor-specific gene product that plays an important role in the utilization of fatty acids as an alternative energy source of cancer cells; and &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; discovery of the function of CTLA-4. &#160;

Craig B. Thompson, M.D. Dr. Thompson is president and CEO of Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center; and a member of the National Academy of Sciences, American Academy of Arts and Sciences and Institute of Medicine. Dr. Thompson is an authority in the study of how genes regulate apoptosis and metabolism and investigates their application in treating cancer. His key contributions include: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; elucidating the role of the Bcl-2 family of oncogenes in regulating cell survival; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; identifying the roles of aerobic glycolysis, fatty acid synthesis and autophagy in the metabolic adaptation by cancer cells as part of carcinogenesis; and &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; proposing the concept that most oncogenes and tumor suppressors evolved to regulate cellular metabolism. Scientific Advisors 

We have assembled a world-class scientific advisory board that includes renowned experts in cancer metabolism, oncology, drug discovery and translational medicine. These advisors work in close collaboration with our scientists to identify new research directions and accelerate our target validation and drug discovery programs. 

&#160;

Name 

&#160; Primary affiliation 

Craig B. Thompson, M.D. &#160; Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center Joan Brugge, Ph.D. &#160; Harvard Medical School Lewis C. Cantley, Ph.D. &#160; The Cancer Center at Weill Cornell Medical College and New York-Presbyterian Hospital Jeffrey Engelman, M.D., Ph.D. &#160; Massachusetts General Hospital and Harvard Medical School William G. Kaelin, Jr., M.D. &#160; Dana-Farber Cancer Institute and Harvard Medical School Tak W. Mak, Ph.D. &#160; University of Toronto and the Campbell Family Institute for Breast Cancer Research Pier Paolo Pandolfi, M.D., Ph.D. &#160; Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center Charles Sawyers, M.D. &#160; Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center Matthew Vander Heiden, M.D., Ph.D. &#160; Koch Institute for Integrative Cancer Research at MIT Employees 

As of December 31, 2015, we had 208 full-time employees, including 81 employees with M.D. or Ph.D. degrees. Of these full-time employees, 154 employees are engaged in research and development activities. None of our employees is represented by a labor union or covered by a collective bargaining agreement. We consider our relationship with our employees to be good. 

Our Corporate Information 

We were incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware in August 2007. Our executive offices are located at 88 Sidney Street, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139, and our telephone number is (617) 649-8600. Our website address is www.agios.com. References to our website are inactive textual references only and the content of our website should not be deemed incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K. 

Available Information 

Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to these reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, are available free of charge on our website located at www.agios.com as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC. These reports are also available at the SEC&#146;s website at www.sec.gov. The public may also read and copy any 

&#160;

materials filed with the SEC at the SEC&#146;s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington D.C. 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. 

A copy of our Corporate Governance Guidelines, Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and the charters of the Audit Committee, Compensation Committee and Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee are posted on our website, www.agios.com, under the heading &#147;Corporate Governance&#148; and are available in print to any person who requests copies by contacting us by calling (617) 649-8600 or by writing to Agios Pharmaceuticals, Inc., 88 Sidney Street, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139. 

