 Item 1. Business . Overview 

We are a clinical-stage biopharmaceutical company focused on the discovery, development and commercialization of novel therapeutics for oncology and rare diseases. We use two distinct proprietary drug discovery technology platforms to design and develop drug candidates: our Toll-like receptor, or TLR, targeting technology and our third-generation antisense, or 3GA, technology, which we previously referred to as our GSO technology. We developed these platforms based on our scientific expertise and pioneering work with synthetic oligonucleotides as therapeutic agents. Using our TLR targeting technology, we design synthetic oligonucleotide-based drug candidates to modulate the activity of specific TLRs. In addition, using our 3GA technology, we are developing drug candidates to turn off the messenger RNA, or mRNA, associated with disease causing genes. We believe that our 3GA technology may potentially reduce the immunotoxicity and increase the potency of earlier generation antisense and RNA interference, or RNAi, technologies. 

We are focused on the development of drug candidates for oncology and rare diseases characterized by small, well-defined patient populations with serious unmet medical needs. We plan to explore potential collaborative alliances to support late-stage development and commercialization of some of our drug candidates. 

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS 

&#160;

Drug Candidate(s) 

&#160; Indication / Application 

&#160; Development Status Programs for the Modulation of Specific Toll-like Receptors 

&#160; &#160; Oncology 

B-cell Lymphomas with MYD88 L265P oncogenic mutation 

&#160; &#160; IMO-8400 

&#160; Waldenstr&#246;m&#146;s Macroglobulinemia &#160; Phase 1/2 clinical trial ongoing &#151; Data presented at American Society of Hematology (&#147;ASH&#148;) 2015 &#160;

Further dose escalation underway 

IMO-8400 

&#160; Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma &#160; Phase 1/2 clinical trial ongoing &#151; Immuno-oncology 

&#160; &#160; IMO-2125/IMO-2055 

&#160; Intratumoral &#151; Combination with Checkpoint Inhibitors &#160; Phase 1/2 clinical trial of IMO-2125 in combination with ipilimumab, a CTLA4 antibody, in patients with metastatic melanoma initiated in December 2015 ongoing &#151; Rare Diseases 

&#160; &#160; IMO-8400 

&#160; Dermatomyositis &#160; Phase 2 clinical trial &#151; initiated in December 2015 Third-generation Antisense 

&#160; &#160; Discovery Candidates 

&#160; Inhibition of Gene Expression &#160; NLRP3 and DUX4 identified as first gene targets &#160;

Disease selection and IND enabling activities 

&#160; GSK Collaboration &#160; Compound identification and screening for renal targets &#160; 

TLR Modulation Technology Platform 

TLRs play a central role in the innate immune system by regulating signaling cascades that stimulate inflammation. As a result, we believe TLRs are potential therapeutic targets for the treatment of a broad range of diseases. Using our chemistry-based platform, we have designed TLR antagonists and agonists to modulate the activity of targeted TLRs. A TLR antagonist is a compound that inhibits an immune response by downregulating the activity of the targeted TLR. A TLR agonist is a compound that stimulates an immune response by increasing the activity of the targeted TLR. 

Our TLR antagonist clinical-stage drug candidates are IMO-8400 and IMO-9200, which are both antagonists of TLR7, TLR8 and TLR9. We also have created compounds that are agonists of TLR3, TLR7, TLR8 or TLR9. Our TLR agonist clinical-stage drug candidates are IMO-2125 and IMO-2055, which are both agonists of TLR9. 

IMO-8400 Development Program in Genetically Defined Forms of B-cell Lymphoma 

We are developing IMO-8400 for the treatment of certain B-cell lymphomas in which the MYD88 L265P oncogenic mutation is present. Oncogenic mutations are changes in the DNA of tumor cells that promote the survival and proliferation of tumor cells. MYD88 is an adaptor protein in the TLR signaling pathway that mediates TLR signaling. The MYD88 L265P oncogenic mutation has been reported to lead to increased TLR signaling and malignant proliferation in certain B-cell lymphomas, including Waldenstr&#246;m&#146;s macroglobulinemia, diffuse large B-cell lymphoma, or DLBCL, and other forms of B-cell malignancies, including Burkitt&#146;s lymphoma, cutaneous diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (leg type), chronic lymphocytic leukemia, gastric mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue lymphoma, marginal zone lymphoma, and splenic marginal zone lymphoma. Waldenstr&#246;m&#146;s macroglobulinemia is classified as a non-Hodgkin lymphoma of malignant lymphoplasmacytic B-cells that commonly involves the blood and bone marrow and may spread to almost any organ in the body. In patients with Waldenstr&#246;m&#146;s macroglobulinemia, B-cells typically produce the protein immunoglobulin M which results in high serum levels of the protein and, potentially, hyperviscosity syndrome, with thickening of the blood, decrease in circulation and oxygen delivery, and ultimately impaired function of almost any organ in the body. DLBCL is the most common form of non-Hodgkin lymphoma. It is fast growing and can arise in lymph nodes or outside of the lymphatic system. The diagnosis of DLBCL is based on microscopic evaluation of biopsy samples of a suspected tumor. Subtypes of DLBCL are often defined during the microscopic evaluation of the biopsy samples. Additional subtypes of DLBCL may be differentiated by further analysis, including gene expression. 

We believe, based on independent research and our own preclinical research, that the inhibition of specific TLRs may be a useful approach in the treatment of certain B-cell lymphomas in which the MYD88 L265P oncogenic mutation is present. In independent research reported by investigators from the National Cancer Institute at the American Association for Cancer Research Annual Meeting in 2013, it was shown that the MYD88 L265P oncogenic mutation over-activated TLR7 and TLR9-mediated signaling and that inhibition of TLR7 and TLR9 promoted tumor cell death in preclinical models. 

In addition, in preclinical studies of IMO-8400, which we presented in April 2014 at the American Association for Cancer Research Annual Meeting, and in August 2014 at both the 18th International Workshop on Waldenstr&#246;m&#146;s Macroglobulinemia and the American Society of Hematology Meeting on Lymphoma Biology, IMO-8400 induced cell death in human Waldenstr&#246;m&#146;s macroglobulinemia tumor cells and in DLBCL tumor cells harboring the MYD88 L265P oncogenic mutation. These results were observed in preclinical studies evaluating IMO-8400 as a monotherapy and in combination with rituximab. Consistent with its proposed mechanism of action, IMO-8400 treatment in these studies inhibited cell signaling pathways that promote tumor cell survival and proliferation including those referred to scientifically as IRAK1/4, NF- KB, STAT3, p38, and BTK. Further, in these studies, IMO-8400 suppressed tumor cell production of cytokines, such as interleukin-10, that create a favorable microenvironment for tumor cell survival and proliferation. In addition, in preclinical 

&#160; 

studies in xenograft models, IMO-8400 decreased tumor burden in mice, even where treatment was initiated after tumors had become well established. In these same studies, tumor cells that did not harbor the MYD88 L265P oncogenic mutation were not affected by IMO-8400 treatment, demonstrating the specificity of the treatment effect in these cells. 

Based on independent research, we believe that approximately 90% of patients with Waldenstr&#246;m&#146;s macroglobulinemia and approximately 10% of patients with DLBCL have the MYD88 L265P oncogenic mutation. We believe that this prevalence data, together with preclinical data generated by us with IMO-8400, supports our plans to develop IMO-8400 in Waldenstr&#246;m&#146;s macroglobulinemia and in DLBCL. 

The U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or the FDA, has granted orphan drug designation for IMO-8400 for the treatment of Waldenstr&#246;m&#146;s macroglobulinemia and for the treatment of DLBCL. Orphan drug designation is granted by the FDA Office of Orphan Products Development to drugs intended to treat a rare disease or condition that affects fewer than 200,000 individuals in the United States. This designation provides certain incentives, including eligibility for federal grants, research and development tax credits, a waiver of Prescription Drug User Fee Act filing fees and a seven-year marketing exclusivity period, once the product is approved and as long as orphan drug designation is maintained. 

Prior to commencing our ongoing clinical trials of IMO-8400, we conducted a Phase 1 clinical trial of IMO-8400 in healthy subjects and a Phase 2 clinical trial of IMO-8400 in patients with moderate to severe psoriasis. To date, we have administered more than 550 doses of IMO-8400 to more than 85 healthy subjects and patients. 

Phase 1/2 Clinical Trial of IMO-8400 in Waldenstr&#246;m&#146;s Macroglobulinemia. In 2014, we initiated patient treatment in our ongoing open-label, dose-escalation Phase 1/2 clinical trial of IMO-8400 in patients with Waldenstr&#246;m&#146;s macroglobulinemia who have relapsed after or were refractory to prior therapy. Objectives of the trial include evaluation of safety and tolerability of escalating IMO-8400 dose levels and assessment of IMO-8400 clinical activity using disease-specific international guidelines for classifying clinical response. In this trial, we are evaluating doses of 0.6, 1.2 and 2.4 mg/kg per week administered as subcutaneous injections for 24 weeks. For the 2.4 mg/kg dose level, we are administering IMO-8400 in two doses of 1.2 mg/kg per week. We have met the requirements to complete the dose-escalation portion of the trial across three dose levels with the first 17 patients enrolled in the trial. We currently are continuing to enroll additional patients at the highest dose level of 2.4 mg/kg/week to further characterize safety and clinical activity. The protocol has been amended to allow patients who may be deriving clinical benefit from IMO-8400 treatment to continue on study beyond the originally defined 24-week treatment period. Five patients who completed 24 weeks of IMO-8400 treatment prior to the amendment were enrolled in a separate open-ended extension protocol to evaluate the long-term safety, tolerability, and clinical activity of IMO-8400 in patients with Waldenstr&#246;m&#146;s macroglobulinemia. We plan to further amend the trial protocol to enable further dose escalation beyond the 2.4 mg/kg dose level as the maximum tolerated dose has not yet been identified. 

We presented interim clinical data from the ongoing trial which covered 15 evaluable patients from the ongoing Phase 1/2 trial at the 2015 American Society of Hematology Meeting. 

Phase 1/2 Clinical Trial of IMO-8400 in Diffuse Large B-cell Lymphoma . We are conducting an open-label, dose-escalation Phase 1/2 clinical trial of IMO-8400 in patients with DLBCL who have relapsed after or were refractory to prior therapy. With the concurrence of the FDA Center for Devices and Radiological Health, we are enrolling in this trial only patients who are positive for the presence of the MYD88 L265P oncogenic mutation. We are using a prototype companion diagnostic we developed under our collaboration agreement with Abbott Molecular, Inc., or Abbott Molecular, to identify patients with the MYD88 L265P oncogenic mutation. Objectives of the trial include evaluation of safety and tolerability of escalating IMO-8400 dose levels and assessment of IMO-8400 clinical activity using disease-specific international guidelines for classifying clinical response. In this trial, we plan to evaluate escalating doses of 0.6, 1.2 and 2.4 mg/kg per week, administered as subcutaneous injections for 24 weeks. For each dose level, we are administering IMO-8400 subcutaneously in 

&#160; 

equally divided doses given twice per week. We are conducting the trial at 13 clinical sites. We have enrolled five patients in the trial and fully enrolled the 0.6 mg/kg dose cohort. We are planning an amendment to the trial protocol to enable more rapid dose escalation to the highest dose tested to date in the Waldenstr&#246;m&#146;s macroglobulinemia trial as well as the escalation doses in alignment with the Waldenstr&#246;m&#146;s macroglobulinemia trial. 

We believe that B-cell lymphomas in patients with the MYD88 L265P oncogenic mutation are rare diseases with serious unmet medical needs, based on prevalence of the indications and our understanding of the current treatment paradigms and are evaluating associated regulatory and clinical development strategies. We cannot predict whether or when any of our drug candidates will prove effective or safe in humans, if we will be able to participate in FDA expedited review and approval programs, including breakthrough and fast track designation, or if our drug candidates will receive regulatory approval. 

Companion Diagnostic for MYD88 L265P. In May 2014, we entered into a collaboration with Abbott Molecular, Inc., or Abbott Molecular, for the development of a companion diagnostic that can be used to identify patients with the MYD88 L265P oncogenic mutation. Under the agreement, Abbott Molecular is primarily responsible for developing and obtaining regulatory approvals for the companion diagnostic test in accordance with an agreed development plan and regulatory plan and for making the companion diagnostic test commercially available in accordance with an agreed commercialization plan. 

In November 2014, Abbott Molecular completed initial development of the prototype companion diagnostic for the MYD88 L265P oncogenic mutation. We have incorporated the prototype companion diagnostic into our ongoing Phase 1/2 clinical trial of IMO-8400 in patients with DLBCL. 

Application of TLR Agonists in Immuno-Oncology 

Our pipeline of drug candidates includes IMO-2125 and IMO-2055, two TLR9 agonists that may have potential applications as immune therapies for the treatment of cancer. Recent advancements in cancer immunotherapy have included the approval and late-stage development of multiple checkpoint inhibitors, which are therapies that target mechanisms by which tumor cells evade detection by the immune system. Because TLR9 agonists stimulate the immune system, we believe that there is a scientific rationale to evaluate the combination of our TLR9 agonists with checkpoint inhibitors. In independent research in preclinical cancer models, intratumoral injection of TLR9 agonists has potentiated the anti-tumor activity of checkpoint inhibitors. We believe that intratumoral injection of our TLR9 agonists activates a local immune response at the tumor which complements the systemic effect of the checkpoint inhibitors. We believe that these data support evaluation of combination regimens including a TLR9 agonist and a checkpoint inhibitor for the treatment of cancer. 

We and our collaborators have previously conducted clinical trials of IMO-2125 and IMO-2055. In these clinical trials, IMO-2055 was evaluated as a monotherapy and in combination with other oncology therapeutics in more than 300 patients with various types of cancers, and IMO-2125 was evaluated in more than 95 patients with hepatitis C. To support future potential development in cancer, we have conducted preclinical studies in which our TLR9 agonists have demonstrated anti-tumor activity in combination with multiple checkpoint inhibitors including, ipilimumab, an anti-CTLA4 antibody marketed as Yervoy &#174; by Bristol-Myers Squibb Company. We presented data from these studies at several medical conferences throughout 2014 and 2015. 

In June 2015, we entered into a strategic clinical research alliance with MD Anderson Cancer Center, or MD Anderson, to advance clinical development of TLR9 agonists in combination with checkpoint inhibitors. Under this alliance, in December 2015, we initiated a Phase 1/2 clinical trial to assess the safety and efficacy of IMO-2125, administered intra-tumorally in combination with ipilimumab in patients with metastatic melanoma. In this clinical trial, escalating doses of IMO-2125 ranging from 4 mg/kg through 32 mg/kg will be administered intra-tumorally into one of two selected tumor lesions, with a standard dosing regimen of ipilimumab. The primary objectives of the Phase 1 portion of the trial is to determine the maximum tolerated dose and characterize 

&#160; 

the dose-limiting toxicities of IMO-2125 when administered intra-tumorally in combination with ipilimumab. The primary objective of the Phase 2 portion is to determine the efficacy of the combination utilizing the immune-related response criteria in addition to traditional RECIST criteria. Serial biopsies will be taken of selected injected and non-injected tumor lesions to assess immune changes and response assessments. We anticipate that the trial will enroll approximately 45 patients. 

Program in Rare Diseases 

We have selected dermatomyositis as the first non-cancer rare disease for application of IMO-8400. We selected this indication for development based on the reported role of TLRs in the pathogenesis of the disease state, clinical feasibility, including ease of patient identification and availability of endpoints for regulatory approval and commercial potential. 

In determining to proceed in this rare disease, we considered that multiple independent research studies across a broad range of autoimmune diseases, including both dermatomyositis and psoriasis, have demonstrated that the over-activation of TLRs plays a critical role in disease maintenance and progression. In autoimmune diseases, endogenous nucleic acids released from damaged or dying cells initiate signaling cascades through TLRs, leading to the induction of multiple pro-inflammatory cytokines. This inflammation causes further damage to the body&#146;s own tissues and organs and the release of more self-nucleic acids, creating a self-sustaining autoinflammatory cycle that contributes to chronic inflammation in the affected tissue, promoting disease progression. We believe that TLR antagonism has the potential to improve patient outcomes by disrupting this disease process. 

We believe that we demonstrated proof of concept for our approach of using TLR antagonists to inhibit the over-activation of specific TLRs in a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled Phase 2 clinical trial of IMO-8400 that we conducted in patients with moderate to severe plaque psoriasis, a well-characterized autoimmune disease. In this trial, we evaluated IMO-8400 at four subcutaneous dose levels of 0.075, 0.15, 0.3, and 0.6 mg/kg, versus placebo, administered once weekly for 12 weeks in 46 patients. The trial met its primary objective as IMO-8400 was well tolerated at all dose levels with no treatment-related discontinuations, treatment-related serious adverse events, or dose reductions. The trial also met its secondary objective of demonstrating clinical activity in psoriasis patients, as assessed by the Psoriasis Area Severity Index. In March 2015, we presented the complete data from the Phase 2 trial of IMO-8400 in patients with moderate to severe plaque psoriasis at the annual meeting of the American Academy of Dermatology. With our focus on rare diseases, we do not currently plan to conduct further clinical development of IMO-8400 for the treatment of psoriasis. 

We had previously conducted pre-clinical activities to explore the potential for IMO-8400 as a potential clinical candidate for Duchenne muscular dystrophy, or DMD, however after completion of a strategic priority review, we have decided to pause all efforts to advance IMO-8400 into clinical development for DMD. 

IMO-8400 Development Program for Dermatomyositis. Myositis is a group of rare chronic inflammatory muscle disorders that cause muscle destruction and includes dermatomyositis. Major symptoms of dermatomyositis include muscle tissue loss, muscle weakness, joint pain and difficulty swallowing, with skin involvement resulting in rash and/or calcinosis. Potential complications of dermatomyositis include severe disability, interstitial lung disease and cancer. In this form of myositis, over-activated TLRs stimulate a pro-inflammatory response leading to further damage of muscle, skin and other tissue. Current treatments, including corticosteroids and immunosuppressive agents, often provide limited benefit or have unfavorable safety profiles, and we believe there is a significant unmet medical need for new therapies to treat dermatomyositis. 

In August 2014, we initiated a collaboration with The Myositis Association, or TMA, a leading U.S. patient advocacy organization focused on myositis, to advance the clinical development of IMO-8400 for the treatment of myositis. Under the collaboration, we and TMA agreed to develop educational programs for patients and healthcare providers on TLR antagonism and opportunities to participate in clinical research. In addition, we 

&#160; 

formed an advisory committee of leading independent experts in the treatment of myositis to advise us on the development of IMO-8400 in myositis. Based on these ongoing efforts, we have focused our development strategy on dermatomyositis, a form of the disease in which there is muscle and skin involvement. 

In December 2015, we initiated a randomized, double-blind, placebo controlled Phase 2 clinical trial of IMO-8400 in adult patients with dermatomyositis with documented skin and muscle involvement to primarily assess safety, tolerability and treatment effect. Eligible patients are being randomized to receive once weekly subcutaneous injections of either placebo or IMO-8400 for a period of 24 weeks. We expect to enroll approximately 36 patients in the trial which we expect to conduct at approximately 20 clinical sites. Several exploratory assessments in the trial also include: associations between treatment effect of IMO-8400 on indices of disease activity, patient-reported outcomes and pharmacodynamics measures; immunogenicity of IMO-8400, time-sensitive plasma concentrations of IMO-8400; and characterization of disease-specific autoantibodies in the enrolled population. 

Third-generation Antisense (3GA) Technology to Target RNA 

We are developing our 3GA technology to &#147;turn off&#148; the mRNA associated with disease causing genes. We have designed 3GA oligonucleotides to specifically address challenges associated with earlier generation antisense and RNAi technologies. Although currently used technologies to silence RNA have demonstrated the ability to inhibit the expression of disease-associated proteins, we believe that to reach their full therapeutic potential, gene silencing technologies need to achieve an improved therapeutic index with efficient systemic delivery, reduced immunotoxicity and increased potency. We have designed our 3GA oligonucleotides to provide these attributes. For example, in preclinical studies, our 3GA oligonucleotides have exerted gene-silencing activity in preclinical models following systemic administration. These studies include 3GAs targeted to the mRNA of apolipoprotein B (ApoB) and proprotein convertase subtilisin/kexin type 9 (PCSK9). Data from these studies have been presented at scientific meetings. Additionally, in mouse models, systemic administration of our 3GA oligonucleotides showed significant specific gene-silencing activity with minimized induction of immune responses. 

Our focus is on creating 3GA candidates targeted to specific genes to treat cancer and rare diseases. Our key considerations in identifying disease indications in our 3GA program include: strong evidence that the disease is caused by a specific protein; clear criteria to identify a target patient population; biomarkers for early assessment of clinical proof of concept; a targeted therapeutic mechanism for action; unmet medical need to allow for a rapid development path to approval and commercial opportunity. Based on these criteria, we have selected two gene targets, NLRP3 (NOD-like receptor family, pyrin domain containing protein 3) and DUX4 (Double Homeobox 4) to potentially advance into IND-enabling activities. Potential disease indications include, but are not limited to interstitial cystitis, uveitis and facioscapulohumeral muscular dystrophy (FSHD), respectively. Concurrently, we are also engaging in academic collaborations to further evaluate the application of 3GA technology in additional gene targets and exploring development opportunities with third parties for applications outside of our current focus areas. 

On November 20, 2015, we entered into a collaboration and license agreement with GSK to license, research, develop and commercialize pharmaceutical compounds from our 3GA technology for the treatment of selected targets in renal disease (the &#147;GSK Agreement&#148;). The initial collaboration term is currently anticipated to last between two and four years. In connection with the GSK Agreement, GSK identified an initial target for us to attempt to identify a potential population of development candidates to address such target under a mutually agreed upon research plan, currently estimated to take 27 months to complete. From the population of identified development candidates, GSK may designate one development candidate in its sole discretion to move forward into clinical development. Once GSK designates a development candidate, GSK would be solely responsible for the development and commercialization activities for that designated development candidate. 

At any time during the first two years of the GSK Agreement, GSK would have the option to select up to two additional targets, for further research under mutually agreed research plans. GSK may then designate one 

&#160; 

development candidate for each additional target, at which time GSK would have sole responsibility to develop and commercialize each such designated development candidate. 

In accordance with the GSK Agreement, a Joint Steering Committee (JSC) was formed with equal representation from us and GSK. The responsibilities of the JSC, include, but are not limited to monitoring the progress of the collaboration, reviewing research plans and dealing with disputes that may arise amongst the parties. If a dispute cannot be resolved by the JSC, GSK has final decision making authority. 

Under the terms of the GSK Agreement, we are eligible to receive up to approximately $100 million in license, research, clinical development and commercialization milestone payments, including a $2.5 million upfront, non-refundable, non-creditable cash payment. Approximately $9.0 million of the milestone payments are payable by GSK upon the identification of additional targets, the completion of current and future research plans and the designation of development candidates. Approximately $89.0 million is payable by GSK upon the achievement of clinical milestones and commercial milestones. In addition, we are eligible to receive royalty payments on sales upon commercialization at varying rates of up to five percent on annual net sales, as defined in the GSK Agreement. 

Other Programs 

IMO-9200 for Autoimmune Disease. We have developed a second novel synthetic oligonucleotide antagonist of TLR7, TLR8, and TLR9, IMO-9200, as a drug candidate for potential use in selected autoimmune disease indications. In May 2015, we completed and reported top-line data from a Phase 1 clinical trial of subcutaneously administered IMO-9200 in healthy subjects. We have also completed and presented data during the 2015 Digestive Disease Week Conference from preclinical studies of orally administered IMO-9200 in mouse models of inflammatory bowel disease, or IBD, including Crohn&#146;s Disease and ulcerative colitis. In these preclinical studies, the results demonstrated the potential for orally dosed IMO-9200 as a treatment for IBD. As we are focused on drug development specifically in oncology and rare diseases, we are currently reviewing our various strategic options related to the future development of IMO-9200. 

Other Collaborative Alliances 

We may execute early-stage development through proof-of-concept clinical trials and explore potential collaborative alliances to support late-stage development and commercialization. We may also seek to enter into additional collaborative alliances with pharmaceutical companies with respect to applications of our 3GA program. We are currently party to a collaboration with Merck &#38; Co., Abbott Molecular and GSK. 

Merck &#38; Co. 

In December 2006, we entered into an exclusive license and research collaboration agreement with Merck &#38; Co. to research, develop and commercialize vaccine products containing our TLR7, TLR8, and TLR9 agonists in the fields of cancer, infectious diseases and Alzheimer&#146;s disease. Under the terms of the agreement, we granted Merck &#38; Co. worldwide exclusive rights to a number of our TLR7, TLR8, and TLR9 agonists for use in combination with Merck &#38; Co.&#146;s therapeutic and prophylactic vaccines under development in the fields of cancer, infectious diseases, and Alzheimer&#146;s disease. Under the agreement, Merck &#38; Co. is obligated to pay us royalties, on a product-by-product and country-by-country basis, until the later of the expiration of the patent rights licensed to Merck &#38; Co. and the expiration of regulatory-based exclusivity for the vaccine product. 

In April 2014, we entered into an amendment to the agreement. As a result of this amendment, Merck &#38; Co.&#146;s rights under the agreement were limited to specified TLR7, TLR8, and TLR9 agonists that Merck &#38; Co. selected in January 2012, and we regained the rights to pursue our other independently discovered TLR7, TLR8, and TLR9 agonists for use as vaccine adjuvants in the fields of cancer, infectious diseases and Alzheimer&#146;s disease so that we now have the right to pursue our TLR7, TLR8, and TLR9 agonists for use as vaccine adjuvants 

&#160; 

in all fields. Merck &#38; Co.&#146;s obligations under the agreement to pay us milestone payments and royalties continue in effect with respect to the specified TLR7, TLR8, and TLR9 agonists. However, in connection with this amendment, we agreed that, to the extent that we license to third parties any TLR7, TLR8, and TLR9 agonists for use as vaccine adjuvants in the fields of cancer, infectious diseases and Alzheimer&#146;s disease and receive income under such licenses, Merck &#38; Co. may credit against any milestone payments and royalties it owes to us an amount equal to 15% of the license income received by us under the third-party licenses, up to a maximum of $60.0 million in credits. 

Abbott Molecular 

In May 2014, we entered into a development and commercialization agreement with Abbott Molecular for the development of an in vitro companion diagnostic for use in our clinical development programs to treat certain genetically defined forms of B-cell lymphoma with IMO-8400. The agreement provides for the development and subsequent commercialization by Abbott Molecular of a companion diagnostic test utilizing polymerase chain reaction technology to identify with high sensitivity and specificity the presence in tumor biopsy samples of the oncogenic mutation referred to scientifically as MYD88 L265P. Under the agreement, Abbott Molecular is primarily responsible for developing and obtaining regulatory approvals for the companion diagnostic in accordance with an agreed development plan and regulatory plan and for making the companion diagnostic test commercially available in accordance with an agreed commercialization plan. Abbott Molecular will retain all proceeds from commercialization of the companion diagnostic test. Subject to the terms of the agreement, we are required to pay Abbott Molecular fees and fund Abbott Molecular&#146;s development of the companion diagnostic test in an approximate aggregate amount of $6.7 million over an approximately five year development period, which includes clinical trial site costs and Abbott Molecular&#146;s costs of preparation and filing fees for regulatory submissions for the companion diagnostic with the FDA. This amount is subject to increase if Abbott Molecular incurs additional expenses in order to meet unexpected material requirements or obligations not included in the agreement or if we are required to conduct additional or different clinical trials which result in Abbott Molecular incurring additional costs. 

The parties&#146; activities pursuant to the agreed development, regulatory and commercialization plans are governed by a joint steering committee, with Abbott Molecular retaining final decision making authority, subject to its obligations under the agreement, for development, manufacture and marketing of the companion diagnostic and our retaining final decision making authority, subject to our obligations under the agreement, for the development, manufacture and marketing of IMO-8400. 

Under the agreement, each party grants the other party specified intellectual property licenses to enable the other party to perform its obligations and exercise its rights under the agreement, including license grants enabling Abbott Molecular to develop and commercialize the companion diagnostic test for use with IMO-8400 and enabling us to develop and commercialize IMO-8400 with Abbott Molecular&#146;s companion diagnostic test. The licenses granted by the parties to one another generally survive termination of the agreement. Abbott Molecular remains free to develop its companion diagnostic test for use with third party therapeutic products, and we remain free to engage third party diagnostics companies to develop other companion diagnostic tests for use with IMO-8400. 

We are permitted to terminate the agreement for convenience upon 90 days written notice to Abbott Molecular and, under circumstances specified in the agreement, payment of a termination fee and wind-down costs. The parties also may terminate the agreement based on uncured material breaches by or the bankruptcy or insolvency of the other party, and each party has the right to terminate the agreement in the event of specified permanent injunctions based on infringement of third party intellectual property rights. 

Licensing Agreements 

We have not licensed any rights to our TLR technology to any third party other than in the field of vaccines in connection with the strategic alliance which we have entered into with Merck &#38; Co., and have not in-licensed 

&#160; 

any technology for our TLR program. We have licensed specified rights related to antisense technology to certain parties. We also have in-licensed certain rights related to antisense technology. We have licensed specific rights related to 3GA technology for renal disease to GSK. 

Academic and Research Collaborations 

We have entered into research collaborations with scientists at leading academic research institutions. These research collaborations allow us to augment our internal research capabilities and obtain access to specialized knowledge and expertise. In general, our research collaborations may require us to supply compounds and pay various amounts to support the research. Under these research agreements, if a collaborator, solely or jointly with us, creates any invention, we may own exclusively such invention, have an automatic paid-up, royalty-free non-exclusive license or have an option to negotiate an exclusive, worldwide, royalty-bearing license to such invention. Inventions developed solely by our scientists in connection with research collaborations are owned exclusively by us. These collaborative agreements are non-exclusive and may be terminated with limited notice. 

Research and Development Expenses 

For the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, we spent approximately $33.7 million, $27.5 million, and $10.5 million, respectively, on research and development activities. 

Patents, Proprietary Rights and Trade Secrets 

Our success depends in part on our ability to obtain and maintain proprietary protection for our drug candidates, technology and know-how, to operate without infringing the proprietary rights of others and to prevent others from infringing our proprietary rights. We use a variety of methods to seek to protect our proprietary position, including filing U.S. and foreign patent applications related to our proprietary technology, inventions and improvements that are important to the development of our business. We also rely on trade secrets, know-how, continuing technological innovation, and in-licensing opportunities to develop and maintain our proprietary position. 

We have devoted and continue to devote a substantial amount of our resources into establishing intellectual property protection for: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Novel chemical entities that function as agonists of TLR3, TLR7, TLR8 or TLR9; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Novel chemical entities that function as antagonists of TLR7, TLR8 or TLR9; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Use of our novel chemical entities and chemical modifications to treat and prevent a variety of diseases; and 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Composition and use of our 3GA compounds to treat and prevent a variety of diseases. 

As of February 15, 2016, we owned more than 45 U.S. patents and patent applications and more than 80 patents and patent applications throughout the rest of the world for our TLR-targeted immune modulation technologies. These patents and patent applications include claims covering the chemical compositions of matter and methods of use of our IMO compounds, such as IMO-8400, IMO-9200, IMO-2125 and IMO-2055, as well as other compounds. These patents expire at various dates ranging from 2017 to 2031. With respect to IMO-8400, we have an issued U.S. patent that covers the chemical composition of matter of IMO-8400 and certain methods of its use that has a statutory expiration date in 2031. With respect to IMO-9200, we have two U.S. patent applications that cover the chemical composition for IMO-9200 and methods of its use, which we would expect to expire, if issued, at the earliest in 2034. With respect to IMO-2125, we have an issued U.S. patent that covers the chemical composition of matter of IMO-2125 and methods of its use that will expire in 2026. With respect to IMO-2055, we have issued patents that cover the chemical composition of matter of IMO-2055 and certain methods of its use, including in combination with marketed cancer products, with the composition claims expiring in 2023. 

&#160; 

As of February 15, 2016, we owned two issued U.S. patents, 37 issued foreign patents, five pending U.S. patent applications and seven foreign patent applications related to our 3GA compounds and methods of their use. The issued patents covering our 3GA technologies have statutory expiration dates in 2030 and 2031. 

In addition to our TLR-targeted and 3GA patent portfolios, we are the owner of or hold licenses to patents and patent applications related to antisense technology. As of February 15, 2016, our antisense patent portfolio included more than five U.S. patents and more than 40 issued patents throughout the rest of the world. These antisense patents and patent applications include novel compositions of matter, the use of these compositions for various genes, sequences and therapeutic targets, and oral and other routes of administration. Some of the patents and patent applications in our antisense portfolio were in-licensed. These in-licensed patents expire at various dates through 2021. 

Because patent applications in the United States and many foreign jurisdictions are typically not published until 18 months after filing, or in some cases not at all, and because publications of discoveries in the scientific literature often lag behind actual discoveries, neither we nor our licensors can be certain that we or they were the first to make the inventions claimed in issued patents or pending patent applications, or that we or they were the first to file for protection of the inventions set forth in these patent applications. 

Litigation may be necessary to defend against or assert claims of infringement, to enforce patents issued to us, to protect trade secrets or know-how owned by us, or to determine the scope and validity of the proprietary rights of others or to determine the appropriate term for an issued patent. In addition, the United States Patent and Trademark Office, or USPTO, may declare interference proceedings to determine the priority of inventions with respect to our patent applications or reexamination or reissue proceedings to determine if the scope of a patent should be narrowed. Litigation or any of these other proceedings could result in substantial costs to and diversion of effort by us, even if the eventual outcome is favorable to us, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. These efforts by us may not be successful. 

The term of individual patents depends upon the legal term for patents in the countries in which they are obtained. In most countries, including the United States, the patent term is 20 years from the earliest filing date of a non-provisional patent application. In the United States, a patent&#146;s term may be lengthened by patent term adjustment, which compensates a patentee for administrative delays by the United States Patent and Trademark Office, or USPTO, in examining and granting a patent, or may be shortened if a patent is terminally disclaimed over an earlier filed patent. The term of a patent that covers a drug, biological product or medical device approved pursuant to a pre-market approval may also be eligible for patent term extension when FDA approval is granted, provided statutory and regulatory requirements are met. The length of the patent term extension is related to the length of time the drug is under regulatory review while the patent is in force. The Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act of 1984, or the Hatch-Waxman Act, permits a patent term extension of up to five years beyond the expiration date set for the patent. Patent extension cannot extend the remaining term of a patent beyond a total of 14 years from the date of product approval, only one patent applicable to each regulatory review period may be granted an extension and only those claims reading on the approved drug are extended. Similar provisions are available in Europe and other foreign jurisdictions to extend the term of a patent that covers an approved drug. 

We may rely, in some circumstances, on trade secrets and confidentiality agreements to protect our technology. Although trade secrets are difficult to protect, wherever possible, we use confidential disclosure agreements to protect the proprietary nature of our technology. We regularly implement confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, scientific advisors, and other contractors and collaborators. However, there can be no assurance that these agreements will not be breached, that we will have adequate remedies for any breach, or that our trade secrets and/or proprietary information will not otherwise become known or be independently discovered by competitors. To the extent that our employees, consultants or contractors use intellectual property owned by others in their work for us, disputes may also arise as to the rights in related or resulting know-how and inventions. 

&#160; 

Manufacturing 

We do not currently own or operate manufacturing facilities for the production of clinical or commercial quantities of any of our drug candidates. We currently rely and expect to continue to rely on other companies for the manufacture of our drug candidates for preclinical and clinical development. We currently source our bulk drug manufacturing requirements from a limited number of contract manufacturers through the issuance of work orders on an as-needed basis. We depend and will continue to depend on our contract manufacturers to manufacture our drug candidates in accordance with current Good Manufacturing Practices, or cGMP, regulations for use in clinical trials. We will ultimately depend on contract manufacturers for the manufacture of our products for commercial sale, if and when our drug candidates are approved. Contract manufacturers are subject to extensive governmental regulation. 

Under our collaborative agreement with Merck &#38; Co., Merck &#38; Co. is responsible for manufacturing the drug candidates. Under our collaborative agreement with GSK, GSK is responsible for manufacturing clinical drug candidates. 

Competition 

We are developing our TLR-targeted drug candidates for use in the treatment of certain genetically defined forms of B-cell lymphoma and rare diseases and in our immuno-oncology program. One of our drug candidates, IMO-8400, is in clinical development for the treatment of certain genetically defined forms of B-cell lymphoma, including Waldenstr&#246;m&#146;s macroglobulinemia and DLBCL harboring the MYD88 L265P oncogenic mutation. We initiated a Phase 2 clinical trial of IMO-8400 in patients with dermatomyositis in the fourth quarter of 2015. Through our clinical alliance partner MDACC, we also initiated a Phase 1/2 clinical trial of IMO-2125, administered intra-tumorally, in combination with ipilimumab, a CTLA4 antibody, in patients with metastatic melanoma in the fourth quarter of 2015. We also entered into a collaborative alliance agreement with GSK and expect to continue to seek to enter into collaborative alliances with pharmaceutical companies with respect to applications of our 3GA technology program. For all of these disease areas, there are many other companies, public and private, that are actively engaged in discovery, development, and commercializing products and technologies that may compete with our drug candidates and programs, including TLR-targeted compounds as well as non-TLR-targeted therapeutics. 

IMO-8400 Development Program in Genetically Defined Forms of B-cell Lymphoma 

We are developing IMO-8400 for the treatment of certain genetically defined forms of B-cell lymphoma. There are currently no drugs specifically approved for the treatment of Waldenstr&#246;m&#146;s macroglobulinemia or DLBCL harboring the MYD88 L265P oncogenic mutation other than ibrutinib, which is marketed as Imbruvica &#174; by Pharmacyclics, Inc. and was approved in January 2015 for the treatment of Waldenstr&#246;m&#146;s macroglobulinemia in the United States. Currently, patients with any form of non-Hodgkin lymphoma are most often treated with the monoclonal antibody rituximab and/or with one or more chemotherapeutic agents. Rituximab is co-marketed in the United States by Biogen Idec Inc., Genentech Inc. and Hoffmann-La Roche, and Chugai Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. in territories outside the United States. We believe there are additional compounds in development for the treatment of genetically defined forms of B-cell lymphoma, including an inhibitor of interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase 4, which is being developed by Nimbus Discovery, Inc. 

Application of TLR Agonists in Immuno-Oncology 

We are aware that other companies including Dynavax, InDex Pharmaceuticals AB, Mologen AG, BioLineRx Ltd., Innate Immunotherapeutics Ltd., VentiRx Pharmaceuticals Inc., Telormedix S.A., Gilead Sciences Inc., GlaxoSmithKline plc, AstraZeneca plc and Hoffmann-La Roche may be developing TLR agonists for various indications, some of which are in the field of oncology. 

Immuno-oncology, which utilizes a patient&#146;s own immune system to combat cancer, is currently an active area of research for biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies. Interest in immuno-oncology is driven by 

&#160; 

recent efficacy data in cancers with historically bleak outcomes and the potential to achieve a cure or functional cure for some patients. As such, our efforts in this field will be competitive with a wide variety of different approaches. Any one of these competitive approaches may result in the development of novel technologies that are more effective, safer or less costly than any that we are developing. In addition, Dynavax is reportedly conducting a Phase 1/2 clinical trial of an investigational TLR9 agonist in combination with checkpoint inhibitors. 

IMO-8400 Development Program for Dermatomyositis 

Many of the drug development programs in dermatomyositis are focusing on expanding the use of drugs approved in different indications through investigator sponsored studies such as the ongoing studies of the monoclonal antibodies, belimumab and tocilizumab. In addition, Novartis is developing a competitive anti-inflammatory approach with its new investigational drug, BAF312, a sphingosine-1-phosphate receptor modulator aimed at inhibiting the migration of lymphocytes to the location of inflammation. We are not aware of other new chemical or molecular entities being developed for the treatment of dermatomyositis. 

Third-generation Antisense (3GA) Technology to Target RNA 

We are also developing 3GA drug candidates that we have created using our proprietary technology, to inhibit the production of disease-associated proteins by targeting RNA. We also face competition from other companies working to develop novel drugs using technologies that may compete with our 3GA technology. We are aware of multiple companies that are developing technologies that use oligonucleotide-based compounds to inhibit the production of disease associated proteins. These technologies include, but are not limited to, antisense technology as well as RNAi. In the field of antisense technologies, we compete with multiple companies, including Ionis and its partners. Ionis is currently marketing an antisense drug, Kynamro, and reportedly has several antisense drug candidates in clinical trials. In the field of RNAi, our primary competition is with Alnylam and its partners. Alnylam is reportedly developing multiple RNAi-based technologies and has several drug candidates in clinical trials. Any of the competing companies may develop gene-silencing technologies more rapidly and more effectively than us, and antisense technology and RNAi may become the preferred technology for drugs that target RNA in order to inhibit the production of disease-associated proteins. 

Some of these potentially competitive products have been in development or commercialized for years, in some cases by large, well established pharmaceutical companies. Many of the marketed products have been accepted by the medical community, patients, and third-party payors. Our ability to compete may be affected by the previous adoption of such products by the medical community, patients, and third-party payors. Additionally, in some instances, insurers and other third-party payors seek to encourage the use of generic products, which makes branded products, such as is planned for our drug candidates upon commercialization, potentially less attractive, from a cost perspective, to buyers. 

We recognize that other companies, including large pharmaceutical companies, may be developing or have plans to develop products and technologies that may compete with ours. Many of our competitors have substantially greater financial, technical, and human resources than we have. In addition, many of our competitors have significantly greater experience than we have in undertaking preclinical studies and human clinical trials of new pharmaceutical products, obtaining FDA and other regulatory approvals of products for use in health care and manufacturing, and marketing and selling approved products. Our competitors may discover, develop or commercialize products or other novel technologies that are more effective, safer or less costly than any that we are developing. Our competitors may also obtain FDA or other regulatory approval for their products more rapidly than we may obtain approval for ours. 

We anticipate that the competition with our drug candidates and technologies will be based on a number of factors including product efficacy, safety, availability, and price. The timing of market introduction of our drug candidates and competitive products will also affect competition among products. We expect the relative speed 

&#160; 

with which we can develop products, complete the clinical trials and approval processes, and supply commercial quantities of the products to the market to be important competitive factors. Our competitive position will also depend upon our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel, to obtain patent protection or otherwise develop proprietary products or processes, protect our intellectual property, and to secure sufficient capital resources for the period between technological conception and commercial sales. 

Government Regulation 

Government authorities in the United States, at the federal, state and local level, and in other countries and jurisdictions, including the European Union, extensively regulate, among other things, the research, development, testing, manufacture, quality control, approval, packaging, storage, recordkeeping, labeling, advertising, promotion, distribution, marketing, post-approval monitoring and reporting, and import and export of pharmaceutical products. The processes for obtaining regulatory approvals in the United States and in foreign countries and jurisdictions, along with subsequent compliance with applicable statutes and regulations and other regulatory authorities, require the expenditure of substantial time and financial resources. 

Review and Approval of Drugs in the United States 

In the United States, the FDA regulates drugs under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, or FDCA, and associated implementing regulations. The failure to comply with the FDCA and other applicable U.S. requirements at any time during the product development process, approval process or after approval may subject an applicant and/or sponsor to a variety of administrative or judicial sanctions, including refusal by the FDA to approve pending applications, withdrawal of an approval, imposition of a clinical hold, issuance of warning letters and other types of letters, product recalls, product seizures, total or partial suspension of production or distribution, injunctions, fines, refusals of government contracts, restitution, disgorgement of profits, or civil or criminal investigations and penalties brought by the FDA and the Department of Justice, or DOJ, or other governmental entities. 

An applicant seeking approval to market and distribute a new drug product in the United States must typically undertake the following: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; completion of preclinical laboratory tests, animal studies and formulation studies in compliance with the FDA&#146;s good laboratory practice, or GLP, regulations; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; submission to the FDA of an IND, which must take effect before human clinical trials may begin in the United States; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; approval by an independent institutional review board, or IRB, representing each clinical site before each clinical trial may be initiated; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; performance of adequate and well-controlled human clinical trials in accordance with good clinical practices, or GCP, to establish the safety and efficacy of the proposed drug product for each indication; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; preparation and submission to the FDA of a new drug application, or NDA; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; review of the product candidate by an FDA advisory committee, where appropriate or if applicable; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; satisfactory completion of one or more FDA inspections of the manufacturing facility or facilities at which the product, or components thereof, are produced to assess compliance with current Good Manufacturing Practices, or cGMP, requirements and to assure that the facilities, methods and controls are adequate to preserve the product&#146;s identity, strength, quality and purity; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; satisfactory completion of FDA audits of clinical trial sites to assure compliance with GCPs and the integrity of the clinical data; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; payment of user fees and securing FDA approval of the NDA; and 

&#160; 

&#160; &#149; &#160; compliance with any post-approval requirements, including Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategies, or REMS, where applicable, and post-approval studies required by the FDA. 

Preclinical Studies 

Preclinical studies include laboratory evaluation of the purity and stability of the manufactured drug substance or active pharmaceutical ingredient and the formulated drug or drug product, as well as in vitro and animal studies to assess the safety and activity of the drug for initial testing in humans and to establish a rationale for therapeutic use. The conduct of preclinical studies is subject to federal regulations and requirements, including GLP regulations. The results of the preclinical tests, together with manufacturing information, analytical data, any available clinical data or literature and plans for clinical studies, among other things, are submitted to the FDA as part of an IND. Additional preclinical testing, such as animal tests of reproductive adverse events and carcinogenicity, may continue after the IND is submitted. 

Human Clinical Studies in Support of an NDA 

Clinical trials involve the administration of the investigational product to human subjects under the supervision of qualified investigators in accordance with GCP requirements, which include, among other things, the requirement that all research subjects provide their informed consent in writing before their participation in any clinical trial. Clinical trials are conducted under written study protocols detailing, among other things, the objectives of the study, inclusion and exclusion criteria, the parameters to be used in monitoring safety and the effectiveness criteria to be evaluated. A protocol for each clinical trial and any subsequent protocol amendments must be submitted to the FDA as part of the IND. An IND automatically becomes effective 30 days after receipt by the FDA, unless before that time the FDA raises concerns or questions related to a proposed clinical trial and places the trial on clinical hold. In such a case, the IND sponsor and the FDA must resolve any outstanding concerns before the clinical trial can begin. 

Typically, the FDA will require one IND for early development studies where the sponsor is uncertain of the indication or dosage form of the proposed product, where the drug is being developed for closely related indications within a single review division at FDA, or where there are multiple closely-related routes of administration using the same dosage formulation. On the other hand, multiple INDs may be required where there are two or more unrelated conditions being developed or where multiple dosage forms are being extensively investigated or where multiple routes of administration are being evaluated. 

In addition to the foregoing IND requirements, an IRB representing each institution participating in the clinical trial must review and approve the plan for any clinical trial before it commences at that institution, and the IRB must conduct continuing review and reapprove the study at least annually. The IRB must review and approve, among other things, the study protocol and informed consent information to be provided to study subjects. An IRB must operate in compliance with FDA regulations. Information about certain clinical trials must be submitted within specific timeframes to the National Institutes of Health for public dissemination on their ClinicalTrials.gov website. 

Human clinical trials are typically conducted in three sequential phases, which may overlap or be combined: 

Phase 1: The drug is initially introduced into healthy human subjects or patients with the target disease (e.g. cancer) or condition and tested for safety, dosage tolerance, absorption, metabolism, distribution, excretion and, if possible, to gain an early indication of its effectiveness and to determine optimal dosage. 

Phase 2: The drug is administered to a limited patient population to identify possible adverse effects and safety risks, to preliminarily evaluate the efficacy of the product for specific targeted diseases and to determine dosage tolerance and optimal dosage. 

&#160; 

Phase 3: The drug is administered to an expanded patient population, generally at geographically dispersed clinical trial sites, in well-controlled clinical trials to generate enough data to statistically evaluate the efficacy and safety of the product for approval, to establish the overall risk-benefit profile of the product, and to provide adequate information for the labeling of the product. 

Progress reports detailing the results of the clinical trials must be submitted at least annually to the FDA and more frequently if serious adverse events occur. In addition, IND safety reports must be submitted to the FDA for any of the following: serious and unexpected suspected adverse reactions; findings from other studies or animal or in vitro testing that suggest a significant risk in humans exposed to the drug; and any clinically important increase in the case of a serious suspected adverse reaction over that listed in the protocol or investigator brochure. Phase 1, Phase 2 and Phase 3 clinical trials may not be completed successfully within any specified period, or at all. Furthermore, the FDA, the sponsor or the data monitoring committee for a clinical trial may suspend or terminate the clinical trial at any time on various grounds, including a finding that the research subjects are being exposed to an unacceptable health risk. Similarly, an IRB can suspend or terminate approval of a clinical trial at its institution, or an institution it represents, if the clinical trial is not being conducted in accordance with the IRB&#146;s requirements or if the drug has been associated with unexpected serious harm to patients. The FDA will typically inspect one or more clinical sites to assure compliance with GCP and the integrity of the clinical data submitted. 

Section 505(b)(2) NDAs 

NDAs for most new drug products are based on two full clinical studies which must contain substantial evidence of the safety and efficacy of the proposed new product. These applications are submitted under Section 505(b)(1) of the FDCA. The FDA is, however, authorized to approve an alternative type of NDA under Section 505(b)(2) of the FDCA. This type of application allows the applicant to rely, in part, on the FDA&#146;s previous findings of safety and efficacy for a similar product, or published literature. Specifically, Section 505(b)(2) applies to NDAs for a drug for which the investigations made to show whether or not the drug is safe for use and effective in use and relied upon by the applicant for approval of the application &#147;were not conducted by or for the applicant and for which the applicant has not obtained a right of reference or use from the person by or for whom the investigations were conducted.&#148; 

Thus, Section 505(b)(2) authorizes the FDA to approve an NDA based on safety and effectiveness data that were not developed by the applicant. NDAs filed under Section 505(b)(2) may provide an alternate and potentially more expeditious pathway to FDA approval for new or improved formulations or new uses of previously approved products. If the Section 505(b)(2) applicant can establish that reliance on the FDA&#146;s previous approval is scientifically appropriate, the applicant may eliminate the need to conduct certain preclinical or clinical studies of the new product. The FDA may also require companies to perform additional studies or measurements to support the change from the approved product. The FDA may then approve the new drug candidate for all or some of the label indications for which the referenced product has been approved, as well as for any new indication sought by the Section 505(b)(2) applicant. 

Submission of an NDA to the FDA 

Assuming successful completion of required clinical testing and other requirements, the results of the preclinical and clinical studies, together with detailed information relating to the product&#146;s chemistry, manufacture, controls and proposed labeling, among other things, are submitted to the FDA as part of an NDA requesting approval to market the drug product for one or more indications. Under federal law, the submission of most NDAs is additionally subject to an application user fee, currently exceeding $2.3 million, and the sponsor of an approved NDA is also subject to annual product and establishment user fees, currently exceeding $114,000 per product and $585,000 per establishment. These fees are typically increased annually. 

The FDA conducts a preliminary review of an NDA within 60 calendar days of its receipt and strives to inform the sponsor by the 74 th day after the FDA&#146;s receipt of the submission to determine whether the application 

&#160; 

is sufficiently complete to permit substantive review. The FDA may request additional information rather than accept an NDA for filing. In this event, the application must be resubmitted with the additional information. The resubmitted application is also subject to review before the FDA accepts it for filing. Once the submission is accepted for filing, the FDA begins an in-depth substantive review. 

The FDA has agreed to specified performance goals in the review process of NDAs. Under the agreement, 90% of applications seeking approval of New Molecular Entities, or NMEs, are meant to be reviewed within ten months from the date on which the FDA accepts the NDA for filing, and 90% of applications for NMEs that have been designated for &#147;priority review&#148; are meant to be reviewed within six months of the filing date. For applications seeking approval of drugs that are not NMEs, the ten-month and six-month review periods run from the date that the FDA receives the application. The review process may be extended by the FDA for three additional months to consider new information or clarification provided by the applicant to address an outstanding deficiency identified by the FDA following the original submission. 

Before approving an NDA, the FDA typically will inspect the facility or facilities where the product is or will be manufactured. These pre-approval inspections cover all facilities associated with an NDA submission, including drug component manufacturing (such as active pharmaceutical ingredients), finished drug product manufacturing, and control testing laboratories. The FDA will not approve an application unless it determines that the manufacturing processes and facilities are in compliance with cGMP requirements and adequate to assure consistent production of the product within required specifications. Additionally, before approving an NDA, the FDA will typically inspect one or more clinical sites to assure compliance with GCP. 

In addition, as a condition of approval, the FDA may require an applicant to develop a REMS. REMS use risk minimization strategies beyond the professional labeling to ensure that the benefits of the product outweigh the potential risks. To determine whether a REMS is needed, the FDA will consider the size of the population likely to use the product, seriousness of the disease, expected benefit of the product, expected duration of treatment, seriousness of known or potential adverse events, and whether the product is a new molecular entity. REMS can include medication guides, physician communication plans for healthcare professionals, and elements to assure safe use, or ETASU. ETASU may include, but are not limited to, special training or certification for prescribing or dispensing, dispensing only under certain circumstances, special monitoring, and the use of patient registries. The FDA may require a REMS before approval or post-approval if it becomes aware of a serious risk associated with use of the product. The requirement for a REMS can materially affect the potential market and profitability of a product. 

The FDA is required to refer an application for a novel drug to an advisory committee or explain why such referral was not made. Typically, an advisory committee is a panel of independent experts, including clinicians and other scientific experts, that reviews, evaluates and provides a recommendation as to whether the application should be approved and under what conditions. The FDA is not bound by the recommendations of an advisory committee, but it considers such recommendations carefully when making decisions. 

Fast Track, Breakthrough Therapy and Priority Review Designations 

The FDA is authorized to designate certain products for expedited review if they are intended to address an unmet medical need in the treatment of a serious or life-threatening disease or condition. These programs are fast track designation, breakthrough therapy designation and priority review designation. 

Specifically, the FDA may designate a product for fast track review if it is intended, whether alone or in combination with one or more other drugs, for the treatment of a serious or life-threatening disease or condition, and it demonstrates the potential to address unmet medical needs for such a disease or condition. For fast track products, sponsors may have greater interactions with the FDA and the FDA may initiate review of sections of a fast track product&#146;s NDA before the application is complete. This rolling review may be available if the FDA determines, after preliminary evaluation of clinical data submitted by the sponsor, that a fast track product may 

&#160; 

be effective. The sponsor must also provide, and the FDA must approve, a schedule for the submission of the remaining information and the sponsor must pay applicable user fees. However, the FDA&#146;s time period goal for reviewing a fast track application does not begin until the last section of the NDA is submitted. In addition, the fast track designation may be withdrawn by the FDA if the FDA believes that the designation is no longer supported by data emerging in the clinical trial process. 

Second, in 2012, Congress enacted the Food and Drug Administration Safety and Innovation Act, or FDASIA. This law established a new regulatory scheme allowing for expedited review of products designated as &#147;breakthrough therapies.&#148; A product may be designated as a breakthrough therapy if it is intended, either alone or in combination with one or more other drugs, to treat a serious or life-threatening disease or condition and preliminary clinical evidence indicates that the product may demonstrate substantial improvement over existing therapies on one or more clinically significant endpoints, such as substantial treatment effects observed early in clinical development. The FDA may take certain actions with respect to breakthrough therapies, including holding meetings with the sponsor throughout the development process; providing timely advice to the product sponsor regarding development and approval; involving more senior staff in the review process; assigning a cross-disciplinary project lead for the review team; and taking other steps to design the clinical trials in an efficient manner. 

Third, the FDA may designate a product for priority review if it is a drug that treats a serious condition and, if approved, would provide a significant improvement in safety or effectiveness. The FDA determines, on a case-by-case basis, whether the proposed drug represents a significant improvement when compared with other available therapies. Significant improvement may be illustrated by evidence of increased effectiveness in the treatment of a condition, elimination or substantial reduction of a treatment-limiting drug reaction, documented enhancement of patient compliance that may lead to improvement in serious outcomes, and evidence of safety and effectiveness in a new subpopulation. A priority designation is intended to direct overall attention and resources to the evaluation of such applications, and to shorten the FDA&#146;s goal for taking action on a marketing application from ten months to six months. 

Accelerated Approval Pathway 

The FDA may grant accelerated approval to a drug for a serious or life-threatening condition that provides meaningful therapeutic advantage to patients over existing treatments based upon a determination that the drug has an effect on a surrogate endpoint that is reasonably likely to predict clinical benefit. The FDA may also grant accelerated approval for such a condition when the product has an effect on an intermediate clinical endpoint that can be measured earlier than an effect on irreversible morbidity or mortality, or IMM, and that is reasonably likely to predict an effect on irreversible morbidity or mortality or other clinical benefit, taking into account the severity, rarity, or prevalence of the condition and the availability or lack of alternative treatments. Drugs granted accelerated approval must meet the same statutory standards for safety and effectiveness as those granted traditional approval. 

For the purposes of accelerated approval, a surrogate endpoint is a marker, such as a laboratory measurement, radiographic image, physical sign, or other measure that is thought to predict clinical benefit, but is not itself a measure of clinical benefit. Surrogate endpoints can often be measured more easily or more rapidly than clinical endpoints. An intermediate clinical endpoint is a measurement of a therapeutic effect that is considered reasonably likely to predict the clinical benefit of a drug, such as an effect on IMM. The FDA has limited experience with accelerated approvals based on intermediate clinical endpoints, but has indicated that such endpoints generally may support accelerated approval where the therapeutic effect measured by the endpoint is not itself a clinical benefit and basis for traditional approval, if there is a basis for concluding that the therapeutic effect is reasonably likely to predict the ultimate clinical benefit of a drug. 

The accelerated approval pathway is most often used in settings in which the course of a disease is long and an extended period of time is required to measure the intended clinical benefit of a drug, even if the effect on the 

&#160; 

surrogate or intermediate clinical endpoint occurs rapidly. Thus, accelerated approval has been used extensively in the development and approval of drugs for treatment of a variety of cancers in which the goal of therapy is generally to improve survival or decrease morbidity and the duration of the typical disease course requires lengthy and sometimes large trials to demonstrate a clinical or survival benefit. 

The accelerated approval pathway is usually contingent on a sponsor&#146;s agreement to conduct, in a diligent manner, additional post-approval confirmatory studies to verify and describe the drug&#146;s clinical benefit. As a result, a drug candidate approved on this basis is subject to rigorous post-marketing compliance requirements, including the completion of Phase 4 or post-approval clinical trials to confirm the effect on the clinical endpoint. Failure to conduct required post-approval studies, or confirm a clinical benefit during post-marketing studies, would allow the FDA to withdraw the drug from the market on an expedited basis. All promotional materials for drug candidates approved under accelerated regulations are subject to prior review by the FDA. 

The FDA&#146;s Decision on an NDA 

On the basis of the FDA&#146;s evaluation of the NDA and accompanying information, including the results of the inspection of the manufacturing facilities, the FDA may issue an approval letter or a complete response letter. An approval letter authorizes commercial marketing of the product with specific prescribing information for specific indications. A complete response letter generally outlines the deficiencies in the submission and may require substantial additional testing or information in order for the FDA to reconsider the application. If and when those deficiencies have been addressed to the FDA&#146;s satisfaction in a resubmission of the NDA, the FDA will issue an approval letter. The FDA has committed to reviewing such resubmissions in two or six months depending on the type of information included. Even with submission of this additional information, the FDA ultimately may decide that the application does not satisfy the regulatory criteria for approval. 

If the FDA approves a product, it may limit the approved indications for use for the product, require that contraindications, warnings or precautions be included in the product labeling, require that post-approval studies, including Phase 4 clinical trials, be conducted to further assess the drug&#146;s safety after approval, require testing and surveillance programs to monitor the product after commercialization, or impose other conditions, including distribution restrictions or other risk management mechanisms, including REMS, which can materially affect the potential market and profitability of the product. The FDA may prevent or limit further marketing of a product based on the results of post-market studies or surveillance programs. After approval, many types of changes to the approved product, such as adding new indications, manufacturing changes and additional labeling claims, are subject to further testing requirements and FDA review and approval. 

FDA Regulation of Companion Diagnostics. 

FDA officials have issued guidance that addresses issues critical to developing in vitro companion diagnostics, such as when the FDA will require that the diagnostic and the drug be approved simultaneously. The guidance issued in August 2014 states that if safe and effective use of a therapeutic product depends on an in vitro diagnostic, then the FDA generally will require approval or clearance of the diagnostic at the same time that the FDA approves the therapeutic product. 

The FDA previously has required in vitro companion diagnostics intended to select the patients who will respond to the drug candidate to obtain pre-market approval, or PMA, simultaneously with approval of the drug. Based on the guidance, and the FDA&#146;s past treatment of companion diagnostics, we believe that the FDA will require PMA approval of one or more in vitro companion diagnostics to identify patient populations suitable for our genetically defined forms of B-cell lymphoma program. The review of these in vitro companion diagnostics in conjunction with the review of our drug candidates involves coordination of review by the FDA&#146;s Center for Drug Evaluation and Research and by the FDA&#146;s Center for Devices and Radiological Health Office of In Vitro Diagnostics Device Evaluation and Safety. 

&#160; 

The PMA process, including the gathering of clinical and preclinical data and the submission to and review by the FDA, can take several years or longer. It involves a rigorous premarket review during which the applicant must prepare and provide the FDA with reasonable assurance of the device&#146;s safety and effectiveness and information about the device and its components regarding, among other things, device design, manufacturing and labeling. PMA applications are subject to an application fee, which exceeds $250,000 for most PMAs. 

Post-Approval Requirements 

Drugs manufactured or distributed pursuant to FDA approvals are subject to pervasive and continuing regulation by the FDA, including, among other things, requirements relating to recordkeeping, periodic reporting, product sampling and distribution, advertising and promotion and reporting of adverse experiences with the product. After approval, most changes to the approved product, such as adding new indications or other labeling claims, are subject to prior FDA review and approval. There also are continuing, annual user fee requirements for any marketed products and the establishments at which such products are manufactured, as well as new application fees for supplemental applications with clinical data. 

In addition, drug manufacturers and other entities involved in the manufacture and distribution of approved drugs are required to register their establishments with the FDA and state agencies, and are subject to periodic unannounced inspections by the FDA and these state agencies for compliance with cGMP requirements. Changes to the manufacturing process are strictly regulated and often require prior FDA approval before being implemented. FDA regulations also require investigation and correction of any deviations from cGMP and impose reporting and documentation requirements upon the sponsor and any third-party manufacturers that the sponsor may decide to use. Accordingly, manufacturers must continue to expend time, money, and effort in the area of production and quality control to maintain cGMP compliance. 

Once an approval is granted, the FDA may withdraw the approval if compliance with regulatory requirements and standards is not maintained or if problems occur after the product reaches the market. Later discovery of previously unknown problems with a product, including adverse events of unanticipated severity or frequency, or with manufacturing processes, or failure to comply with regulatory requirements, may result in revisions to the approved labeling to add new safety information; imposition of post-market studies or clinical trials to assess new safety risks; or imposition of distribution or other restrictions under a REMS program. Other potential consequences include, among other things: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; restrictions on the marketing or manufacturing of the product, suspension of the approval, complete withdrawal of the product from the market or product recalls; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; fines, warning letters or holds on post-approval clinical trials; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; refusal of the FDA to approve pending NDAs or supplements to approved NDAs, or suspension or revocation of product license approvals; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; product seizure or detention, or refusal to permit the import or export of products; or 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; injunctions or the imposition of civil or criminal penalties. 

The FDA strictly regulates marketing, labeling, advertising and promotion of products that are placed on the market. Drugs may be promoted only for the approved indications and in accordance with the provisions of the approved label. The FDA and other agencies actively enforce the laws and regulations prohibiting the promotion of off-label uses, and a company that is found to have improperly promoted off-label uses may be subject to significant liability. 

In addition, the distribution of prescription pharmaceutical products is subject to the Prescription Drug Marketing Act, or PDMA, as well as the Drug Supply Chain Security Act, or DSCA, which regulate the distribution and tracing of prescription drugs and prescription drug samples at the federal level, and set minimum 

&#160; 

standards for the registration and regulation of drug distributors by the states. Both the PDMA and state laws limit the distribution of prescription pharmaceutical product samples and impose requirements to ensure accountability in distribution. The DSCA imposes requires to ensure accountability in distribution and to identify and remove counterfeit and other illegitimate products from the market. 

Hatch-Waxman Patent Certification and the 30-Month Stay 

Upon approval of an NDA or a supplement thereto, NDA sponsors are required to list with the FDA each patent with claims that cover the applicant&#146;s product or an approved method of using the product. Each of the patents listed by the NDA sponsor is published in the Orange Book. When an Abbreviated New Drug Application (&#147;ANDA&#148;) or 505(b)(2) applicant files its application with the FDA, the applicant is required to certify to the FDA concerning any patents listed for the reference product in the Orange Book, except for patents covering methods of use for which the ANDA applicant is not seeking approval. 

Specifically, the applicant must certify with respect to each patent that: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; the required patent information has not been filed; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; the listed patent has expired; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; the listed patent has not expired, but will expire on a particular date and approval is sought after patent expiration; or 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; the listed patent is invalid, unenforceable or will not be infringed by the new product. 

A certification that the new product will not infringe the already approved product&#146;s listed patents or that such patents are invalid or unenforceable is called a Paragraph IV certification. If the applicant does not challenge the listed patents or indicates that it is not seeking approval of a patented method of use, the application will not be approved until all the listed patents claiming the referenced product have expired (other than method of use patents involving indications for which the ANDA applicant is not seeking approval). 

If the ANDA or 505(b)(2) applicant has provided a Paragraph IV certification to the FDA, the applicant must also send notice of the Paragraph IV certification to the NDA and patent holders once the ANDA or 505(b)(2) application has been accepted for filing by the FDA. The NDA and patent holders may then initiate a patent infringement lawsuit in response to the notice of the Paragraph IV certification. The filing of a patent infringement lawsuit within 45 days after the receipt of a Paragraph IV certification automatically prevents the FDA from approving the ANDA or 505(b)(2) application until the earlier of 30 months after the receipt of the Paragraph IV notice, expiration of the patent, or a decision in the infringement case that is favorable to the ANDA applicant. 

Pediatric Studies and Exclusivity 

Under the Pediatric Research Equity Act of 2003, an NDA or supplement thereto must contain data that are adequate to assess the safety and effectiveness of the drug product for the claimed indications in all relevant pediatric subpopulations, and to support dosing and administration for each pediatric subpopulation for which the product is safe and effective. With enactment of the FDASIA in 2012, sponsors must also submit pediatric study plans prior to the assessment data. Those plans must contain an outline of the proposed pediatric study or studies the applicant plans to conduct, including study objectives and design, any deferral or waiver requests, and other information required by regulation. The applicant, the FDA, and the FDA&#146;s internal review committee must then review the information submitted, consult with each other, and agree upon a final plan. The FDA or the applicant may request an amendment to the plan at any time. 

The FDA may, on its own initiative or at the request of the applicant, grant deferrals for submission of some or all pediatric data until after approval of the product for use in adults, or full or partial waivers from the 

&#160; 

pediatric data requirements. Additional requirements and procedures relating to deferral requests and requests for extension of deferrals are contained in the FDASIA. Unless otherwise required by regulation, the pediatric data requirements do not apply to products with orphan designation. 

Pediatric exclusivity is another type of non-patent marketing exclusivity in the United States and, if granted, provides for the attachment of an additional six months of marketing protection to the term of any existing regulatory exclusivity, including the non-patent and orphan exclusivity. This six-month exclusivity may be granted if an NDA sponsor submits pediatric data that fairly respond to a written request from the FDA for such data. The data do not need to show the product to be effective in the pediatric population studied; rather, if the clinical trial is deemed to fairly respond to the FDA&#146;s request, the additional protection is granted. If reports of requested pediatric studies are submitted to and accepted by the FDA within the statutory time limits, whatever statutory or regulatory periods of exclusivity or patent protection cover the product are extended by six months. This is not a patent term extension, but it effectively extends the regulatory period during which the FDA cannot approve another application. 

Orphan Drug Designation and Exclusivity 

Under the Orphan Drug Act, the FDA may designate a drug product as an &#147;orphan drug&#148; if it is intended to treat a rare disease or condition (generally meaning that it affects fewer than 200,000 individuals in the United States, or more in cases in which there is no reasonable expectation that the cost of developing and making a drug product available in the United States for treatment of the disease or condition will be recovered from sales of the product). A company must request orphan product designation before submitting an NDA. If the request is granted, the FDA will disclose the identity of the therapeutic agent and its potential use. Orphan product designation does not convey any advantage in or shorten the duration of the regulatory review and approval process. 

If a product with orphan status receives the first FDA approval for the disease or condition for which it has such designation or for a select indication or use within the rare disease or condition for which it was designated, the product generally will receive orphan product exclusivity. Orphan product exclusivity means that the FDA may not approve any other applications for the same product for the same indication for seven years, except in certain limited circumstances. Competitors may receive approval of different products for the indication for which the orphan product has exclusivity and may obtain approval for the same product but for a different indication. If a drug or drug product designated as an orphan product ultimately receives marketing approval for an indication broader than what was designated in its orphan product application, it may not be entitled to exclusivity. 

Patent Term Restoration and Extension 

A patent claiming a new drug product may be eligible for a limited patent term extension under the Hatch-Waxman Amendments, which permits a patent restoration of up to five years for patent term lost during product development and the FDA regulatory review. The restoration period granted is typically one-half the time between the effective date of an IND and the submission date of an NDA, plus the time between the submission date of an NDA and the ultimate approval date. Patent term restoration cannot be used to extend the remaining term of a patent past a total of 14 years from the product&#146;s approval date. Only one patent applicable to an approved drug product is eligible for the extension, and the application for the extension must be submitted prior to the expiration of the patent in question. A patent that covers multiple drugs for which approval is sought can only be extended in connection with one of the approvals. The USPTO reviews and approves the application for any patent term extension or restoration in consultation with the FDA. 

&#160; 

Review and Approval of Drug Products in the European Union 

In order to market any product outside of the United States, a company must also comply with numerous and varying regulatory requirements of other countries and jurisdictions regarding quality, safety and efficacy and governing, among other things, clinical trials, marketing authorization, commercial sales and distribution of drug products. Whether or not it obtains FDA approval for a product, the company would need to obtain the necessary approvals by the comparable foreign regulatory authorities before it can commence clinical trials or marketing of the product in those countries or jurisdictions. The approval process ultimately varies between countries and jurisdictions and can involve additional product testing and additional administrative review periods. The time required to obtain approval in other countries and jurisdictions might differ from and be longer than that required to obtain FDA approval. Regulatory approval in one country or jurisdiction does not ensure regulatory approval in another, but a failure or delay in obtaining regulatory approval in one country or jurisdiction may negatively impact the regulatory process in others. 

Clinical Trial Approval in the EU 

Pursuant to the European Clinical Trials Directive, a system for the approval of clinical trials in the European Union has been implemented through national legislation of the member states. Under this system, an applicant must obtain approval from the competent national authority of a European Union member state in which the clinical trial is to be conducted. Furthermore, the applicant may only start a clinical trial after a competent ethics committee has issued a favorable opinion. Clinical trial application must be accompanied by an investigational medicinal product dossier with supporting information prescribed by the European Clinical Trials Directive and corresponding national laws of the member states and further detailed in applicable guidance documents. In April 2014, the EU adopted a new Clinical Trials Regulation. The new Clinical Trials Regulation will be directly applicable to and binding without the need for any national implementing legislation, and will become applicable no earlier than 28 May 2016. Under the new coordinated procedure for the approval of clinical trials, the sponsor of a clinical trial will be required to submit a single application for approval of a clinical trial to a reporting EU Member State (RMS) through an EU Portal. The submission procedure will be the same irrespective of whether the clinical trial is to be conducted in a single EU Member State or in more than one EU Member State. The Clinical Trials Regulation also aims to streamline and simplify the rules on safety reporting for clinical trials. 

Orphan Drug Designation and Exclusivity 

Regulation 141/2000 provides that a drug shall be designated as an orphan drug if its sponsor can establish: that the product is intended for the diagnosis, prevention or treatment of a life-threatening or chronically debilitating condition affecting not more than five in ten thousand persons in the European Community when the application is made, or that the product is intended for the diagnosis, prevention or treatment of a life-threatening, seriously debilitating or serious and chronic condition in the European Community and that without incentives it is unlikely that the marketing of the drug in the European Community would generate sufficient return to justify the necessary investment. For either of these conditions, the applicant must demonstrate that there exists no satisfactory method of diagnosis, prevention or treatment of the condition in question that has been authorized in the European Community or, if such method exists, the drug will be of significant benefit to those affected by that condition. 

Regulation 847/2000 sets out criteria and procedures governing designation of orphan drugs in the EU. Specifically, an application for designation as an orphan product can be made any time prior to the filing of an application for approval to market the product. Marketing authorization for an orphan drug leads to a ten-year period of market exclusivity. This period may, however, be reduced to six years if, at the end of the fifth year, it is established that the product no longer meets the criteria for orphan drug designation, for example because the product is sufficiently profitable not to justify market exclusivity. Market exclusivity can be revoked only in very selected cases, such as consent from the marketing authorization holder, inability to supply sufficient quantities 

&#160; 

of the product, demonstration of &#147;clinically relevant superiority&#148; by a similar medicinal product, or, after a review by the Committee for Orphan Medicinal Products, requested by a member state in the fifth year of the marketing exclusivity period (if the designation criteria are believed to no longer apply). Medicinal products designated as orphan drugs pursuant to Regulation 141/2000 shall be eligible for incentives made available by the European Community and by the member states to support research into, and the development and availability of, orphan drugs. 

Pharmaceutical Coverage, Pricing and Reimbursement 

Significant uncertainty exists as to the coverage and reimbursement status of products approved by the FDA and other government authorities. Sales of products will depend, in part, on the extent to which the costs of the products will be covered by third-party payors, including government health programs in the United States such as Medicare and Medicaid, commercial health insurers and managed care organizations. The process for determining whether a payor will provide coverage for a product may be separate from the process for setting the price or reimbursement rate that the payor will pay for the product once coverage is approved. Third-party payors are increasingly challenging the prices charged, examining the medical necessity, and reviewing the cost-effectiveness of medical products and services and imposing controls to manage costs. Third-party payors may also limit coverage to specific products on an approved list, or formulary, which might not include all of the approved products for a particular indication. 

In order to secure coverage and reimbursement for any product that might be approved for sale, a company may need to conduct expensive pharmacoeconomic studies in order to demonstrate the medical necessity and cost-effectiveness of the product, in addition to the costs required to obtain FDA or other comparable regulatory approvals. A payor&#146;s decision to provide coverage for a drug product does not imply that an adequate reimbursement rate will be approved. Third-party reimbursement may not be sufficient to maintain price levels high enough to realize an appropriate return on investment in product development. 

The containment of healthcare costs also has become a priority of federal, state and foreign governments and the prices of drugs have been a focus in this effort. Governments have shown significant interest in implementing cost-containment programs, including price controls, restrictions on reimbursement and requirements for substitution of generic products. Adoption of price controls and cost-containment measures, and adoption of more restrictive policies in jurisdictions with existing controls and measures, could further limit a company&#146;s revenue generated from the sale of any approved products. Coverage policies and third-party reimbursement rates may change at any time. Even if favorable coverage and reimbursement status is attained for one or more products for which a company or its collaborators receive marketing approval, less favorable coverage policies and reimbursement rates may be implemented in the future. In the European Union, pricing and reimbursement schemes vary widely from country to country. Some countries provide that drug products may be marketed only after a reimbursement price has been agreed. Some countries may require the completion of additional studies that compare the cost-effectiveness of a particular drug candidate to currently available therapies, or so called health technology assessments, in order to obtain reimbursement or pricing approval. For example, the European Union provides options for its member states to restrict the range of drug products for which their national health insurance systems provide reimbursement and to control the prices of medicinal products for human use. European Union member states may approve a specific price for a drug product or may instead adopt a system of direct or indirect controls on the profitability of the company placing the drug product on the market. Other member states allow companies to fix their own prices for drug products, but monitor and control company profits. The downward pressure on health care costs in general, particularly prescription drugs, has become intense. As a result, increasingly high barriers are being erected to the entry of new products. In addition, in some countries, cross-border imports from low-priced markets exert competitive pressure that may reduce pricing within a country. Any country that has price controls or reimbursement limitations for drug products may not allow favorable reimbursement and pricing arrangements. 

&#160; 

Healthcare Law and Regulation 

Healthcare providers, physicians and third-party payors play a primary role in the recommendation and prescription of drug products that are granted marketing approval. Arrangements with providers, consultants, third-party payors and customers are subject to broadly applicable fraud and abuse and other healthcare laws and regulations. Such restrictions under applicable federal and state healthcare laws and regulations, include the following: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; the federal Anti-Kickback Statute prohibits, among other things, persons from knowingly and willfully soliciting, offering, receiving or providing remuneration, directly or indirectly, in cash or in kind, to induce or reward either the referral of an individual for, or the purchase, order or recommendation of, any good or service, for which payment may be made, in whole or in part, under a federal healthcare program such as Medicare and Medicaid; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; the federal False Claims Act imposes civil penalties, and provides for civil whistleblower or qui tam actions, against individuals or entities for knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, to the federal government, claims for payment that are false or fraudulent or making a false statement to avoid, decrease or conceal an obligation to pay money to the federal government; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; the federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, imposes criminal and civil liability for executing a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program or making false statements relating to healthcare matters; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; HIPAA, as amended by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act and their respective implementing regulations, including the Final Omnibus Rule published in January 2013, also imposes obligations, including mandatory contractual terms, with respect to safeguarding the privacy, security and transmission of individually identifiable health information; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; the federal false statements statute prohibits knowingly and willfully falsifying, concealing or covering up a material fact or making any materially false statement in connection with the delivery of or payment for healthcare benefits, items or services; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; the federal transparency requirements under the Health Care Reform Law, known as the federal Physician Payments Sunshine Act, require manufacturers of drugs, devices, biologics and medical supplies to report to the Centers for Medicare &#38; Medicaid Services, or CMS, within the Department of Health and Human Services information related to payments and other transfers of value to physicians and teaching hospitals and physician ownership and investment interests held by physicians and their immediate family members; and 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; analogous state and foreign laws and regulations, such as state anti-kickback and false claims laws, may apply to sales or marketing arrangements and claims involving healthcare items or services reimbursed by non-governmental third-party payors, including private insurers. 

Some state laws require pharmaceutical companies to comply with the pharmaceutical industry&#146;s voluntary compliance guidelines and the relevant compliance guidance promulgated by the federal government in addition to requiring drug manufacturers to report information related to payments to physicians and other health care providers or marketing expenditures. State and foreign laws also govern the privacy and security of health information in some circumstances, many of which differ from each other in significant ways and often are not preempted by HIPAA, thus complicating compliance efforts. 

Segment and Geographical Information 

We operate in a single operating segment. For segment and geographical financial information, see Note 2(i) to the financial statements appearing elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, which are incorporated herein by reference. 

&#160; 

Employees 

As of February 15, 2016, we employed 62 individuals, 37 of whom are engaged in research and development and 18 of whom hold a Ph.D., M.D., or equivalent degree. None of our employees are covered by a collective bargaining agreement, and we consider relations with our employees to be good. 

Corporate Information 

We were incorporated in Delaware in 1989 and our offices are located at 167 Sidney Street, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139 and 505 Eagleview Boulevard, Suite 212, Exton, Pennsylvania 19341. 

Information Available on the Internet 

Our internet address is www.iderapharma.com. The contents of our website are not part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and our internet address is included in this document as an inactive textual reference. We make available free of charge through our web site our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to these reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file or furnish such materials to the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC. 

&#160; 

