 ITEM 1. BUSINESS. 

Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements 

Certain statements in this Form 10-K constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are based on management&#146;s expectations, estimates, projections and assumptions. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by terminology including &#147;could,&#148; &#147;may,&#148; &#147;will,&#148; &#147;should,&#148; &#147;expect,&#148; &#147;plan,&#148; &#147;anticipate,&#148; &#147;believe,&#148; &#147;estimate,&#148; &#147;predict,&#148; &#147;potential,&#148; &#147;intend,&#148; or &#147;continue,&#148; the negative of these terms, or other comparable terminology used in connection with any discussion of future operating results or financial performance. These statements are only predictions, and reflect our management&#146;s present expectation of future events and are subject to a number of important factors and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements. 

General Information 

Midwest Holding Inc., a Nebraska corporation, (&#147;Midwest&#148; , the &#147;Company&#148;, &#147;we&#148; or &#147;us&#148; ) was formed on October 31, 2003 for the primary purpose of becoming a life insurance holding company. We have conducted life insurance business since 2009 through our primary life insurance subsidiary, American Life &#38; Security Corp. (&#147;American Life&#148;). In addition to American Life, as of March 16, 2016, we owned: 

&#9679; First Wyoming Life Insurance Company, a Wyoming domiciled life insurance company &#150; 99.9% owned. &#160; &#9679; Great Plains Life Assurance Company, a South Dakota domiciled life insurance company &#150; wholly owned; and &#160; &#9679; Northstar Financial Corp., a Minnesota corporation &#150; wholly owned. We also own a dormant life insurance company, Capital Reserve Life Insurance Co., a Missouri domiciled life insurance company, and have less than majority ownership of two small startup entities that may seek to form insurance companies in the event they raise significant additional capital. 

The principal executive offices for Midwest and its subsidiaries are at 2900 South 70 th Street, Suite 400, Lincoln, Nebraska 68506, phone number is (402) 489-8266. 

Development of Our Business 

Since our inception, we have raised approximately $18.0 million through sales of shares of voting common stock and non-voting convertible preferred stock in several private placements and an intrastate offering in Nebraska. Each of these offerings was intended primarily to provide capital for our operations. 

We were a development stage company until American Life commenced its insurance operations in 2009. We have incurred significant net losses since inception totaling approximately $23.7 million through December 31, 2015. These losses have resulted primarily from costs incurred in raising capital and establishing and operating American Life. We expect to continue to incur operating losses until we achieve a volume of in-force life insurance policies that provides premiums that are sufficient to cover our operating expenses. 

In 2009, American Life began conducting life insurance business in Nebraska. Capital and surplus contributed to American Life was approximately $10.6 million as of December 31, 2015, capital and surplus of American Life at that date was approximately $2.5 million. For the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014, American Life generated approximately $2.4 million and $2.9 million in premium revenue, respectively. 

On June 20, 2010, American Life acquired Capital Reserve in exchange for a cash payment of approximately $1.9 million. This transaction added approximately a like amount of assets to American Life. We intend to sell Capital Reserve in 2016 and have a contract with an unaffiliated party to sell this entity to it as discussed further below. 

In early 2011, we completed the private sale of 74,159 shares of our Series A Preferred Stock to certain investors in Latin America. Proceeds after expenses, were approximately $415,750. These proceeds were used to further capitalize our insurance operations, for working capital and for general corporate purposes. The preferred shares are non-voting and may be converted by the holders into our voting common shares. The shares were sold at $6.00 per share and may be converted at the option of the holder for 1.3 shares of voting common stock for each share of Series A Preferred Stock. 

In February 2011, we completed an intrastate offering in Nebraska of 1,554,320 voting common shares with gross proceeds after expenses of approximately $7.7 million. These proceeds were used to fund the acquisition of Old Reliance Insurance Company ( &#147;Old Reliance&#148; ) as described below, and to further capitalize our insurance operations, for working capital and for general corporate purposes. 

In 2011, we acquired all of the issued and outstanding capital stock of Old Reliance, an Arizona-domiciled life insurance company. American Life merged into Old Reliance following the purchase, with the surviving company changing its name to American Life &#38; Security Corp. and domiciled in Arizona. In the transaction, the sole shareholder of Old Reliance received: (i) approximately $1.6 million in cash, (ii) $500,000 in the form of a surplus debenture issued by American Life, and (iii) 150,000 shares of our voting common stock. 

In August 2011, we acquired a controlling interest ownership of Hot Dot, Inc. (&#147;Hot Dot&#148;), a startup company formed to develop, manufacture, and market the Hot Dot Alert Patch a body heat sensor. The operating results of Hot Dot were consolidated with ours , due to our control of Hot Dot&#146;s board of directors . On September 12, 2012, Hot Dot repurchased 1,000,000 shares of its common stock from us for $750,000. As a result, we ceased to have a controlling financial interest in Hot Dot and we deconsolidated it in our financial statements on that date . In October 2014, Hot Dot repurchased our 1,500,000 remaining Hot Dot shares for $775,000. 

We commenced third party administrative (&#147;TPA&#148;) services in 2012 as an additional revenue source. These agreements, for various levels of administrative services on behalf of each client, generate fee income for us. Services provided vary based on the respective needs of the client and can include some or all aspects of back-office accounting and policy administration. We have been able to perform our TPA services using our existing in-house resources. 

In October of 2013, we completed a private placement offering under Regulation D of the Securities Act of 1933 of Units, with each Unit consisting of 50 shares of voting common stock and one detachable warrant to purchase ten shares of common stock at an exercise price of $6.50 per share exercisable through December 31, 2016, for gross proceeds of $353,700. A total of 58,950 shares of voting common stock and 1,179 warrants were sold in the offering. 

On July 21, 2014, we consummated an exchange agreement with Great Plains and Security Capital in order to acquire the outstanding shares of each company held by their shareholders (other than those shares already held by us ). The Great Plains shareholders received approximately 1.298 shares of our voting common stock for each share of Great Plains common stock held by the Great Plains shareholders and the Security Capital shareholders received approximately 0.162 shares of our voting common stock for each share of Security Capital common stock held by them. On August 5, 2014, Great Plains and Security Capital were merged into us. We issued a total of 4,767,400 voting common shares pursuant to these transactions. 

In September, 2014, we completed a private offering of a newly-created class of preferred shares, Series B preferred stock, at $6.00 per share. The Series B shares are non-cumulative, non-voting and convertible into our voting common shares after May 1, 2017 at a rate of 2.0 voting common shares for each share of Series B preferred stock. A total of 102,669 shares of Series B preferred stock were sold for total gross proceeds of $616,012. 

On October 27, 2015, we acquired First Wyoming Capital Corporation, a Wyoming corporation (&#147;First Wyoming&#148;) pursuant to an Agreement and Plan of Merger dated July 31, 2015 by exchanging 1.37 shares of our voting common stock for each share of First Wyoming common stock, or approximately 4,767,000 shares. Subsequent to the closing, First Wyoming merged into us. 

In December, 2015, an agreement was reached to sell Capital Reserve to an unaffiliated party for $50,000 plus statutory capital and surplus. We expect the sale to occur in early to mid 2016. 

On March 15, 2016, we acquired Northstar Financial Corp., a Minnesota corporation (&#147;Northstar&#148;) pursuant to an agreement dated December 18, 2015. Northstar became a wholly-owned subsidiary of ours. We have exchanged 1.27 shares of our voting common stock for each share of Northstar common stock, or approximately 4,198,250 shares. Northstar&#146;s primary asset at the time of its acquisition by us was cash of approximately $2.2 million. 

Life Insurance 

General 

American Life, as it exists today, is the product of the August 2011 merger of Old Reliance and American Life and the contribution of Great Plains Life to American Life in 2014. Organized in 1960, Old Reliance primarily focused on the sale of final expense or burial products which typically are small face amount policies with limited underwriting. American Life historically did not offer similar products and instead focused on the sale of its American Accumulator product (a multi-benefit life insurance policy) and its Future Cornhusker Plan (a single premium term life product for children), as described below. The final expense and burial products have been offered by Old Reliance through a small network of independent agents in the southwest United States. Sales over the past several years have been nominal as American Life lacked the capital and surplus to support broad sales of the products. 

American Life underwrites and markets life insurance products within the State of Nebraska, but is licensed in 14 states. American Life is required to comply with the insurance laws of its state of domicile, Arizona. Great Plains Life underwrites and markets life insurance products within South Dakota and is domiciled solely in that state. First Wyoming Life underwrites and markets life insurance products within Wyoming and is domiciled solely in that state. Over time, we may apply with other state insurance departments in order to obtain certificates of authority to market life insurance products in those states. We are in the process of redomesticating these two life insurance subsidiaries in Nebraska. 

Types of Policies 

American Life initially offered two insurance products, the &#147;American Accumulator&#148;, which is a multi-benefit life insurance policy that combines cash value life insurance with a tax deferred annuity and the &#147;Future Cornhusker Plan&#148;, which is a single premium term life product offered for children aged three months to 15 years. The Future Cornhusker is available in annual premium amounts of $125 or $250 and carries an initial face amount of $5,000 or $10,000. The American Accumulator is sold in annual premium units of $2,000. The average annual premium is approximately $2,000 with an average face amount of $66,000. Premiums may be higher based upon the age and health of the insured. Great Plains Life sells a product similar to the &#147;American Accumulator&#148; called the &#147;Great Plains Life Accumulator.&#148; First Wyoming Life sells a product similar to the &#147;American Accumulator&#148; called the &#147;First Wyoming Accumulator.&#148; 

Three new products were developed in the last quarter of 2014 to be sold by all of Midwest&#146;s insurance subsidiaries except Capital Reserve: (i) the &#147;Accelerator&#148;, which is a non-participating whole life insurance policy with guaranteed level death benefits and premiums; (ii) the &#147;American Protector&#148;, which is a 7- year pay non-participating whole life insurance policy with modified death and premiums; and (iii) the &#147;Accumulator X&#148;, which is a 10- year pay non-participating whole life insurance policy with modified death benefit and premiums. The Accelerator premiums vary according to issue age, gender, and smoking classification with a minimum face amount of $25,000. The American Protector premiums are payable for seven years, during which time the face amount remains level. After the seven years the policy face amount gradually decreases to the ultimate amount which is equal to 50% of the issued policy face amount. Annual premiums per unit are $1,000 with a minimum of &#189; a unit and maximum of ten units. The Accumulator X premiums are payable for ten years, during which time the policy face amount remains level. After ten years, the policy face amount gradually decreases to the ultimate amount which is equal to 50% of the issued policy face amount. Annual premiums per unit are $1,000 with a minimum of &#189; a unit and maximum of ten units. 

Product Pricing 

The current products offered for sale have been approved by the appropriate insurance regulatory authorities and incorporate the following features: 

&#9679; Provide a competitively priced product to the insurance consumer; &#160; &#9679; Provide sufficient gross margins to us based upon achieving projected levels of volume to allow the insurance subsidiary to achieve operating profits comparable to the life insurance industry as a whole; and &#160; &#9679; Provide sufficient first year and renewal commission structures necessary to attract and retain career-oriented insurance agents. All products have been developed by using the services of an independent qualified consulting actuary, Miller and Newberg of Kansas City, Missouri. In addition to product development, Miller and Newberg serve as valuation actuary to American Life, Great Plains Life, and First Wyoming Life . 

Underwriting Standards 

Underwriting guidelines have a direct impact on the operating results of American Life, Great Plains Life, and First Wyoming Life. If the underwriting standards that are established are not adequate, desired operating results will not be realized. Generally, when underwriting standards are less restrictive, more mortality claims will result. Underwriting standards have a direct impact on the pricing structure of a product. The less restrictive the underwriting standards, the higher the product needs to be priced in order to allow for higher incidence of mortality. This higher incidence of mortality is also reflected in greater policy reserves being established. 

American Life, Great Plains Life, and First Wyoming Life have established similar underwriting guidelines consistent with their products&#146; pricing structure. The companies utilize information from applications and, in some cases, telephone interviews with applicants, inspection reports, doctors&#146; statements and/or medical examinations to determine whether a policy should be issued in accordance with an application, with a different rating, with a rider, with reduced coverage or rejected. In addition to an applicant&#146;s medical history, the companies also consider other factors such as financial profile, foreign travel, vocations and alcohol, drug and tobacco use. Requests for coverage are reviewed on their merits and a policy is not issued unless the particular risk has been examined and approved by our underwriters. The companies&#146; consulting actuary and reinsurers assist the insurance subsidiaries in establishing their underwriting standards. The underwriting for American Life, Great Plains Life, and First Wyoming Life is performed by their third party administrator, Midwest. 

Marketing 

The insurance products of our insurance subsidiaries are marketed using a personal, face-to-face marketing concept. The insurance agents use the shareholder base of ours and their referrals as potential clients for life insurance products. For 2016, we do not anticipate that our insurance subsidiaries will generate a significant amount of new life insurance sales due to the lack of significant capital and surplus of our life insurance subsidiaries and due to the time and expense of us redomesticating First Wyoming Life and Great Plains Life in Nebraska. We expect to focus on new policy sales after our life insurance subsidiaries are redomesticated in Nebraska and when we are able to raise additional capital. Upon our recent acquisition of Northstar, we contributed approximately $1.0 million of capital to American Life, which will allow it to market life insurance throughout 2016 without jeopardizing the financial viability of American Life. 

New insurance sales agents are recruited through referrals from shareholders, newspaper advertisements, and solicitation through the use of on-line job sites. Each potential candidate must go through a three interview process. If hired to sell insurance, the candidate must complete a 40-hour training course conducted by a third party as well as pass the applicable state examination. Once licensed, each agent must complete a week long product and sales training class. Following course completion, each agent has a training week where his or her manager will work side by side with the agent by conducting sales meetings. 

Operating Results 

There are certain factors unique to the life insurance business in which we operate which have an adverse effect on our operating results. One factor is that the cost of putting a new policy in force is usually greater than the first year&#146;s policy premium and, accordingly, in the early years of an unseasoned life insurance company, these initial costs and the required provisions for reserves have an adverse effect on operating results. American Life, First Wyoming Life and Great Plains Life, as is common among an unseasoned life insurance companies, are expected to continue to operate at losses for a number of years because of the substantial costs of writing new life insurance. The aggregate cost of writing new life insurance includes such significant, nonrecurring items such as first year commissions, medical and investigation expenses, and other expenses incidental to the issuance of new policies, together with the initial reserves required to be established. For our ordinary life products, the costs to cover expenses and the policyholder liability that must be set up at policy issuance exceed the first year premium by approximately 24% . Additionally, there is no excess of costs to cover expenses and the policyholder liability for the Future Cornhusker product. However, in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (&#147;GAAP&#148;), incremental direct costs that result directly from and are essential to a life insurance company acquisition transaction and would not have been incurred by us had the transaction not occurred, are capitalized and amortized over the life of the premiums produced. 

Our operating results are reported in accordance with GAAP for stock life companies; although our life insurance subsidiaries will also prepare financial statements in accordance with accounting practices prescribed or permitted by their respective states of domicile (statutory basis of accounting) for the purpose of reporting to insurance regulatory authorities. The statutory basis of accounting has many significant differences to GAAP. For example, the incremental direct costs for acquiring new business, which are capitalized under GAAP as discussed in the preceding paragraph, are expensed immediately under the statutory basis of accounting. In addition, under GAAP, assumptions used in calculating reserves are less conservative than those used under the statutory basis, thereby further reducing adverse effects on operating results. 

Administration 

We commenced our TPA services in 2012 by first offering the services to our life insurance subsidiaries and other entities. These agreements, for various levels of administrative services on behalf of each company, generate fee income for us. Services provided to each company vary based on their needs and can include some or all aspects of back-office accounting and policy administration. We have been able to perform our TPA services using our existing in-house resources. 

Investments 

The type and amount of investments which can be made by a life insurance company are specifically controlled by applicable state statutes and rules and regulations of the respective state departments of insurance. Our insurance companies have adopted investment policies in compliance with the insurance laws of the State of Arizona, Missouri, Wyoming, and South Dakota, respectively. 

As a new company grows, investment income will increase as a percent of total income due to investment of policy reserves; therefore, it is critical that an insurer invests its assets conservatively to ensure that investment income can become a significant component of total revenue. Accordingly, our insurance companies have developed a conservative investment policy in an effort to minimize investment risk. An independent professional investment advisor who specializes in the insurance industry assists us with our investment decisions. 

Reinsurance 

Our insurance subsidiaries reinsure with other companies (reinsurers) portions of the life insurance risks they underwrite and occasionally will reinsure portions of life insurance risks underwritten by other (ceding) companies. The primary purpose of reinsurance is to allow a company to reduce the amount of its risk on any particular policy by transferring a portion of the risk to the reinsurers. However, our insurance companies remain contingently liable for the risk in the event any reinsurer is not able to meet its obligations under the applicable reinsurance agreements. Further, when life insurance risks are ceded to another insurer, the ceding company must pay a reinsurance premium to the reinsurance company as consideration for the risk being transferred. The payment of this reinsurance premium to the reinsurer represents a reduction of the premium revenue received by our insurance subsidiaries. This reduction in premium income has a direct impact on the profitability of the ceding company. 

The average face amount of all of our life insurance policies in force is approximately $ 35 ,000, with the American Accumulator averaging $ 63 ,000, Future Cornhusker averaging $9,000, the Accelerator averaging $83,000, the American Protector averaging $10,000, the Accumulator X averaging $79,000, and the policies acquired through Old Reliance averaging $9,000. With respect to the American Accumulator and Future Cornhusker policies, the Company retains $ 40 ,000 to $ 55 ,000 of risk on any one life. With respect to the policies acquired through Old Reliance, the Company retains $25,000 of risk on any one life. As of December 31, 2015, approximately 22 % of the gross outstanding life insurance policies in force are reinsured with third parties. Overall it cedes approximately $ 39.11 of premium per year for each $1,000 of gross life insurance in force. All accidental death benefits are reinsured. 

Reserves 

Each of our insurance subsidiaries establishes as liabilities actuarially computed reserves to meet the obligations on the policies they write, in accordance with the insurance laws and the regulations of the applicable state insurance regulators, for statutory accounting and GAAP. Reserves , whether calculated under statutory accounting practices prescribed by various state insurance regulators or GAAP, do not represent an exact calculation of exposure, but instead represent our best estimates based on the relevant basis of accounting, generally involving actuarial projections, of what we expect claims will be based on mortality assumptions. The various actuarial factors are determined from mortality tables and interest rates in effect when the policies are issued and are applied against policy in force amounts. The National Association of Insurance Commissioners ( &#147;NAIC&#148; ) has proposed reserve rules to be used for Statutory Accounting purposes that are based solely on company experience. However, these proposed rules must be adopted by a majority of states before implementation. We have not yet performed analysis to determine the effects of these rules. 

Competition 

The life insurance industry is fiercely competitive. Many of the life insurance companies authorized to do business in states that we conduct business in are well-established companies with good reputations, offering a broader line of insurance products, having larger selling organizations, and possessing significantly greater financial resources than us and our subsidiaries. Our insurance subsidiaries are not rated by industry analysts and likely will not be rated for the foreseeable future. This has a negative impact on the companies&#146; ability to compete with rated insurance companies. There is also considerable competition among insurance companies in obtaining qualified sales agents, which might require our insurance subsidiaries to pay higher commissions to attract such agents. 

Possible Acquisitions of Other Companies 

We may acquire one or more life insurance or insurance-related companies in the future. Our acquisition strategy, should this avenue be pursued, will be to identify one or more established insurance companies which have developed viable marketing networks for their products and which are or could be managed from our Lincoln, Nebraska administrative office. In selecting target insurance companies which constitute suitable acquisition candidates, we will consider factors including , but not limited to, the target company&#146;s financial statements and operating history (including surplus adequacy and underwriting standards); the price and features of insurance products sold and the markets serviced; the competency and loyalty of its agents; certain income tax considerations; and the purchase price. 

We also may seek to acquire insurance-related companies such as: (i) third-party administrators; (ii) existing marketing agencies; (iii) life insurance reinsurance brokerage companies; and (iv) life and health insurance data processing servicers. 

The primary reasons we may acquire an existing life insurance company or insurance-related company are: (i) administrative, accounting and data processing systems that would allow us to expand; (ii) to provide additional revenue streams to us through additional marketing expansion or ancillary services; and (iii) to provide additional profits through more effective cost management of an existing company as many companies within the insurance industry have excessive administrative cost levels relative to premium income. 

Certain Relationships and Affiliations 

The Company and certain of our directors and officers have current or past relationships and affiliations with businesses that operate, once operated, or plan to operate in the life insurance industry and that have conducted public and private stock offerings in connection with their operations. Additional information on these relationships and affiliations, organized by company, is as follows: 

Pacific Northwest: Pacific Northwest was incorporated in Idaho in October 2010 with the purpose of organizing a life insurance subsidiary in that state. We own approximately 22.4%, or 850,000 shares, of Pacific Northwest common stock. Mark A. Oliver, the Chief Executive Officer and the Chairman of the Board of Directors of Midwest, is Treasurer and a member of the Board of Directors of Pacific Northwest and owns 100,000 shares of non-voting capital stock of Pacific Northwest. Todd C. Boeve, an officer of Midwest, is Secretary and a member of the Board of Directors of Pacific Northwest and owns 25,000 shares of capital stock of Pacific Northwest. Pacific Northwest is a development stage company with an insignificant amount of assets that has not conducted operations apart from raising capital. It needs to raise significant capital before it may seek to form a life insurance subsidiary. 

New Mexico Capital : New Mexico Capital was incorporated in New Mexico in November 2010 with the purpose of organizing a life insurance subsidiary in that state. Midwest owns 500000 shares or approximately 11.7% of New Mexico Capital. Mark A. Oliver, the Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board of Directors of Midwest, is Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board of New Mexico Capital and owns 200,000 shares of its common stock. Todd Boeve, an executive officer of Midwest, is Secretary and a member of the Board of Directors of New Mexico Capital and owns 75,000 shares of its common stock. Other of Midwest&#146;s present and former directors also own capital stock of New Mexico Capital. New Mexico Capital is a development stage company that has not conducted operations apart from raising capital. It needs to raise significant capital before it may seek to form a life insurance subsidiary. 

Regulation 

Each of our insurance subsidiaries is subject to the regulation and supervision of the insurance regulatory authorities of its state of domicile, and/or other state insurance regulators where it is licensed to do business. Such regulation is primarily for the benefit of policyholders rather than shareholders. These regulators possess broad administrative powers, including the power to grant and revoke licenses to transact business, to approve the form of insurance contracts, to regulate capital requirements, to regulate the character of permitted investments, and to require deposits for the protection of investments. These insurance laws require the filing of a detailed annual report with the department of insurance in each state, as do other states&#146; laws. The business and financial accounts of our insurance subsidiaries will be subject to examination by insurance regulatory agencies in their respective states of domicile, as well as insurance departments of any other states in which we may do business. 

As the holder of a controlling interest in our insurance subsidiaries , we are also subject to regulation as an insurance holding company system under the insurance laws of states of each subsidiary&#146;s domicile. The provisions of these laws generally provide for restrictions on a change in control of the insurance holding company, require the filing of certain reports with the relevant department of insurance, and limit the amount of dividends which may be received by the holding company. 

On July 21, 2010, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the &#147;Dodd-Frank Act&#148;) became law. The Dodd-Frank Act reshapes financial regulations in the United States by creating new regulators, regulating new markets and firms, and providing new enforcement powers to regulators. Virtually all major areas of the Dodd-Frank Act will be subject to regulatory interpretation and implementation rules requiring rulemaking that may take several years to complete. Although the ultimate outcome of the regulatory rulemaking proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty, we do not believe that the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act or the regulations promulgated thereunder will have a material impact on our consolidated financial results or financial condition. 

Employees and Agents 

As of December 31, 2015, we had approximately 30 full-time employees as well as approximately 100 insurance agents who operate as independent contractors. 

MARKET FOR MIDWEST&#146;S COMMON STOCK 

Market Information 

There is no established public trading market for our voting common stock. Our securities are not listed for trading or quoted on any national securities exchange nor are bid or asked quotations reported in any over-the-counter quotation system. 

Dividends 

We have not paid cash dividends on our voting common stock and do not anticipate paying cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Instead, we intend to retain any future earnings for reinvestment in our business. Any future determination to pay cash dividends on our voting common stock will be at the discretion of the Board of Directors and will be dependent upon our financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements and such other factors as the Board of Directors deems relevant. 

The stated annual dividend on the Class B preferred shares is 7% which commenced in 2015. The Board of Directors has approved the payment of dividends of $56,057 during the year ended December 31, 2015. 

