 ITEM 1. Business

We were incorporated in the State of Nevada on November 28, 2012. We export Disposable Baby Diapers from U.S. and Canada and distribute them in London, and South Africa. We also export from manufacturers from Asia and distribute to other parts of Africa. We have generated minimal revenues. We maintain our statutory registered agent's office at 5348 Vegas Drive, Las Vegas, NV 89108. Our telephone number is 770-401-1809.

Product

We distribute Disposable Baby Diapers from North America to distributors and wholesalers in England and Africa. Disposable baby diapers have become a widely used alternative disposable material for parents of babies and children not toilet trained. Disposable baby diapers is a kind of underwear that allows one to defecate or urinate in a discreet manner. Diapers are made of synthetic disposable materials. Disposable diapers contain absorbent chemicals and are thrown away after use. Disposable diapers are primarily worn by children who are not yet potty trained or experience bed wetting. Disposable baby diapers are constructed in three layers, an inner layer that sits against baby's skin is designed to be soft, stay relatively dry, and wick away moisture into the core. The absorbent core is designed to pull moisture in and trap it to keep wetness away from the baby to avoid rashes. The outer layer is waterproof to prevent leaks.

Below is a list of advantages of Disposable Baby Diapers compared to cloth diapers. (Cloth diapers are composed of layers of fabrics such as cotton, hemp, or microfiber and can be washed and reused multiple times)

- Disposable Baby Diapers are ultra-absorbent. The disposable diapers will hold over 3 times their weight in water. The inner layer keep wetness from the skin, and prevent leaks.

- Convenient and easy to change. Disposable baby diapers come with straps attached to the back panel that fasten in front. Disposable diapers have built in ready to use straps made of Velcro that make securing the diapers much easier and quicker. They come also, in variety of sizes which fit babies as they grow and mature. Furthermore, disposable diapers are more convenient when travelling and when used in a group setting.

- Color change indicators. Disposable baby diapers are not only functional, they include advanced features such as special sizing and coloring for specific gender and age, color indicators to show when the child is wet, and re-attachable Velcro-type closures.

Sizes

Disposable diapers range in size from Newborn to Size 6, which accommodates an over 35 lbs child. The normal size weight ranges are: -Up to ten pounds: newborn, 8 to 15 pounds: Size 1-2, 16 to 28 pounds: Size 3, 22 to 37 pounds: Size 4, 27 plus pounds: Size 5, Over 35 pounds: Size 6.

Suppliers of Disposable Baby Diapers

North America producers are leaders in disposable baby diapers manufacturing. There are many manufacturers across North America with different type of disposable baby diapers and services. Disposable baby diapers suppliers can be found by Internet search or through direct contact to disposable diapers manufacturer.

&#160;

&#160;

The price range of our private label brands is from $0.11 USD to $0.30 USD per unit depending on size, design and thickness. However, we do not have any written agreements with the manufacturers, and the actual price can be different at the time of purchase.

Business Strategy

The company strategy is to win and maintain customers by providing products that add value in terms of price, quality, safety, availability and functionality, and are supported by a dedicated, well-trained team. This shall be important to the successful implementation of our overall strategy and hence the need to ensure we are focused and working harmoniously towards attainment of these goals and objectives. We initially intend to be focusing on satisfying our core markets in London, East, South and West Africa.

We intend to focus on delivering quality products at affordable prices that in turn will produce good referrals, which can then generate revenue. We continue to build image and awareness through consistency and distinctiveness in our order fulfillment.

Sales and Marketing

We plan to market our product in Europe and Africa. Most of Europe and, especially all parts of Africa experiences extremely high cost for disposable baby diapers. As there are few disposable baby diapers manufacturers in Africa, they are mostly imported from other countries. We intend to supply our clients with disposable baby diapers from manufacturers in North America where quality is superior. We request pre-payment from our clients and ask them to provide delivery instructions when they order our products. Once the order is completed, and payment is received, we place an order with our supplier of disposable baby diapers and arrange shipping directly to our client. Prepayment reduce the amount of cash we will need to have on hand. Also by delivering the product directly to the client, will eliminate the need for a warehouse facility. It is likely that some of our clients will not be willing to prepay and wait for the product, potentially resulting in a loss of sales for us. Also it is likely that some of our clients will attempt to circumvent our services by purchasing directly from our suppliers. To discourage this practice, we negotiate wholesale discounts with our suppliers so that we can offer our customers a lower price than if they would purchase directly from our suppliers. However, there is no guarantee that we will be able to negotiate such lower prices and we may lose business. In the future, we may establish a warehouse facility in Europe so that we can attract more customers that prefer to inspect and pick up their order at the time of payment. The prices will charge our clients for such product will be substantially higher reflecting the added convenience to the customer and the added cost to us.

Revenue

The Company's revenues will be the difference between what we charge our clients for our products and what we pay for our Disposable Baby Diapers suppliers and/or manufacturers. In the case where our clients buy directly from the manufacturers we will try to negotiate a commission from the sellers. However there is no guarantee that we will receive such commission payment in every case or at all, resulting in loss of profits. The commissions and the spread that we earn are different each time and negotiated on a case by case basis.

&#160;

&#160;

Employees

We have one employee, involved in management.

Research and Development Expenditures

We have not incurred any research or development expenses.

Government Regulation

We are currently not subject to any government regulations

Subsidiaries

We do not have any subsidiaries.

Intellectual Property

We have no intellectual property except we own our own domain address which signifies our online presence. Our trade name is our company name which is legally incorporated in the state of Nevada. Our company name is also our trade name.

