 Item 1. &#32; BUSINESS 

In this Annual Report on Form 10-K we refer to New York Mortgage Trust, Inc., &#32; together with its consolidated subsidiaries, &#32; as &#8220;we,&#8221; &#8220;us,&#8221; &#8220;Company,&#8221; or &#8220;our,&#8221; unless we specifically state otherwise or the context indicates otherwise. We refer to our wholly-owned taxable REIT subsidiaries as &#8220;TRSs&#8221; and our wholly-owned qualified REIT subsidiaries as &#8220;QRSs.&#8221; In addition, the following defines certain of the commonly used terms in this report: &#8220;RMBS&#8221; refers to residential &#32; mortgage-backed securities comprised of &#32; adjustable-rate, hybrid adjustable-rate, fixed-rate, interest only and inverse interest only, and principal only securities; &#8220;Agency RMBS&#8221; refers to RMBS representing interests in or obligations backed by pools of mortgage loans issued or guaranteed by a federally chartered corporation (&#8220;GSE&#8221;), such as the Federal National Mortgage Association (&#8220;Fannie Mae&#8221;) or the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation (&#8220;Freddie Mac&#8221;), or an agency of the U.S. government, such as the Government National Mortgage Association (&#8220;Ginnie Mae&#8221;); &#32; &#8220;Agency ARMs&#8221; refers to Agency RMBS comprised of adjustable-rate and hybrid adjustable-rate RMBS; &#32; &#8220;non-Agency RMBS&#8221; refers to RMBS backed by prime jumbo and Alternative A-paper (&#8220;Alt-A&#8221;) &#32; residential &#32; mortgage loans; &#32; &#8220;IOs&#8221; refers collectively to interest only and inverse interest only mortgage-backed securities that represent the right to the interest component of the cash flow from a pool of mortgage loans; &#8220;Agency IOs&#8221; refers to IOs that represent the right to the interest components of the cash flow from a pool of residential mortgage loans issued or guaranteed by a GSE or an agency of the U.S. government; &#8220;POs&#8221; refers to mortgage-backed securities that represent the right to the principal component of the cash flow from a pool of mortgage loans; &#32; &#8220;ARMs&#8221; refers to adjustable-rate residential mortgage loans; &#8220;prime ARM loans&#8221; &#32; and &#8220;residential securitized loans&#8221; each &#32; refer to prime credit quality residential ARM loans (&#8220;prime ARM loans&#8221;) held in securitization trusts; &#32; &#8220;distressed residential loans&#8221; refers to pools &#32; of performing and re-performing, fixed-rate and adjustable-rate, fully amortizing, interest-only and balloon, seasoned mortgage loans secured by first liens on one- to four-family properties ; &#8220; CMBS&#8221; refers to commercial mortgage-backed securities comprised of commercial mortgage pass-through securities, as well as IO or PO securities that represent the right to a specific component of the cash flow from a pool of commercial mortgage loans; &#32; &#8220;multi-family CMBS&#8221; refers to &#32; CMBS &#32; backed by commercial mortgage loans on multi-family properties; &#8220;CDOs&#8221; refers to collateralized debt obligations; &#8220;CLO&#8221; refers to collateralized loan obligation; &#32; &#8220;Consolidated K-Series&#8221; refers to, as of December 31, 2015 , five separate Freddie Mac- sponsored multi-family loan K-Series securitizations, or, as of December 31, 2014 , six separate Freddie Mac-sponsored multi-family loan K-Series securitizations of which we, or one of our "special purpose entities," or "SPEs," own the first loss PO securities and certain IO securities; &#32; &#8220;Variable Interest &#32; Entity" &#32; or "VIE&#8221; refers to &#32; an entity in which equity investors do not have the characteristics of a controlling financial interest or do not have sufficient equity at risk for the entity to finance its activities without additional subordinated financial support from other parties; &#32; and &#8220;Consolidated VIEs&#8221; refers to VIEs where the Company is the primary beneficiary, as it has both the power to direct the activities that most significantly impact the economic performance of the VIE and a right to receive benefits or absorb losses of the entity that could be potentially significant to the VIE. 

General 

We are a real estate investment trust, or REIT, for federal income tax purposes, in the business of acquiring, investing in, financing and managing primarily mortgage-related assets and financial assets. Our objective is to deliver long-term stable distributions to our stockholders over changing economic conditions through a combination of net interest margin and net realized capital gains from a diversified investment portfolio. Our portfolio includes credit sensitive assets and investments sourced from distressed markets in recent years that create the potential for capital gains, as well as more traditional types of mortgage-related investments that generate interest income. 

&#160; 

Our investment portfolio includes residential mortgage loans, including second mortgages and loans sourced from distressed markets, multi-family CMBS, mezzanine loans to and preferred equity investments in owners of multi-family properties, equity and debt securities issued by entities that invest in residential and commercial real estate and commercial real estate-related debt investments, and Agency RMBS. Subject to maintaining our qualification as a REIT, we also may opportunistically acquire and manage various other types of mortgage-related and financial assets that we believe will compensate us appropriately for the risks associated with them, including, without limitation, non-Agency RMBS (which may include IOs and POs), collateralized mortgage obligations and securities issued by newly originated residential securitizations, including credit sensitive securities from these securitizations. 

We seek to achieve a balanced and diverse funding mix to finance our assets and operations. We currently rely primarily on a combination of short-term borrowings, such as repurchase agreements with terms typically of 30 days, longer term repurchase agreement borrowing with terms between one year and 18 months and longer term structured financings, such as securitizations with terms longer than one year. 

We internally manage a certain portion of our portfolio, including Agency ARMs, Agency fixed-rate RMBS, non-Agency RMBS, CLOs, residential securitized loans and second mortgage loans. In addition, as part of our investment strategy, we also contract with certain external investment managers to manage specific asset types targeted by us. We are a party to separate investment management agreements with Headlands Asset Management, LLC, or Headlands, RiverBanc, LLC, or RiverBanc, and The Midway Group, L.P., or Midway, with Headlands providing investment management services with respect to our investments in certain distressed residential loans, RiverBanc providing investment management services with respect to our investments in multi-family CMBS and certain commercial real estate-related debt investments, and Midway providing investment management services with respect to our investments in Agency IOs. 

We have elected to be taxed as a REIT for federal income tax purposes and have complied, and intend to continue to comply, with the provisions of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the &#8220;Internal Revenue Code&#8221;), with respect thereto. Accordingly, we do not expect to be subject to federal income tax on our REIT taxable income that we currently distribute to our stockholders if certain asset, income, distribution and ownership tests and recordkeeping requirements are fulfilled. Even if we maintain our qualification as a REIT, we expect to be subject to some federal, state and local taxes on our income generated in our TRSs. 

The financial information requirements required under this Item 1 may be found in our consolidated financial statements beginning on page F-1 of this Annual Report. 

Our Investment Strategy 

Our strategy is to construct a residential portfolio that includes elements of both interest rate and credit risk. Our investment strategy focuses on the acquisition and management of (i) &#8220;credit residential&#8221; assets, which we define as residential mortgage loans, including distressed residential loans and second mortgage loans, multi-family investments, including CMBS, mezzanine loans to and preferred equity investments in owners of multi-family properties and equity and debt securities issued by entities that invest in commercial real estate and commercial real estate-related debt investments, (ii) leveraged Agency RMBS, which may include Agency ARMs, Agency fixed-rate and Agency IOs and (iii) the opportunistic acquisition of other types of mortgage-related and financial assets that meet our investment criteria. 

Prior to deploying capital to any of our targeted asset classes or determining to dispose of any of our investments, our management team will consider, among other things, the amount and nature of anticipated cash flows from the asset, our ability to finance or borrow against the asset and the terms of such financing, the related capital requirements, the credit risk related to the asset or the underlying collateral and future general market conditions. Consistent with our strategy to produce returns through a combination of net interest margin and net realized capital gains, we will seek, from time to time, to sell certain assets within our portfolio when we believe the combination of realized gains on an asset and reinvestment potential for the related sale proceeds are consistent with our long-term return objectives. 

Our investment strategy does not, subject to our continued compliance with applicable REIT tax requirements and the maintenance of our exclusion from the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended (the &#8220;Investment Company Act&#8221;), limit the amount of our capital that may be invested in any of these investments or in any particular class or type of assets. Thus, our future investments may include asset types different from the targeted or other assets described in this Annual Report. The investment and capital allocation decisions of our company and our external managers depend on prevailing market conditions, among other factors, and may change over time in response to opportunities available in different economic and capital market environments. As a result, we cannot predict the percentage of our capital that will be invested in any particular investment at any given time. 

For more information regarding our portfolio as of December 31, 2015 , see Item 7 - &#8220;Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations&#8221; below. 

Investments in Credit Residential Assets 

We seek to identify credit sensitive assets, primarily relating to residential housing, including multi-family housing, from which we can extract value through a combination of current yield and/or capital appreciation. Our portfolio of credit residential assets is currently comprised of residential mortgage loans, including distressed residential loans and second mortgage loans, multi-family CMBS, mezzanine loans to and preferred equity investments in owners of multi-family properties and equity and debt securities issued by entities that invest in residential and commercial real estate and commercial real estate-related debt investments. Our portfolio also includes distressed residential mortgage loans held in securitization trusts and prime ARM loans held in securitization trusts (which we refer to as residential securitized loans). 

During the years ended December 31, 2015 &#32;and 2014, we acquired multiple pools of distressed residential mortgage loans having an estimated aggregate market value of approximately $152.2 million &#32;and $400.9 million , respectively, at the time of their respective acquisitions. These distressed residential mortgage loans consist of performing and re-performing, fixed- and adjustable-rate, fully-amortizing, interest-only and balloon, seasoned mortgage loans secured by first liens on one- to four-family properties. The loans were purchased at a discount to the aggregate principal amount outstanding, which we believe will provide us with adequate credit protection and an opportunity to modify and sell the loan and achieve an attractive yield. Our distressed residential mortgage loans are sourced and managed by Headlands. 

&#160; 

During the third quarter of 2015, we announced the expansion of our credit residential strategy through investments in targeted newly originated second lien mortgages, or "second mortgages". Pursuant to our second mortgage program, we have established relationships with mortgage originators that will underwrite the second mortgages to guidelines established by us. These guidelines should lead to the origination of a mortgage that will be a qualified mortgage as defined by the Consumer Finance Protection Bureau. We intend to purchase from these originators the closed second mortgages that meet our underwriting guidelines and have gone through our due diligence procedures. We intend to continue to accumulate second mortgage loans pursuant to flow sale and purchase agreements with our current partners and we intend to pursue new relationships with additional partners in the future. We believe this program will provide us with an attractive way to expand our portfolio with credit assets that should generate attractive risk- adjusted returns by targeting higher credit-quality borrowers that we believe are currently underserved by large financial institutions. 

Our portfolio of multi-family CMBS is comprised of (i) fixed rate PO securities issued from the first loss tranche, or &#8220;first loss,&#8221; of certain multi-family K-series securitizations sponsored by Freddie Mac and (ii) certain IO securities issued by these securitizations. Our investments in these privately placed first loss PO securities generally represent approximately 7.5% of the overall securitization which typically totals approximately $1.0 billion in multi-family residential loans consisting of 70 to 100 individual properties diversified across a wide geographic footprint. These first loss securities are typically backed by balloon non-recourse mortgage loans that provide for the payment of principal at maturity date, which is typically seven to ten years. Moreover, each first loss tranche of multi-family CMBS in our portfolio is, in most cases, the most junior tranche of security issued by the securitization, meaning it will absorb all losses in the securitization prior to other more senior tranches being exposed to loss. As a result, each of the first loss securities in our portfolio has been purchased, upon completion of a credit analysis and due diligence by our external manager and after consultation with and approval of our senior management, at a significant discount to its then-current par value, which we believe provides us with adequate protection against projected losses. In addition, as the owner of the first loss tranche, the Company, through RiverBanc, has the right to participate in the workout of any distressed property in the securitization. We believe this right will allow the Company to mitigate or reduce any possible loss associated with the distressed property. The Company also invests in IO securities from a number of the same multi-family securitizations from which we acquired our first loss PO investments. These IO securities are stripped off the entire securitization allowing the Company to receive cashflows over the life of the multi-family loans backing the securitization. These investments range from 10 to 17 basis points and the underlying notional amount approximates $1.0 billion each. We may in the future invest in more senior tranches of multi-family CMBS, which may include some form of leverage, if we believe the risk-adjusted returns for such assets are attractive. In addition, we may acquire multi-family CMBS from private originators of, or investors in, mortgage loans, including non-financial institutions and other entities. With respect to the multi-family CMBS owned by us, all of the loans that back the respective securitizations have been underwritten in accordance with Freddie Mac underwriting guidelines and standards; however, the multi-family securities we own are not guaranteed by Freddie Mac. 

We invest in other commercial real estate-related investments, such as the origination or acquisition of mezzanine loans to and preferred equity investments in owners of multi-family properties, with a primary focus on conventional apartments, cooperative housing associations, student housing and other related property types in increments as low as $1 million secured by properties valued at $10 million or greater. A mezzanine loan is a loan made to a property owner that is subordinate to mortgage debt and is typically secured by a pledge of the borrower&#8217;s ownership interests in the property and/or direct or indirect entities that own the property. A preferred equity investment typically takes the form of an equity investment in the special purpose entity (&#8220;SPE&#8221;) that owns the property and is structured such that the preferred equity investor will receive cash distributions from the SPE in seniority to a more junior class of equity. These preferred equity interests may be subordinate to other forms of mortgage or property-level debt. We also may participate in structured investments such as the acquisition of seasoned or distressed commercial loan portfolios. 

We also invest in equity and debt securities of entities that invest in residential and commercial real estate and commercial real estate-related debt investments focused on multi-family properties. For example, as of December 31, 2015, we own a $56.9 million &#32;investment in RB Multifamily Investors LLC (&#8220;RBMI&#8221;), a fund that is managed by RiverBanc and owns preferred equity and joint venture investments in, and mezzanine loans secured by, an aggregate of ten multi-family apartment properties. Included in our total investment in RBMI are preferred equity interests amounting to approximately $41.5 million &#32;as of December 31, 2015, with the balance represented by common equity interests. 

The prime ARM loans held in securitization trusts, which we refer to as &#8220;residential mortgage loans held in securitization trusts&#8221; in our consolidated financial statements, are loans that primarily were originated by our discontinued mortgage lending business, and to a lesser extent purchased from third parties, that we securitized in 2005. These loans are substantially prime, full documentation, hybrid ARMs on residential properties and are all first lien mortgages. We maintain the ownership trust certificates, or equity, of these securitizations, which includes rights to excess interest, if any, and also take an active role in managing delinquencies and default risk related to the loans. 

Investments in Agency RMBS 

Our Agency RMBS consist of Agency ARMs, Agency fixed-rate RMBS and Agency IOs. Our Agency ARMs and Agency fixed-rate RMBS portfolios are managed by us, our Agency IO portfolio is managed by Midway. Our Agency ARMs consist of pass-through certificates, the principal and interest of which are guaranteed by Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac or Ginnie Mae, and are backed by ARMs or hybrid ARMs. Our current portfolio of Agency ARMs has interest reset periods ranging from 30 years to less than three months. 

Our Agency fixed-rate RMBS portfolio consists of pass-through certificates, the principal and interest of which are guaranteed by Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac or Ginnie Mae, which are primarily backed by 15-year residential fixed rate mortgage loans with lesser amounts invested in 20-year residential fixed-rate mortgage loans. The majority of these securities have coupons ranging from 2.5% to 3.5%. 

Agency IOs are securities that represent the right to receive the interest portion of the cash flow from a pool of mortgage loans issued or guaranteed by Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac or Ginnie Mae. Agency IOs allow us to make a direct investment in borrower prepayment trends; however, Agency IOs introduce increased risk due to price sensitivity as these securities have no underlying principal cash flows, which will cause them to underperform in high prepayment environments as future interest payments will be reduced as a direct result of prepayments. In a rising interest rate environment, the value of an Agency IO generally tends to increase as their expected average life increases and prepayments decrease. Our investments in Agency IOs and related hedging and borrowing activities are managed by Midway. We sometimes refer to these investments and related hedging and borrowing activities as our Agency IO strategy or our Agency IO portfolio. 

It should be noted that the guarantee provided by the GSEs on Agency RMBS issued by them does not protect us from prepayment risk. In addition, our Agency RMBS (including Agency IOs) are at risk to new or modified government-sponsored homeowner stimulus programs that may induce unpredictable and excessively high prepayment speeds resulting in accelerated premium amortization and reduced net interest margin, both of which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 

Our Financing Strategy 

We strive to maintain and achieve a balanced and diverse funding mix to finance our assets and operations. To achieve this, we rely primarily on a combination of short-term and longer-term repurchase agreement borrowings and structured financings, including securitized debt, CDOs and long term subordinated debt. The Company's policy for leverage is based on the type of asset, underlying collateral and overall market conditions, with the intent of obtaining more permanent, longer-term financing for our more illiquid assets, such as our credit sensitive first loss tranche multi-family CMBS and distressed residential loans. Currently, we target maximum leverage ratios for callable or short-term financings of 8 to 1, in the case of Agency RMBS (other than Agency IOs), and 2 to 1, in the case of Agency IOs. We may utilize short term financing on other asset classes with leverage ratios driven by the nature of the underlying asset as well as current market conditions. 

As of December 31, 2015 , our overall leverage ratio, including our short-term financings, such as repurchase agreements, and longer-term financings, such as securitized debt and subordinated debt (excluding the CDOs issued by the Consolidated K-Series and our residential CDOs), divided by stockholders&#8217; equity, was approximately 1.1 &#32;to 1. Our leverage ratio on our short term financings or callable debt was approximately 0.9 &#32;to 1. In each case, there may be occasional short-term increases or decreases in the amount of leverage used due to significant market events, and we may change our leverage strategy at any time. We monitor all at risk or short term borrowings to ensure that we have adequate liquidity to satisfy margin calls and liquidity covenant requirements. 

We primarily rely on short-term repurchase agreements to fund our Agency RMBS portfolio. These repurchase agreements provide us with short-term borrowings (typically 30 days) that bear interest rates that are linked to the London Interbank Offered Rate (&#8220;LIBOR&#8221;), a short term market interest rate used to determine short term loan rates. Pursuant to these repurchase agreements, the financial institution that serves as a counterparty will generally agree to provide us with financing based on the market value of the securities that we pledge as collateral, less a &#8220;haircut.&#8221; The market value of the collateral represents the price of such collateral obtained from generally recognized sources or most recent closing bid quotation from such source plus accrued income. Our repurchase agreements may require us to deposit additional collateral pursuant to a margin call if the market value of our pledged collateral declines as a result of market conditions or due to principal repayments on the mortgages underlying our pledged securities. Interest rates and haircuts will depend on the underlying collateral pledged. 

With respect to our investments in multi-family CMBS, other commercial mortgage debt-related investments and distressed residential loans, we finance our investment in these assets through working capital and, subject to market conditions, both short-term and long-term borrowings. Our financings may include repurchase agreement borrowings with terms of one year or less, or longer term structured debt financing, such as longer-term repurchase agreement financing and securitized debt where the assets we intend to finance are contributed to an SPE and serve as collateral for the financing. We engage in longer-term financings for the primary purpose of obtaining longer-term non-recourse financing on these assets. As of December 31, 2015 , our multi-family CMBS amounting to approximately $265.0 million &#32;and distressed residential mortgage loans amounting to approximately $421.2 million &#32;are financed by some form of repurchase agreement borrowing or securitized debt. 

Pursuant to the terms of our long-term debt financings, our ability to access the cash flows generated by the assets serving as collateral for these borrowings may be significantly limited and we may be unable to sell or otherwise transfer or dispose of or modify such assets until the financing has matured. As part of each of our securitized debt financings and longer-term master repurchase agreements we are currently party to, we have provided a guarantee with respect to certain terms of some of these longer-term borrowings incurred by certain of our subsidiaries and we may provide similar guarantees in connection with future financings. 

We finance our prime ARM loans held in securitization trusts with approximately $116.7 million &#32;of residential CDOs as of December 31, 2015 . These residential CDOs were issued in securitization transactions we completed in 2005. 

For more information regarding our outstanding borrowings and debt instruments at December 31, 2015 , see Item 7 - &#8220;Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations&#8221; of this Annual Report. 

Our Hedging Strategy 

&#160; 

&#32;&#32;The Company enters into derivative instruments in connection with its risk management activities. These derivative instruments may include interest rate swaps, swaptions, futures, put and call options on futures and mortgage derivatives such as forward-settling purchases and sales of Agency RMBS where the underlying pools of mortgage loans are &#8220;To-Be-Announced,&#8221; or TBAs. 

In connection with our investment in Agency IOs, we utilize several types of derivative instruments such as interest rate swaps, futures, put and call options on futures and TBAs to hedge interest rate risk and spread risk. For example, we utilize TBAs to hedge the interest rate and spread risk inherent in our Agency fixed rate RMBS, including certain of our Agency IOs that are backed by Agency fixed rate RMBS. In a TBA transaction, we would agree to purchase or sell, for future delivery, Agency RMBS with certain principal and interest terms and certain types of underlying collateral, but the particular Agency RMBS to be delivered is not identified until shortly before the TBA settlement date. The Company typically does not take delivery of TBAs, but rather settles with its trading counterparties on a net basis prior to the forward settlement date. By utilizing TBA transactions, we attempt to reduce changes in portfolio values due to changes in interest rates. Although TBAs are liquid and have quoted market prices and represent the most actively traded class of RMBS, the use of TBAs exposes us to increased market value risk. We typically conduct TBA and other interest rate futures hedging transactions through one of our TRSs. 

We also use interest rate swaps (separately from the interest rate swaps we use in connection with our Agency IO portfolio) to hedge variable cash flows associated with borrowings made under our financing arrangements and Residential CDOs. We typically pay a fixed rate and receive a floating rate based on one month LIBOR, on the notional amount of the interest rate swaps. The floating rate we receive under our swap agreements has the effect of offsetting the repricing characteristics and cash flows of our financing arrangements. 

In connection with our hedging strategy, we, together with our external managers, utilize a model based risk analysis system to assist in projecting portfolio performances over a variety of different interest rates and market scenarios, such as shifts in interest rates, changes in prepayments and other factors impacting the valuations of our assets and liabilities. However, given the uncertainties related to prepayment rates, it is not possible to perfectly lock-in a spread between the earnings asset yield and the related cost of borrowings. Moreover, the cash flows and market values of certain types of structured Agency RMBS, such as the IOs we invest in, are more sensitive to prepayment risks than other Agency RMBS. Nonetheless, through active management and the use of evaluative stress scenarios, we believe that we can mitigate a significant amount of both value and earnings volatility. 

Our External Managers 

The Midway Group, L.P. 

A portion of our Agency RMBS portfolio comprised of Agency IOs is externally managed and advised by Midway pursuant to an investment management agreement between Midway and us (as amended, the &#8220;Midway Management Agreement&#8221;). Midway was founded in 2000 by Mr. Robert Sherak, a mortgage industry veteran with more than 25 years&#8217; experience, to serve as investment manager to the Midway Market Neutral Fund LLC, a private investment fund. Midway has been managing a hedged portfolio of mortgage-related securities for over 15 years. 

Midway is responsible for administering the business activities and day-to-day operations of our investments in Agency IOs, and certain derivative instruments. These responsibilities include arranging and coordinating the purchase and sale of various investment assets and the financing and hedging associated with such assets, with direct oversight from our management team. Midway also may invest from time to time in, among other things, Agency RMBS consisting of pass-through certificates, CMOs, and POs and non-agency RMBS (which may include IOs and POs). As part of its investment process, we expect that Midway will analyze significant amounts of data regarding the historical performance of mortgage-related securities transactions and collateral over various market cycles. 

Midway has established portfolio management resources for the investment assets described above and an established infrastructure supporting those resources. We believe that we benefit from Midway&#8217;s highly analytical investment processes, broad-based deal flow, extensive relationships in the financial community and operational expertise. Moreover, since its founding, we believe Midway has developed strong relationships with a wide range of dealers and other market participants that provide Midway access to a broad range of trading opportunities and market information. 

As of December 31, 2015 , we had allocated approximately $108.3 million &#32;of capital to investments managed by Midway. 

The Midway Management Agreement 

We entered into an investment management agreement with Midway on February 11, 2011, as amended on March 9, 2012 and April 1, 2014. The Midway Management Agreement currently operates under a one-year term that is automatically renewed for successive one-year terms unless a termination notice is delivered by either party to the other party at least six months prior to the end of the then current term. Pursuant to the Midway Management Agreement, Midway implements our Agency IO investment strategy and related hedging and borrowing activities and has complete discretion and authority to manage these assets and related hedging and borrowing activities, subject to compliance with the written investment guidelines included in the Midway Management Agreement and the other terms and conditions of the Midway Management Agreement, including our authority to direct Midway to modify its investment strategy for purposes of maintaining our qualification as a REIT and exemption from the Investment Company Act. 

Pursuant to the terms of the Midway Management Agreement, Midway receives a base management fee payable monthly in arrears in a cash amount equal to (i) 1.50% per annum of our invested capital in the assets managed by Midway as of the last business day of the previous month, multiplied by (ii) 1/12th. In addition, Midway is entitled to a quarterly incentive fee (the "Midway Incentive Fee") that is calculated quarterly and paid quarterly in arrears. The Midway Incentive Fee is subject to a high water mark equal to an 11% return on our invested capital in assets managed by Midway (the &#8220;High Water Mark&#8221;), and is payable in an amount equal to the excess, if any, of 35% of the dollar amount by which adjusted net income (as defined below) attributable to the assets managed by Midway, on a quarterly basis and before accounting for the Midway Incentive Fee, exceeds an annual 12.5% rate of return on invested capital (the &#8220;Hurdle Rate&#8221;), after adjusting for any carried over shortfall from previous quarters. The return rate for each quarter (the &#8220;Calculation Period&#8221;) is determined by dividing (i) the adjusted net income for the Calculation Period by (ii) the weighted average of our invested capital in assets managed by Midway during the Calculation Period. Upon mutual agreement of the parties to the Midway Management Agreement, a portion of each Midway Incentive Fee payable to Midway may be paid in shares of our common stock. For the purpose of the Midway Management Agreement, adjusted net income is defined as net income (loss) calculated in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (&#8220;GAAP&#8221;), including any unrealized gains and losses, after giving effect to certain expenses. All securities managed for us by Midway are valued in accordance with GAAP. Unlike the Hurdle Rate, which is calculated on a three month basis, the High Water Mark is calculated on a calendar 12 month basis and resets every 24 months. The High Water Mark is a static dollar figure that Midway is required to recoup, to the extent there is a deficit in the prior High Water Mark calculation period, before it is eligible again to receive a Midway Incentive Fee. 

In addition to the base management and incentive fees provided for in the Midway Management Agreement, we issued 213,980 shares of restricted stock to Midway in March 2012 that vested annually in one-third increments beginning on December 31, 2012. All of the restricted shares issued to Midway had vested in full as of December 31, 2014. We also reimburse Midway for all transaction costs and expenses incurred in connection with the management and administration of the assets and liabilities that they manage on our behalf. 

Although the assets and invested capital managed by Midway are held in an account that is wholly owned by our company, we may only redeem invested capital in an amount equal to the lesser of 10% of our invested capital managed by Midway or $10 million as of the last calendar day of the month upon not less than 75 days written notice, subject to our authority to direct Midway to modify its investment strategy for purposes of maintaining our qualification as a REIT and exemption from the Investment Company Act. Pursuant to the terms of the Midway Management Agreement, we are only permitted to make one such redemption request in any 75-day period. 

&#160; 

RiverBanc LLC 

&#160; 

In April 2011, we formed a relationship with RiverBanc, a privately owned investment management and specialty finance company founded by Kevin Donlon, for the purpose of investing in multi-family CMBS, such as Freddie Mac Multifamily Loan Securitization K-Series&#8217; assets, and other commercial real estate-related debt investments, such as mezzanine loans to and preferred equity investments in owners of multi-family properties. Pursuant to an investment management agreement between RiverBanc and us. RiverBanc sources, structures and manages our investments in these asset classes. As of December 31, 2015 , we owned a 20% equity interest in RiverBanc. 

&#160; 

In addition to the assets that RiverBanc manages directly for us, it also manages RBMI of which the Company owns, as of December 31, 2015 , approximately 67% &#32;of the outstanding common equity interests. Pursuant to a management agreement between RiverBanc and this entity, RiverBanc is entitled to receive base management and incentive fees for its management of assets owned by RBMI. Our total investment in RBMI, amounts to approximately $56.9 million &#32;as of December 31, 2015 . Included in our total investment in RBMI are preferred equity interests having an aggregate liquidation preference of approximately $41.5 million &#32;as of December 31, 2015 . 

RiverBanc Management Agreement 

&#160; 

On March 13, 2013, we entered into an amended and restated management agreement with RB Commercial Mortgage LLC, our wholly-owned subsidiary, and RiverBanc (the &#8220;RiverBanc Management Agreement&#8221;). The RiverBanc Management Agreement, which replaces the prior management agreement between RiverBanc and RB Commercial Mortgage LLC, has an annual term that is now subject to automatic annual one-year renewals (subject to any notice of termination). 

&#160; 

Pursuant to the terms of the RiverBanc Management Agreement, RiverBanc will receive a monthly base management fee in arrears in a cash amount equal to the product of (i) 1.50% per annum of &#8220;Equity&#8221; as of the last business day of the previous month, multiplied by (ii) 1/12th. For purposes of the RiverBanc Management Agreement, Equity is defined as &#8220;Assets&#8221; minus &#8220;Debt,&#8221; where Assets is defined as the aggregate net carrying value (in accordance with GAAP) of those assets of our company managed by RiverBanc (specifically excluding (i) any unrealized gains or losses that have impacted net carrying value as reported in our financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP, regardless of whether such items are included in other comprehensive income or loss or in net income, and (ii) one-time events pursuant to changes in GAAP, and certain non-cash items not otherwise described above, in each case, as mutually agreed between RiverBanc and us) and Debt is defined as the greater of (1) the net carrying value (in accordance with GAAP, excluding adjustments for unrealized gains or losses) of all third-party debt or liabilities secured by the Assets and (2) prior to termination of the RiverBanc Management Agreement, zero, or following termination of the RiverBanc Management Agreement, an amount equal to 50% of Assets. In addition, RiverBanc will be entitled to an incentive fee that is calculated quarterly and paid in cash in arrears. The incentive fee is based upon the average Equity during the fiscal quarter, subject to a high water mark equal to a 9% return on Equity, and shall be payable in an amount equal to 35% of the dollar amount by which adjusted net income (as defined in the RiverBanc Management Agreement) attributable to the Assets, before accounting for any incentive fees payable to RiverBanc, exceeds an annualized 12% rate of return on such average Equity (provided, however, that the applicable percentage for calculation of the incentive fee on any incremental return in excess of 21% shall be reduced to 20% from 35%). Any incentive fee paid for the fourth fiscal quarter of each year under the agreement is calculated based on the incentive fee earned during the calendar twelve-month period less the aggregate incentive fees paid for the first three quarters during the period. 

&#160; 

We may terminate the RiverBanc Management Agreement or elect not to renew the agreement, subject to certain conditions and subject, in certain cases, to paying a termination fee equal to the product of (A) 24 and (B) the monthly base management fee earned by RiverBanc during the month immediately preceding the month in which the termination occurs. In the event we terminate the RiverBanc Management Agreement for any reason (other than for &#8220;cause&#8221;), RiverBanc has, subject to certain conditions, a right of first refusal to purchase from us the assets managed by them. 

Headlands Asset Management LLC 

&#160; 

We engaged Headlands to manage and advise us with respect to the distressed residential mortgage loans that we acquire. Headlands sources and performs due-diligence procedures on the pools of distressed residential mortgage loans that we acquire and manages the servicing, modification and final disposition or resolution of the loans, which can range from modifying a mortgage loan balance, interest rate or payment to selling the underlying loan or the real estate asset. 

&#160; 

Headlands was founded on May 2008 as an investment manager focused on purchasing, servicing and managing all aspects of a portfolio of residential mortgage loans. 

&#160; 

Headlands Management &#32; Agreements 

&#160; 

Pursuant to the terms of our investment management agreements with Headlands, Headlands receives a monthly base management fee payable on the tenth business day of each month in a cash amount equal to the product of (i) 1.50% per annum of assets under management (&#8220;AUM&#8221;) as of the first day of each such month, multiplied by (ii) 1/12 th , where AUM represents the net asset value of the mortgage loans being managed by Headlands. In addition, Headlands is entitled to an incentive fee that is calculated quarterly. The incentive fee is based upon the weighted average AUM during the fiscal quarter and is payable in an amount equal to 35% of the dollar amount by which the taxable income (before accounting for any incentive fees earned by Headlands and interest on the notes) of the subsidiary that holds the loans exceeds an annualized 12% rate of return on such weighted average AUM (provided, however, that the applicable percentage for calculation of the incentive fee on any incremental return in excess of 22% shall be reduced by the amount of any subordinate servicing fees). The parties will recalculate the annual incentive fee earned by Headlands (if any) after the fourth fiscal quarter of each year and will adjust any payments owed or required to be remitted based on such annual calculation. We also pay Headlands a servicing surveillance fee equal to 0.5% of the unpaid principal of the mortgage loans they manage for us. 

&#160; 

Headlands may terminate its investment management relationship with us at any time upon not less than 60 days&#8217; notice; provided, however, that, subject to certain exceptions, it may not terminate or resign as manager prior to the time certain debt issued to finance the mortgage loans managed by them is repaid. We may terminate an investment management agreement with Headlands in the event of an uncured violation of the agreement or any bankruptcy, insolvency or liquidation proceedings in respect of Headlands. Neither Headlands nor we will incur a termination fee upon termination of any Headlands investment management agreement. We have agreed to guarantee the payment of the base management fees and expenses payable to Headlands by our subsidiaries. 

&#160; 

Conflicts of Interest with Our External Managers; Equitable Allocation of Opportunities &#160; 

&#160; 

Each of Midway, RiverBanc and Headlands manages, and is expected to continue to manage, other client accounts with similar or overlapping investment strategies. In connection with the services provided to those accounts, these managers may be compensated more favorably than for the services provided under our external management agreements, and such discrepancies in compensation may affect the level of service provided to us by our external managers. Moreover, each of our external managers may have an economic interest in the accounts they manage or the investments they propose. In addition, we have in the past engaged in certain co-investment opportunities with an external manager or one of its affiliates and we may participate in future co-investment opportunities with our external managers or their affiliates. In these cases, it is possible that our interests and the interests of our external managers will not always be aligned and this could result in decisions that are not in the best interests of our company. 

&#160; 

Each of Midway and RiverBanc has agreed that, when making investment allocation decisions between us and its other client accounts, it will, in the case of RiverBanc, allocate investments in a fair and equitable manner and, in the case of Midway, seek to allocate investment opportunities on an equitable basis and in a manner it believes is in the best interests of its relevant accounts. Since certain of our targeted assets are typically available only in specified quantities and since certain of these targeted assets will also be targeted assets for other accounts managed by or associated with our external managers, our external managers may not be able to buy as much of certain assets as required to satisfy the needs of all of its clients&#8217; or associated accounts. In these cases, we understand that the allocation procedures and policies of our external managers would typically allocate such assets to multiple accounts in proportion to, among other things, the objectives, strategy, and stage of development or needs of each account. Moreover, the investment allocation policies of Midway may permit departure from proportional allocation when the total allocation would result in an inefficiently small amount of the security being purchased for an account. Although we believe that each of our external managers will seek to allocate investment opportunities in a manner which it believes to be in the best interests of all accounts involved and will seek to allocate, on an equitable basis, investment opportunities believed to be appropriate for us and the other accounts it manages or is associated with, there can be no assurance that a particular investment opportunity will be allocated in any particular manner. 

Midway is authorized to follow broad investment guidelines in determining which assets it will invest in. Although our Board of Directors will ultimately determine when and how much capital to allocate to assets managed by Midway, we generally will not approve transactions in advance of their execution. As a result, because Midway has great latitude to determine the types of assets it may decide are proper investments for us, there can be no assurance that we would otherwise approve of these investments individually or that they will be successful. Meanwhile, RiverBanc has complete discretion and authority to manage assets on our behalf subject to investment guidelines approved by our Board of Directors. However, our Board of Directors may elect to change the investment guidelines or waive them for various investments. In addition to conducting periodic reviews, we will rely primarily on information provided to us by our external managers. Finally, our external managers may use complex investment strategies and may engage in complex transactions on our behalf which may be difficult or impossible to unwind. 

&#160; 

Pursuant to the terms of the Midway Management Agreement, we may only redeem invested capital in an amount equal to the lesser of 10% of the invested capital in assets managed by Midway or $10 million as of the last calendar day of the month upon not less than 75 days written notice, subject to our authority to direct Midway to modify its investment strategy for purposes of maintaining our qualification as a REIT and exemption from the Investment Company Act, and we are only permitted to make one such redemption request in any 75-day period. In the event of a significant market event or shock, we may be unable to effect a redemption of invested capital in greater amounts or at a greater rate unless we obtain the consent of Midway. Because a reduction of invested capital would reduce the base management fee under the Midway Management Agreement, Midway may be less inclined to consent to such redemptions. 

&#160; 

None of our external managers is obligated to dedicate any specific personnel exclusively to us, nor are they or their personnel obligated to dedicate any specific portion of their time to the management of our business. As a result, we cannot provide any assurances regarding the amount of time our external managers will dedicate to the management of our business. Moreover, each of our external managers has significant responsibilities for other investment vehicles and may not always be able to devote sufficient time to the management of our business. Consequently, we may not receive the level of support and assistance that we otherwise might receive if such services were provided internally by us. 

Certain Federal Income Tax Considerations and Our Status as a REIT 

&#160; 

We have elected to be taxed as a REIT under Sections 856-860 of the Internal Revenue Code for federal income tax purposes, commencing with our taxable year ended December 31, 2004, and we believe that our current and proposed method of operation will enable us to continue to qualify as a REIT for our taxable year ending December 31, 2016 and thereafter. Accordingly, the net interest income we earn on our assets is generally not subject to federal income tax as long as we distribute at least 90% of our REIT taxable income in the form of a dividend to our stockholders each year and comply with various other requirements. Taxable income generated by TRSs is subject to regular corporate income tax. 

&#160; 

The benefit of REIT tax status is a tax treatment that avoids &#8220;double taxation,&#8221; or taxation at both the corporate and stockholder levels, that generally applies to distributions by a corporation to its stockholders. Failure to qualify as a REIT would subject us to federal income tax (including any applicable minimum tax) on our taxable income at regular corporate rates and distributions to our stockholders would not be deductible by us. 

Summary Requirements for Qualification 

Organizational Requirements 

&#160; 

A REIT is a corporation, trust, or association that meets each of the following requirements: 

&#160; 

1) 

&#32;It is managed by one or more trustees or directors. 

2) 

&#32;Its beneficial ownership is evidenced by transferable shares, or by transferable certificates of beneficial interest. 

3) 

&#32;It would be taxable as a domestic corporation, but for the REIT provisions of the federal income tax laws. 

4) 

&#32;It is neither a financial institution nor an insurance company subject to special provisions of the federal income tax laws. 

5) 

&#32;At least 100 persons are beneficial owners of its shares or ownership certificates. 

6) 

&#32;Not more than 50% in value of its outstanding shares or ownership certificates is owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals, which the federal income tax laws define to include certain entities, during the last half of any taxable year. 

7) 

&#32;It elects to be a REIT, or has made such election for a previous taxable year, and satisfies all relevant filing and other administrative requirements established by the IRS that must be met to elect and maintain REIT status. 

8) 

&#32;It meets certain other qualification tests, described below, regarding the nature of its income and assets. 

We must meet requirements 1 through 4 during our entire taxable year and must meet requirement 5 during at least 335 days of a taxable year of 12 months, or during a proportionate part of a taxable year of less than 12 months. 

Qualified REIT Subsidiaries . A corporation that is a QRS is not treated as a corporation separate from its parent REIT. All assets, liabilities, and items of income, deduction, and credit of a &#8220;QRS&#8221; are treated as assets, liabilities, and items of income, deduction, and credit of the REIT. A &#8220;QRS&#8221; is a corporation, all of the capital stock of which is owned by the REIT. Thus, in applying the requirements described herein, any &#8220;QRS&#8221; that we own will be ignored, and all assets, liabilities, and items of income, deduction, and credit of such subsidiary will be treated as our assets, liabilities, and items of income, deduction, and credit. 

&#160; 

Taxable REIT Subsidiaries . A REIT is permitted to own up to 100% of the stock of one or more TRSs. A TRS is a fully taxable corporation that may earn income that would not be qualifying income if earned directly by the parent REIT. Overall, no more than 25% (20% for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017) of the value of a REIT&#8217;s assets may consist of stock or securities of one or more TRSs. 

&#160; 

A TRS will pay income tax at regular corporate rates on any income that it earns. In addition, the TRS rules limit the deductibility of interest paid or accrued by a TRS to its parent REIT to assure that the TRS is subject to an appropriate level of corporate taxation. Our TRSs are subject to corporate income tax on their taxable income. 

&#160; 

Qualified REIT Assets . On the last day of each calendar quarter, at least 75% of the value of our assets (which includes any assets held through a QRS) must consist of qualified REIT assets &#8212; primarily real estate, mortgage loans secured by real estate, and certain mortgage-backed securities (&#8220;Qualified REIT Assets&#8221;), government securities, cash, and cash items. We believe that substantially all of our assets are and will continue to be Qualified REIT Assets. On the last day of each calendar quarter, of the assets not included in the foregoing 75% asset test, the value of securities that we hold issued by any one issuer may not exceed 5% in value of our total assets and we may not own more than 10% of the voting power or value of any one issuer&#8217;s outstanding securities (with an exception for securities of a QRS or of a TRS). In addition, the aggregate value of our securities in TRSs cannot exceed 25% (20% for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017) of our total assets, and no more than 25% of the value of our total assets may consist of debt instruments of "publicly offered REITs" (i.e., REITs that are required to file annual and periodic reports with the SEC pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act). We monitor the purchase and holding of our assets for purposes of the above asset tests and seek to manage our portfolio to comply at all times with such tests. 

&#160; 

We may from time to time hold, through one or more TRSs, assets that, if we held them directly, could generate income that would have an adverse effect on our qualification as a REIT or on certain classes of our stockholders. 

&#160; 

Gross Income Tests 

We must meet the following separate income-based tests each year: 

1. 

The 75% Test. At least 75% of our gross income for the taxable year must be derived from Qualified REIT Assets. Such income includes interest (other than interest based in whole or in part on the income or profits of any person) on obligations secured by mortgages on real property, rents from real property, gains from the sale of Qualified REIT Assets, and qualified temporary investment income or interests in real property. The investments that we have made and intend to continue to make will give rise primarily to mortgage interest qualifying under the 75% income test. 

2. 

The 95% Test. At least 95% of our gross income for the taxable year must be derived from the sources that are qualifying for purposes of the 75% test, and from dividends, interest or gains from the sale or disposition of stock or other assets that are not dealer property. 

Distributions 

&#160; 

We must distribute to our stockholders on a pro rata basis each year an amount equal to at least (i) 90% of our taxable income before deduction of dividends paid and excluding net capital gain, plus (ii) 90% of the excess of the net income from foreclosure property over the tax imposed on such income by the Internal Revenue Code, less (iii) any &#8220;excess non-cash income.&#8221; We have made and intend to continue to make distributions to our stockholders in sufficient amounts to meet the distribution requirement for REIT qualification. 

Competition 

Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to acquire assets at favorable spreads over our borrowing costs. When we invest in mortgage-backed securities, mortgage loans and other investment assets, we compete with other REITs, investment banking firms, savings and loan associations, insurance companies, mutual funds, hedge funds, pension funds, banks and other financial institutions and other entities that invest in the same types of assets. 

Corporate Offices and Personnel 

We were formed as a Maryland corporation in 2003. Our corporate headquarters are located at 275 Madison Avenue, Suite 3200, New York, New York, 10016 and our telephone number is (212) 792-0107. As of December 31, 2015 , we employed seven full-time employees. 

Access to our Periodic SEC Reports and Other Corporate Information 

Our internet website address is www.nymtrust.com. We make available free of charge, through our internet website, our annual report on Form 10-K, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, our current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments thereto that we file or furnish pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. Our Corporate Governance Guidelines and Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and the charters of our Audit, Compensation and Nominating and Corporate Governance Committees are also available on our website and are available in print to any stockholder upon request in writing to New York Mortgage Trust, Inc., c/o Secretary, 275 Madison Avenue, Suite 3200, New York, New York, 10016. Information on our website is neither part of, nor incorporated into, this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

CAUTIONARY NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS 

When used in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, in future filings with the SEC or in press releases or other written or oral communications, statements which are not historical in nature, including those containing words such as &#8220;believe,&#8221; &#8220;expect,&#8221; &#8220;anticipate,&#8221; &#8220;estimate,&#8221; &#8220;plan,&#8221; &#8220;continue,&#8221; &#8220;intend,&#8221; &#8220;should,&#8221; &#8220;would,&#8221; &#8220;could,&#8221; &#8220;goal,&#8221; &#8220;objective,&#8221; &#8220;will,&#8221; &#8220;may&#8221; or similar expressions, are intended to identify &#8220;forward-looking statements&#8221; within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act, and Section 21E of the Exchange Act, and, as such, may involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and assumptions. 

Forward-looking statements are based on our beliefs, assumptions and expectations of our future performance, taking into account all information currently available to us. These beliefs, assumptions and expectations are subject to risks and uncertainties and can change as a result of many possible events or factors, not all of which are known to us. If a change occurs, our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations may vary materially from those expressed in our forward-looking statements. The following factors are examples of those that could cause actual results to vary from our forward-looking statements: changes in interest rates and the market value of our securities; changes in credit spreads; the impact of the downgrade of the long-term credit ratings of the U.S., Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac, and Ginnie Mae; market volatility; changes in the prepayment rates on the mortgage loans underlying our investment securities; increased rates of default and/or decreased recovery rates on our assets; delays in identifying and acquiring our targeted assets; our ability to borrow to finance our assets and the terms thereof; changes in governmental laws, regulations, or policies affecting our business; changes to our relationships with our external managers; our ability to maintain our qualification as a REIT for federal tax purposes; our ability to maintain our exemption from registration under the Investment Company Act; and risks associated with investing in real estate assets, including changes in business conditions and the general economy. These and other risks, uncertainties and factors, including the risk factors described in Item 1A &#8211; &#8220;Risk Factors&#8221; elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, as updated by those risks described in our subsequent filings under the Exchange Act, could cause our actual results to differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements we make. All forward-looking statements speak only as of the date on which they are made. New risks and uncertainties arise over time and it is not possible to predict those events or how they may affect us. Except as required by law, we are not obligated to, and do not intend to, update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. 

