 Item 1. &#32; Business 

OVERVIEW 

HRG 

Overview 

We are a holding company that conducts its operations through its operating subsidiaries. As of September 30, 2016 , our principal operating subsidiaries include the following: (i) Spectrum Brands, our subsidiary that provides global branded consumer products; (ii) FGL, our subsidiary that provides life insurance and annuity products; and (iii) Front Street, our subsidiary engaged in the business of providing long-term reinsurance, including reinsurance to the specialty insurance sector of fixed, deferred and payout annuities. 

We were incorporated in Delaware in 1954 under the name Zapata Corporation and reincorporated in Nevada in April 1999 under the same name. On December 23, 2009, we reincorporated in Delaware under the name Harbinger Group Inc. Effective March 9, 2015, we changed our name from Harbinger Group Inc. to HRG Group, Inc. Our Common Stock trades on the New York Stock Exchange ("NYSE") under the symbol "HRG." Our principal executive offices are located at 450 Park Avenue, 29th Floor, New York, New York 10022. 

We currently operate our business in two reporting segments: Consumer Products and Insurance. For the results of operations by segment and other segment data, see Part IV, Item 15. " Note 25 , Segment and Geographic Data " to HRG’s Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this report. 

For detailed information about revenues, operating income and total assets of HRG and its operating subsidiaries, see the financial statements beginning on page F-1 and S-1, respectively, of this report. 

Strategy 

During Fiscal 2016, we took certain actions to streamline our business and simplify our holding company structure. For instance, we sold our interest in Compass Production Partners ("Compass"), our former subsidiary that was engaged in the business of owning and operating oil and natural gas assets, and commenced the wind-down of Salus, our subsidiary that was engaged in the financing and asset management business. We also sold our interest in CorAmerica Capital, LLC ("CorAmerica"), our former subsidiary engaged in the business of asset management, and wound-down Energy &amp; Infrastructure Capital LLC, our former subsidiary engaged in the business of asset management. In addition, FGL, our insurance subsidiary, entered into the FGL Merger Agreement pursuant to which at the effective time of the FGL Merger, the issued and outstanding shares of FGL common stock 

will be cancelled and converted automatically into the right to receive $26.80 in cash, without interest. See Part I, Item 1. "Business-FGL-FGL Merger" of this report for further information. 

For Fiscal 2017, we decided to initiate a process to explore and evaluate strategic alternatives available to the Company with a view towards maximizing shareholder value. We believe that HRG is an excellent company that owns great businesses that have generated strong performance over a long period of time. We believe that we are well-positioned to take advantage of the opportunities that may be available to us through the review of strategic alternatives. Strategic alternatives may include, but are not limited to, a merger, sale or other business combination involving the Company or its assets. We are under no pressure to transact and have not set a definitive schedule to complete our review of strategic alternatives. There can be no assurance that this process will result in a transaction, or if a transaction is undertaken, as to its terms or timing. 

Competition 

We and our subsidiaries face intense competition from a variety of sources in carrying our respective businesses and achieving our objectives. Many of our competitors may be better established, possess greater human and other resources than us, and our financial resources may be relatively limited when compared with many of these competitors. Any of these factors may place us at a competitive disadvantage in contrast to our competitors. See elsewhere in this report for discussion of competition faced by our subsidiaries. See Part I, Item 1A. "Risk Factors-Risks Related to HRG-Our subsidiaries operate in highly-competitive industries, limiting their ability to gain or maintain their positions in their respective industries." 

Employees 

At September 30, 2016 , HRG employed 21 &#32;persons and HRG’s subsidiaries employed approximately 16,000 &#32;persons. In the normal course of business, HRG and its subsidiaries use contract personnel to supplement their employee base to meet business needs. As of September 30, 2016 , none of HRG’s employees were represented by labor unions or covered by collective bargaining agreements. See the remainder of this report for additional information regarding the employees of HRG’s subsidiaries. HRG believes that its overall relationship with its employees is good. 

Available Information 

Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to reports filed pursuant to Sections 13(a) and 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act") are made available free of charge on or through our website at www.hrggroup.com as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC" or the "Commission"). The information on our website is not, and shall not be deemed to be, part of this report or incorporated into any other filings we make with the Commission. 

You may read and copy any materials we file with the Commission at the Commission’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. You may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the Commission at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC also maintains a website that contains our reports, proxy statements and other information at www.sec.gov. In addition, copies of our Corporate Governance Guidelines, Audit Committee Charter, Compensation Committee Charter, Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee Charter, Code of Ethics, Code of Ethics for our Chief Executive and Senior Financial Officers and Executive Sessions policy are available at our website at www.hrggroup.com under "Investor Relations-Corporate Governance." Copies will also be provided to any HRG stockholder upon written request to Investor Relations, HRG Group, Inc. at 450 Park Avenue, 29th Floor, New York, NY 10022 or via electronic mail at investorrelations@hrggroup.com. 

For additional information regarding Spectrum Brands and FGL, including information in addition to that included in HRG’s SEC reports and public announcements, we direct you to Spectrum Brands’ and FGL’s public announcements and filings made with the SEC. You should follow and read the SEC filings, press releases and other public statements made by Spectrum Brands, FGL and their respective representatives, as we expect that they will make additional information available through these channels. See Part I, Item 1. "Business-Our Operating Subsidiaries-Spectrum Brands-Available Information" for additional information regarding Spectrum Brands and Part I, Item 1. "Business-Our Operating Subsidiaries-FGL-Available Information" for additional information regarding FGL. 

OUR OPERATING SUBSIDIARIES 

Spectrum Brands 

Spectrum Brands, a Delaware corporation and a subsidiary of HRG, is a diversified global branded consumer products company. Spectrum Brands’ common stock trades on the NYSE under the symbol "SPB." As of September 30, 2016 , HRG owned approximately 57.8% &#32;of Spectrum Brands’ common stock. 

Spectrum Brands manufactures, markets and/or distributes its products in approximately 160 &#32;countries in the North America ("NA"); Europe, Middle East &amp; Africa ("EMEA"); Latin America ("LATAM") and Asia-Pacific ("APAC") regions through a variety of trade channels, including retailers, wholesalers and distributors, original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs"), 

construction companies, and hearing aid professionals. Spectrum Brands enjoys strong name recognition in its regions under Spectrum Brands’ various brands and patented technologies across multiple product categories. Spectrum Brands manages its business in five vertically integrated, product lines: (i) Global Batteries &amp; Appliances ("GBA"); (ii) Hardware &amp; Home Improvement ("HHI"); (iii) Global Pet Supplies ("PET"); (iv) Home and Garden ("H&amp;G"); and (v) Global Auto Care ("GAC"). Geographic strategic initiatives and financial objectives are determined at the corporate level. Each segment is responsible for implementing defined strategic initiatives and achieving certain financial objectives and has a general manager responsible for sales and marketing initiatives and the financial results for all product lines within that segment. 

Spectrum Brands’ operating performance is influenced by a number of factors including: general economic conditions; foreign exchange fluctuations; trends in consumer markets; consumer confidence and preferences; Spectrum Brands’ overall product line mix, including pricing and gross margin, which vary by product line and geographic market; pricing of certain raw materials and commodities; energy and fuel prices; and Spectrum Brands’ general competitive position, especially as impacted by Spectrum Brands’ competitors’ advertising and promotional activities and pricing strategies. 

See Part II, Item 7. " Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations " for for further discussion of the operating results of Spectrum Brands. 

Spectrum Brands’ Product Lines 

Global Batteries and Appliances (GBA) 

Spectrum Brands’ consumer batteries &#32;product category consists of alkaline batteries, zinc carbon batteries, nickel metal hydride (NiMH) rechargeable batteries and battery chargers primarily under the Rayovac and VARTA brands. Additionally, Spectrum Brands manufactures alkaline batteries for third parties who sell under their own private labels. Spectrum Brands also offers a broad line of battery-powered portable lighting products including flashlights and lanterns under the Rayovac and VARTA brands, and other proprietary brand names pursuant to licensing arrangements with third parties. Spectrum Brands manufactures and sells hearing aid batteries under several brand names and private labels for many major hearing aid device manufacturers. Other specialty battery products include camera batteries, lithium batteries, silver oxide batteries, keyless entry batteries, portable chargers and coin cells for use in watches, cameras, calculators, communications equipment, and medical instruments. 

Spectrum Brands’ small appliances &#32;product category consists of small kitchen appliances under the Black &amp; Decker, Russell Hobbs, George Foreman, Juiceman and Breadman brands, including toaster ovens, toasters, sandwich makers, coffeemakers, coffee grinders, can openers, electric knives, grills, deep fryers, food choppers, food processors, slow cookers, hand mixers, blenders, juicers, bread makers, kettles, rice cookers and steamers. Spectrum Brands also sells small home product appliances, including hand-held irons, vacuum cleaners, air purifiers, clothes shavers and heaters, primarily under the Black &amp; Decker and Russell Hobbs brands. 

Spectrum Brands’ personal care &#32;product category includes a broad line of electric shaving and grooming products under the Remington brand name, including men’s rotary and foil shavers, beard and mustache trimmers, body, nose and ear trimmers, women’s shavers, haircut kits and intense pulsed light hair removal systems. Other personal care products include hand-held dryers, curling irons, straightening irons, brush irons, hair setters, facial brushes, skin appliances, electric toothbrushes and hair accessories. 

Spectrum Brands manages its GBA sales teams by geographic region and product category. Spectrum Brands sells primarily to large retailers, online retailers, wholesalers, distributors, warehouse clubs, food and drug chains and specialty trade or retail outlets such as consumer electronics stores, department stores, discounters and other specialty stores. Spectrum Brands maintains separate sales teams to service (i) its retail sales and distribution channels; (ii) its hearing aid professionals channel; and (iii) its industrial distributors and OEM sales and distribution channel. International distribution varies by region and is often executed on a country-by-country basis. Spectrum Brands utilizes a network of independent brokers to service participants in selected distribution channels. &#32; 

Hardware and Home Improvement (HHI) 

Spectrum Brands’ lockset &#32;product category includes a broad range of residential locksets and door hardware including knobs, levers, deadbolts, handle sets and electronics under three main brands: (i) Kwikset, residential door hardware sold primarily in the U.S.; (ii) Weiser, residential door hardware sold primarily in Canada; and (iii) Baldwin, luxury residential door hardware. Spectrum Brands’ residential lockset products also incorporate a patented SmartKey technology that enables consumers to easily rekey their locks without hiring a locksmith. The product category also includes electronic and connected locks such as Kevo Bluetooth enabled deadbolt which turns a smart phone into a key and allows authorized users to open their deadbolt by simply touching the lock or remotely with connected devices. 

Spectrum Brands’ plumbing &#32;product category includes kitchen, bath and shower faucets, as well as other plumbing products and fixtures through Spectrum Brands’ Pfister brand, which brings showroom styles to the mass market at affordable prices and offers a lifetime warranty on all of its products. Pfister seeks to differentiate itself from the competition through its breadth of styles and finishes, along with innovations designed to meet a variety of consumer, plumber and builder needs. 

Spectrum Brands’ hardware &#32;product category includes hinges, security hardware, screen and storm door products, garage door hardware, window hardware and floor protection under the National Hardware and Stanley brand names throughout the U.S. 

and Canada. 

On October 1, 2014, Spectrum Brands acquired privately owned Tell Manufacturing, Inc. ("Tell"), a U.S. manufacturer and distributor of commercial doors, locks and hardware. Tell provides the HHI product line with an established commercial security sales position and a platform to expand Spectrum Brands’ patented SmartKey and Kevo residential lock technologies into commercial channels. The Tell acquisition also added doors and hollow metal door manufacturing capabilities, a strategically important adjacent category. 

The sales force of the HHI business is aligned by customer and geographic region, and sells primarily to large retailers, home improvement centers, hardware stores, non-retail distributors, home builders, commercial contractors, and other retailers. 

Global Pet Supplies (PET) 

Spectrum Brands’ aquatics &#32;product category includes a broad line of consumer and commercial aquatics products, including integrated aquarium kits, stand-alone tanks and stands, aquatics equipment such as filtration systems, heaters, and pumps, and aquatics consumables such as fish food, water treatments and conditioners. Spectrum Brands’ largest aquatics brands are Tetra, Marineland, Whisper, Jungle and Instant Ocean. 

Spectrum Brands’ companion animal &#32;product category includes a variety of specialty pet products including rawhide chews, dog and cat treats, small animal food and treats, clean-up and training aid products, health and grooming aids, bedding products, and consumable accessories including privacy tents, litter carpets, crystal litter cartridges, charcoal filters, corn-based litter and replaceable waste receptacles. Spectrum Brands’ largest specialty pet brands include FURminator, 8-in-1, Dingo, Nature’s Miracle, Wild Harvest and Littermaid. 

Spectrum Brands’ pet food product category includes wet and dry pet food for dogs and cats under the IAMS, Eukanuba and 8-in-1 brand names in European markets. On December 31, 2014, Spectrum Brands completed the acquisition of Procter &amp; Gamble’s European pet food business, consisting of the IAMS and Eukanuba brands for dogs and cats. 

Additionally, on January 16, 2015, Spectrum Brands acquired Salix Animal Health, a vertically integrated producer and distributor of natural rawhide dog chews, treats and snacks, offering a comprehensive line of chews made from beef hides, pork, chicken, beef and other various proteins. 

Spectrum Brands’ PET sales force is aligned by customer type, geographic region and product category, and sells primarily to mass merchandisers, grocery stores and drug chains, pet superstores, independent pet stores, warehouse clubs and other specialty retailers. International distribution varies by region and is often executed on a country-by-country basis. 

Home and Garden Improvement (H&amp;G) 

Spectrum Brands’ controls &#32;product category includes a variety of outdoor insect and weed control solutions, and animal repellents under the brand names Spectracide, Black Flag, Garden Safe, EcoLogic and Liquid Fence. Spectrum Brands’ line of outdoor control solutions are designed to assist consumers in controlling insects, weeds and animals when tackling lawn and landscaping projects themselves. 

Spectrum Brands’ household &#32;product category includes a broad array of household pest control solutions, such as spider and scorpion killers; roach and ant killers; flying insect killers; insect foggers; wasp and hornet killers; bedbug, flea and tick control products; and roach and ant baits. Spectrum Brands also offers powerful rodent traps and rodenticides with discreet designs that are easy to refill and reuse. 

Spectrum Brands’ repellents &#32;product category includes personal use pesticides for protection from various outdoor nuisance pests, especially mosquitoes. These products include both personal repellents in a variety of formulas such as aerosols, lotions, pump sprays and wipes to match consumers’ needs; as well as area repellents such as yard sprays, citronella candles and patio lanterns to allow consumers to enjoy the outdoors without bothersome pests. The brands in the insect repellents category are Cutter and Repel. 

The H&amp;G business sales force is geographically aligned with Spectrum Brands’ key customers, and sells primarily to home improvement centers, mass merchandisers, dollar stores, hardware stores, home and garden distributors, and food and drug retailers, primarily in the U.S. 

Global Auto Care (GAC) 

Spectrum Brands entered the GAC product line through its acquisition of Armored Auto Group ("AAG") on May 21, 2015, which consists of products within the automotive aftermarket appearance, performance chemicals, and do-it-yourself automotive air conditioner recharge product categories. 

Spectrum Brands’ appearance &#32;product category includes protectants, wipes, tire and wheel care products, glass cleaners, leather care products, air fresheners and washes designed to clean, shine, refresh and protect interior and exterior automobile surfaces under the brand name Armor All. 

Spectrum Brands’ performance &#32;product category includes STP branded fuel and oil additives, functional fluids and automotive appearance products that benefit from a rich heritage in the car enthusiast and racing scenes. 

Spectrum Brands’ A/C recharge &#32;product category includes do-it-yourself automotive air conditioner recharge products under 

the A/C PRO brand name, along with other refrigerant and oil recharge kits, sealants and accessories. 

The GAC business sales force is geographically aligned with key customers and supply chains, and sells primarily to big-box auto, auto specialty retail, mass retailers, food and drug retailers, and small regional and convenience store retailers. Spectrum Brands’ small regional and convenience store customers are serviced by brokers and distributors. International distribution varies by region and is often executed on a country-by-country basis. 

Sales, Distribution and Competition 

Spectrum Brands sells its products through a variety of trade channels, including retailers, wholesalers and distributors, hearing aid professionals, construction companies and OEMs. Spectrum Brands’ sales generally are made through the use of individual purchase orders, consistent with industry practice. Retail sales of the consumer products that Spectrum Brands markets have been increasingly consolidated on a worldwide basis into a small number of regional and national mass merchandisers and e-commerce companies that generally have strong negotiating power with their suppliers. A significant percentage of Spectrum brands’ sales are attributable to a limited group of retailer customers, including ( in alphabetical order ), Amazon, Argos, Autozone, Dollar General, Lowe’s, PetCo, PetSmart, Target, The Home Depot, and Wal-Mart. Spectrum Brands’ sales to its largest customer, Wal-Mart, represented approximately 15% &#32;of its consolidated net sales for Fiscal 2016 . No other customer accounted for more than 10% of Spectrum Brands’ consolidated net sales in Fiscal 2016 . 

Factors influencing product sales include brand name recognition, perceived quality, price, performance, product packaging, design innovation, and consumer confidence and preferences as well as creative marketing, promotion and distribution strategies. Spectrum Brands competes for limited shelf space and consumer acceptance based on location and product segment. Spectrum Brands also competes with its retail customers, who use their own private label brands, and with distributors and foreign manufacturers of unbranded products, typically at lower prices. Spectrum Brands attempts to address these competitive challenges through a portfolio of well-recognized consumer product brands, business relationships with global retailers, distributors and wholesalers, an expansive distribution network, innovative new products, packaging and technologies and an experienced management team. See Part I, Item 1A. "Risk Factors-Risk Related to Spectrum Brands’ Business-Spectrum Brands participates in very competitive markets and it may not be able to compete successfully, causing Spectrum Brands to lose market share and sales." 

Within Spectrum Brands’ GBA product line, primary competitors for consumer batteries include Energizer Holdings, Inc. (Energizer); Berkshire Hathaway (Duracell); Matsushita (Panasonic) and private label brands of major retailers. Primary competitors for small appliances include Newell Brands (Oster, Sunbeam, Mr. Coffee, Crockpot, Rival, Breville), General Electric (GE), De’Longhi America (DeLonghi, Kenwood, Braun), SharkNinja f/k/a Euro-Pro (Shark, Ninja), NACCO Industries (Hamilton Beach, Proctor Silex), SEB S.A.(T-fal, Krups, Rowenta), Whirlpool Corporation (Kitchen Aid, Waring), Conair Corporate (Cuisinart), Koninklijke Philips N.V. (Philips), Glen Dimplex (Morphy Richards) and private label brands for major retailers. Primary competitors in personal care include are Koninklijke Philips Electronics N.V. (Norelco), The Procter &amp; Gamble Company (Braun), Conair Corporation, Wahl Clipper Corporation and Helen of Troy Limited. 

Within Spectrum Brands’ HHI product line, primary competitors in residential locksets include Allegion (Schlage) and private label import brands such as Defiant. Primary competitors for hardware include The Hillman Group, Hampton Hardware, Crown Bolt and private label competitors. Primary competitors for plumbing include Kohler, Masco, Fortune Brands (Moen), American Standard, Glacier Bay, AquaSource, and the private label brands of major retailers. 

Primary competitors in Spectrum Brands’ PET product line are Mars Corporation, The Hartz Mountain Corporation and Central Garden &amp; Pet Company which all sell a comprehensive line of pet supplies that compete across Spectrum Brands’ product categories. The pet supplies product category is highly fragmented with no competitor holding a substantial market share and consists of small companies with limited product lines. 

Primary competitors in Spectrum Brands’ H&amp;G product line are The Scotts Miracle-Gro Company (Scotts, Ortho, Roundup, Miracle-Gro, Tomcat); Central Garden &amp; Pet (AMDRO, Sevin) and Bayer A.G. (Bayer Advanced), S.C. Johnson &amp; Son, Inc. (Raid, OFF!); and Henkel AG &amp; Co. KGaA (Combat). 

Primary competitors in Spectrum Brands’ GAC product line include Valvoline, Prestone, Turtle Wax, Black Magic, Energizer, Newell Brands and private label brands. Spectrum Brands also encounter competition from similar and alternative products, many of which are produced and marketed by major multinational or national companies, including Mothers, Meguiars, Lucas, and Sea Foam. 

Seasonality 

On a consolidated basis Spectrum Brands’ financial results are approximately equally weighted across the fiscal quarters, however, sales of certain product categories tend to be seasonal. Sales from Spectrum Brands’ GBA segment, primarily from consumer battery and electric personal care product categories tend to increase during the December holiday season (the Spectrum Brands’ first fiscal quarter), while small appliances sales increase from July through December primarily due to the increased demand by customers in the late summer for "back-to-school" sales (the Spectrum Brands’ fourth fiscal quarter) and in December for the holiday season. Sales from Spectrum Brands’ HHI segment primarily increase during the spring and summer construction period (the Spectrum Brands’ third and fourth fiscal quarters). Sales from Spectrum Brands’ PET segment remain fairly consistent 

throughout the year with little variation. Sales from Spectrum Brands’ H&amp;G segment and GAC segment typically peak during the first six months of the calendar year (the Spectrum Brands’ second and third fiscal quarters) due to customer seasonal purchasing patterns and timing of promotional activities. 

Spectrum Brands’ sales by quarter as a percentage of annual net sales during Fiscal 2016 , 2015 , and 2014 &#32;were as follows: 

Percentage of Annual Net Consumer Products Sales 

Fiscal 

Fiscal Quarter Ended 

2015 

First Quarter 

% 

% 

% 

Second Quarter 

% 

% 

% 

Third Quarter 

% 

% 

% 

Fourth Quarter 

% 

% 

% 

Manufacturing, Raw Materials and Suppliers 

The principal raw materials used in manufacturing include zinc, electrolytic manganese dioxide used in Spectrum Brands’ consumer batteries products; brass and steel used in the manufacturing of Spectrum Brands’ HHI products, and refrigerant R-134a used in Spectrum Brands’ GAC A/C recharge products, that are sourced either on a global or regional basis. The prices of these raw materials are susceptible to fluctuations due to supply and demand trends, energy costs, transportation costs, government regulations and tariffs, changes in currency exchange rates, price controls, general economic conditions and other unforeseen circumstances. Spectrum Brands has regularly engaged in forward purchase and hedging derivative transactions in an attempt to effectively manage the raw material costs Spectrum Brands expects to incur over the next 12 to 24 months. 

Substantially all of Spectrum Brands’ rechargeable batteries and chargers, portable lighting products, personal care products and small appliances are manufactured by third party suppliers that are primarily located in the Asia-Pacific region. Spectrum Brands maintains ownership of most of the tooling and molds used by its suppliers. 

Spectrum Brands continually evaluates its manufacturing facilities’ capacity and related utilization. As a result of such analyses, Spectrum Brands has closed a number of manufacturing facilities during the past five years. In general, Spectrum Brands believes its existing facilities are adequate for its present and foreseeable needs. 

Patents and Trademarks 

Spectrum Brands uses and maintains a number of patents, trademarks, brand names and trade names that are, in the aggregate, important to its businesses. Spectrum Brands seeks trademark protection in the U.S. and in foreign countries. Spectrum Brands’ most significant registered trademarks are: 

Product Line 

Trademarks 

GBA 

Rayovac, VARTA, Remington, Black &amp; Decker, George Foreman, Russell Hobbs, Farberware, Toastmaster, Breadman, Juiceman 

HHI 

Kwikset, Weiser, Baldwin, National Hardware, Stanley, Fanal, Pfister, Tell 

PET 

Tetra, 8-in-1, Dingo, Nature’s Miracle, Wild Harvest, Marineland, Furminator, Littermaid, Birdola, Healthy Hide, Digest-eeze, Iams, Eukanuba 

H&amp;G 

Spectracide, Cutter, Hot Shot, Real Kill, Ultra Kill, Black Flag, Liquid Fence, Rid-a-bug, TAT, Garden Safe, Repel 

GAC 

Armor All, STP, A/C PRO 

Spectrum Brands owns or licenses from third parties a significant number of patents and patent applications throughout the world relating to products that Spectrum Brands sells and manufacturing equipment that Spectrum Brands uses. Spectrum Brands holds a license that expires in March 2022 for certain alkaline battery designs, technology and manufacturing equipment from Matsushita Electrical Industrial Co., Ltd. ("Matsushita"), to whom Spectrum Brands pays a royalty. Through its 56% ownership interest in Shaser, Inc., Spectrum Brands has patented technology that is used in its i-Light and i-Light Reveal product line. Through ownership of its HHI segment, Spectrum Brands owns the patented SmartKey technology, which enables customers to easily rekey their locks without hiring a locksmith. 

Spectrum Brands acquired the rights to the VARTA trademark in the consumer battery category and Johnson Controls Inc. acquired rights to the trademark in the automotive battery category from VARTA AG. VARTA AG continues to have rights to use the trademark with travel guides and industrial batteries and VARTA Microbattery GmbH has the right to use the trademark with micro batteries. Spectrum Brands is a party to a Trademark and Domain Names Protection and Delimitation Agreement that governs ownership and usage rights and obligations of the parties relative to the VARTA trademark. 

Spectrum Brands licenses the Black &amp; Decker brand in North America, Latin America (excluding Brazil) and the Caribbean for four core categories of household appliances: beverage products, food preparation products, garment care products and cooking products through a trademark license agreement with The Black and Decker Corporation ("BDC") through December 2018. Under the agreement, Spectrum Brands agreed to pay BDC royalties based on a percentage of sales, with minimum annual royalty payments of $15.0 million &#32;through calendar year 2018. The agreement also requires Spectrum Brands to comply with maximum annual return rates for products. If BDC does not agree to renew the license agreement, Spectrum Brands will have 

18 months to transition out of the brand name with no minimum royalty payments during such transition period and BDC has agreed to not compete in the four categories for five years after the end of the transition period. Upon request, BDC may elect to extend the license to use the Black &amp; Decker brand to certain additional product categories. BDC has approved several extensions of the license to additional categories and geographies. 

Spectrum Brands owns the rights to use the Remington trademark for electric shavers, shaver accessories, grooming products and personal care products; and Remington Arms Company, Inc. ("Remington Arms") owns the rights to use the trademark for firearms, sporting goods and products for industrial use, including industrial hand tools. The terms of a 1986 agreement between Remington Products, LLC and Remington Arms provides for the shared rights to use the trademark on products which are not considered "principal products of interest" for either company. Spectrum Brands retains the trademark for nearly all products which Spectrum Brands believes can benefit from the use of the brand name in its distribution channels. 

Spectrum Brands licenses the Stanley and Black &amp; Decker marks and logos in the HHI segment for such products as residential locksets, builder’s hardware, padlocks, and door hardware through a transitional trademark license agreement with Stanley Black &amp; Decker Corporation. Under the agreement and as part of the acquisition of the HHI Business in December 2012, Spectrum Brands has a royalty-free, fully paid license to use certain trademarks, brand names and logos in marketing its products and services for five years after the completion of the HHI Business acquisition. Upon termination of the agreement, HHI will be obligated to discontinue any and all use of the trademarks as designated by the arrangement within 180 days following the termination. 

Research and Development 

Spectrum Brands’ research and development strategy is focused on new product development and performance enhancements of its existing products. Spectrum Brands plans to continue to use its strong brand names, established customer relationships and significant research and development efforts to introduce innovative products that offer enhanced value to consumers through new designs and improved functionality. During Fiscal 2016 , 2015 &#32;and 2014 , Spectrum Brands invested $58.7 million , $51.3 million &#32;and $47.9 million , respectively, in product research and development. 

Governmental Regulations and Environmental Matters 

Due to the nature of Spectrum Brands’ operations, its facilities are subject to a broad range of federal, state, local and foreign legal and regulatory provisions relating to the environment, including those regulating the discharge of materials into the environment, the handling and disposal of solid and hazardous substances and wastes and the remediation of contamination associated with the releases of hazardous substances at Spectrum Brands’ facilities. Spectrum Brands believes that compliance with the federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations to which it is subject will not have a material effect upon Spectrum Brands’ capital expenditures, financial condition, earnings or competitive position. 

From time to time, Spectrum Brands has been required to address the effect of historic activities on the environmental condition of its properties. Spectrum Brands has not conducted invasive testing at all facilities to identify all potential environmental liability risks. Given the age of its facilities and the nature of its operations, it is possible that material liabilities may arise in the future in connection with Spectrum Brands’ current or former facilities. If previously unknown contamination of property underlying or in the vicinity of its manufacturing facilities is discovered, Spectrum Brands could incur material unforeseen expenses, which could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition, capital expenditures, earnings and competitive position. Although Spectrum Brands is currently engaged in investigative or remedial projects at some of its facilities, Spectrum Brands does not expect that such projects, taking into account established accruals, will cause Spectrum Brands to incur expenditures that are material to its business, financial condition or results of operations; however, it is possible that Spectrum Brands’ future liability could be material. 

Spectrum Brands has been, and in the future may be, subject to proceedings related to its disposal of industrial and hazardous material at off-site disposal locations or similar disposals made by other parties for which Spectrum Brands is held responsible as a result of its relationships with such other parties. In the U.S., these proceedings are under the Federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980 ("CERCLA") or similar state laws that hold persons who "arranged for" the disposal or treatment of such substances strictly liable for costs incurred in responding to the release or threatened release of hazardous substances from such sites, regardless of fault or the lawfulness of the original disposal. Liability under CERCLA is typically joint and several, meaning that a liable party may be responsible for all costs incurred in investigating and remediating contamination at a site. As a practical matter, liability at CERCLA sites is shared by all of the viable responsible parties. Spectrum Brands occasionally is identified by federal or state governmental agencies as being a potentially responsible party for response actions contemplated at an off-site facility. At the existing sites where Spectrum Brands has been notified of its status as a potentially responsible party, it is either premature to determine whether its potential liability, if any, will be material or Spectrum Brands does not believe that its liability, if any, will be material. Spectrum Brands may be named as a potentially responsible party under CERCLA or similar state laws for other sites not currently known to it, and the costs and liabilities associated with these sites may be material. 

It is difficult to quantify with certainty the potential financial impact of actions regarding expenditures for environmental matters, particularly remediation, and future capital expenditures for environmental control equipment. Nevertheless, based upon the information currently available, Spectrum Brands believes that its ultimate liability arising from such environmental matters, 

considering established accruals of $4.4 million &#32;for estimated liabilities at September 30, 2016 &#32;should not be material to its business or financial condition. 

Electronic and electrical products that Spectrum Brands sells in Europe, particularly products sold under the Remington brand name, VARTA battery chargers, certain portable lighting and all of Spectrum Brands’ batteries, are subject to regulation in European Union ("EU") markets under three key EU directives. The first directive is the Restriction of the Use of Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment ("RoHS") which took effect in EU member states beginning July 1, 2006. RoHS prohibits companies from selling products which contain certain specified hazardous materials in EU member states. Spectrum Brands believes that compliance with RoHS does not have a material effect on its capital expenditures, financial condition, earnings or competitive position. The second directive is entitled the Waste of Electrical and Electronic Equipment ("WEEE"). WEEE makes producers or importers of particular classes of electrical goods financially responsible for specified collection, recycling, treatment and disposal of past and future covered products. WEEE assigns levels of responsibility to companies doing business in EU markets based on their relative market share. WEEE calls on each EU member state to enact enabling legislation to implement the directive. To comply with WEEE requirements, Spectrum Brands has partnered with other companies to create a comprehensive collection, treatment, disposal and recycling program. As EU member states pass enabling legislation Spectrum Brands currently expects its compliance system to be sufficient to meet such requirements. Spectrum Brands’ current estimated costs associated with compliance with WEEE are not significant based on its current market share. However, Spectrum Brands continues to evaluate the impact of the WEEE legislation as EU member states implement guidance and as its market share changes and, as a result, actual costs to Spectrum Brands could differ from its current estimates and may be material to its business, financial condition or results of operations. The third directive is the Directive on Batteries and Accumulators and Waste Batteries, which was adopted in September 2006 and went into effect in September 2008 (the "Battery Directive"). The Battery Directive bans heavy metals in batteries by establishing maximum quantities of those heavy metals in batteries and mandates waste management of batteries, including collection, recycling and disposal systems. The Battery Directive places the costs of such waste management systems on producers and importers of batteries. The Battery Directive calls on each EU member state to enact enabling legislation to implement the directive. Spectrum Brands currently believes that compliance with the Battery Directive does not have a material effect on its capital expenditures, financial condition, earnings or competitive position. EU member states have adopted enabling legislation required by the directive and issued additional guidance. Spectrum Brands will continue to evaluate the impact of the Battery Directive and its enabling legislation. 

Certain of Spectrum Brands’ products and facilities in each of its business segments are regulated by the United States Environmental Protection Agency (the "EPA") and the United States Food and Drug Administration (the "FDA") or other federal consumer protection and product safety agencies and are subject to the regulations such agencies enforce, as well as by similar state, foreign and multinational agencies and regulations. For example, in the U.S., all products containing pesticides must be registered with the EPA and, in many cases, similar state and foreign agencies before they can be manufactured or sold. Spectrum Brands’ inability to obtain or the cancellation of any registration could have an adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations. The severity of the effect would depend on which products were involved, whether another product could be substituted and whether its competitors were similarly affected. Spectrum Brands attempts to anticipate regulatory developments and maintain registrations of, and access to, substitute chemicals and other ingredients. Spectrum Brands may not always be able to avoid or minimize these risks. 

The Food Quality Protection Act ("FQPA") established a standard for food-use pesticides, which is that a reasonable certainty of no harm will result from the cumulative effect of pesticide exposures. Under the FQPA, the EPA is evaluating the cumulative effects from dietary and non-dietary exposures to pesticides. The pesticides in certain of Spectrum Brands’ products continue to be evaluated by the EPA as part of this program. It is possible that the EPA or a third party active ingredient registrant may decide that a pesticide Spectrum Brands uses in its products will be limited or made unavailable to Spectrum Brands. Spectrum Brands cannot predict the outcome or the severity of the effect of the EPA’s continuing evaluations of active ingredients used in its products. 

Certain of Spectrum Brands’ products and packaging materials are subject to regulations administered by the FDA. Among other things, the FDA enforces statutory prohibitions against misbranded and adulterated products, establishes ingredients and manufacturing procedures for certain products, establishes standards of identity for certain products, determines the safety of products and establishes labeling standards and requirements. In addition, various states regulate these products by enforcing federal and state standards of identity for selected products, grading products, inspecting production facilities and imposing their own labeling requirements. 

Certain A/C products containing R-134a are subject to regulation in the U.S. markets under the EPA’s Significant New Alternative Policy ("SNAP Program"), which implements international agreements restricting the use of certain refrigerants. The EPA has identified use of R-134a in new automotive air conditioning systems as an approved use up to the 2020 automotive model year. The EPA has not yet approved a replacement refrigerant under the SNAP program for sale in small cans for automotive use for automobiles produced beginning with the 2021 model year, and future rulemakings from the agency are anticipated. Spectrum Brands currently believes that compliance with current and future SNAP regulations will not have a material effect on its capital expenditures, financial condition, earnings or competitive position. However, until such time as future regulations are issued and future alternate refrigerants are approved for sale in small cans, a full evaluation of these costs cannot be completed by 

Spectrum Brands. Spectrum Brands will continue to evaluate the impact of the SNAP Program as the EPA issues additional guidance. 

Employees 

Spectrum Brands had approximately 15,700 &#32;full-time employees worldwide as of September 30, 2016 . Approximately 14% &#32;of its total labor force is covered by collective bargaining agreements. There are 5 &#32;collective bargaining agreements that will expire during Spectrum Brands’ Fiscal 2017, which cover approximately 38% &#32;of the labor force under collective bargaining agreements, or approximately 5% &#32;of its total labor force. Spectrum Brands believes that its overall relationship with its employees is good. 

Available Information 

For information regarding Spectrum Brands, see the remaining section of this report. For additional information regarding Spectrum Brands, including information in addition to that included in HRG’s SEC reports and public announcements, we direct you to Spectrum Brands’ announcements and filings made with the SEC, including Spectrum Brands’ Annual Report on Form 10-K for Fiscal 2016. You should follow and read the SEC filings, press releases and other public statements made by Spectrum Brands and its representatives, as we expect that they will make additional information available through these channels. 

Spectrum Brands’ Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to reports filed pursuant to Sections 13(a) and 15(d) of the Exchange Act, are made available free of charge on or through Spectrum Brands’ website at www.spectrumbrands.com as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are filed with, or furnished to, the Commission. 

The information on Spectrum Brands’ website is not, and shall not be deemed to be, part of this report or incorporated into any other filings HRG or Spectrum Brands makes with the SEC and Spectrum Brands’ reports are not and shall not be deemed to be part of this report. You may read and copy any materials Spectrum Brands files with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. You may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC also maintains a website that contains Spectrum Brands’ reports, proxy statements and other information at www.sec.gov . 

FGL 

The FGL Business 

FGL, a Delaware corporation and subsidiary of HRG, is a provider of various types of fixed annuities and life insurance products in the U.S. Based in Des Moines, Iowa, and Baltimore, Maryland, FGL operates its annuity and life insurance operations in the U.S. through its subsidiaries FGH, Fidelity &amp; Guaranty Life Insurance Company ("FGL Insurance") and Fidelity &amp; Guaranty Life Insurance Company of New York ("FGL NY Insurance"). For over 50 years, FGL has been helping middle-income Americans prepare for retirement and unexpected loss of life. FGL’s focus on the middle-income market gives it access to significant, underserved market niches and drives FGL’s product development. As of September 30, 2016, FGL had approximately 700,000 &#32;policyholders counting on the safety and protection features of FGL’s fixed annuity and life insurance products. 

FGL offers various types of fixed annuities and life insurance products. Fixed annuities represent a retirement and savings tool which FGL’s customers rely on for principal protection and predictable income streams. In addition, FGL’s life insurance products provide its customers with a complementary product that allows them to build on their savings and assign payment of a death benefit to a designated beneficiary upon the policyholder’s death. Currently, FGL’s most popular products are fixed indexed annuities ("FIAs") that tie contractual returns to specific market indices, such as the Standard &amp; Poor's Ratings Services ("S&amp;P") 500 Index. The benefit of FIAs to FGL’s customers is to provide a portion of the gains of an underlying market index while providing principal protection. FGL believes this mix of "some upside but limited downside" fills the need for middle-income Americans who must save for retirement but who want to limit the risk of decline in their savings. In addition to FIAs, FGL also sells indexed universal life policies ("IULs") and other fixed annuities. 

In Fiscal 2016, FIAs generated approximately 71% &#32;of FGL’s total sales and the remaining 29% &#32;of sales was primarily generated from fixed annuity sales during the year. FGL invests the annuity premiums in fixed income securities and options and hedge FGL’s risk, predominantly using call options on the S&amp;P 500 Index, for the pass through of the market index returns to its policyholders. The majority of FGL’s products contain provisions that permit FGL to annually adjust the formula by which index credits are provided in response to changing market conditions. In addition, FGL’s annuity contracts generally either cannot be surrendered or include surrender charges that discourage early redemptions. 

The FGL Merger 

On November 8, 2015, FGL, Anbang, AB Infinity and AB Merger Sub entered into the FGL Merger Agreement, which was amended on November 3, 2016. Pursuant to the FGL Merger Agreement and subject to the terms and conditions set forth therein, at closing Merger Sub will merge with and into FGL, with FGL continuing as the surviving entity, which will become a direct, wholly-owned subsidiary of AB Infinity and an indirect, wholly-owned subsidiary of Anbang. 

Pursuant to the terms of the FGL Merger Agreement, the parties have set February 8, 2017 as the outside termination date for the completion of the FGL Merger. Accordingly, unless the outside termination date is extended, either party may terminate the FGL Merger Agreement if the closing of the FGL Merger does not occur prior to February 8, 2017. In addition, the FGL Merger Agreement contains certain provisions giving each of AB Infinity and FGL rights to terminate the FGL Merger Agreement under certain circumstances. Upon termination of the FGL Merger Agreement, under specified circumstances, FGL may be required to pay a termination fee to AB Infinity of $51.45 million. 

FGL and Anbang are committed to securing the remaining regulatory approvals and seek to close the FGL Merger as expeditiously as possible, however, the closing of the FGL Merger and the timing thereof is subject to the regulatory review and approval process, none of which can be assured. 

At the closing of the FGL Merger, each issued and outstanding share of FGL common stock will be cancelled and converted automatically into the right to receive $26.80 &#32;in cash, without interest (the "FGL Merger Consideration"), other than any shares of common stock owned by FGL as treasury stock or otherwise or owned by Anbang, AB Infinity or Merger Sub (which will be cancelled and no payment will be made with respect thereto), shares of common stock granted pursuant to FGL’s Equity Plan (as defined in the FGL Merger Agreement) and those shares of common stock with respect to which appraisal rights under Delaware law are properly exercised and not withdrawn. The FGL Merger Agreement permits FGL to pay out a regular quarterly cash dividend on its Common Stock prior to the closing of the transaction in an amount not in excess of $0.065 &#32;per share, per quarter (the per share amount of FGL’s most recently declared quarterly dividend). 

At the effective time of the FGL Merger, each (i) option to purchase shares of common stock (a "FGL Stock Option"), and (ii) restricted share of common stock, in each case whether vested or unvested, will become fully vested and automatically converted into the right to receive a cash payment equal to the product of (1) the number of shares subject to the award multiplied by (2) the FGL Merger Consideration (less the exercise price per share in the case of FGL Stock Options). In addition, at the effective time of the FGL Merger, each stock option ("FGH Stock Option") and restricted stock unit relating to shares of FGH whether vested or unvested, will become fully vested and automatically converted into the right to receive a cash payment equal to the product of (A) the number of shares of FGH stock subject to the award multiplied by (B) $152.44 (less the exercise price in the case of such FGH Stock Options), and each dividend equivalent held in respect of a share of FGH stock ("FGL DER"), whether vested or unvested, will become fully vested and automatically converted into the right to receive a cash payment equal to the amount accrued with respect to such FGL DER. 

Pursuant to the FGL Merger Agreement, the consummation of the FGL Merger is subject to satisfaction or waiver of certain closing conditions, including, among others: (i) receipt of approval (by vote or written consent) of at least a majority of FGL’s shareholders; (ii) an information statement with respect to the FGL Merger having been filed and cleared by the SEC and having been sent to stockholders of FGL (in accordance with Regulation 14C under the Exchange Act) at least twenty (20) days prior to the closing; (iii) obtaining the requisite approvals from the IID, New York State Department of Financial Services ("NYDFS"), Vermont Department of Financial Regulation, China Insurance Regulatory Commission and the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States and (iv) the absence of any law or order enacted, issued or enforced that is in effect and that makes the consummation of the FGL Merger illegal, prevents, prohibits, restrains or enjoins the consummation of the FGL Merger. The FGL Merger Agreement does not contain any financing condition or contingency. 

On November 8, 2015, FS Holdco II Ltd. ("FS Holdco"), a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company holding a majority of the issued and outstanding shares of FGL’s common stock, delivered to FGL a written consent, adopting, authorizing, accepting and approving in all respects the FGL Merger Agreement and the transactions contemplated thereby, including the FGL Merger. On March 29, 2016, FGL filed a definitive information statement with the SEC. On November 25, 2015, FGL obtained the requisite approval for the FGL Merger from the Vermont Department of Financial Regulation. On March 14, 2016, FGL received notification from CFIUS that it had concluded all action under Section 721 of the Defense Production Act of 1950, as amended, and determined that there are no unresolved national security concerns with respect to the FGL Merger. The parties are not required to file a notification of the FGL Merger under the Hart-Scott Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, as amended, due to an available exemption. 

The FGL Merger Agreement includes customary representations, warranties and covenants of FGL, Anbang, AB Infinity and Merger Sub. Among other things, FGL and its subsidiaries are required to conduct their respective businesses and operations in the ordinary course of business until the FGL Merger is consummated. Pursuant to the FGL Merger Agreement, Anbang has agreed to cause the full and complete performance by AB Infinity of all of its obligations pursuant to the terms of the FGL Merger Agreement and in the event AB Infinity does not fulfill all of its obligations pursuant to the terms of the FGL Merger Agreement, Anbang will unconditionally and irrevocably perform such unperformed obligations of AB Infinity pursuant to the terms of the FGL Merger Agreement. 

The foregoing description of the FGL Merger Agreement and the transactions contemplated thereby does not purport to be complete. Interested parties should review the FGL Merger Agreement any other information or statement filed or furnished by FGL with the SEC. See Part I, Item 1. "Business-FGL-FGL Available Information." 

Strategy 

FGL seeks to grow its business by pursuing a set of strategies aimed at delivering sustainable and profitable growth. These strategies include: (i) taking action to protect sales in FGL’s existing markets, strengthen its business and providing a platform for sustainable growth, (ii) building off FGL’s foundational initiatives and creating a more engaging, customer-focused experience, (iii) leveraging FGL’s product capabilities for additional distribution and (iv) focusing on initiatives that FGL expects will deliver target profits. 

Competition 

FGL’s ability to compete is dependent upon many factors which include, among other things, its ability to develop competitive and profitable products, its ability to maintain stable relationships with its contracted IMOs, its ability to maintain low unit costs and its maintenance of adequate financial strength ratings from rating agencies. Principal competitive factors for FIAs are initial crediting rates, reputation for renewal crediting action, product features, brand recognition, customer service, cost, distribution capabilities and financial strength ratings of the provider. Competition may affect, among other matters, both business growth and the pricing of FGL’s products and services. Principal competitive factors for IULs are based on service and distribution channel relationships, price, brand recognition, financial strength ratings of its insurance subsidiaries and financial stability. See Part I, Item 1A. "Risk Factors-Risks Related to FGL’s and Front Street’s Businesses- FGL and Front Street operate in highly competitive industries, which could limit their abilities to gain or maintain their respective positions in the industries and could materially adversely affect their business, financial condition and results of operations." 

Products 

FGL’s experience designing and developing annuities and life insurance products is expected to allow FGL to continue to introduce innovative products and solutions designed to meet customers’ changing needs. FGL works hand-in-hand with its distributors to devise the most suitable product solutions for the ever-changing market. FGL believes that, on a practical basis, FGL has a unique understanding of the safety, accumulation, protection, and income needs of middle-income Americans. 

Annuity Products 

Through FGL’s insurance subsidiaries, FGL issues a broad portfolio of deferred annuities (fixed indexed and fixed rate annuities) and immediate annuities. A deferred annuity is a type of contract that accumulates value on a tax deferred basis and typically begins making specified periodic or lump sum payments a certain number of years after the contract has been issued. An immediate annuity is a type of contract that begins making specified payments within one annuity period (e.g., one month or one year) and typically pays principal and earnings in equal payments over some period of time. 

Deferred Annuities 

FIAs 

FGL’s FIAs allow contract owners the possibility of earning interest based on the performance of a specified market index, predominantly the S&amp;P 500 Index, without risk to principal. The contracts include a provision for a minimum guaranteed surrender value calculated in accordance with applicable law. A market index tracks the performance of a specific group of stocks representing a particular segment of the market, or in some cases an entire market. For example, the S&amp;P 500 Composite Stock Price Index is an index of 500 stocks intended to be representative of a broad segment of the market. All FIA products allow policyholders to allocate funds once a year among several different crediting strategies, including one or more index-based strategies and a traditional fixed rate strategy. High surrender charges apply for early withdrawal, typically seven to fourteen years after purchase. 

The value to the contractholder of an FIA contract is equal to the sum of deposits paid, premium bonuses (described below), index credits, up to a cap and a participation rate based on the annual appreciation (based in certain situations on annual point-to-point, monthly point-to-point or monthly average calculations) in a recognized market index less any fees for riders. Caps generally range from 3.0% &#32;to 6.0% &#32;when measured annually and 1.0% &#32;to 3.0% &#32;when measured monthly and participation rates generally range from 30.0% &#32;to 100.0% &#32;of the performance of the applicable market index. The cap can be reset annually. Certain riders allow for a contractholder to increase their cap for a set fee. As this fee is fixed, the contractholder may lose principal if the index credits received do not exceed the amount of such fee. 

Approximately 88.5% &#32;of the FIA sales for Fiscal 2016 involved "premium bonuses" or vesting bonuses. For premium bonuses, FGL increased the initial annuity deposit by a specified premium bonus of 2.0% &#32;to 3.0% &#32;and a vesting bonus of 1.0% &#32;to 9.0% . The vesting bonuses are earned over time, which increases the account value when the bonus is settled. FGL made compensating adjustments in the commission paid to the agent or the surrender charges on the policy to offset the premium bonus. 

As of September 30, 2016 , 82.0% &#32;of FGL’s FIA contracts were issued with a guaranteed minimum withdrawal benefit ("GMWB") rider. With this rider, a contract owner can elect to receive guaranteed payments for life from the FIA contract without requiring the owner to annuitize the FIA contract value. The amount of the living income benefit available is determined by the growth in the policy's benefit base value as defined in the FIA contract rider. Typically this accumulates for 10 years based on a guaranteed rate of 3.3% &#32;to 7.3% . Guaranteed withdrawal payments may be stopped and restarted at the election of the contract owner. Some 

of the FIA contract riders that FGL offers include an additional death benefit or an increase in benefit amounts under chronic health conditions. Rider fees range from 0.4% &#32;to 0.5% . 

As of September 30, 2016 , the distribution of the FIA account values by cap rate and by strategy was as follows (dollars in millions): 

Cap rate 

0% to 3% 

3% to 5% 

&gt; 5% 

Total 

1 year gain trigger 

$ 

294.0 

$ 

262.2 

$ 

32.8 

$ 

589.0 

1-2 year monthly average 

412.9 

807.9 

193.9 

1,414.7 

1-3 year monthly point-to-point 

3,911.1 

159.5 

— 

4,070.6 

1-3 year annual point-to-point 

1,089.9 

1,818.4 

352.5 

3,260.8 

3 year step forward 

— 

24.6 

126.6 

151.2 

Total 

$ 

5,707.9 

$ 

3,072.6 

$ 

705.8 

$ 

9,486.3 

Fixed Rate Annuities 

Fixed rate annuities include annual reset and multi-year rate guaranteed policies. Fixed rate annual reset annuities issued by FGL have an annual interest rate (the "crediting rate") that is guaranteed for the first policy year. After the first policy year, FGL has the discretionary ability to change the crediting rate once annually to any rate at or above a guaranteed minimum rate. Fixed rate multi-year guaranteed annuities ("MYGAs") are similar to fixed rate annual reset annuities except that the initial crediting rate is guaranteed for a specified number of years before it may be changed at its discretion. For Fiscal 2016 , FGL sold $93.9 million &#32;in fixed rate annual reset annuities and $536.0 million &#32;of fixed rate MYGAs. As of September 30, 2016 , crediting rates on outstanding (i) single-year guaranteed annuities generally ranged from 1.5% &#32;to 6.0% &#32;and (ii) MYGAs ranged from 1.0% &#32;to 5.7% . The average crediting rate on all outstanding fixed rate annuities at September 30, 2016 , was 3.3% . 

As of September 30, 2016 , the distribution of the fixed rate annuity account values by crediting rate was as follows (dollars in millions): 

Crediting rate 

1% to 2% 

2% to 3% 

3% to 4% 

4% to 5% 

5% to 6% 

Account value 

$ 

43.5 

$ 

196.3 

$ 

2,764.4 

$ 

435.1 

$ 

48.4 

As of September 30, 2016 , the MYGAs expiring guaranty account values, net of reinsurance by year were as follows: 

Multi-Year Rate Guaranteed Annuities 

Duration by Year: 

Account Value 

$ 

644.2 

269.6 

769.2 

201.7 

569.7 

Thereafter 

81.2 

Total 

$ 

2,535.6 

Withdrawal Options for Deferred Annuities 

After the first year following the issuance of a deferred annuity policy, holders of deferred annuities are typically permitted penalty-free withdrawals up to 10% of the prior year’s value, subject to certain limitations. Withdrawals in excess of allowable penalty-free amounts are assessed a surrender charge if such withdrawals are made during the penalty period of the deferred annuity policy. The penalty period typically ranges from seven to fourteen years for FIAs and three to ten years for fixed rate annuities. This surrender charge initially ranges from 0.0% &#32;to 14.8% &#32;of the contract value for FIAs and 0.0% &#32;to 13.0% &#32;of the contract value for fixed rate annuities and generally decreases by approximately one to two percentage points per year during the penalty period. The average surrender charge is 8.2% &#32;for FGL’s FIAs and 5.6% &#32;for FGL’s fixed rate annuities as of September 30, 2016 . 

The following table summarizes FGL’s deferred annuity account values and surrender charge protection as of September 30, 2016 &#32;(dollars in millions): 

SURRENDER CHARGE EXPIRATION BY YEAR: 

Fixed and Fixed-Index Annuities Account Value 

Percent of Total 

Weighted Average Surrender Charge 

Out of surrender charge 

$ 

2,393.8 

15.7 

% 

— 

% 

202.6 

1.3 

% 

3.3 

% 

2017 - 2018 

2,441.0 

16.0 

% 

5.0 

% 

2019 - 2020 

1,769.4 

11.6 

% 

7.2 

% 

2021 - 2022 

1,963.8 

12.9 

% 

8.5 

% 

Thereafter 

6,479.1 

42.5 

% 

10.6 

% 

$ 

15,249.7 

100.0 

% 

The policyholder may elect to take the proceeds of the surrender either in a single payment or in a series of payments over the life of the policyholder or for a fixed number of years (or a combination of these payment options). In addition to the foregoing withdrawal rights, policyholders may also elect to have additional withdrawal rights by purchasing a GMWB. These riders provide a GMWB, regardless of index performance, for the life of the contract. However, the benefit may vary based on performance. 

Immediate Annuities 

FGL also sells single premium immediate annuities (or "SPIAs"), which provide a series of periodic payments for a fixed period of time or for the life of the policyholder, according to the policyholder’s choice at the time of issue. The amounts, frequency and length of time of the payments are fixed at the outset of the annuity contract. SPIAs are often purchased by persons at or near retirement age who desire a steady stream of payments over a future period of years. 

The following table presents the deposits (also known as "sales") on annuity policies issued by FGL for the fiscal years ended September 30, 2016 , 2015 , and 2014 &#32;as well as reserves required by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("U.S. GAAP Reserves") as of September 30, 2016 , 2015 &#32;and 2014 &#32;(dollars in millions): 

September 30, 2016 

September 30, 2015 

September 30, 2014 

Products 

Deposits on 

Annuity 

Policies 

U.S . 

GAAP 

Reserves 

Deposits on 

Annuity 

Policies 

U.S . 

GAAP 

Reserves 

Deposits on Annuity Policies 

U.S . 

GAAP 

Reserves 

Fixed Indexed Annuities 

$ 

1,860.5 

$ 

13,148.3 

$ 

2,184.7 

$ 

12,093.5 

$ 

1,451.4 

$ 

10,766.6 

Fixed Rate Annuities 

539.1 

3,565.6 

210.5 

3,248.7 

707.9 

3,192.3 

Single Premium Immediate Annuities 

28.4 

2,917.4 

15.5 

2,956.4 

9.7 

3,201.6 

Total 

$ 

2,428.0 

$ 

19,631.3 

$ 

2,410.7 

$ 

18,298.6 

$ 

2,169.0 

$ 

17,160.5 

Life Insurance 

FGL currently offers IUL insurance policies and has previously sold term and whole life insurance products. Holders of universal life insurance policies earn returns on their policies which are credited to the policyholder’s cash value account. The insurer periodically deducts its expenses and the cost of life insurance protection from the cash value account. The balance of the cash value account is credited interest at a fixed rate or returns based on the performance of a market index, or both, at the option of the policyholder, using a method similar to that described above for FIAs. 

Almost all of the life insurance policies in force, except for the return of premium benefits on term life insurance products, are subject to an arrangement with Wilton Reassurance Company ("Wilton Re"). 

As of September 30, 2016 , the distribution of the retained IUL account values by cap rate and by strategy was as follows (dollars in millions): 

Cap rate 

2.5% - 5% 

5% - 7.5% 

7.5% - 10% 

10% - 12.5% 

12.5% + 

Total 

1 year annual point-to-point, Gold Index 

$ 

— 

$ 

— 

$ 

— 

$ 

— 

$ 

23.3 

$ 

23.3 

1 year monthly point-to-point, S&amp;P Index 

32.2 

— 

— 

— 

— 

32.2 

1 year annual point-to-point with 100% par rate, S&amp;P Index 

12.9 

6.4 

25.5 

104.0 

71.5 

220.3 

1 year annual point-to-point with 140% par rate, S&amp;P Index 

2.5 

3.2 

15.0 

— 

— 

20.7 

Total 

$ 

47.6 

$ 

9.6 

$ 

40.5 

$ 

104.0 

$ 

94.8 

$ 

296.5 

Distribution 

The sale of FGL’s products typically occurs as part of a four-party, three stage sales process between FGL Insurance, an IMO, the agent and the customer. FGL Insurance designs, manufactures, issues, and services the product. The IMOs will usually sign contracts with multiple insurance carriers to provide their agents with a broad and competitive product portfolio. The IMO will discuss product options over the phone with agents about to meet with clients. The IMO staff will also provide assistance to the agent during the selling and application process. The agent may get customer leads from the IMOs. The agent will conduct a fact find and present suitable product choices to the customers. FGL monitors each distribution partner for pricing metrics, mortality, and persistency, as well as market conduct and suitability. 

Within this business model, FGL offers its products through a network of approximately 200 &#32;IMOs, representing approximately 35,000 &#32;agents, and identifies its most important IMOs, those who FGL believes either have shown or have the potential to show the ability to generate significant production for FGL, as "Power Partners." FGL currently has 32 &#32;Power Partners, comprised of 21 &#32;annuity IMOs and 11 &#32;life insurance IMOs. During Fiscal 2016 , these Power Partners accounted for approximately 95.0% &#32;of its annual sales volume. FGL believes that its relationships with these IMOs are strong. The average tenure of the top ten Power Partners is approximately 14 &#32;years. 

FGL’s Power Partners play an important role in the development of its products. Over the last ten years, the majority of FGL’s best-selling products have been developed with its Power Partners. FGL intends to continue to have the Power Partners play an important role in the development of its products in the future, which FGL believes it provides it with integral feedback throughout the development process and assists FGL with competing for "shelf space" of new design launches. 

The top five states for the distribution of FGL Insurance products in 2016 were California, Texas, Florida, New Jersey and Michigan, which together accounted for nearly 44.8% &#32;of FGL Insurance’s premiums. 

Investments 

FGL embraces a long-term conservative investment philosophy, investing nearly all the insurance premiums FGL receives in a wide range of fixed income interest-bearing securities. 

FGL’s internal asset management team manages the bulk of the investment portfolio, and with respect to certain asset classes, FGL utilizes experienced third party companies, including FGL’s affiliates. As of September 30, 2016 , 71.2% &#32;of FGL’s $19.3 billion &#32;fixed maturity investment portfolio was managed by its employees, with the 28.8% &#32;balance managed by third parties. FGL’s investment strategy is designed to (i) achieve strong absolute returns; (ii) provide consistent yield and investment income; and (iii) preserve capital. 

In addition to active management of assets, FGL’s Investments department is also responsible for defining portfolio strategy, managing its asset/liability profile and hedging its product guarantees. 

The types of assets in which FGL may invest are influenced by various state laws, which prescribe qualified investment assets applicable to insurance companies. Additionally, FGL defines risk tolerance across a wide range of factors, including credit risk, liquidity risk, concentration (issuer and sector) risk, and caps on specific asset classes, which in turn establish conservative risk thresholds. 

FGL’s investment portfolio consists of high quality fixed maturities, including publicly issued and privately issued corporate bonds, municipal and other government bonds, asset-backed securities ("ABS"), residential mortgage-backed securities ("RMBS") and commercial mortgage-backed securities ("CMBS") and commercial mortgage loans ("CMLs"). FGL also maintains holdings in floating rate, and less rate-sensitive investments, including senior tranches of collateralized loan obligations ("CLOs"), non-agency RMBS, and various types of ABS. It is FGL’s expectation that its investment portfolio will broaden in scope and diversity to include other asset classes held by life and annuity insurance writers. FGL also has a small amount of equity holdings through its funding arrangement with the Federal Home Loan Bank of Atlanta. 

Portfolio Activity 

Over the last year, FGL continued to work with its internal asset management team and third party asset managers to broaden the portfolio’s exposure to include United States dollar ("USD") denominated emerging market bonds, highly rated preferred stocks and hybrids and structured securities including ABS. 

Derivatives 

FGL’s FIA contracts permit the holder to elect to receive a return based on an interest rate or the performance of a market index, most typically based on the S&amp;P 500 Index. FGL purchases derivatives consisting predominantly of call options and, to a lesser degree, futures contracts on the equity indices underlying the applicable policy. These derivatives are used to fund the index credits due to policyholders under the FIA contracts based upon policyholders' contract elections. The majority of all such call options are one-year options purchased to match the funding requirements underlying the FIA contracts. On the respective anniversary dates of the applicable FIA contracts, the market index used to compute the annual index credit under the applicable FIA contract is reset. At such time, FGL purchases new one-, two-, three-, or five-year call options to fund the next index credit. FGL attempts to manage the cost of these purchases through the terms of its FIA contracts, which permit FGL to change caps or participation rates, subject to certain guaranteed minimums that must be maintained. The change in the fair value of the call 

options and futures contracts is generally designed to offset the equity market related change in the fair value of the FIA contract’s related reserve liability. The call options and futures contracts are marked to fair value with the change in fair value included as a component of Net investment gains (losses). The change in fair value of the call options and futures contracts includes the gains and losses recognized at the expiration of the instruments’ terms or upon early termination and the changes in fair value of open positions. 

Outsourcing 

FGL outsources the following functions to third-party service providers: 

-  new business administration; 

-  service of existing policies; 

-  underwriting administration of life insurance applications; 

-  call centers; 

-  information technology development and maintenance; 

-  investment accounting and custody; and 

-  hosting of financial systems. 

FGL closely manages its outsourcing partners and integrates their services into its operations. FGL believes that outsourcing such functions allows it to focus capital and FGL employees on its core business operations and perform differentiating functions, such as investment, actuarial, product development and risk management functions. In addition, FGL believes an outsourcing model provides predictable pricing, service levels and volume capabilities and allows it to benefit from technological developments that enhance its customer self-service and sales processes. 

FGL outsources its new business and existing policy administration for annuity and life products to Transaction Applications Group, Inc. Under this arrangement, Transaction Applications Group, Inc. manages all of FGL’s call center and processing requirements. FGL’s current agreement expires in March 31, 2017. 

FGL has partnered with CRL-Plus ("CRL-Plus") to implement FGL’s life insurance underwriting policies. Under the terms of the arrangement, CRL-Plus has assigned FGL a team of underwriters with Fellow Life Management Institute designations. Underwriting guidelines for each product are established by FGL’s Chief Underwriter in collaboration with FGL’s actuarial department. FGL’s Chief Underwriter and actuarial department work closely with the applicable reinsurance company to establish or change guidelines. Adherence to underwriting guidelines is managed at a case level through daily underwriting audits conducted by FGL’s Chief Underwriter as well as the CRL-Plus lead underwriter. Every three years, underwriting audits are conducted by FGL’s reinsurers. FGL’s current agreement with CRL-Plus expires in December 2016. 

FGL believes that it has a good relationship with its principal outsource service providers. 

Ratings 

FGL’s access to funding and its related cost of borrowing, the attractiveness of certain of its products to customers and requirements for derivatives collateral posting are affected by FGL’s credit ratings and insurance financial strength ratings, which are periodically reviewed by the rating agencies. Financial strength ratings and credit ratings are important factors affecting public confidence in an insurer and its competitive position in marketing products. 

As of September 30, 2016, A.M. Best Company ("A.M. Best"), Fitch Ratings ("Fitch"), Moody’s Investors Service ("Moody’s") and S&amp;P Global Ratings ("S&amp;P") issued financial strength credit and/or ratings and outlook statements regarding FGH and its wholly owned insurance subsidiaries, FGL Insurance and FGL NY Insurance. Credit ratings represent the opinions of rating agencies regarding an entity’s ability to repay its indebtedness. Financial strength ratings represent the opinions of rating agencies regarding the ability of an insurance company to meet its financial obligations under an insurance policy and generally involve quantitative and qualitative evaluations by rating agencies of a company’s financial condition and operating performance. Generally, rating agencies base their financial strength ratings upon information furnished to them by the insurer and upon their own investigations, studies and assumptions. Financial strength ratings are based upon factors of concern to policyholders, agents and intermediaries and are not directed toward the protection of investors. Credit and financial strength ratings are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold securities and they may be revised or revoked at any time at the sole discretion of the rating organization. 

Following the announcement of the proposed FGL Merger, the rating organizations have undertaken a review of FGL’s debt ratings and FGL’s insurance company subsidiaries’ financial strength ratings. The rating organizations may take various actions, positive or negative. Such actions are beyond FGL’s control and FGL cannot predict what those actions may be and the timing thereof. 

In addition to the financial strength ratings, rating agencies use an "outlook statement" to indicate a medium or long term trend which, if continued, may lead to a rating change. A positive outlook indicates a rating may be raised and a negative outlook indicates a rating may be lowered. A stable outlook is assigned when ratings are not likely to be changed. A developing outlook is assigned when a rating may be raised, lowered, or affirmed. Outlooks should not be confused with expected stability of the 

issuer’s financial or economic performance. A rating may have a "stable" outlook to indicate that the rating is not expected to change, but a "stable" outlook does not preclude a rating agency from changing a rating at any time without notice. 

A.M. Best, Fitch, Moody’s and S&amp;P review their ratings of insurance companies from time to time. There can be no assurance that any particular rating will continue for any given period of time or that it will not be changed or withdrawn entirely if, in their judgment, circumstances so warrant. While the degree to which ratings adjustments will affect sales and persistency is unknown, FGL believes if its ratings were to be negatively adjusted for any reason, FGL could experience a material decline in the sales of its products and the persistency of its existing business. See Part I, Item 1A. "Risk Factors-Risks Related to FGL’s and Front Street’s Businesses." 

Potential Impact of a Ratings Downgrade 

Under some of its International Swaps and Derivatives Association, Inc. ("ISDA") agreements, FGL has agreed to maintain certain financial strength ratings. A downgrade below these levels provides the counterparty under the agreement the right to terminate the open derivative contracts between the parties, at which time any amounts payable by FGL or the counterparty would be dependent on the market value of the underlying derivative contracts. FGL’s current rating allows multiple counterparties the right to terminate the ISDA agreement, at which time the counterparty would unwind existing positions for fair market value. No ISDA agreements have been terminated, although the counterparties have reserved the right to terminate ISDA agreements at any time. As of September 30, 2016 , the amount at risk for the ISDA agreement which could be terminated based upon its current ratings was $275.2 million , which equals the fair value to FGL of the open over-the-counter call option positions. The fair value of the call options can never decrease below zero. See Part II, Item 7A. "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk-Credit Risk and Counterparty Risk-FGL." 

In certain transactions, FGL and its counterparty have entered into a collateral support agreement requiring either party to post collateral when the net exposures exceed predetermined thresholds. These thresholds vary by counterparty and credit rating. As of September 30, 2016 &#32;and 2015 , $127.8 million &#32;and $7.0 million , respectively, of collateral was posted by FGL’s counterparties. Accordingly, the maximum amount of loss due to credit risk that FGL would incur if parties to the call options failed completely to perform according to the terms of the contracts was $147.4 million &#32;and $73.7 million &#32;at September 30, 2016 &#32;and 2015 , respectively. 

If FGL’s insurance subsidiaries held net short positions against a counterparty, and such subsidiaries’ financial strength ratings were below the levels required in ISDA agreement with the counterparty, the counterparty would demand immediate further collateralization which could negatively impact overall liquidity. Based on the market value of FGL’s derivatives as of September 30, 2016 &#32;and 2015 , FGL holds no net short positions against a counterparty; therefore, there is currently no potential exposure for FGL to post collateral. 

A downgrade of the financial strength rating of one of FGL’s principal insurance subsidiaries could affect its competitive position in the insurance industry and make it more difficult for FGL to market its products, as potential customers may select companies with higher financial strength ratings. 

Risk Management 

Risk management is a critical part of FGL’s business. FGL seeks to assess risk to its business through a formalized process involving (i) identifying short-term and long-term strategic and operational objectives, (ii) development of risk appetite statements that establish what the company is willing to accept in terms of risks to achieving its goals and objectives, (iii) identifying the levers that control the risk appetite of the company, (iv) establishing the overall limits of risk acceptable for a given risk driver, (v) establishing operational risk limits that are aligned with the tolerances, (vi) assigning risk limit quantification and mitigation responsibilities to individual team members within functional groups, (vii) analyzing the potential qualitative and quantitative impact of individual risks, including but not limited to stress and scenario testing covering over 8 economic and insurance related risks, (viii) mitigating risks by appropriate actions and (ix) identifying, documenting and communicating key business risks in a timely fashion. 

The responsibility for monitoring, evaluating and responding to risk is assigned first to FGL’s management and employees, second to those occupying specialist functions, such as legal compliance and risk teams, and third to those occupying supervisory functions, such as internal audit and the board of directors. 

Reinsurance 

FGL both cedes reinsurance and assumes reinsurance from other insurance companies. FGL uses reinsurance both to diversify risks and manage loss exposures. For instance, FGL has sought reinsurance coverage in order to limit its exposure to mortality losses and enhance FGL’s capital position. The portion of risks exceeding FGL’s retention limit is reinsured with other insurers. The use of reinsurance permits FGL to write policies in excess of amounts FGL would typically seek to retain, and also to write a larger volume of new business. 

In instances where FGL is the ceding company, FGL pays a premium to a reinsurer in exchange for the reinsurer assuming a portion of FGL’s liabilities under the policies it issued. Use of reinsurance does not discharge FGL’s liability as the ceding company because FGL remains directly liable to its policyholders and is required to pay the full amount of FGL’s policy obligations 

in the event that FGL’s reinsurers fail to satisfy their obligations. FGL collects reimbursement from its reinsurers when FGL pays claims on policies that are reinsured. In instances where FGL assumes reinsurance from another insurance company, FGL accepts, in exchange for a reinsurance premium, a portion of the liabilities of the other insurance company under the policies that the ceding company has issued to its policyholders. 

FGL monitors the credit risk related to the ability of its reinsurers to honor their obligations under various agreements. To minimize the risk of credit loss on such contracts, FGL generally diversifies its exposures among many reinsurers and limits the amount of exposure to each based on financial strength ratings. 

See Part I, Item 1A. "Risk Factors- Risks Related to FGL’s and Front Street’s Businesses" for further discussion of reinsurance credit risk. 

Wilton Re Transaction 

On January 26, 2011, FGL entered into an agreement (the "Commitment Agreement") with Wilton Re U.S. Holdings, Inc. ("Wilton"), pursuant to which Wilton agreed to cause Wilton Re, its wholly owned subsidiary, to enter into certain coinsurance arrangements with FGL Insurance following the closing of the FGH Acquisition. Pursuant to the Commitment Agreement, Wilton Re has reinsured a 100% quota share of certain of FGL Insurance’s policies that are subject to redundant reserves under Regulation XXX and Guideline AXXX, as well as another block of FGL Insurance’s in-force traditional, and IUL insurance policies. 

Wilton Re’s reinsurance of such FGL Insurance policies has not extinguished FGL Insurance’s liability with respect to such business because FGL Insurance remains directly liable to policyholders and is required to pay the full amount of its policy obligations in the event that Wilton Re fails to satisfy its obligations with respect to the reinsured business. 

The Front Street Reinsurance Transactions 

On December 31, 2012, following regulatory approval, FGL Insurance entered into a coinsurance agreement (the "Cayman Reinsurance Agreement") with Front Street Cayman. Pursuant to the Cayman Reinsurance Agreement, Front Street Cayman reinsured a 10% quota share percentage of certain FGL Insurance annuity liabilities of approximately $1.5 billion &#32;Under the terms of the Cayman Reinsurance Agreement, Front Street Cayman paid an initial ceding allowance of $15.0 million &#32;which was determined to be fair and reasonable according to an independent third-party actuarial firm. The Cayman Reinsurance Agreement is on a funds withheld basis, meaning that funds are withheld by FGL Insurance from the coinsurance premium owed to Front Street Cayman as collateral for Front Street Cayman’s payment obligations. Accordingly, the collateral assets remain under the ultimate ownership of FGL Insurance. As of September 30, 2016 , ceded reserves were $1.2 billion . 

Effective September 17, 2014, FGL Insurance entered into a second reinsurance treaty with Front Street Cayman whereby FGL Insurance ceded 30% of any new business of its MYGA block of business on a funds withheld basis. This treaty was subsequently terminated as to new business effective April 30, 2015 but will remain in effect for policies ceded to Front Street Cayman with an effective date between September 17, 2014 and April 30, 2015. Accordingly, policies issued with an effective date of May 1, 2015 and later will not be ceded to Front Street Cayman. 

Reserve Facilities 

Life insurance companies operating in the United States must calculate required reserves for life and annuity policies based on statutory principles. These methodologies are governed by "Regulation XXX" (applicable to term life insurance policies), "Guideline AXXX" (applicable to universal life insurance policies with secondary guarantees) and the Commissioners Annuity Reserve Valuation Method, known as "CARVM" (applicable to annuities). Under Regulation XXX, Guideline AXXX and CARVM, insurers are required to establish statutory reserves for such policies that exceed economic reserves. The industry has reduced or eliminated redundancies thereby increasing capital using a variety of techniques including reserve facilities. 

The CARVM Facility 

On October 5, 2012, FGL Insurance entered into a yearly renewable term indemnity reinsurance agreement with Raven Reinsurance Company ("Raven Re"), a wholly owned subsidiary of FGL Insurance (the "Raven Reinsurance Agreement"), pursuant to which FGL Insurance ceded a 100% quota share of its CARVM liability for annuity benefits where surrender charges are waived. To collateralize its obligations under the Raven Reinsurance Agreement, Raven Re entered into a reimbursement agreement with Nomura Bank International plc ("NBI"), an affiliate of Nomura Securities International, Inc., and FGL (the "Reimbursement Agreement") whereby a subsidiary of NBI issued trust notes and NBI issued a $295.0 million &#32;letter of credit that, in each case, were deposited into a reinsurance trust as collateral for Raven Re’s obligations under the Raven Reinsurance Agreement (the "NBI Facility"). Pursuant to the NBI Facility, FGL Insurance takes full credit on its statutory financial statements for the CARVM reserve ceded to Raven Re. The letter of credit facility automatically reduces each calendar quarter by $6.3 million . As of September 30, 2016 , there was $201.0 million &#32;available under the letter of credit facility. The NBI Facility will terminate on September 30, 2017, although the facility may terminate earlier, in accordance with the terms of the Reimbursement Agreement. Under the terms of the Reimbursement Agreement, in the event the letter of credit is drawn upon, Raven Re is required to repay the amounts utilized, and FGH is obligated to repay the amounts utilized if Raven Re fails to make the required reimbursement. FGH also is required to make capital contributions to Raven Re in the event that Raven Re’s statutory capital and surplus falls below certain defined levels. As of December 31, 2015, Raven Re’s statutory capital and surplus was $28.3 million &#32;in excess of the minimum level required under the Reimbursement Agreement. &#32; See Part II, Item 7A. "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk-Credit Risk and Counterparty Risk-FGL." 

Regulation 

Overview 

FGL Insurance, FGL NY Insurance and Raven Re are subject to comprehensive regulation and supervision in their domiciles, Iowa, New York and Vermont, respectively, and in each state in which they do business. FGL Insurance does business throughout the United States, except for New York. FGL NY Insurance only does business in New York. Raven Re is a special purpose captive reinsurance company that only provides reinsurance to FGL Insurance under the Raven Reinsurance Agreement ("CARVM Treaty"). Following its re-domestication to Iowa, FGL Insurance’s principal insurance regulatory authority is the IID. State insurance departments throughout the United States also monitor FGL Insurance’s insurance operations as a licensed insurer. The NYDFS regulates the operations of FGL NY Insurance, which is domiciled and licensed in New York. The purpose of these regulations is primarily to protect policyholders and beneficiaries and not general creditors and shareholders of those insurers. Many of the laws and regulations to which FGL Insurance and FGL NY Insurance are subject are regularly re-examined and existing or future laws and regulations may become more restrictive or otherwise adversely affect their operations. 

Generally, insurance products underwritten by and rates used by FGL Insurance and FGL NY Insurance must be approved by the insurance regulators in each state in which they are sold. Those products are also substantially affected by federal and state tax laws. For example, changes in tax law could reduce or eliminate the tax-deferred accumulation of earnings on the deposits paid by the holders of annuities and life insurance products, which could make such products less attractive to potential purchasers. A shift away from life insurance and annuity products could reduce FGL Insurance’s and FGL NY Insurance’s income from the sale of such products, as well as the assets upon which FGL Insurance and FGL NY Insurance earn investment income. In addition, insurance products may also be subject to the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 ("ERISA"). 

State insurance authorities have broad administrative powers over FGL Insurance and FGL NY Insurance with respect to all aspects of the insurance business including: 

-  licensing to transact business; 

-  licensing agents; 

-  prescribing which assets and liabilities are to be considered in determining statutory surplus; 

-  regulating premium rates for certain insurance products; 

-  approving policy forms and certain related materials; 

-  determining whether a reasonable basis exists as to the suitability of the annuity purchase recommendations producers make; 

-  regulating unfair trade and claims practices; 

-  establishing reserve requirements and solvency standards; 

-  regulating the amount of dividends that may be paid in any year; 

-  regulating the availability of reinsurance or other substitute financing solutions, the terms thereof and the ability of an insurer to take credit on its financial statements for insurance ceded to reinsurers or other substitute financing solutions; 

-  fixing maximum interest rates on life insurance policy loans and minimum accumulation or surrender values; and 

-  regulating the type, amounts, and valuations of investments permitted, transactions with affiliates, and other matters. 

Financial Regulation 

State insurance laws and regulations require FGL Insurance, FGL NY Insurance and Raven Re to file reports, including financial statements, with state insurance departments in each state in which they do business, and their operations and accounts are subject to examination by those departments at any time. FGL Insurance, FGL NY Insurance and Raven Re prepare statutory financial statements in accordance with accounting practices and procedures prescribed or permitted by these departments. 

The National Association of Insurance Commissioners ("NAIC") has approved a series of statutory accounting principles and various model regulations that have been adopted, in some cases with certain modifications, by all state insurance departments. These statutory principles are subject to ongoing change and modification. For instance, the NAIC adopted, effective with the annual reporting period ending December 31, 2010, revisions to the Annual Financial Reporting Model Regulation (or the Model Audit Rule) related to auditor independence, corporate governance and internal control over financial reporting. These revisions require that insurance companies, such as FGL Insurance and FGL NY Insurance, file reports with state insurance departments regarding their assessments of internal control over financial reporting. Moreover, compliance with any particular regulator’s interpretation of a legal or accounting issue may not result in compliance with another regulator’s interpretation of the same issue, particularly when compliance is judged in hindsight. Any particular regulator’s interpretation of a legal or accounting issue may change over time to FGL Insurance’s or FGL NY Insurance’s detriment, or changes to the overall legal or market environment, even absent any change of interpretation by a particular regulator, may cause FGL Insurance and FGL NY Insurance to change their views regarding the actions they need to take from a legal risk management perspective, which could necessitate changes to FGL Insurance’s or FGL NY Insurance’s practices that may, in some cases, limit their ability to grow and improve profitability. 

State insurance departments conduct periodic examinations of the books and records, financial reporting, policy and rate filings, market conduct and business practices of insurance companies domiciled in their states, generally once every three to five years. Examinations are generally carried out in cooperation with the insurance departments of other states under guidelines promulgated by the NAIC. State insurance departments also have the authority to conduct examinations of non-domiciliary insurers that are licensed in their states. The Maryland Insurance Administration ("MIA") completed a routine financial examination of FGL Insurance for the three-year period ended December 31, 2012, and found no material deficiencies and proposed no adjustments to the financial statements as filed. The NYDFS completed a routine financial examination of FGL NY for the three-year period ended December 31, 2009, and found no material deficiencies and proposed no adjustments to the financial statements as filed. The NYDFS is in the process of completing a routine financial examination of FGL NY Insurance for the three-year periods ended December 31, 2012. 

Additionally, the Vermont Department of Financial Regulation has completed a routine financial examination of Raven Re for the period from April 7, 2011 (commencement of business) through December 31, 2012. It found no material deficiencies and proposed no adjustments to the financial statements as filed. 

Going forward, FGL Insurance will be subject to financial and market conduct examinations by the IID, the primary regulatory authority for Iowa domestic life insurance companies. 

Dividend and Other Distribution Payment Limitations 

The Iowa insurance law and the New York insurance law regulate the amount of dividends that may be paid in any year by FGL Insurance and FGL NY Insurance, respectively. Each year, FGL Insurance and FGL NY Insurance may pay a certain limited amount of ordinary dividends or other distributions without being required to obtain the prior consent of the Iowa Insurance Commissioner ("Iowa Commissioner") or the NYDFS, respectively. However, to pay any dividends or distributions (including the payment of any dividends or distributions for which prior consent is not required), FGL Insurance and FGL NY Insurance must provide advance written notice to the Iowa Commissioner or the NYDFS, respectively. 

Pursuant to Iowa insurance law, ordinary dividends are payments, together with all other such payments within the preceding twelve months, that do not exceed the greater of (i) 10% of FGL Insurance’s statutory surplus as regards policyholders as of December 31 of the preceding year; or (ii) the net gain from operations of FGL Insurance (excluding realized capital gains) for the 12-month period ending December 31 of the preceding year. 

Dividends in excess of FGL Insurance’s ordinary dividend capacity are referred to as extraordinary and require prior approval of the Iowa Commissioner. In deciding whether to approve a request to pay an extraordinary dividend, Iowa insurance law requires the Iowa Commissioner to consider the effect of the dividend payment on FGL Insurance’s surplus and financial condition generally and whether the payment of the dividend will cause FGL Insurance to fail to meet its required risk-based capital ("RBC") ratio. Dividends may only be paid out of statutory earned surplus. 

Any payment of dividends by FGL Insurance is subject to the regulatory restrictions described above and the approval of such payment by the board of directors of FGL Insurance, which must consider various factors, including general economic and business conditions, tax considerations, FGL Insurance’s strategic plans, financial results and condition, FGL Insurance’s expansion plans, any contractual, legal or regulatory restrictions on the payment of dividends and its effect on RBC and such other factors the board of directors of FGL Insurance considers relevant. For example, payments of dividends could reduce FGL Insurance’s RBC and financial condition and lead to a reduction in FGL Insurance’s financial strength rating. See Part I, Item 1A. "Risk Factors-Risks Relating to FGL’s and Front Street’s Businesses-A financial strength ratings downgrade, potential 

downgrade, or any other negative action by a rating agency, could make FGL’s product offerings less attractive and increase its cost of capital, and thereby could adversely affect FGL’s financial condition and results of operations." 

FGL NY Insurance has historically not paid dividends. Except that, in 2012, FGL NY Insurance paid a $4.4 million &#32;dividend to FGL Insurance after a determination that, as a result of capital contributions by FGL Insurance, FGL NY Insurance was overcapitalized. 

Surplus and Capital 

FGL Insurance and FGL NY Insurance are subject to the supervision of the regulators in states where they are licensed to transact business. Regulators have discretionary authority in connection with the continuing licensing of these entities to limit or prohibit sales to policyholders if, in their judgment, the regulators determine that such entities have not maintained the minimum surplus or capital or that the further transaction of business will be hazardous to policyholders. 

Risk-Based Capital 

In order to enhance the regulation of insurers’ solvency, the NAIC adopted a model law to implement RBC requirements for life, health and property and casualty insurance companies. All states have adopted the NAIC’s model law or a substantially similar law. RBC is used to evaluate the adequacy of capital and surplus maintained by an insurance company in relation to risks associated with: (i) asset risk, (ii) insurance risk, (iii) interest rate risk, and (iv) business risk. In general, RBC is calculated by applying factors to various asset, premium and reserve items, taking into account the risk characteristics of the insurer. Within a given risk category, these factors are higher for those items with greater underlying risk and lower for items with lower underlying risk. The RBC formula is used as an early warning regulatory tool to identify possible inadequately capitalized insurers for purposes of initiating regulatory action, and not as a means to rank insurers generally. Insurers that have less statutory capital than the RBC calculation requires are considered to have inadequate capital and are subject to varying degrees of regulatory action depending upon the level of capital inadequacy. As of the most recent annual statutory financial statements filed with insurance regulators, the RBC ratios for FGL Insurance and FGL NY Insurance each exceeded the minimum RBC requirements. 

Nevertheless, it may be desirable to maintain an RBC ratio in excess of the minimum requirements in order to maintain or improve FGL’s financial strength ratings. FGL’s historical RBC ratios are presented in the table below. See Part I, Item 1A. "Risk Factors-Risks Relating to FGL’s and Front Street’s Businesses-A financial strength ratings downgrade, potential downgrade, or any other negative action by a rating agency, could make FGL’s product offerings less attractive and increase its cost of capital, and thereby could adversely affect FGL’s financial condition and results of operations." 

RBC Ratio 

As of: 

December 31, 2015 

% 

December 31, 2014 

% 

December 31, 2013 

% 

December 31, 2012 

% 

Insurance Regulatory Information System Tests 

The NAIC has developed a set of financial relationships or tests known as the Insurance Regulatory Information System ("IRIS") to assist state regulators in monitoring the financial condition of U.S. insurance companies and identifying companies that require special attention or action by insurance regulatory authorities. A ratio falling outside the prescribed "usual range" is not considered a failing result. Rather, unusual values are viewed as part of the regulatory early monitoring system. In many cases, it is not unusual for financially sound companies to have one or more ratios that fall outside the usual range. Insurance companies generally submit data annually to the NAIC, which in turn analyzes the data using prescribed financial data ratios, each with defined "usual ranges". Generally, regulators will begin to investigate or monitor an insurance company if its ratios fall outside the usual ranges for four or more of the ratios. IRIS consists of a statistical phase and an analytical phase whereby financial examiners review insurers’ annual statements and financial ratios. The statistical phase consists of 12 key financial ratios based on year-end data that are generated from the NAIC database annually; each ratio has a "usual range" of results. As of December 31, 2015, FGL Insurance, FGL NY Insurance and Raven Re each had two ratios outside the usual range. FGL Insurance’s and Raven Re’s IRIS ratio for change in premiums was outside the usual range. FGL Insurance and FGL NY Insurance’s IRIS ratio for change in reserving was outside the usual range. In addition, FGL NY Insurance and Raven Re’s adequacy of investment income also fell outside of the usual range. 

In all instances in prior years, regulators have been satisfied upon follow-up that no regulatory action was required. FGL Insurance, FGL NY Insurance and Raven Re are not currently subject to regulatory restrictions based on these ratios. 

Insurance Reserves 

State insurance laws require insurers to analyze the adequacy of reserves. The respective appointed actuaries for FGL Insurance, FGL NY Insurance and Raven Re must each submit an opinion on an annual basis that their respective reserves, when considered 

in light of the respective assets FGL Insurance, FGL NY Insurance and Raven Re hold with respect to those reserves, make adequate provision for the contractual obligations and related expenses of FGL Insurance, FGL NY Insurance and Raven Re. FGL Insurance, FGL NY Insurance and Raven Re have filed all of the required opinions with the insurance departments in the states in which they do business. 

Credit for Reinsurance Regulation 

States regulate the extent to which insurers are permitted to take credit on their financial statements for the financial obligations that the insurers cede to reinsurers. Where an insurer cedes obligations to a reinsurer which is neither licensed nor accredited by the state insurance department, the ceding insurer is not permitted to take such financial statement credit unless the unlicensed or unaccredited reinsurer secures the liabilities it will owe under the reinsurance contract. Under the laws regulating credit for reinsurance issued by such unlicensed or unaccredited reinsurers, the permissible means of securing such liabilities are (i) the establishment of a trust account by the reinsurer to hold certain qualifying assets in a qualified U.S. financial institution, such as a member of the Federal Reserve, with the ceding insurer as the exclusive beneficiary of such trust account with the unconditional right to demand, without notice to the reinsurer, that the trustee pay over to it the assets in the trust account equal to the liabilities owed by the reinsurer; (ii) the posting of an unconditional and irrevocable letter of credit by a qualified U.S. financial institution in favor of the ceding company allowing the ceding company to draw upon the letter of credit up to the amount of the unpaid liabilities of the reinsurer and (iii) a "funds withheld" arrangement by which the ceding company withholds transfer to the reinsurer of the reserves which support the liabilities to be owed by the reinsurer, with the ceding insurer retaining title to and exclusive control over such reserves. In addition, on January 1, 2014, the NAIC Model Credit for Reinsurance Act became effective in Iowa, which adds the concept of "certified reinsurer", whereby a ceding insurer may take financial statement credit for reinsurance provided by an unaccredited and unlicensed reinsurer which has been certified by the Iowa Commissioner. The Iowa Commissioner certifies reinsurers based on several factors, including their financial strength ratings, and imposes collateral requirements based on such factors. FGL Insurance and FGL NY Insurance are subject to such credit for reinsurance rules in Iowa and New York, respectively, insofar as they enter into any reinsurance contracts with reinsurers which are neither licensed nor accredited in Iowa and New York, respectively. 

Insurance Holding Company Regulation 

As the parent company of FGL Insurance and the indirect parent company of FGL NY Insurance, FGL and entities affiliated for purposes of insurance regulation are subject to the insurance holding company laws in Iowa and New York. These laws generally require each insurance company directly or indirectly owned by the holding company to register with the insurance department in the insurance company’s state of domicile and to furnish annually financial and other information about the operations of companies within the holding company system. Generally, all transactions between insurers and affiliates within the holding company system are subject to regulation and must be fair and reasonable, and may require prior notice and approval or non-disapproval by its domiciliary insurance regulator. 

Most states, including Iowa and New York, have insurance laws that require regulatory approval of a direct or indirect change of control of an insurer or an insurer’s holding company. Such laws prevent any person from acquiring control, directly or indirectly, of HRG, FGL, FGH, FGL Insurance or FGL NY Insurance unless that person has filed a statement with specified information with the insurance regulators and has obtained their prior approval. In addition, investors deemed to have a direct or indirect controlling interest are required to make regulatory filings and respond to regulatory inquiries. Under most states’ statutes, including those of Iowa and New York, acquiring 10% or more of the voting stock of an insurance company or its parent company is presumptively considered a change of control, although such presumption may be rebutted. Accordingly, any person who acquires 10% or more of HRG’s voting securities or that of HRG, FGL, FGH, FGL Insurance or FGL NY Insurance without the prior approval of the insurance regulators of Iowa and New York will be in violation of those states’ laws and may be subject to injunctive action requiring the disposition or seizure of those securities by the relevant insurance regulator or prohibiting the voting of those securities and to other actions determined by the relevant insurance regulator. 

Insurance Guaranty Association Assessments 

Each state has insurance guaranty association laws under which insurers doing business in the state may be assessed by state insurance guaranty associations for certain obligations of insolvent insurance companies to policyholders and claimants. Typically, states assess each member insurer in an amount related to the member insurer’s proportionate share of the business written by all member insurers in the state. Although no prediction can be made as to the amount and timing of any future assessments under these laws, FGL Insurance and FGL NY Insurance have established reserves that they believe are adequate for assessments relating to insurance companies that are currently subject to insolvency proceedings. 

Market Conduct Regulation 

State insurance laws and regulations include numerous provisions governing the marketplace activities of insurers, including provisions governing the form and content of disclosure to consumers, illustrations, advertising, sales and complaint process practices. State regulatory authorities generally enforce these provisions through periodic market conduct examinations. In addition, FGL Insurance and FGL NY Insurance must file, and in many jurisdictions and for some lines of business obtain regulatory approval for, rates and forms relating to the insurance written in the jurisdictions in which they operate. FGL Insurance 

is currently the subject of seven ongoing market conduct examinations in various states. Market conduct examinations can result in monetary fines or remediation and generally require FGL Insurance to devote significant resources to the management of such examinations. FGL Insurance does not believe that any of the current market conduct examinations it is subject to will result in any fines or remediation orders that will be material to its business. 

Regulation of Investments 

FGL Insurance and FGL NY Insurance are subject to state laws and regulations that require diversification of their investment portfolios and limit the amount of investments in certain asset categories, such as below investment grade fixed income securities, equity, real estate, other equity investments and derivatives. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations would cause investments exceeding regulatory limitations to be treated as either non-admitted assets for purposes of measuring surplus or as not qualified as an asset held for reserve purposes and, in some instances, would require divestiture or replacement of such non-qualifying investments. FGL believes that the investment portfolios of FGL Insurance and FGL NY Insurance as of September 30, 2016 complied in all material respects with such regulations. 

Privacy Regulation 

FGL’s operations are subject to certain federal and state laws and regulations that require financial institutions and other businesses to protect the security and confidentiality of personal information, including health-related and customer information, and to notify customers and other individuals about their policies and practices relating to their collection and disclosure of health-related and customer information and their practices relating to protecting the security and confidentiality of such information. These laws and regulations require notice to affected individuals, law enforcement agencies, regulators and others if there is a breach of the security of certain personal information, including social security numbers, and require holders of certain personal information to protect the security of the data. FGL’s operations are also subject to certain federal regulations that require financial institutions and creditors to implement effective programs to detect, prevent, and mitigate identity theft. In addition, FGL’s ability to make telemarketing calls and to send unsolicited e-mail or fax messages to consumers and customers and its uses of certain personal information, including consumer report information, are regulated. Federal and state governments and regulatory bodies may be expected to consider additional or more detailed regulation regarding these subjects and the privacy and security of personal information. 

FIAs 

In recent years, the SEC and state securities regulators have questioned whether FIAs, such as those sold by FGL, should be treated as securities under the federal and state securities laws rather than as insurance products exempted from such laws. Treatment of these products as securities would require additional registration and licensing of these products and the agents selling them, as well as cause FGL to seek additional marketing relationships for these products, any of which may impose significant restrictions on its ability to conduct operations as currently operated. Under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the "Dodd-Frank Act"), annuities that meet specific requirements, including requirements relating to certain state suitability rules, are specifically exempted from being treated as securities by the SEC. FGL expects that the types of FIAs FGL Insurance and FGL NY Insurance sell will meet these requirements and therefore are exempt from being treated as securities by the SEC and state securities regulators. However, there can be no assurance that federal or state securities laws or state insurance laws and regulations will not be amended or interpreted to impose further requirements on FIAs. 

The Dodd-Frank Act 

The Dodd-Frank Act makes sweeping changes to the regulation of financial services entities, products and markets. Certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act are or may become applicable to FGL, its competitors or those entities with which FGL does business, including, but not limited to: 

-  the establishment of federal regulatory authority over derivatives; 

-  the establishment of consolidated federal regulation and resolution authority over systemically important financial services firms; 

-  the establishment of the Federal Insurance Office; 

-  changes to the regulation of broker dealers and investment advisors; 

-  changes to the regulation of reinsurance; 

-  changes to regulations affecting the rights of shareholders; 

-  the imposition of additional regulation over credit rating agencies; 

-  the imposition of concentration limits on financial institutions that restrict the amount of credit that may be extended to a single person or entity; and 

-  the clearing of derivative contracts. 

Numerous provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act require the adoption of implementing rules or regulations. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act mandates multiple studies, which could result in additional legislation or regulation applicable to the insurance industry, FGL, its competitors or those entities with which FGL does business. Legislative or regulatory requirements imposed by or promulgated in connection with the Dodd-Frank Act may impact FGL in many ways, including, but not limited to: 

-  placing FGL at a competitive disadvantage relative to FGL’s competition or other financial services entities; 

-  changing the competitive landscape of the financial services sector or the insurance industry; 

-  making it more expensive for FGL to conduct its business; 

-  requiring the reallocation of significant company resources to government affairs; 

-  increasing FGL’s legal and compliance related activities and the costs associated therewith; or 

-  otherwise having a material adverse effect on the overall business climate as well as FGL’s financial condition and results of operations. 

Until various studies are completed and final regulations are promulgated pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, the full impact of the Dodd-Frank Act on investments, investment activities and insurance and annuity products of FGL Insurance and FGL NY Insurance remains unclear. 

ERISA 

FGL may offer certain insurance and annuity products to employee benefit plans governed by ERISA and/or the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"), including group annuity contracts designated to fund tax-qualified retirement plans. ERISA and the Code provide (among other requirements) standards of conduct for employee benefit plan fiduciaries, including investment managers and investment advisers with respect to the assets of such plans, and holds fiduciaries liable if they fail to satisfy fiduciary standards of conduct. 

In April 2016, the Department of Labor ("DOL") released its final "fiduciary" rule which could have a material impact on FGL, its products, distribution, and business model. The final rule treats persons who provide investment advice for a fee or other compensation with respect to assets of an employer plan or individual retirement account ("IRA") as fiduciaries of that plan or IRA. Significantly, the rule expands the definition of fiduciary to apply to persons, including insurance agents, who advise and sell products to IRA owners. As a practical matter, this means commissioned insurance agents selling FGL’s IRA products must qualify for a prohibited transaction exemption which requires the agent and financial institution to meet various conditions including that an annuity sale be in the "best interest" of the client without regard for the agent’s, financial institution’s or other party’s financial or other interests, and that any compensation paid to the agent and financial institution be reasonable. The final rule is effective June 2016 and generally applicable in April 2017. The rule has generated considerable controversy and is the subject of industry efforts to block implementation both in Congress and through court actions. The success or failure of these efforts cannot be predicted. Assuming the rule is not blocked, the precise impact of the rule on the financial services industry more generally, and the impact on FGL and its business in particular, is difficult to assess because the rule is new and still being studied. While FGL continues to analyze the regulation, FGL believes it could have an adverse effect on sales of annuity products to IRA owners particularly in the independent agent distribution channel. A significant portion of FGL’s annuity sales are to IRAs. Compliance with the prohibited transaction exemptions would likely require additional supervision of agents, cause changes to compensation practices and product offerings, and increase litigation risk, all of which could adversely impact FGL’s business, results of operations and/or financial condition. 

Employees 

As of September 30, 2016 , FGL had approximately 267 &#32;employees. FGL believes that it has a good relationship with its employees. In addition, FGL’s voluntary attrition has been below 8% for the past four years, which is also an indicator of an engaged and motivated workforce. 

FGL Available Information 

For information regarding FGL see the remaining section of this report. For additional information regarding FGL, including information in addition to that included in HRG’s SEC reports and public announcements, we direct you to FGL’ announcements and filings made with the SEC, including FGL’ Annual Report on Form 10-K for Fiscal 2016. You should follow and read the SEC filings, press releases and other public statements made by FGL and its representatives, as we expect that they will make additional information available through these channels. 

FGL’s Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to reports filed pursuant to Sections 13(a) and 15(d) of the Exchange Act are made available free of charge on or through FGL’s website at home.fglife.com, &#32;as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. 

The information on FGL’s website is not, and shall not be deemed to be, part of this report or incorporated into any other filings HRG or FGL makes with the SEC and FGL’s reports are not and shall not be deemed to be part of this report. You may read and copy any materials FGL files with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. You may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC also maintains a website that contains FGL’s reports and other information at www.sec.gov . 

Front Street 

Front Street, a Delaware corporation and a subsidiary of HRG, holds all of the equity of Front Street Re Ltd., a Bermuda company ("Front Street Bermuda") and Front Street Cayman, an exempted company incorporated under the laws of the Cayman Islands 

and subsidiary of HRG. Front Street Bermuda was formed in March 2010 to act as a long-term reinsurer. Front Street Cayman was formed in the Cayman Islands and on October 24, 2012, received from the Cayman Islands Monetary Authority a license to carry on business as an Unrestricted Class "B" Insurer that permits Front Street Cayman to conduct offshore direct and reinsurance business. Front Street Bermuda and Front Street Cayman are parties to reinsurance transactions. 

On December 31, 2012, following regulatory approval, Front Street Cayman entered into a coinsurance agreement (the "Cayman Reinsurance Agreement") with FGL. Pursuant to the Cayman Reinsurance Agreement, Front Street Cayman reinsured a 10% quota share percentage of certain FGL annuity liabilities. 

Effective September 17, 2014, FGL entered into a second reinsurance treaty (the "MYGA Treaty", and together with the Cayman Reinsurance Agreement, the "Reinsurance Agreements with FGL") with Front Street Cayman whereby FGL ceded 30% of any new business of its multi-year guaranteed deferred annuity ("MYGA") block of business on a funds withheld basis. This treaty was subsequently terminated as to new business effective April 30, 2015, but remains in effect for policies ceded to Front Street Cayman with an effective date between September 17, 2014 and April 30, 2015. &#32;At September 30, 2016 &#32;and 2015 , Front Street had $978.8 million &#32;and $1,058.0 million , respectively, of funds withheld receivables and $1,119.5 million &#32;and $1,226.8 million , respectively, of insurance reserves related to the Reinsurance Agreements with FGL. 

On December 16, 2013, Front Street Cayman closed a reinsurance treaty with Bankers Life Insurance Company. Under the terms of the treaty, Bankers Life Insurance Company ceded annuity business to Front Street Cayman, on a funds withheld basis. At September 30, 2016 &#32;and 2015 , Front Street had $125.8 million &#32;and $148.3 million , respectively, of funds withheld receivables and $119.0 million &#32;and $145.7 million , respectively, of insurance reserves related to this transaction. 

On October 31, 2014, Front Street Cayman purchased Ability Re from Ability Re Holdings. The Ability Re acquisition consisted of long-term care reinsurance business. The acquired reinsurance agreements complement Front Street Cayman’s existing in force long-duration insurance liabilities. At September 30, 2016 &#32;and 2015 , Front Street had $295.6 million &#32;and $357.5 million , respectively, of funds withheld receivables and $271.5 million &#32;and $348.4 million , respectively, of insurance reserves related to this transaction. 

During Fiscal 2015, Front Street Cayman also closed three additional reinsurance transactions with unaffiliated parties. At &#32; September 30, 2016 &#32;and 2015 , Front Street had $250.2 million &#32;and $146.3 million , respectively, of funds withheld receivables and $241.3 million &#32;and $135.1 million , respectively, of insurance reserves related to these transactions. &#32; 

Strategy 

Front Street was formed with the intention of building a flexible and diversified portfolio of life and annuity reinsurance treaties. Front Street may also conduct hedging and other investment activities. Front Street may, from time to time, selectively pursue other opportunities, including acquisition, and/or disposition opportunities. For Fiscal 2017, Front Street’s business strategy and activities may be impacted by the strategic review process underway at HRG. 

Competition 

The reinsurance industry is highly competitive. Front Street competes with major reinsurers, most of which are well established and have significant operating histories, strong financial strength ratings and long-standing client relationships. Front Street’s competitors include Athene Life Re Ltd., Global Atlantic Financial Group Limited, Guggenheim Life and Annuity Company, Reinsurance Group of America, Incorporated, Legal &amp; General Reinsurance Company Ltd., and Resolution Life Holdings, Inc., as well as smaller companies and other niche reinsurers. See Part I, Item 1A. "Risk Factors-Risks Related to FGL’s and Front Street’s Businesses- FGL and Front Street operate in highly competitive industries, which could limit their abilities to gain or maintain their respective positions in the industries and could materially adversely affect their business, financial condition and results of operations." 

Employees 

As of September 30, 2016, Front Street had four employees. As of September 30, 2016, none of Front Street’s employees were represented by labor unions or covered by collective bargaining agreements. Front Street believes that its overall relationship with its employees is good. 

Salus 

Salus, a Delaware limited liability company, was established to be a direct originator of secured asset-based loans to the middle market across a variety of industries. In Fiscal 2013 and February 2015, Salus completed a collateralized loan obligation ("CLO") securitization. As of September 30, 2016 , Salus and its co-lender Front Street had asset-based loans with a balance of $35.0 million , net of $11.0 million &#32;of allowance for credit losses, excluding the effect of loan participations by FGL. 

Strategy 

During Fiscal 2016, Salus determined to focus its efforts primarily on collecting on its existing loans and winding down its operations. For Fiscal 2017, Salus expects to continue to execute on its strategy of collecting on its existing loans and winding down its operations; however, it may also pursue other opportunities that it may consider strategically advantageous or 

complementary to such efforts. Salus’ ability to orderly and efficiently wind-down its business is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, some which are beyond the control of Salus. See Part I, Item 1A. "Risk Factors-Risks Related to Salus’ Business" for additional information regarding these risks. 

Employees 

As of September 30, 2016 , Salus had 7 &#32;employees. As of September 30, 2016 , none of Salus’ employees were represented by labor unions or covered by collective bargaining agreements. Salus believes that its overall relationship with its employees is good. 

