 Item 1. Business 

Overview 

Splunk provides innovative software solutions that enable organizations to gain real-time operational intelligence by harnessing the value of their data. Our offerings enable users to collect, index, search, explore, monitor and analyze data regardless of format or source. Our offerings address large and diverse data sets commonly referred to as big data and are specifically tailored for machine data. Machine data is produced by nearly every software application and electronic device in an organization and contains a definitive, time-stamped record of various activities, such as transactions, customer and user activities, and security threats. Beyond an organization&#8217;s traditional information technology (&#8220;IT&#8221;) and security infrastructure, every processor-based system, including HVAC controllers, many manufacturing systems, smart electrical meters, GPS devices and radio-frequency identification tags, and many consumer-oriented systems, such as electronic wearables, mobile devices, automobiles and medical devices that contain embedded processor chips, are also continuously generating machine data. Our offerings help organizations gain value from all of these different sources and forms of machine data. 

Our mission is to make machine data accessible, usable and valuable to everyone in an organization. Our customers leverage our offerings for various use cases, including infrastructure and operations management, applications management, security and compliance, business and web analytics, and to provide insights into data generated by the Internet of Things (&#8220;IoT&#8221;) and industrial data, among many others. Our offerings are intended to help users in various roles, including IT, security and business professionals, quickly analyze their machine data and achieve real-time visibility into and intelligence about their organization&#8217;s operations. We believe this operational intelligence enables organizations to improve service levels, reduce operational costs, mitigate security risks, demonstrate and maintain compliance, and drive better business decisions. The result is an improved level of operational visibility enabling more informed business decisions that can provide greater efficiency, security and competitive advantage for our customers. 

Our flagship product is Splunk Enterprise, a machine data platform, comprised of collection, indexing, search, reporting, analysis, alerting, monitoring and data management capabilities. Splunk Enterprise can collect and index hundreds of terabytes of machine data daily, irrespective of format or source. Our machine data platform uses our patented data processing architecture that performs dynamic schema creation on the fly, enabling users to run queries on data without having to define or understand the structure of the data prior to collection and indexing. This is in contrast to traditional IT systems that require users to establish the format of their data prior to collection in order to answer a pre-set list of questions. Our technology delivers speed and scalability when processing massive amounts of machine data. Our software leverages improvements in the cost and performance of commodity computing and can be deployed in a wide variety of computing environments, from a single laptop to large globally distributed data centers as well as public, private and hybrid cloud environments. 

Our Splunk Cloud service delivers the core functionalities of Splunk Enterprise as a scalable, reliable cloud service. Splunk Cloud can be used solely as a cloud service or via a hybrid approach that spans cloud and on-premises environments, in which a single Splunk interface can search both on-premises Splunk Enterprise instances as well as Splunk Cloud instances. 

Our Splunk Light product provides log search and analysis that is designed and priced and packaged for small IT environments, where a single-server log analytics solution is sufficient, and accordingly the daily indexing volume is limited as compared to Splunk Enterprise. Splunk Light collects, indexes, monitors, reports and alerts on a customer&#8217;s log data in real time, and can be purchased through our online store or via our channel partners. 

Hunk: Splunk Analytics for Hadoop (&#8220;Hunk&#8221;), is full-featured software for interactively exploring, analyzing and visualizing data stored in Hadoop and Amazon S3. Hunk includes a full-featured analytics stack and leverages our schema-on-the-fly and machine data fabric technologies to reduce the typical integration and deployment effort required for Hadoop projects. Hunk works on Apache Hadoop and most major commercial Hadoop distributions. Hunk is also available directly from the Amazon Elastic MapReduce console, enabling Amazon Web Services (&#8220;AWS&#8221;) customers to purchase Hunk on an hourly basis and automatically be provisioned from the Amazon Elastic MapReduce console for data in Amazon Elastic MapReduce and S3. 

Our premium solutions are purpose-built solutions that address key customer needs. Splunk premium solutions are sold separately and include: 

&#8226; 

Splunk Enterprise Security - Addresses emerging security threats and security information and event management (&#8220;SIEM&#8221;) use cases through monitoring, alerts and analytics. 

&#8226; 

Splunk User Behavior Analytics - Detects cyber-attacks and insider threats using data science, machine learning and advanced correlation. 

&#8226; 

Splunk IT Service Intelligence - Monitors the health and key performance indicators of critical IT services. 

We also complement the capabilities of Splunk Enterprise, Splunk Cloud and our premium solutions with additional content (&#8220;apps&#8221; and &#8220;add-ons&#8221;). These apps and add-ons, which are generally available for download from within our offerings, via our Splunkbase website or in our Splunk Cloud environment, provide functionality in the form of pre-built data inputs, workflows, searches, reports, alerts and dashboards that make it easier and faster for our customers to address specific use cases. Splunk, along with a number of third-party developers and customers, have developed hundreds of apps and add-ons for common data sources and valuable use cases in our core and adjacent markets. Many of these apps and add-ons are available as free downloads. Examples of apps that we and our partners have developed include: 

&#8226; 

Splunk App for AWS - Used to ensure cloud security and compliance by using AWS CloudTrail and Config data streams to monitor user activity and resources in real time. 

&#8226; 

Splunk App for Stream - Used to capture, analyze and correlate network wire data to monitor operations and end-to-end transactions without manual instrumentation. 

&#8226; 

DB Connect - Enables customers to get business and enterprise context such as customer, product and HR data from traditional relational databases using real-time integration. 

&#8226; 

Palo Alto Networks App for Splunk - Enables Splunk users to gain visibility to Palo Alto Networks firewalls in order to perform incident analysis on correlated application and user activities across all network and security infrastructures from a real-time and historical perspective. 

We also continue to develop cloud-specific Splunk apps, such as our Splunk App for Salesforce, which enables users of our Splunk Cloud service to leverage data from their Salesforce environment along with other machine data within Splunk Cloud. Splunk apps enabled us to target new markets and address markets traditionally served by point solutions. Often, as customers using additional apps generates expanded data indexing, usage, licensing and revenues for Splunk Enterprise and Splunk Cloud. 

As part of our strategy to offer an open platform, we provide application programming interfaces (&#8220;APIs&#8221;) and software development kits (&#8220;SDKs&#8221;) in major programming languages. These enable developers to build software that leverages Splunk Enterprise or Splunk Cloud as well as integrate with other parts of an organizations&#8217; IT infrastructure. 

Our online user community websites, Splunkbase and Splunk Answers, provide our customers with an environment to share apps, collaborate on the use of our software and provide community-based support. Additionally, our Splunk Dev portal allows developers the ability to download SDKs, access API documentation and see sample code for building applications using our developer environment and tools. We believe this user-driven ecosystem results in greater use of our offerings and provides cost-effective marketing, increased brand awareness and viral adoption of our offerings. 

Our offerings are designed to deliver rapid return-on-investment for our customers. They generally do not require customization, long deployment cycles or extensive professional services commonly associated with traditional enterprise software applications. Prospective users can get started with our free online sandboxes that enable our customers to immediately try and experience Splunk offerings. Users that prefer to deploy the software on-premises can take advantage of our free 60-day trial of Splunk Enterprise, which converts into a limited free perpetual license of up to 500 megabytes of data per day. Paying users can sign up for the Splunk Cloud service and avoid the need to provision, deploy and manage internal infrastructure. Alternatively, they can simply download and install the software, typically in a matter of hours, to connect to their relevant machine data sources. Customers can also provision a compute instance on AWS via a pre-built Amazon Machine Image, which delivers a pre-configured virtual machine instance with our Splunk Enterprise software. We also offer support, training and professional services to our customers to assist in the deployment of our software. 

As of January 31, 2016, we had over 11,000 customers, including 85 of the Fortune 100 companies. Our Splunk Enterprise customers pay license fees generally based on their estimated peak daily indexing capacity needs. From time to time, our customers enter into transactions that are designed to enable broad adoption of our software across their entire organization, referred to as enterprise adoption agreements (&#8220;EAAs&#8221;). EAAs provide these customers with a flexible licensing model that provides the freedom to use our software beyond their original daily indexing capacity estimates and more predictable costs that can be budgeted over a multi-year period. Our Splunk Cloud customers pay an annual subscription fee based on the combination of the volume of data indexed per day and the amount of data they wish to store. For fiscal 2016, 2015 and 2014, our revenues were $668.4 million, $450.9 million and $302.6 million, respectively, representing year-over-year growth of 48% for fiscal 2016 and 49% for fiscal 2015. Our net losses for fiscal 2016, 2015 and 2014 were $278.8 million, $217.1 million and $79.0 million, respectively. 

Our Growth Strategy 

Our goal is to make Splunk the standard platform for delivering operational intelligence and real-time business insights from machine data. The key elements of our strategy are to: 

Extend our technological capabilities. We intend to continue to invest heavily in product development to deliver additional features, address additional customer needs and enable solutions that can address new end markets. We will continue to expand into adjacent product and technology areas that enable organizations to further realize the value of their machine data. Our investments may involve organic hiring and associated development, acquisitions and licensing of third party technology. 

Continue to expand our direct and indirect sales organization, including our channel relationships, to increase our sales capacity and enable greater market presence. We will continue to increase investments in our sales and marketing organizations to enable the acquisition of new customers as well as expansion within our current customer base. Our investments will be spread across geographies, customer tiers and industries. We will continue to invest in and foster the growth of our channel relationships, both inside and outside the United States, to enable greater leverage in our go-to-market investments. 

Further penetrate our existing customer base and drive enterprise-wide adoption. We will continue to drive customer satisfaction and renewals by offering community, standard, enterprise and global support to ensure our customers&#8217; success with our offerings. We will continue to cultivate incremental sales from our existing customers through increased use of our offerings within organizations as well as consultative services that broaden the customer&#8217;s awareness of our product capabilities. In particular, we will continue to seek to upsell increased license capacity to our existing customers for additional deployments and new use cases. We believe our existing customer base serves as a strong source of incremental revenues given the horizontal applicability of our offerings and the growing machine data volumes our customers experience. Our sales teams are responsible for securing new customers, obtaining renewals of existing contracts and increasing adoption of our software by existing customers. 

Enhance our value proposition through a focus on solutions which address core and expanded use cases. We will continue to organize our go-to-market and product strategy around our customer use cases. We have invested in market groups in the Security, IT and Cloud areas, and may add additional domain expertise in business analytics and IoT, among others. This approach includes offering capabilities, either in the form of platform features or premium solutions, which target both our core use cases as well as new use cases, as driven by our corporate strategy and customer demand. We believe premium solutions in particular will enable us to increase our market penetration, expand our addressable market opportunity and make our products a more targeted solution for specific challenges that our customers face across their organizations. 

Grow our user communities and partner ecosystem to increase awareness of our brand, target new use cases, drive operational leverage and deliver more targeted, higher value solutions. We believe our user community has the potential to provide significant operating leverage by delivering apps that extend the Splunk platform into new use cases. We will continue to invest in business development initiatives in order to add additional OEM and strategic relationships to enable new sales channels for our products as well as extend our product integrations with third-party products. In addition, once these relationships have been established, we expect that OEM vendors and managed service providers will continue to invest in and create customized application functionality based on our platform. 

Continue to deliver a rich developer environment to enable rapid development of enterprise applications that leverage machine data and the Splunk platform. We intend to continue our investments in SDKs and APIs that help software developers leverage the Splunk platform and Hunk software. Our SDKs enable developers to build solutions that deeply integrate the analytics functionality of these products as well as access data stored in data indexes. Through our investments in SDKs and APIs, we intend to promote and extend the capabilities of our offerings to customers who wish to build sophisticated applications and interfaces that leverage our software and services. 

Pricing 

We price our offerings primarily on the amount of data indexed, namely the maximum aggregate volume of uncompressed data indexed on a daily basis, expressed in gigabytes, terabytes or petabytes per day. Once a data ingestion license is purchased, there is no limit or additional costs based on other product usage elements nor the customer&#8217;s preferred deployment size or model. Our Splunk Cloud and Splunk Light Cloud customers pay an annual subscription fee based on the combination of the volume of data indexed per day and the amount of data they wish to store. 

For organizations that choose to standardize on Splunk software as their enterprise-wide platform for machine data, we offer EAAs, which provide our customers with a flexible licensing model and the freedom to use our software beyond their purchased license capacity. EAAs are designed to benefit organizations of any size, from small and midsize businesses to Fortune 100 companies and provide customers with more predictable costs that can be budgeted over a multi-year period as well as enable expansion to new use cases without penalty or cost. 

Some of our products address markets where other pricing models may be prevalent. Hunk, which delivers analytics in the Hadoop market, is priced by the number of TaskTracker Nodes (Compute Nodes in YARN) in the respective Hadoop cluster over which Hunk operates. The pricing of Splunk User Behavior Analytics, which helps detect cyber-attacks and insider threats using data science, machine learning and advanced correlation, is based on the number of monitored user and system accounts. 

Splunk Technology 

Key Technologies 

We believe our investments in our products and key technologies provide significant competitive differentiation. Our key technologies are architected to support large volumes of machine data at a massive scale with minimal overhead. Our platform is highly flexible and is able to collect and index large amounts of heterogeneous data formats, from physical, virtual and/or cloud environments. 

Schema-on-the-fly. Our products collect and index data irrespective of source and format. Rather than requiring that data be input in a pre-defined structure, our schema-on-the-fly technology creates structure as data is being searched, allowing users to ask new and different questions at any time without having to re-architect a schema as would be required in a relational database. Our technology builds a schema at read time, rather than write time, and does not require pre-defined knowledge about the data it is processing. Using our technology, different users can run a variety of queries, regardless of changes in format of the data being input into the system. 

Machine data fabric. Our products enable users to process machine data no matter the infrastructure topology, from a single machine to a globally distributed, virtualized IT infrastructure. This machine data fabric allows customers to address the complexities of handling massive amounts of real-time, dynamic, heterogeneous machine data. Our APIs enable users to forward data from our software to other parts of their IT network, creating a machine data fabric across the organization irrespective of whether the data is used by our products for analysis and reporting or as a conduit to other systems. 

Search processing language. Our proprietary search processing language is specifically designed for working with machine data. Our search language supports arithmetic operations to refine searches and conduct calculations with the results of a query in real time. Statistical and reporting commands native to our search language let users perform more robust calculations and analytics. Our software can also learn about the structure of the machine data through the searches users conduct, allowing users to utilize the machine data structure and knowledge garnered by previous Splunk searches. Our software includes acceleration technology that delivers high performance for analytical operations across terabytes or petabytes of data, such as identifying rare terms and performing aggregation operations. 

Splunk Enterprise and Splunk Cloud 

Features and Functionality 

Our Splunk Enterprise platform contains the following features and functionalities, while Splunk Cloud provides the same core functionalities of Splunk Enterprise offered as a cloud service. 

&#8226; 

Universally collect, index, store and archive any machine data, from any source. Splunk Enterprise processes machine data in real time from any source, format or location. This includes streaming data generated by websites, applications, servers, networks, sensors and mobile devices. 

&#8226; 

Search and investigate. Splunk Enterprise allows users to search real-time and historical machine data simultaneously. 

&#8226; 

User-friendly interface. Splunk Enterprise uses a customizable interface that enables users to understand and adopt the product. The user interface also provides productivity features, such as type-ahead and contextual help to accelerate adoption and usage. 

&#8226; 

Knowledge store. Users can store knowledge about events, fields, transactions, patterns, statistics and key-value pairs so others who utilize the Splunk instance can leverage this information. 

&#8226; 

Monitor and alert. Users can save searches so they can be run automatically to raise real-time alerts that trigger actions such as sending emails, running scripts, or posting to an RSS feed. 

&#8226; 

Report and analyze. Users can create ad hoc reports on real-time and historical data to analyze business and IT data trends. 

&#8226; 

Custom dashboards and views. Splunk Enterprise enables users to create custom dashboards that integrate multiple charts and views of real-time and historical data for different users and roles. 

&#8226; 

Data models and pivot. Splunk Enterprise enables users to build data models that describe relationships in the underlying machine data, making it more meaningful and usable. Non-technical users can generate charts, visuals and dashboards using the pivot interface, without the need to master the Splunk Search Processing Language. 

&#8226; 

Developer platform. Splunk Enterprise includes a rich developer environment. The Splunk Web Framework enables developers to use the tools and languages they know, such as JavaScript, to build Splunk apps with custom dashboards, a flexible UI and custom data visualizations. SDKs for Java, JavaScript, C#, Python, PHP and Ruby enable rapid integration between Splunk Enterprise to other applications and systems to maximize the value of our customers&#8217; data. 

&#8226; 

Role-based access controls. Splunk Enterprise incorporates role-based access controls and authentication, integrated with existing enterprise-wide security policies, to help secure the data stored within our indexes as well as control users&#8217; activities in our software. 

Technology Architecture 

For our Splunk platform, the technology architecture contains a number of important components: 

Collection. Our Splunk platform collects machine data from many disparate sources across a distributed environment deployed on-premises, or in public and private clouds. This includes servers, network devices, desktop and laptop computers, mobile devices and various other systems that organizations have deployed to support their operations. Our products act as a recording mechanism, collecting, storing and making available all of the machine data that they index and store. Splunk offers a Universal Forwarder that can be deployed on various data sources to facilitate the reliable collection of machine data. 

Indexing. Our proprietary universal indexing technology enables real-time indexing of any data collected regardless of its source or format and without the use of any specific parsers or data connectors. Our Splunk platform indexes the data and stores the data in a scalable storage format, which can reside on commodity servers and storage devices. In the case of Splunk Cloud, data is stored securely in our cloud service, which we host on Amazon Web Services. 

Search. Our Splunk platform enables users to search massive amounts of machine data that have been indexed and stored. At its most basic level, the search engine at the core of our Splunk platform allows users to type and search for keywords or data fields that are of interest. This foundational capability forms the basis for deriving business insights from our dashboards and customized views. Users can leverage our search language and functionality to filter through indexed data and refine search results to obtain more precise information. Splunk also provides event pattern detection to allow users to detect meaningful patterns in their machine data, regardless of data source or type. 

Core functions. Our Splunk platform&#8217;s core functionality includes alerts, access control, statistics, correlation and predictive capabilities. With our software&#8217;s granular, role-based access control, an administrator can manage various aspects of a given user&#8217;s search including the data to which the user has access, as well as what portions of the data may be visible in results. Search results and reports can be defined according to a particular user&#8217;s business function and level of access. Different users can see completely different views on the same data, depending on what is important to them. 

Archive to Hadoop and Amazon S3. Splunk Enterprise customers can archive historical data to Hadoop or Amazon S3 for low-cost storage. Using our Hunk product, customers can gain new insights with distributed search queries that correlate real-time data from Splunk Enterprise with historical data stores in Hadoop or Amazon S3. 

SDKs and APIs. Our SDKs allow third-party software developers to build enterprise applications on top of our software using popular programming languages such as Java, JavaScript, C#, Python, PHP and Ruby. Our APIs allow users to access the machine data stored within the Splunk platform instance as well as access our machine data engine functionality from third-party software. 

App Development Environment. We provide the ability for users and third party developers to create apps with custom dashboards, flexible UI components and custom data visualizations using freely available components and templates, as well as common development languages and frameworks, such as JavaScript and Python. 

Splunk Product Deployments 

Splunk Enterprise, Splunk Light and Hunk can be deployed on-premises and in public or private clouds. Splunk Cloud offers the core functionalities of Splunk Enterprise as a cloud service. Taking Splunk Enterprise and Splunk Cloud together, customers utilizing a hybrid deployment model can have a single centralized view and location-independent use across cloud and on-premises environments. 

For Splunk Enterprise deployments, our software can be deployed in a variety of environments ranging from a single server to globally distributed enterprise IT environments handling hundreds of terabytes of data per day. Our customers can deploy Splunk Enterprise on-premises, in the cloud, in virtualized server and storage environments or in hybrid IT environments. Our customers can use Splunk forwarders, indexers, and search heads to create a machine data fabric that allows for the efficient, secure and real-time collection and indexing of machine data regardless of network, data center or IT infrastructure topology. 

This distributed machine data processing architecture provides near-linear scalability, resulting in the ability to index and search across massive data volumes. Our Splunk platform can operate in a single data center or across multiple data centers both inside and outside an organization, and all from a single user interface. This architecture also allows for flexible deployment of hardware, as commodity hardware can be added as needed. 

Splunk Light provides log search and analysis for small IT environments and can be purchased as a cloud service or limited to deployment on a single server. It does not contain the enterprise deployment features, such as high availability or 

clustering found in our Splunk Enterprise product. This simplifies deployment and provides fast time to value for the targeted log search and analysis use case within small IT environments. 

Customers can deploy Hunk wherever their Hadoop environment is located. Hunk works with Apache Hadoop and most major commercial Hadoop distributions, supports both first-generation MapReduce and YARN, and can scale to support multi-thousand node Hadoop clusters. Hunk is also available directly from the Amazon Elastic MapReduce console, enabling AWS customers to purchase Hunk on an hourly basis and can be automatically provisioned from the Amazon Elastic MapReduce console for processing data in Amazon Elastic MapReduce and S3. 

Services 

While users can easily download, install and deploy Splunk software on their own, certain enterprise customers that have large, highly complex IT environments or deployment requirements may choose to leverage our customer support and professional services organization. Many users leverage the community-based support of Splunk Apps and Splunk Answers before engaging with our customer support or services organizations. Some of our certified partners also provide limited, first level support and professional services before a customer reaches out to our internal Splunk customer support and professional services teams. 

Maintenance and Customer Support 

Our customers typically purchase one year of software maintenance and support as part of their initial purchase of our products, with an option to renew their maintenance agreements. These maintenance agreements provide customers the right to receive unspecified software updates, maintenance releases and patches, and access to our technical support services during the term of the agreement. 

We maintain a customer support organization that offers multiple service levels for our customers based on their needs. These customers receive guaranteed response times, direct telephonic support and access to online support portals. Our highest levels of support provide 24x7x365 support for critical issues, a designated resource to manage the account and quarterly reviews of the customer&#8217;s deployments. Our customer support organization has global capabilities, delivering support in multiple languages with deep expertise in our software, complex IT environments and associated third party infrastructure. 

Training Services 

We offer training services to our customers and channel partners through our education and training organization. We have also implemented a comprehensive training certification program to ensure an understanding of our offerings. 

Professional Services 

We provide consulting and implementation services to customers through our professional services team. They are typically utilized by large enterprises looking to deploy our software across their large, disparate and complex IT infrastructure. We generally provide these services at the time of initial installation to help the customer with configuration and implementation. Given our software&#8217;s ease-of-use, our professional services engagements are typically short in duration and last from a few days to up to several weeks. 

Partner and Developer Ecosystem 

We have OEM relationships with a select group of third parties who integrate our software into their product offerings to provide additional reporting, monitoring and analytic capabilities within their own products. With respect to our OEM relationships, we provide a limited use license to expose certain data and analytics functionalities in their products, for which they generally pay us a royalty based on units shipped. 

We engage with managed service providers, who offer services based on our software, such as for security, PCI compliance and log management. These services are typically offered on a subscription basis, for which we are paid license fees typically based on daily indexing volume. 

We have also established relationships with several leading technology companies to build Splunk apps that allow users to capture data and gain insights into those parties&#8217; respective products. Several technology providers offer apps for free via the Splunkbase website. These apps typically consist of collections of reports, dashboards and data extractions which put our software in context for users of those specific technologies and allow them to easily and quickly understand the performance of their IT systems or correlate this data with other data sources. 

We offer a developer license that allows third-party developers to build software using our existing developer framework and we have published information about our APIs to enable developers to build new user interfaces on top of our 

platform. We are creating additional SDKs based on various programming languages to make our software more extensible and allow developers to build applications and services that extend its functionality. 

Splunk Community 

Our online communities provide us with a rapidly growing network of active users who promote the usage of our software and provide technical support to each other. 

Our online communities include Splunkbase, our apps repository, Splunk Answers, our community collaboration site, and Splunk Dev, where developers can download SDKs, access API documentation and see sample code for building applications using our developer environment and tools. We also maintain active communities on leading social internet platforms, including Facebook, Twitter and LinkedIn. 

Splunk Apps. Users and partners contribute and share custom apps and add-ons that run on our software. Generally, these apps provide pre-built functionality that addresses specific use cases. Currently, we have hundreds of apps available for download on the Splunkbase website. We do not receive any revenues from the sale of apps by third-party application providers, and most apps posted to Splunkbase are free. Partner apps listed on Splunkbase that are not free are licensed directly by the third party to the end user. 

Splunk Answers. Users ask questions in an online community forum and share best practices about how to build searches, create data visualizations and configure and deploy our software. While our product, support, engineering and professional services teams participate in the Splunk Answers forum, during fiscal 2016, approximately three-quarters of questions appearing on Splunk Answers were answered by non-Splunk personnel, largely the result of a growing, active user community. 

Splunk Dev. In addition to documentation about the Splunk APIs and SDKs, our developer portal contains documentation about best practices for building machine data output into third-party software. 

We also promote and support offline meetings for our community, including regional user group meetings and an annual user conference. 

Sales and Marketing 

Our sales and marketing organizations work together closely to drive market awareness, build a strong sales pipeline, and cultivate customer relationships to drive revenue growth. 

Sales 

We sell our offerings through direct field sales, direct inside sales and indirect channel sales. We gather prospects through a broad range of marketing programs and events, and through users who either download our trial software from our website or sign up for our online sandboxes or cloud services. Our inside sales team handles lead qualifications as well as smaller transactions, while larger or more complex transactions are handled by our globally distributed direct field sales teams. Our sales engineers help define customer use cases and pre-sales qualification and evaluation. 

We maintain a distributor and reseller network, or channel, which often co-sells with our field sales organization. Our channel assists us by sourcing new prospects through leveraging their deep customer relationships, providing technical support to existing customers, upselling for additional use cases and daily indexing capacities and maintenance renewals. In fiscal 2016, we launched the Splunk Partner+ Program, a value-based model which allows partners to capture margins based upon the value they are delivering to specific opportunities. Our channel expands our geographic sales reach worldwide, particularly in key international markets such as the United Kingdom, Germany, Japan and China. As of January 31, 2016, we had over 600 channel relationships worldwide. Historically, the majority of EMEA and APAC sales have been fulfilled through channel partners and we expect this trend to continue. 

In addition to acquiring new customers, our sales teams are responsible for securing renewals of existing contracts as well as increased adoption of our offerings by existing customers. To accomplish this, our field and inside sales teams work closely with our customers to drive expanded licenses through higher capacity or upgrades and additional use cases within existing customers. Our field sales teams are organized geographically across the Americas, EMEA and APAC. We intend to invest in our sales organization to drive greater market penetration in the Americas, EMEA and APAC. We also have a dedicated sales team focused on government customers, which includes United States federal, state and local government entities. Our Splunk Light product is designed to broaden our market reach by providing log search and analysis for small IT environments. We are initially relying on select channel partners, as well as an online store, to reach the Splunk Light target markets. For fiscal 2016, 2015 and 2014, our revenues from our international operations represented 25%, 24% and 23% of 

total revenues, respectively. For additional information regarding our sales and long-lived assets by geographic location, see Note 9 to our consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Marketing 

We focus our marketing efforts on increasing Splunk&#8217;s brand and awareness, driving viral adoption, communicating product advantages and business benefits, and generating leads for our sales force and channel. We market our offerings as a targeted solution for specific use cases and as an enterprise solution for machine data. We engage with existing customers to provide community-based education and awareness and to promote expanded use of our software within these customers. We host SplunkLive! events across our sales regions to engage with both existing customers and new prospects as well as deliver product training. We host an annual worldwide user conference (&#8220;.conf&#8221;) and multiple partner conferences as another way to support the Splunk community to foster collaboration and help our customers drive further business results from our software. 

Research and Development 

We invest substantial resources in research and development to enhance our products, develop new end market specific solutions and apps, conduct software and quality assurance testing and improve our core technology. Our technical staff monitors and tests our software on a regular basis, and we maintain a regular release process to refine, update, and enhance our existing offerings. 

Research and development expense totaled $215.3 million, $150.8 million and $75.9 million for fiscal 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively. 

Intellectual Property 

We rely on patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect our technology and intellectual property rights. The nature and extent of legal protection of our intellectual property rights depends on, among other things, its type and the jurisdiction in which it arises. We believe that our intellectual property rights are valuable and important to our business. 

We retain ownership of software we develop. All software is licensed to users and primarily provided in object code or as a cloud service pursuant to either shrink-wrap, embedded or on-line licenses, or signed license agreements. These agreements generally contain restrictions on duplication, disclosure and transfer. We are currently unable to measure the full extent of unauthorized use of our software. We believe, however, that such unauthorized use is and can be expected to be a persistent problem that negatively impacts our revenue and financial results. 

Despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property rights, they may not be successfully asserted in the future or may be invalidated, circumvented or challenged. In addition, the laws of various foreign countries where our offerings are distributed may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as laws in the United States. For additional information regarding risks related to our intellectual property, see Item 1A, &#8220;Risk Factors,&#8221; of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Customers 

Our customer base has grown from approximately 450 customers at the end of fiscal 2008 to over 11,000 customers in more than 110 countries, including 85 of the Fortune 100 companies, as of January 31, 2016. We exclude users of our trial software from our customer count. We provide offerings to customers of varying sizes, including enterprises, educational institutions and government agencies. No individual customer represented greater than 10% of our total revenues in fiscal 2016, 2015 or 2014. One channel partner represented 14% and a second channel partner represented 13% of our total revenues in fiscal 2016. Our current customer base spans numerous industry verticals, including cloud and online services; education; financial services; government; healthcare/pharmaceuticals; industrials/manufacturing; media/entertainment; retail/ecommerce; technology and telecommunications. 

Backlog and Seasonality 

For additional information regarding our backlog and the seasonality in the sale of our offerings, see Item 7, &#8220;Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations &#8212; Seasonality, Cyclicality and Quarterly Trends&#8221; of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Competition 

We compete against a variety of large software vendors and smaller specialized companies, open source projects and custom development efforts, which provide solutions in the specific markets we address. Our principal competitors include: 

&#8226; 

IT departments of potential customers which have undertaken custom software development efforts to analyze and manage their machine data; 

&#8226; 

companies targeting the big data market by commercializing open source software, such as the various Hadoop distributions and NoSQL data stores, including Elastic; 

&#8226; 

security, systems management and other IT vendors, including BMC Software, CA Technologies, Hewlett Packard Enterprise, IBM, Intel, Microsoft, Dell Software and VMware; 

&#8226; 

business intelligence vendors, analytics and visualization vendors, including IBM and Oracle; and 

&#8226; 

small, specialized vendors that provide complementary or competitive solutions in enterprise data analytics, log aggregation and management, data warehousing and big data technologies that may compete with our software or cloud services. 

The principal competitive factors in our markets are product features, performance and support, product scalability and flexibility, ease of deployment and use, total cost of ownership and time to value. We believe that we generally compete favorably on the basis of these factors. For example, Splunk Enterprise, Splunk Cloud, Splunk Light, Hunk, and our premium solutions all contain rich feature sets that reduce costly deployment cycles typically associated with enterprise software. Additionally, we offer a broad range of support options, and our customers consistently provide us with high ratings for our support. 

Some of our actual and potential competitors have advantages over us, such as longer operating histories, significantly greater financial, technical, marketing or other resources, stronger brand and business user recognition, larger intellectual property portfolios, broader global distribution and presence, and competitive pricing. In addition, our industry is evolving rapidly and is becoming increasingly competitive. Larger and more established companies may focus on operational intelligence and could directly compete with us. Companies may develop open source based alternatives that, customers may conclude, offer equivalent functionality to our Splunk offerings. Smaller companies could also launch new offerings that we do not offer and that could gain market acceptance quickly. 

Employees 

As of January 31, 2016, we had over 2,100 employees. None of our United States employees is represented by a labor union with respect to his or her employment with us. Employees in certain European countries have the benefits of collective bargaining arrangements at the national level. We have not experienced any work stoppages. 

Corporate Information 

Our principal executive offices are located at 250 Brannan Street, San Francisco, California 94107, and our telephone number is (415) 848-8400. We were incorporated in California in October 2003 and were reincorporated in Delaware in May 2006. 

Our website is located at www.splunk.com and our investor relations website is located at http://investors.splunk.com. The information posted on our website is not incorporated into this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to reports filed or furnished pursuant to Sections 13(a) and 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, are available free of charge on our investor relations website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. You may also access all of our public filings through the SEC&#8217;s website at www.sec.gov. Further, a copy of this Annual Report on Form 10-K is located at the SEC&#8217;s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room can be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. 

We webcast our earnings calls and certain events we participate in or host with members of the investment community on our investor relations website. Additionally, we provide notifications of news or announcements regarding our financial performance, including SEC filings, investor events, press and earnings releases, as part of our investor relations website. The contents of these websites are not intended to be incorporated by reference into this report or in any other report or document we file. 

