 ITEM 1. BUSINESS Overview 

We are a radio broadcasting company whose primary business is operating radio stations throughout the United States. We own and operate 52 radio stations in the following radio markets: Atlanta, GA, Augusta, GA, Boston, MA, Charlotte, NC, Fayetteville, NC, Fort Myers-Naples, FL, Greenville-New Bern-Jacksonville, NC, Las Vegas, NV, Philadelphia, PA, Tampa-Saint Petersburg, FL, West Palm Beach-Boca Raton, FL, and Wilmington, DE. We refer to each group of radio stations in each radio market as a market cluster. Beasley Broadcast Group, Inc., a Delaware corporation, was formed in 1999. 

Recent Developments 

On December 31, 2015, we sold the tower for one radio station in Augusta, GA to a related party for $1.3 million then leased the tower back under an agreement which expires on December 31, 2025 with four automatic renewal terms of five years each. The lease met the criteria to be recorded as a capital lease, however based on the terms of the lease agreement the $0.8 million gain on sale was deferred and will not be recognized until our continuing involvement is no longer present. 

On December 31, 2015, we sold the tower for one radio station in Charlotte, NC to a related party for $0.4 million then leased the tower back under an agreement which expires on December 31, 2025 with four automatic renewal terms of five years each. The lease met the criteria to be recorded as a capital lease, however based on the terms of the lease agreement the $0.3 million gain on sale was deferred and will not be recognized until our continuing involvement is no longer present. 

On December 8, 2015, our board of directors declared a cash dividend of $0.045 per share on our Class A and Class B common stock. The dividend of $1.0 million in the aggregate was paid on January 8, 2016, to stockholders of record on December 31, 2015. While we intend to pay quarterly cash dividends for the foreseeable future, all subsequent dividends will be reviewed quarterly and declared by the board of directors at its discretion. 

On November 30, 2015, the Company, through its wholly-owned subsidiary, Beasley Mezzanine Holdings, LLC, entered into a new credit agreement with a syndicate of financial institutions. Proceeds from the new credit facility were primarily used to repay the old credit facility. The credit facility consists of a term loan of $91.0 million and a revolving credit facility with a maximum commitment of $20.0 million. The revolving credit facility includes a $5.0 million sub-limit for letters of credit. At our option, the credit facility may bear interest at either (i) the LIBOR rate, as defined in the credit agreement, plus a margin ranging from 2.5% to 4.5% that is determined by our consolidated total debt ratio, as defined in the credit agreement or (ii) the base rate, as defined in the credit agreement, plus a margin ranging from 1.5% to 3.5% that is determined by our consolidated total debt ratio. Interest on adjusted LIBOR loans is payable at the end of each applicable interest period and, for those interest periods with a duration in excess of three months, the three month anniversary of the beginning of such interest period. Interest on base rate loans is payable quarterly in arrears. The credit facility matures on November 30, 2020. In connection with the new credit agreement, we recorded a loss on modification of long-term debt of $0.6 million during the fourth quarter of 2015. 

Strategy 

We seek to secure and maintain a leadership position in the markets we serve by developing market-leading clusters of radio stations in each of our markets. We operate our radio stations in clusters to capture a variety of demographic listener groups, which we believe enhances our radio stations&#146; appeal to a wide range of advertisers. In addition, we have been able to achieve operating efficiencies by consolidating office and studio space where possible to minimize duplicative management positions and reduce overhead expenses. Finally, we will consider opportunities to swap existing radio stations with other radio station owners in new or existing markets. Current FCC rules and regulations do not permit us to add any more radio stations to our existing cluster in the Augusta, GA radio market. 

Competition 

The radio broadcasting industry is highly competitive. Our radio stations compete for listeners and advertising revenue with other radio stations within their respective markets. In addition, our radio stations compete with other media such as broadcast and cable television, newspapers and magazines, outdoor advertising, direct mail, internet radio, satellite radio, smart phones, tablets, and other wireless media, the internet, social media such as Facebook and Twitter, and other forms of advertising. 

The following are some of the factors that we believe are important to a radio station&#146;s competitive position: (i) audience ratings; (ii) program content; (iii) management experience; (iv) sales experience; (v) audience characteristics; and (vi) the number and characteristics of other radio stations and other advertising media in the market area. We attempt to improve our competitive position with promotional campaigns aimed at the demographic groups targeted by our radio stations and by sales efforts designed to attract advertisers. We conduct extensive market research in an effort to enhance our audience ratings and, in certain circumstances, to identify opportunities to reformat radio stations to reach underserved demographic groups and increase advertising revenue. 

&#160;

Federal Regulation of Radio Broadcasting 

The radio broadcasting industry is subject to extensive and changing federal regulations administered by the Federal Communications Commission, or FCC. Among other things, the FCC: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; assigns frequency bands for broadcasting; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; determines the particular frequencies, locations, operating powers and other technical parameters of radio stations; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; issues, renews, revokes, conditions and modifies radio station licenses; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; determines whether to approve changes in ownership or control of radio station licenses; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; regulates equipment used by radio stations; and &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; adopts and implements regulations and policies that directly or indirectly affect the ownership, operation, program content and employment practices of radio stations. The FCC has the power to impose penalties for violations of its rules that are implemented pursuant to the Communications Act of 1934 (&#147;Communications Act&#148;), as amended, including the imposition of monetary forfeitures, the issuance of short-term licenses, the imposition of a condition on the renewal of a license, and, in egregious cases, non-renewal of licenses and the revocation of licenses. 

The following is a brief summary of some provisions of the Communications Act and of certain specific FCC rules and policies. The summary is not a comprehensive listing of all of the regulations and policies affecting radio stations. For further information concerning the nature and extent of federal regulation of radio stations, you should refer to the Communications Act, FCC rules and FCC public notices and rulings. 

FCC Licenses. Radio stations operate pursuant to broadcasting licenses that are ordinarily granted by the FCC for renewable terms of eight years. A radio station may continue to operate beyond the expiration date of its license if a timely filed license renewal application is pending. During the period following the filing of renewal applications, petitions to deny license renewals can be filed by interested parties, including members of the public. Generally, the FCC renews a broadcast license upon a finding that (i) the broadcast station has served the public interest, convenience and necessity; (ii) there have been no serious violations by the licensee of the Communications Act or the FCC&#146;s rules; and (iii) there have been no other violations by the licensee of the Communications Act or other FCC rules which, taken together, indicate a pattern of abuse. Historically, FCC licenses have generally been renewed. The most recent renewal cycle started in June 2011, and concluded in April 2014. The non-renewal of one or more of our licenses could have a material adverse effect on our business. 

The FCC classifies each AM and FM radio station. An AM radio station operates on either a clear channel, regional channel or local channel. A clear channel is one on which AM radio stations are assigned to serve wide areas, particularly at night. The minimum and maximum facilities requirements for an FM radio station are determined by its class. Possible FM class designations depend upon the geographic zone in which the transmitter of the FM radio station is located. In general, commercial FM radio stations are classified as follows, in order of increasing power and antenna height: Class A, B1, C3, B, C2, C1, C0, or C. 

Several years ago, the FCC authorized an additional 100 kHz of bandwidth for the AM band and has allotted frequencies in this new band to certain existing AM radio station licensees that applied for migration to the expanded AM band, including one of our radio stations, subject to the requirement that at the end of a transition period, those licensees return to the FCC the license for one of the AM band radio stations. Upon the completion of the migration process, it is expected that some AM radio stations will have improved coverage because of reduced interference. We have not completed our evaluation of the impact of the migration process on our operations but believe that such impact will not be significant. Current FCC requirements call for surrender of either the expanded band license or the existing band license. This surrender obligation is currently suspended while the FCC evaluates third party proposals to allow for the sale rather than surrender of one of the two licenses, including a proposal to allow such a sale to a qualifying &#147;small business.&#148; The surrender of either license will have no material impact on our results of operations or financial condition. As part of an Order released in October 2015 with respect to revitalization of the AM band (&#147;AM Improvement Order&#148;) the FCC launched a Notice of Inquiry with respect to the AM expanded band. The NOI seeks comments regarding whether AM expanded band licenses should be made available to additional stations and whether technical parameters applicable to expanded band stations should be modified. 

&#160;

The FCC also permits AM and FM radio stations to operate FM translators and FM stations to operate FM booster stations. These are low power secondary stations that retransmit the programming of a radio station to portions of the station&#146;s service area that the primary signal does not reach because of distance or terrain barriers. Boosters operate on the same frequency as the station being retransmitted and translators operate on a different frequency. 

The AM Improvement Order implemented several rule changes impacting the technical operations of AM stations, including relaxation of the daytime community coverage requirements and elimination of the nighttime community coverage requirements for existing AM stations. In addition, in an effort to increase the number of FM translators that are available for AM stations, the FCC authorized two specialized FM translator filing windows for AM stations. During these windows an AM station will be permitted to relocate one FM translator up to 250 miles from its authorized site and operate the translator on any non-reserved band FM channel in the AM station&#146;s market, subject to coverage and interference rules. Only Class C and Class D AM stations, which are smaller, are eligible for the first window which opened January 29, 2016. All AM stations are eligible for the second window which is scheduled to open on July 29, 2016. Any AM station that receives an FM translator station license pursuant to one of the windows will be required to rebroadcast the paired AM station on the modified FM translator for four years. We intend to file applications during these windows for some of our AM stations. 

The FCC has adopted rules establishing a low power radio service. Low power FM stations operate in the existing FM radio band with a maximum operating power of 100 watts. FCC regulations regarding eligibility for and licensing of low power FM radio stations have expanded licensing opportunities for low power FM radio stations. Implementation of a low power radio service provides an additional audio programming service that could compete with our radio stations for listeners. 

Indecency Regulation. The FCC&#146;s rules prohibit the broadcast of obscene material at any time and indecent material between the hours of 6 am and 10 pm. Broadcasters&#146; risk of violating the prohibition on the broadcast of indecent material is increased by the vagueness of the FCC&#146;s definition of indecent material, coupled with the spontaneity of live programming. The FCC has expanded the breadth of indecency regulation to include material that could be considered &#147;blasphemy,&#148; &#147;personally reviling epithets,&#148; &#147;profanity&#148; and vulgar or coarse words, amounting to a nuisance. The maximum permitted fine for an indecency violation is $325,000 per incident and $3,000,000 for any continuing violation arising from a single act or failure to act. Because the FCC may investigate indecency complaints prior to notifying a licensee of the existence of a complaint, a licensee may not have knowledge of a complaint unless and until the complaint results in the issuance of a formal FCC letter of inquiry or notice of apparent liability for forfeiture. In July 2010, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit issued a decision finding that the FCC&#146;s indecency standard was too vague for broadcasters to interpret and therefore inconsistent with the First Amendment. In June 2012, the Supreme Court issued a decision which held that the FCC could not fine ABC and FOX for the specific broadcasts at issue in the case because the FCC had not provided them with sufficient notice of its intent to issue fines for the use of fleeting expletives. However, the Court did not make any substantive ruling regarding the FCC&#146;s indecency standards. In April 2013, the FCC requested comments on its indecency policy, including whether it should ban the use of fleeting expletives or whether it should only impose fines for broadcasts that involve repeated and deliberate use of expletives. The FCC has advised that it will continue to pursue enforcement actions in egregious cases while it conducts its review of its indecency policies generally and in March 2015 issued a Notice of Apparent Liability for the maximum forfeiture amount of $325,000 against a television station for violation of its indecency policy. We cannot predict whether Congress will consider or adopt further legislation in this area. 

Transfers or Assignment of License. The Communications Act prohibits the assignment of broadcast licenses or the transfer of control of a broadcast licensee without the prior approval of the FCC. In determining whether to grant such approval, the FCC considers, among other things: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; compliance with the various rules limiting common ownership of media properties in a given market; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; the character of the proposed licensee and those persons holding attributable interests in the licensee; and &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; compliance with the Communications Act&#146;s limitations on alien ownership as well as compliance with other FCC regulations and policies. To obtain FCC consent to assign or transfer control of a broadcast license, appropriate applications must be filed with the FCC. Interested parties, including members of the public, have the opportunity to file objections against assignment and transfer of control applications. 

&#160;

Multiple and Cross-Ownership Rules. The Communications Act and FCC rules impose specific limits on the number of commercial radio stations an entity can own, directly or by attribution, in a single market and the combination of radio stations, television stations and newspapers that any entity can own, directly or by attribution, in a single market. Digital radio channels authorized for AM and FM stations do not count as separate &#147;stations&#148; for purposes of the ownership limits. The radio multiple-ownership rules may preclude us from acquiring certain radio stations we might otherwise seek to acquire. The ownership rules also effectively prevent us from selling radio stations in a market to a buyer that has reached its ownership limit in the market unless that buyer divests other radio stations. The FCC&#146;s ownership rules that are currently in effect are briefly summarized below. 

Local Radio Ownership Rule. The local radio ownership rule establishes the following limits: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; in markets with 45 or more radio stations, ownership is limited to eight commercial radio stations, no more than five of which can be either AM or FM; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; in markets with 30 to 44 radio stations, ownership is limited to seven commercial radio stations, no more than four of which can be either AM or FM; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; in markets with 15 to 29 radio stations, ownership is limited to six commercial radio stations, no more than four of which can be either AM or FM; and &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; in markets with 14 or fewer radio stations, ownership is limited to five commercial radio stations or no more than 50% of the market&#146;s total, whichever is lower, and no more than three of which can be either AM or FM. For stations located in a market in which the Nielsen Audio ratings service provides ratings, the definition of &#147;radio market&#148; is based on the radio market to which BIA Kelsey reports assign the affected radio stations. For stations that are not in a Nielsen Audio market, the market definition is based on technical service areas, pending a further FCC rulemaking. The FCC&#146;s rules also provide that parties which own groups of radio stations that comply with the previous multiple ownership rules, but do not comply with the new limits, will be allowed to retain those groups on a &#147;grandfathered&#148; basis, but will not be allowed to transfer or assign those groups intact. Under these rules, our ability to transfer or assign our radio stations as a group to a single buyer in one of our current markets may be limited. 

Radio-Television Cross-Ownership Rule. The radio-television cross-ownership rule generally allows common ownership of one or two television stations and up to six radio stations, or, in certain circumstances, one television station and up to seven radio stations, in any market where at least 20 independent voices would remain after the combination; two television stations and up to four radio stations in a market where at least 10 independent voices would remain after the combination; and one television and one radio station notwithstanding the number of independent voices in the market. A &#147;voice&#148; generally includes independently owned, same-market commercial and noncommercial broadcast television and radio stations, newspapers of certain minimum circulation, and one cable system per market. 

Newspaper-Broadcast Cross-Ownership Rule. Under the currently effective newspaper-broadcast cross-ownership rule, unless grandfathered or subject to waiver, no party can have an attributable interest in both a daily English-language newspaper and either a television or radio station in the same market. 

Ownership Attribution. The FCC generally applies its ownership limits to attributable interests held by an individual, corporation, partnership or other entity. An &#147;attributable&#148; interest for purposes of the FCC&#146;s broadcast ownership rules generally includes: (i) equity and debt interests which combined exceed 33% of a licensee&#146;s total assets, if the interest holder supplies more than 15% of the licensee&#146;s total weekly programming, or has an attributable same-market media interest, whether television, radio, cable or newspaper; (ii) a 5% or greater direct or indirect voting stock interest, including certain interests held in trust, unless the holder is a qualified passive investor in which case the threshold is a 20% or greater voting stock interest; (iii) any equity interest in a limited liability company or a partnership, including a limited partnership, unless properly &#147;insulated&#148; from management activities; and (iv) any position as an officer or director of a licensee or its direct or indirect parent. In addition, the interests of minority shareholders in a corporation generally are not attributable if a single entity or individual controls 50% or more of that corporation&#146;s voting stock. 

Foreign Ownership Rules. The Communications Act prohibits the issuance or holding of broadcast licenses by persons who are not U.S. citizens, whom the FCC rules refer to as &#147;aliens,&#148; including any corporation organized under the laws of a foreign country or of which more than 20% of its capital stock is owned or voted by aliens. In addition, the FCC may prohibit any corporation from holding a broadcast license if the corporation is controlled by any other corporation of which more than 25% of the capital stock is owned of record or voted by aliens. In the past, the FCC has interpreted the 25% foreign ownership limit for holding companies as an absolute prohibition. In November 2013, however, the FCC issued a Declaratory Ruling clarifying that it would review situations in which foreigners own more than 25% of a holding company of an entity that holds a broadcast license on a case by case basis. Because of the numerous questions raised in applying the case by case review to broadcast licensees, in October 2015 the FCC issued a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (&#147;NPRM&#148;) with respect to the applicability of foreign ownership rules to broadcast licensees. Generally, the FCC proposes to apply the same procedures it uses to review foreign ownership of non-broadcast licensees to broadcast 

&#160;

licensees. Significantly, the FCC proposes to require broadcast licensees to disclose and seek approval only for foreign owners that would have an attributable interest in a licensee under the broadcast attribution rules. This change, if adopted, would make it easier for broadcast licensees to seek foreign investors that would hold non-attributable interests. The FCC has also sought comments on whether it should revise the methods that broadcast licensees may use to track and compute the amount of equity owned by foreign entities or individuals. The NPRM is pending. Adoption of the proposed rule changes could increase the amount of capital broadcast licensees obtain from foreign investors. Our certificate of incorporation prohibits the ownership, voting and transfer of our capital stock in violation of the FCC restrictions, and prohibits the issuance of capital stock or the voting rights such capital stock represents to or for the account of aliens or corporations otherwise subject to domination or control by aliens in excess of the FCC limits. The certificate of incorporation authorizes our board of directors to enforce these prohibitions. For example, the certificate of incorporation provides for the redemption of shares of our capital stock by action of the board of directors to the extent necessary to comply with these alien ownership restrictions. 

Time Brokerage and Joint Sales Agreements. It is not uncommon for radio stations to enter into agreements under which separately owned and licensed radio stations agree to enter into cooperative arrangements of varying sorts, subject to compliance with the requirements of antitrust laws and with FCC&#146;s rules and policies. Under these arrangements, separately-owned radio stations could agree to function cooperatively in programming, advertising sales and similar matters, subject to the requirement that the licensee of each radio station maintain independent control over the programming and operations of its own radio station. 

The FCC&#146;s rules provide that a radio station that brokers more than 15% of the weekly broadcast time on another radio station serving the same market or sells more than 15% of the other station&#146;s advertising time per week will be considered to have an attributable ownership interest in the other radio station for purposes of the FCC&#146;s local radio ownership limits. 

FCC rules also prohibit a broadcast station from duplicating more than 25% of its programming on another radio station in the same broadcast service, that is AM-AM or FM-FM, either through common ownership of the two radio stations or through a time brokerage agreement, where the brokered and brokering radio stations which it owns or programs serve substantially the same area. 

Quadrennial Review of Ownership Rules . The FCC is required to review quadrennially the media ownership rules to modify, repeal, or retain any rules as it determines to be in the public interest. In December 2011, the FCC issued a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking with respect to its 2010 quadrennial review. In April 2014, the FCC issued an order concluding that Joint Sales Agreements between separately owned television stations in the same market would be attributable to a station selling more than 15% of the other station&#146;s advertising time, but did not address any other changes in the multiple ownership rules that had been proposed. The FCC issued a Further Notice of Proposed Rulemaking to initiate its 2014 quadrennial review of the multiple ownership rules, and directed that the record from the 2010 quadrennial review &#151; which proposed changes to the newspaper-broadcast cross-ownership rule and the elimination of the radio-television cross-ownership rule &#151; be incorporated as part of the 2014 review. The 2014 review remains pending. 

Programming and Operations. The Communications Act requires broadcasters to serve the public interest. The FCC gradually has relaxed or eliminated many of the more formalized procedures it had developed in the past to promote the broadcast of certain types of programming responsive to the needs of a radio station&#146;s community of license, although there are pending rulemaking proceedings that propose to implement various requirements aimed at increasing local programming content and diversity. If adopted, these new requirements would impose new record-keeping and other burdens on our radio stations. Under the currently effective rules, a licensee is required to present programming that is responsive to issues of the radio station&#146;s community of license and to maintain records demonstrating this responsiveness. Complaints from listeners concerning a radio station&#146;s programming often will be considered by the FCC when it evaluates renewal applications of a licensee, although listener complaints may be filed and considered by the FCC at any time. Such complaints are required to be maintained in the radio station&#146;s public file which is generally located at a station&#146;s main studio. In December 2014, the FCC issued a rulemaking proposing to require radio stations&#146; public inspection files to be hosted on an FCC-maintained website, as is required for television station public files. The FCC will vote on an Order adopting this change in late January 2016. If this change is adopted, the materials in our stations&#146; public files would become more widely accessible. Radio stations also must pay regulatory and application fees and follow various rules promulgated under the Communications Act. Those rules regulate, among other things, political advertising, sponsorship identifications, the advertisement of contests and lotteries, employment practices, broadcast of obscene and indecent content, and technical operations, including limits on human exposure to radio frequency radiation. 

The FCC&#146;s rules on equal employment opportunities prohibit employment discrimination by radio stations on the basis of race, religion, color, national origin, and gender; and require broadcasters to implement programs to promote equal employment opportunities at their radio stations. The rules generally require broadcasters to widely disseminate information about full-time job openings to all segments of the community to ensure that all qualified applicants have sufficient opportunity to apply for the job, to send job vacancy announcements to recruitment organizations and others in the community indicating an interest in all or some vacancies at the radio station, and to implement a number of specific longer-term recruitment outreach efforts, such as job fairs, internship programs, and interaction with educational and community groups from among a menu of approaches itemized by the FCC. 

&#160;

Proposed and Recent Changes. Congress and the FCC are considering or may in the future consider and adopt new laws, regulations and policies regarding a wide variety of matters that could affect, directly or indirectly, the operation, ownership and profitability of our radio stations, including the loss of audience share and advertising revenues for our radio stations, and an inability to acquire additional radio stations or to finance those acquisitions. Such matters may include: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; changes in the FCC&#146;s multiple-ownership, cross-ownership and attribution policies; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; regulatory fees, spectrum use fees or other fees on FCC licenses; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; changes in laws with respect to foreign ownership of broadcast licenses; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; revisions to the FCC&#146;s rules relating to political broadcasting, including free airtime to candidates; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; technical and frequency allocation matters; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; proposals to restrict or prohibit the advertising of beer, wine and other alcoholic beverages on radio; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; proposals to require radio broadcasters to pay royalties to musicians and record labels for the performance of music played on the stations; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; proposals to limit the tax deductibility of or impose sales tax on advertising expenses by advertisers; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; proposals to regulate or prohibit payments to stations by independent record promoters, record labels and others for the inclusion of specific content in broadcast programming; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; proposals to require broadcast stations to operate studios in the communities to which they are licensed, which would require construction of new studios, and to provide staffing on a 24 hour per day basis; and &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; proposals in legislation to strengthen protections against online infringement of intellectual property that would impose criminal penalties on content providers, including broadcasters, that fail to comply with legal requirements to file reports regarding internet streaming in a timely manner. In 2011, the FCC launched an inquiry which proposes that television stations use a standardized issues/programming form, and has indicated that if the proposal is adopted it would consider requiring the use of the same or a similar form by radio stations. This form requests detailed information concerning what steps a station undertook to determine the issues of concern within its local market, and the amount and nature of news and public service programming which was presented to address those issues. 

The FCC has also adopted procedures for the auction of broadcast spectrum in circumstances where two or more parties have filed for new or major change applications that are mutually exclusive. Such procedures may limit our efforts to modify or expand the broadcast signals of our radio stations. 

In February 2012, Congress passed and the President signed legislation that, among other things, grants the FCC authority to conduct incentive auctions to recapture certain spectrum currently used by television broadcasters and repurpose it for other uses. In 2014 and 2015, the FCC released several orders establishing rules and procedures for the auctions. Television stations that desire to participate in the reverse auction for broadcast spectrum were required to file applications by January 12, 2016 and wireless companies that desire to participate in the forward auction to purchase spectrum must file applications by early February 2016. The FCC must complete the incentive auctions by September 30, 2022, and has announced that as of now it intends to commence the auctions by March 29, 2016. The auction is expected to continue for several months. 

We cannot predict what other matters might be considered in the future by the FCC or Congress, nor can we judge in advance what impact, if any, the implementation of any of these proposals or changes might have on our business. 

Federal Antitrust Laws. The agencies responsible for enforcing the federal antitrust laws, the Federal Trade Commission or the Department of Justice, may investigate certain acquisitions. We cannot predict the outcome of any specific FTC or Department of Justice investigation. Any decision by the FTC or the Department of Justice to challenge a proposed acquisition could affect our ability to consummate the acquisition or to consummate it on the proposed terms. 

For an acquisition meeting certain size thresholds, the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976 requires the parties to file Notification and Report Forms concerning antitrust issues with the FTC and the Department of Justice and to observe specified waiting period requirements before consummating the acquisition. 

HD Radio 

The FCC selected In-Band On-Channel technology as the exclusive technology for introduction of terrestrial digital operations by AM and FM radio stations. The technology is also known as &#147;HD Radio.&#148; The advantages of digital audio broadcasting over traditional analog broadcasting technology include improved sound quality, the ability to broadcast additional channels, and the ability to offer a greater variety of auxiliary services. We currently utilize HD Radio digital technology on most of our stations. 

&#160;

Seasonality 

Seasonal revenue fluctuations are common in the radio broadcasting industry and are due primarily to fluctuations in advertising expenditures. Our net revenues are typically lowest in the first calendar quarter of the year. 

Employees 

As of February 16, 2016, we had a staff of 483 full-time employees and 326 part-time employees. We consider our relations with our employees to be good and none of our employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. 

Environmental 

As the owner, lessee or operator of various real properties and facilities, we are subject to federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations. Historically, compliance with these laws and regulations has not had a material adverse effect on our business. There can be no assurance, however, that compliance with existing or new environmental laws and regulations will not require us to make significant expenditures in the future. 

Available Information 

Our internet address is www.bbgi.com. You may obtain through our internet website, free of charge, copies of our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act. These reports will be available as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish such material to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. 

You may also read and copy any materials we file with the Commission at the SEC&#146;s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549, on official business days during the hours of 10am to 3pm. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the Commission at 1-800-SEC-0330. The Commission maintains an internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the Commission, www.sec.gov. 

&#160;

