 Item 1. Business 

Overview 

We are a leading global designer, manufacturer and distributor of interior and exterior doors for the new construction and repair, renovation and remodeling sectors of the residential and non-residential building construction markets. Since 1925, we have provided our customers with innovative products and superior service at compelling values. In order to better serve our customers and create sustainable competitive advantages, we focus on developing innovative products, advanced manufacturing capabilities and technology-driven sales and service solutions. Today, we believe we hold either the number one or two market positions in the seven product categories we target in North America: interior molded residential doors; interior stile and rail residential doors; exterior fiberglass residential doors; exterior steel residential doors; interior architectural wood doors; wood veneers and molded door facings; and door core. 

We market and sell our products to remodeling contractors, builders, homeowners, retailers, dealers, lumberyards, commercial and general contractors and architects through well-established wholesale and retail distribution channels. Our broad portfolio of brands, including Masonite &#174; , Marshfield &#174; , Premdor &#174; , Mohawk &#174; , Megantic &#174; , Algoma &#174; , Birchwood Best &#174; , Lemieux &#174; , Door-Stop TM , Harring Doors TM , Performance Doorset Solutions TM &#32;and National Hickman TM &#32;are among the most recognized in the door industry and are associated with innovation, quality and value. In the year ended January 3, 2016 , we sold approximately 33 million &#32;doors to more than 8,000 &#32;customers in 73 &#32;countries. Our fiscal year 2015 &#32;net sales to our end-markets by segment and in North America are set forth below: 

Net Sales by Segment - 2015 

&#160; 

North American Net Sales by End Market - 2015 

&#160; 

&#160; 

See Note 15 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information about our segments. 

Over the past several years, we have invested in advanced technologies to increase the automation of our manufacturing processes, increase quality and shorten lead times and introduced targeted e-commerce and other marketing initiatives to improve our sales and marketing efforts and customer experience. In addition, we implemented a disciplined acquisition strategy that solidified our presence in both the North American residential molded and stile and rail interior door markets and created leadership positions in the attractive North American commercial and architectural interior wood door, door core and wood veneer markets. 

We operate 64 &#32;manufacturing and distribution facilities in 9 &#32;countries in North America, Europe, South America, Asia and Africa, which are strategically located to serve our customers. We are one of the few vertically integrated door manufacturers in the world and one of only two in the North American residential door industry as well as the only vertically integrated door manufacturer in the North American architectural interior wood door industry. Our 

vertical integration extends to all steps of the production process from initial design, development and production of steel press plates to produce interior molded and exterior fiberglass door facings to the manufacturing of door components, such as door cores, wood veneers and molded facings, to door slab assembly. We also offer incremental value by pre-machining doors for hardware, hanging doors in frames with glass and hardware and pre-finishing doors with paint or stain. We believe that our vertical integration and automation enhance our ability to develop new and proprietary products, provide greater value and improved customer service and create high barriers to entry. We also believe vertical integration enhances our ability to cut costs, although our cost structure is subject to certain factors beyond our control, such as global commodity shocks. 

Competitive Strengths 

We believe the following competitive strengths differentiate us from other building product companies and position us for significant growth as part of a multi-year, multi stage recovery in our end markets. 

Leading Market Positions in Targeted End Markets 

Within the North American door market, we believe we hold either the number one or two market position in the seven product categories we target. We are one of the largest manufacturers of doors and door components in the world, selling approximately 33 million &#32;residential and architectural interior and exterior doors in 2015 ; approximately 21 million &#32;of which were sold in the United States, our largest market. We believe our scale and leadership positions support our commitment to invest in advanced manufacturing and e-commerce initiatives and develop innovative new products, to effectively service regional and national customers and to offer broad product lines across our markets, while reducing our materials and unit production costs. 

Extensive Portfolio with Strong Brand Recognition 

Our broad portfolio of brands is among the most recognized in the door industry and is associated with 

superior design, innovation, reliability and quality. Builder Magazine recognized the Masonite &#174; brand as one of the 

leading interior door brands in the United States in 2015 in the following categories: Brand Used in Past Two Years, 

Brand Used the Most. 

Long-Term Customer Relationships and Well-Established Multi-Channel Distribution 

&#160; 

As a result of our longstanding commitment to customer service and product innovation, we have well-established relationships within the wholesale and retail channels. All of our top 20 customers have purchased doors from us for at least 10 years, although we generally do not enter into long-term contracts with our customers and they generally do not have an obligation to purchase our products. In addition, our manufacturing and distribution facilities are strategically located to best serve our customers. We believe that our long-term relationships with leading wholesale distributors, major homebuilders, contractors and architects will enable us to continue to increase our market penetration in the residential and architectural construction markets. 

Leading Technological Innovation Within the Door Industry 

We believe we are a leader in technological innovation in the design of doors and door components and in the complex processes required to manufacture high quality products quickly and consistently. We intend to continue developing new and innovative products at our 145 thousand &#32;square foot innovation center in West Chicago, Illinois, while improving critical processes in the manufacturing and selling of our products. Our future success will depend on our ability to develop and introduce new or improved products, to continue to improve our manufacturing and product service processes, and to protect our rights to the technologies used in our products. We have also created proprietary web-based sales and marketing tools, including MAX Masonite Xpress Configurator SM &#32;for our residential and Doorbuilder TM &#32;for our architectural customer networks, to improve selection and order processes, reduce order entry errors, create more accurate quotes, improve communication and facilitate a better customer experience. As of January 3, 2016 , we had 213 &#32;design patents and design patent applications and 172 &#32;utility patents and patent applications in the United States, and 197 &#32;foreign design patents and patent applications and 283 &#32;foreign utility patents and patent applications. 

Vertically Integrated Operations Across the Production Process 

We are one of the few vertically integrated door manufacturers in the world. In North America, we are one of only two vertically integrated manufacturers of residential doors and the only vertically integrated manufacturer of non-residential interior wood doors. Our vertical integration extends across the production process, which we believe enhances our ability to develop products and respond quickly to changing consumer preferences, provides greater value and better service for our customers, and potentially lowers our costs. We leverage our assets through our vertically integrated operations in a manner that is difficult to replicate without significant capital investment. 

Experienced Management Team with Extensive Experience and a Successful Track Record 

We are managed by results-driven executives with a proven track record of successfully managing multiple brands, winning new business, reducing costs and identifying, executing and integrating strategic acquisitions. Several members of our management team previously worked at Fortune 500 companies, including Honeywell International Inc. (formerly AlliedSignal Inc.), General Motors Company, General Electric Company and Newell Rubbermaid Inc., where they utilized advanced technologies to improve cost structures and create competitive advantages. 

Growth Strategy 

Our vision is to be the premier provider of doors and door components for the global door industry. We are committed to executing the following balanced and complementary strategies to continue to further strengthen our leadership positions, create value for our customers, enhance our portfolio of leading brands and achieve our top and bottom line growth objectives. 

Develop Innovative, Market-Leading Products 

We intend to continue developing new and innovative products to grow our sales and enhance our returns. On average we have introduced more than 150 new products and designs in each of the last three years. We plan to capitalize on the anticipated growth in door demand by continuing to introduce new, value-added products to build upon our comprehensive portfolio of door styles, designs, textures, components, options, applications and materials. We have consistently demonstrated the ability to develop products that are differentiated by compelling design features and recognized for their reliability and quality. For example, we recently introduced the Heritage &#174; &#32;Series of doors that feature recessed, flat panels and sharp, Shaker-style profiles which speak to a clean, modern aesthetic while retaining comfortable familiarity found in today&#8217;s interiors. 

Expand our Presence in Attractive Markets to Accelerate Growth and Improve Margins 

We plan to continue to focus our operations on attractive new market and channel opportunities. For example, we believe we can expand our leading position in the North American architectural wood door market by focusing on strategic sectors within this market, such as education, health care and hospitality. By expanding our market presence and achieving greater economies of scale, we intend to capitalize on the anticipated recovery in the U.S. architectural construction market. Additionally, we believe we can expand our market growth in the architectural wood door market through the introduction of products with high design and performance attributes by focusing on certain markets within our Europe, Asia and Latin America segment. We are also focused on expanding our business in the residential new construction market and with professional repair, renovation and remodeling contractors, both domestically and internationally. 

We are also increasing our focus on multi-location in-home remodeling distributors and contractors. This channel is expected to grow with a shift in certain demographics from a "Do it Yourself" to a "Do it For You" offering. Using enhanced marketing, training and e-commerce tools, our teams plan to target specific multi-location remodeling distributors and contractors and attempt to increase our overall presence in the important repair, renovation and remodeling business. 

Leverage Our Marketing, Sales and Customer Service Activities to Further Drive Sales 

&#160; 

We intend to continue to pursue additional growth opportunities by leveraging our extensive sales, marketing and customer service efforts in innovative ways. For example, we have developed several proprietary web-based tools for our customers, including MAX Masonite Xpress Configurator SM , MC 2 &#32;and MConnect TM , to enhance communication and information flow with our customers in our wholesale dealer network by providing a more customized buying experience, customer leads and quoting capabilities and simplifying the procurement process. We also intend to capture additional share in the attractive professional repair, renovation and remodeling markets by helping professional contractors produce customized marketing materials to assist them in their sales efforts. In addition, we plan to continue developing effective marketing initiatives to expand our business with professional dealers and homebuilders. 

Continue to Pursue Operational Excellence 

Since 2006 we have rolled out the Lean Six Sigma Continuous Manufacturing Improvement initiative to 46 facilities, awarded over 790 "belt" certifications to over 530 Masonite employees and saved over $170 million. In 2015, we introduced Masonite Lean Advantage ("MVantage") that is now included as an integral part of the Masonite 2016 Blueprint. MVantage represents a change from the project-based Lean Six Sigma to a Lean Enterprise Management System, focused on driving continuous improvement through a disciplined daily accountability process and quick response to performance issues. In 2015, we implemented the proof of concept in our Georgia facility and started the implementation in one of our Wisconsin architectural facilities, which is one of our largest sites. We have an aggressive plan to launch the first phase of MVantage in 2016, including the completion of the project at our Wisconsin facility. 

Pursue Strategic Acquisitions to Create Leadership Positions 

We intend to continue our disciplined approach to identifying, executing and integrating strategic acquisitions while maintaining a strong balance sheet, although we expect competition for the best candidates. We target companies who produce components for our existing operations, manufacture niche products and provide value-added services. Additionally, we target companies with strong brands, complementary technologies, attractive geographic footprints and opportunities for cost and distribution synergies. For example, from 2011 to 2015 &#32;we made eleven strategic acquisitions to create leadership positions in (i) the attractive North American architectural wood door and door core market through the acquisitions of Porta Industries, Inc. (&#8220;Marshfield&#8221;), Algoma Holding Company (&#8220;Algoma&#8221;), Les Portes Baillargeon, Inc. (&#8220;Baillargeon&#8221;), Harring Doors Corporation ("Harring") and USA Wood Door, Inc. ("USA Wood Door"), (ii) the North American interior stile and rail residential door market through the acquisitions of Portes Lemieux Inc. (&#8220;Lemieux&#8221;) and the assets of a door manufacturing operation located in Chile (the "Chile" acquisition) for servicing the North American market, (iii) the production and sale of wood veneers with the acquisition of Birchwood Lumber &#38; Veneer Co., Inc. (&#8220;Birchwood&#8221;) and (iv) various markets in the United Kingdom with the acquisitions of Door-Stop International Limited ("Door-Stop"), Performance Doorset Solutions Limited ("PDS") and Hickman Industries Limited ("Hickman"). 

Product Lines 

Residential Doors 

We sell an extensive range of interior and exterior doors in a wide array of designs, materials, and sizes. While substantially all interior doors are made with wood and related materials such as hardboard (including wood composite molded and flat door facings), the use of wood in exterior doors in North America and Europe has declined over the last two decades as a result of the increased penetration of steel and fiberglass doors. Our exterior doors are made primarily of steel or fiberglass. Our residential doors are molded panel, flush, stile and rail, routed medium-density fiberboard (&#8220;MDF&#8221;), steel or fiberglass. 

&#160; 

Molded panel doors are interior doors available either with a hollow or solid core and are made by assembling two molded door skin panels around a wood or MDF frame. Molded panel doors are routinely used for closets, bedrooms, bathrooms and hallways. Our molded panel product line is subdivided into four distinct product groups: our original Molded Panel series is a combination of classic styling, durable construction, and variety of design preferred by our customers when price sensitivity is a critical component in the product selection; our Palazzo &#174; &#32;series is comprised of three distinct patented designs that accentuate the beauty and flexibility of molding wood fiber to replicate high end, historically labor intensive door designs; the four doors within our Anniversary Collection &#174; &#32;embody themed, period, 

and architectural style specific designs; the West End TM Collection, strengthens our tradition of design innovation by introducing the clean and simple aesthetics found in modern linear designs to the molded panel interior door category; and our newest introduction to the molded panel line, the Heritage &#174; &#32;Series, which features recessed, flat panels and sharp, Shaker-style profiles which speak to a clean, modern aesthetic while retaining comfortable familiarity found in today&#8217;s interiors. All of our molded panel doors except for the Palazzo &#174; &#32;series can be upgraded with our proprietary, wheat straw based Safe &#8216;N Sound &#174; &#32;door core or our environmentally friendly Emerald TM door construction which enables home owners, builders, and architects to meet specific product requirements and &#8220;green&#8221; specifications to attain LEED certification for a building or dwelling. 

Flush interior doors are available either with a hollow or solid core and are made by assembling two facings of plywood, MDF, composite wood, or hardboard over a wood or MDF frame. These doors can either have a wood veneer surface suitable for paint or staining or a composite wood surface suitable for paint. Our flush doors range from base residential flush doors consisting of unfinished composite wood, to the ultrahigh end exotic wood veneer doors. 

Stile and rail doors are made from wood or MDF with individual vertical stiles, horizontal rails and panels, which have been cut, milled, veneered, and assembled from lumber such as clear pine, knotty pine, oak and cherry. Within our stile and rail line, glass panels can be inserted to create what is commonly referred to as a French door and we have over 50 glass designs for use in making French doors. Where horizontal slats are inserted between the stiles and rails, the resulting door is referred to as a louver door. For interior purposes stile and rail doors are primarily used for hallways, room dividers, closets and bathrooms. For exterior purposes these doors are used as entry doors with decorative glass inserts (known as lites) often inserted into these doors. 

Routed MDF doors are produced by using a computer controlled router carver to machine a single piece of double refined MDF. Our routed MDF door category is comprised of two distinct product lines known as the Bolection &#174; &#32;and Cyma TM &#32;door. The offering of designs in this category is extensive, as the manufacturing of routed MDF doors is based on a routing program where the milling machine selectively removes material to reveal the final design. 

Steel doors are exterior doors made by assembling two interlocking steel facings (paneled or flat) or attaching two steel facings to a wood or steel frame and injecting the core with polyurethane insulation. With our functional Utility Steel series, the design centric High Definition family, and the prefinished Sta-Tru &#174; &#32;HD, we offer customers the freedom to select the right combination of design, protection, and compliance required for essentially any paint grade exterior door application. In addition, our product offering is significantly increased through our variety of compatible clear or decorative glass designs. 

Fiberglass doors are considered premier exterior doors and are made by assembling two fiberglass door facings to a wood frame or composite material and injecting the core with polyurethane insulation. Led by the Barrington &#174; &#32;door, our fiberglass door lines offer innovative designs, construction, and finishes. The Barrington &#174; &#32;family of doors is specifically designed to replicate the construction, look, and feel of a real wood door. The Door-Stop TM &#32;branded fiberglass doors are manufactured into prehung door sets and shipped to our customers with industry-leading lead times. We believe that our patented panel designs, sophisticated wood grain texturing and multiple application-specific construction processes will help our Barrington &#174; &#32;and Belleville &#174; &#32;fiberglass lines retain a distinct role in the exterior product category in the future. 

All of our residential doors can be pre-assembled into door frames. 

Architectural Doors 

Architectural doors are typically highly specified products designed, constructed, and tested to ensure regulatory compliance and that certification requirements such as FSC and LEED certifications are met. We offer an extensive line of architectural interior doors meeting custom market requirements and ranging from the entry level molded panel doors to the high end custom designed flush wood doors with exotic veneer inlay designs. Our architectural doors are molded panel, flush, stile and rail, or routed MDF and can be offered with radiation shielding as well as varying levels of fire and sound rating. Our architectural flush doors can also be produced with a laminate veneer facing. High pressure laminates are used when durability and aesthetics are the customer&#8217;s main concern, while low pressure laminates are utilized when consistency in surface color, texture, and value are equal requirements. 

Components 

In addition to residential and architectural doors, we also sell several door components to the building materials industry. Within the residential new construction market, we provide interior door facings, agri-fiber and particleboard door cores, MDF and wood cut-stock components to multiple manufacturers. Within the architectural building construction market, we are a leading component supplier of various critical door components and the largest wood veneer door skin supplier. Additionally, we are one of the leading providers of mineral and particleboard door cores to the North American architectural door market. 

Molded door facings are thin sheets of molded hardboard produced by grinding or defibrating wood chips, adding resin and other ingredients, creating a thick fibrous mat composed of dry wood fibers and pressing the mat between two steel press plates to form a molded sheet, the surface of which may be smooth or may contain a wood grain pattern. Following pressing, molded door facings are trimmed, painted and shipped to door manufacturing plants where they are mounted on frames to produce molded doors. 

Door framing materials, commonly referred to as cut stock, are wood or MDF components that constitute the frame on which interior and exterior door facings are attached. Door cores are pressed fiber mats of refined wood chips or agri-fiber used in the construction of solid core doors. For doors that must achieve a fire rating higher than 45 minutes, the door core consists of an inert mineral core. 

New Products 

We develop and engineer innovative products designed to influence the mix of products sold and provide the end user with doors and entry systems that enhance beauty and functionality while creating greater value to our customers. For example, on average we have introduced over 150 new products or product designs in each of the past three years, including three designs in the Heritage Collection of doors that feature recessed, flat panels and sharp, Shaker-style profiles which speak to a clean, modern aesthetic while retaining comfortable familiarity found in today&#8217;s interiors. We also introduced our Vista Grande line of exterior fiberglass doors that integrate glass into the door in a seamless assembly, giving a wider view through the door and clean, modern design lines. We also recently introduced our Barn Door Hardware kits to provide contemporary style to interior openings. 

More consumers are requesting products that are factory finished. We continue to develop and invest in factory finished products tailored to the needs of our residential and architectural markets. 

&#160; 

Sales and Marketing 

Our sales and marketing efforts are focused around several key initiatives designed to drive organic growth, influence the mix sold and strengthen our customer relationships. 

Multi-Level/Segment Distribution Strategy 

We market our products through and to wholesale distributors, retail stores, independent and pro dealers, builders, remodelers, architects, door and hardware distributors and general contractors. 

In the residential market, we deploy an "All Products" cross merchandising strategy, which provides our retail and wholesale customers with access to our entire product range. Our "All Products" customers benefit from consolidating their purchases, leveraging our branding, marketing and selling strategies and improving their ability to influence the mix of products sold to generate greater value. We service our big box retail customers directly from our own door fabrication facilities which provide value added services and logistics, including store direct delivery of doors and entry systems and a full complement of in-store merchandising, displays and field service. Our wholesale residential channel customers are managed by our own sales professionals who focus on down channel initiatives designed to ensure our products are "pulled" through our North American wholesale distribution network. 

Our architectural building construction customers are serviced by a separate and distinct sales team providing architects, door and hardware distributors, and general contractors and project owners a wide variety of technical specifications, specific brand differentiation, compliance and regulatory approvals, product application advice and 

multisegment specialization work across North America. Additionally, our sales team is supported by marketing strategies aimed to drive product specification throughout our value chains via distributors, architects and end users. 

Service Innovation 

We leverage our marketing, sales and customer service activities to ensure our products are strategically pulled through our multiple distribution channels rather than deploying a more common, tactical "push" strategy like some of our competitors. Our marketing approach is designed to increase the value of each and every door opening we fill with our doors and entry systems, regardless of the channel being used to access our products. 

Our proprietary web based tools accessible on our website also provide our customers with a direct link to our information systems to allow for accelerated and easier access to a wide variety of information and selling aids designed to increase customer satisfaction. Our web based tools include MConnect, an online service allowing our customers access to several other E-Commerce tools designed to enhance the manufacturer/customer relationship. Once connected to our system, customers have access to MAX, Masonite&#8217;s Xpress Door Configurator, a web based tool created to design entry systems and influence the mix, improve selection and ordering processes, reduce order entry and quoting errors, and improve overall communication throughout the channel; MC2, our self-service, custom literature tool; the Product Corner, a section advising customers of the features and benefits of our newest products; Market Intelligence Section, which provides some of the latest economic statistics influencing our industry; the Treasure Chest, which is a collection of discontinued glass products providing customers with promotional based pricing on obsolete products; and Order Tracker, which allows customers to follow their purchase orders through the production process and confirm delivery dates. MConnect TM , in conjunction with our web site, improves transaction execution, enhances communication and information flow with our customers and their dealers providing a more customized buying experience. 

Customers 

During fiscal year 2015, we sold our products worldwide to more than 8,000 &#32;customers. We have developed strong relationships with these customers through our "all products" cross merchandising strategy. Our vertical integration facilitates our all products strategy with our Dorfab facilities in particular providing value-added fabrication and logistical services to our customers, including store delivery of pre-hung interior and exterior doors to our customers in North America. All of our top 20 customers have purchased doors from us for at least 10 years. 

Although we have a large number of customers worldwide, our largest customer, The Home Depot, accounted for approximately 16% &#32;of our total net sales in fiscal year 2015 . Due to the depth and breadth of the relationship with this customer, which operates in multiple North American geographic regions and which sells a variety of our products, our management believes that this relationship is likely to continue. 

Distribution 

Residential doors are primarily sold through wholesale and retail distribution channels. 

&#8226; 

Wholesale . In the wholesale channel, door manufacturers sell their products to homebuilders, contractors, lumber yards, dealers and building products retailers in two-steps or one step. Two-step distributors typically purchase doors from manufacturers in bulk and customize them by installing windows, or "lites", and pre-hanging them. One-step distributors sell doors directly to homebuilders and remodeling contractors who install the doors. 

&#8226; 

Retail . The retail channel generally targets consumers and smaller remodeling contractors who purchase doors through retail home centers and smaller specialty retailers. Retail home centers offer large, warehouse size retail space with large selections, while specialty retailers are niche players that focus on certain styles and types of doors. 

Architectural doors are primarily sold through one-step wholesale distribution channels where distributors sell to contractors and installers, or direct from manufacturers to contractors and installers. 

Research and Development 

We believe we are a leader in technological innovation and development in doors, door components and door entry systems and the manufacturing processes involved in making such products. We believe that research and development is a competitive advantage for us, and we intend to capitalize on our leadership in this area through the development of more new and innovative products. Our research and development and engineering capability enables us to develop and implement product and process improvements related to the manufacturing of our products that enhance manufacturing efficiency and reduce costs. 

As an integrated manufacturer, we believe that we are well positioned to take advantage of the growing global demand for a variety of molded door facing designs. This capability is particularly important outside North America where we believe newer molded door designs are rapidly replacing traditional wood doors. We have an internal capability to create new molded door facing designs and manufacture our own molds for use in our own facilities. We believe this provides us with the ability to develop proprietary designs that enjoy a strong identity in the marketplace; more flexibility in meeting customer demand; quicker reaction time in the production of new designs or design changes; and greater responsiveness to customer needs. This capability also enables us to develop and implement product and process improvements with respect to the production of molded door facings and doors which enhance production efficiency and reduce costs. 

In the past few years, our research and development activities have had a significant focus on process and material improvements in our products. These improvements have led to significant reductions in manufacturing costs and improvements in product quality. Research and development activities also resulted in several new products including exterior fiberglass doors with a finish that is applied through digital printing technology. We have also directed our design innovation to address the growing need for safety and security, sound dampening and fire and impact resistant products in the architectural wood door market. 

Manufacturing Process 

Our Manufacturing operations consist of three major manufacturing processes: (1) component manufacturing, (2) door slab assembly and (3) value-added ready to install door fabrication. 

We have a leading position in the manufacturing of door components, including internal framing components (stile and rails), glass inserts (lites), door core, interior veneer and molded door facings, and exterior door facings. The manufacturing of interior molded door facings is the most complex of these processes requiring a significant investment in large scale wood fiber processing equipment. Interior molded door facings are produced by combining fine wood particles, synthetic resins and other additives under heat and pressure in large multi-opening automated presses utilizing Masonite proprietary steel plates. The facings are then painted, cut and inspected in a second highly automated continuous operation prior to being packed for shipping to our door assembly plants. We operate five interior molded door facing plants around the world, two in North America and one in each of South America, Europe and Asia. Our sole United States based plant in Laurel, Mississippi is one of the largest door facing plants in the world and we believe one of the most technologically advanced in the industry. 

Interior residential hollow and solid core door manufacturing is an assembly operation that is primarily accomplished in the United States through the use of skilled manual labor. In 2012 we invested in a highly automated interior flush and molded door line in Denmark, South Carolina, which uses advanced engineering processes and quality control features. The automated line uses single piece flow principles to assemble doors more quickly and reliably than before, using improved internal components and advanced adhesive technologies. Whether manual or automated, the construction process for a standard flush or molded interior door is based on assembly of door facings and various internal framing and support components, following which doors are trimmed to their final specifications. 

The assembly process varies by type of door, from a relatively simple process for flush and molded doors, where the door facings are glued to a wood frame, to more complex processes where many pieces of solid and engineered wood are converted to louver or stile and rail door slabs. Architectural interior doors require another level of customization and sophistication employing the use of solid cores with varying degrees of sound dampening and fire retarding attributes, furniture quality wood veneer facings, as well as secondary machining operations to incorporate more sophisticated commercial hardware, openers and locks. 

The manufacturing of steel and fiberglass exterior door slabs is a semi-automated process that entails combining laminated wood or rot free composite framing components between two door facings and then injecting the resulting hollow core structure with insulating polyurethane expanding foam core materials. We invested in fiberglass manufacturing technology, including the vertical integration of our own fiberglass sheet molding compound plant at our Laurel, Mississippi, facility in 2006. In 2008 we consolidated fiberglass slab manufacturing from multiple locations throughout North America into a single highly automated facility in Dickson, Tennessee, significantly improving the reliability and quality of these products while simultaneously lowering cost and reducing lead times. 

Short set-up times, proper production scheduling and coordinated material movement are essential to achieve a flexible process capable of producing a wide range of door types, sizes, materials and styles. We make use of our vertically integrated and flexible manufacturing operations together with scalable logistics primarily through the use of common carriers to fill customers&#8217; orders and to minimize our investment in finished goods inventory. 

Finally, interior flush and molded, stile and rail, louver and exterior door slabs manufactured at our door assembly plants are either sold directly to our customers or transferred to our door fabrication facilities where value added services are performed. These value added services include machining doors for hinges and locksets, installing the door slabs into ready to install frames, installing hardware, adding glass inserts and side lites, painting and staining, packaging and logistical services to our customers. 

Raw Materials 

While Masonite is vertically integrated, we require a regular supply of raw materials, such as wood chips and cut stock, various composites, steel, glass, paint, stain and primer as well as petroleum-based products such as binders, resins and plastic injection frames to manufacture and assemble our products. Our materials cost accounts for approximately 55% &#32;of the total cost of the finished product. In certain instances, we depend on a single or limited number of suppliers for these supplies. Wood chips, logs, resins, binders and other additives utilized in the manufacturing of interior molded facings, exterior fiberglass door facings and door cores are purchased from global, regional and local suppliers taking into consideration the relative freight cost of these materials. Internal framing components, both solid and finger joint wood along with medium density fiberboard (MDF) cut stock plus internal door cores are manufactured internally at our facilities and supplemented externally as needed from suppliers located throughout the world. We utilize a network of suppliers based in North America, Europe, South America and Asia to purchase other components including steel coils for the stamping of steel door facings, MDF, plywood and hardboard facings, door jambs and frames and glass frames and inserts. 

Safety 

We believe that safety is as important to the success of the company as productivity and quality. We also believe that incidents can be prevented through proper management, employee involvement and attention to detail. Safety programs and training are provided throughout the company to ensure employees and managers have effective tools to help identify and address both unsafe conditions and at-risk behaviors. 

Through a sustained commitment to improve our safety performance, we have been successful in reducing the number of injuries sustained by our employees. In 2015 , we experienced a total incident rate of 1.4 compared to 1.7 in 2011, despite the fact that during this period we acquired 22 &#32;facilities which, at the time of acquisition, had an incident rate of more than twice the Masonite average. 

Environmental and Other Regulatory Matters 

We strive to minimize any adverse environmental impact our operations might have to our employees, the general public and the communities of which we are a part. We are subject to extensive environmental laws and regulations. The geographic breadth of our facilities subjects us to environmental laws, regulations and guidelines in a number of jurisdictions, including, among others, the United States, Canada, Mexico, the United Kingdom, the Republic of Ireland, the Czech Republic, Chile, Malaysia and South Africa. Such laws, regulations and guidelines relate to, among other things, the discharge of contaminants into water and air and onto land, the storage and handling of certain regulated materials used in the manufacturing process, waste minimization, the disposal of wastes and the 

remediation of contaminated sites. Many of our products are also subject to various regulations such as building and construction codes, product safety regulations, health and safety laws and regulations and mandates related to energy efficiency. 

Our efforts to ensure environmental compliance include the review of our operations on an ongoing basis utilizing in-house staff and on a selective basis by specialized environmental consultants. The Environmental, Health and Safety team participates in industry groups to monitor developing regulatory actions and actively develop comments on specific issues. Furthermore, for our prospective acquisition targets, environmental assessments are conducted as part of our due diligence review process. Based on recent experience and current projections, environmental protection requirements and liabilities are not expected to have a material effect on our business, capital expenditures, operations or financial position. 

In addition to the various environmental laws and regulations, our operations are subject to numerous foreign, federal, state and local laws and regulations, including those relating to the presence of hazardous materials and protection of worker health and safety, consumer protection, trade, labor and employment, tax, and others. We believe we are in compliance in all material respects with existing applicable laws and regulations affecting our operations. 

Intellectual Property 

In North America, our doors are marketed primarily under the Masonite &#174; brand. Other North American brands include: Premdor &#174; , Belleville &#174; , Barrington &#174; , Oakcraft &#174; , Sta-Tru &#174; &#32;HD, AvantGuard &#174; , Flagstaff &#174; , Hollister &#174; , Sierra &#174; , Specialty &#174; , Fast-Frame &#174; , Safe &#8217;N Sound &#174; , Palazzo Series &#174; , Heritage &#174; , Bellagio &#174; , Capri &#174; , Treviso &#174; , Cheyenne &#174; , Glenview &#174; , Riverside &#174; , Saddlebrook &#174; , West End TM , Mohawk &#174; , Megantic &#174; , Marshfield &#174; , Birchwood Best &#174; , Algoma &#174; , Novodor TM , Artisan TM , Artisan SF TM , RhinoDoor &#174; , Weldrock TM , Superstile TM , Unicol TM , Lemieux &#174; &#32;and Harring Doors TM . In Europe, doors are marketed under the Masonite &#174; , Premdor &#174; , Crosby TM , Door-Stop TM , Performance Doorset Solutions TM &#32;and National Hickman TM &#32;brands. We consider the use of trademarks and trade names to be important in the development of product awareness, and for differentiating products from competitors and between customers. 

&#160; 

We protect the intellectual property that we develop through, among other things, filing for patents in the United States and various foreign countries. In the United States, we currently have 213 &#32;design patents and design patent applications and 172 &#32;utility patents and patent applications. We currently have 197 &#32;foreign design patents and patent applications and 283 &#32;foreign utility patents and patent applications. Our patents are generally applicable for 14 years and our trademarks and trade names are generally applicable for 5 years and are renewable. 

Competition 

The North American door industry is highly competitive and includes a number of global and local participants. In the U.S. residential interior door market, the primary participants are Masonite and JELD-WEN, which are the only vertically integrated manufacturers of door facings. There are also a number of smaller competitors in the residential interior door market that primarily source door facings from third party suppliers. In the U.S. residential exterior door market, the primary participants are Masonite, JELD-WEN, Plastpro, Therma-Tru and Feather River. In the U.S. non-residential building construction door market, the primary participants are Masonite, VT Industries, Graham Wood Doors and Eggers Industries. Our primary market in Europe is the United Kingdom. The United Kingdom door industry is similarly competitive, including a number of global and local participants. The primary participants in the United Kingdom are our subsidiary Premdor, JELD-WEN, Vicaima and Distinction Doors. Competition in these markets is primarily based on product quality, design characteristics, brand awareness, service ability, distribution capabilities and value. 

We also face competition in the other countries we operate. Competitors based in Canada include other manufacturers that distribute on a national basis as well as smaller regional manufacturers, which focus on particular products. In Europe, South America and Asia, we face significant competition from a number of regionally based competitors and importers. 

There is meaningful competition both in North America and Europe as several firms manufacture similar products using similar raw materials and manufacturing methods. 

A large portion of our products are sold through large home centers and other large retailers. The consolidation of our customers and our reliance on fewer larger customers has increased the competitive pressures as some of our largest customers, such as The Home Depot, perform periodic product line reviews to assess their product offerings. 

We are one of the largest manufacturers of molded door facings in the world. The rest of the industry consists of one other large, integrated door manufacturer and a number of smaller regional manufacturers. Competition in the molded door facing business is based on quality, price, product design, logistics and customer service. We produce molded door facings to meet our own requirements and outside of North America we serve as an important supplier to the door industry at large. We manufacture molded door facings at our facilities in Mississippi, Ireland, Chile, Canada and Malaysia. 

Employees 

As of January 3, 2016 , we employed approximately 10,200 &#32;employees and contract laborers. This includes approximately 3,000 &#32;unionized employees, approximately half of whom are located in various foreign locations with the remainder in North America. Employees in many European countries participate in industry-wide unions with centralized bargaining. Local issues are, however, typically negotiated separately. 

History and Reporting Status 

Masonite was founded in 1925 in Laurel, Mississippi, by William H. Mason, to utilize vastly available quantities of sawmill waste to manufacture a usable end product. Masonite was acquired by Premdor from International Paper Company in August 2001. 

Prior to 2005, Masonite was a public company with shares of our predecessor&#8217;s common stock listed on both the New York and Toronto Stock Exchanges. In March 2005, we were acquired by an affiliate of Kohlberg Kravis Roberts &#38; Co. L.P. 

On March 16, 2009, Masonite International Corporation and several affiliated companies, voluntarily filed to reorganize under the Company's Creditors Arrangement Act, or the CCAA in Canada in the Ontario Superior Court of Justice. Additionally, Masonite International Corporation and Masonite Inc. (the former parent of the Company) and all of its U.S. subsidiaries filed voluntary petitions for reorganization under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code in the U.S. Bankruptcy Court in the District of Delaware. On June 9, 2009, we emerged from reorganization proceedings under the CCAA in Canada and under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code in the United States. 

Effective July 4, 2011, pursuant to an amalgamation under the Business Corporations Act (British Columbia), Masonite Inc. amalgamated with Masonite International Corporation to form an amalgamated corporation named Masonite Inc., which then changed its name to Masonite International Corporation. 

On September 9, 2013, our shares commenced listing on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol "DOOR" and we became subject to periodic reporting requirements under the United States federal securities laws. We are currently not a reporting issuer, or the equivalent, in any province or territory of Canada and our shares are not listed on any recognized Canadian stock exchange. 

Our United States executive offices are located at One Tampa City Center, 201 North Franklin Street, Suite 300, Tampa, Florida 33602 and our Canadian executive offices are located at 2771 Rutherford Road, Concord, Ontario L4K 2N6 Canada. 

Available Information 

We make our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 available through our website, free of charge, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. Our website is www.masonite.com. Information on our website does not constitute part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

