 ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

Overview 

TimkenSteel Corporation (we, us, our, the Company or TimkenSteel) was incorporated in Ohio on October 24, 2013, and became an independent, publicly traded company as the result of a spinoff (spinoff) from The Timken Company (Timken) on June 30, 2014. In the spinoff, Timken transferred to us all of the assets and generally all of the liabilities related to Timken&#8217;s steel business. 

TimkenSteel traces its roots back to The Timken Roller Bearing Company, which was founded in 1899 by carriage-maker/inventor Henry Timken and his two sons. By 1913, the company launched its first formal research facility, centered on improving the quality of the raw materials used to make its bearings. Early research demonstrated the superiority of bearing steel made in electric-arc furnaces (rather than existing Bessemer and open hearth processes), and that finding, coupled with a desire to ensure a dependable supply of premium steel in the years leading into World War I, led to the decision to competitively produce steel in-house. When The Timken Roller Bearing Company&#8217;s Canton, Ohio steel plant became operational in 1917, it included one of the largest electric arc-furnace facilities in the country. 

We manufacture alloy steel, as well as carbon and micro-alloy steel, with an annual melt capacity of approximately two million tons. Our portfolio includes special bar quality, or SBQ, bars, seamless mechanical tubing and precision steel components. In addition, we supply machining and thermal treatment services, as well as manage raw material recycling programs, which are used as a feeder system for our operations. We focus on research and development to devise solutions to our customers&#8217; toughest engineering challenges and then leverage those answers into new product offerings. 

Based on our knowledge of the steel industry, we believe we are the only focused SBQ steel producer in North America and have the largest SBQ steel large bar (6-inch diameter and greater) production capacity among the North American steel producers. In addition, we are the only steel manufacturer with capabilities of developing SBQ steel large bars up to 16-inches in diameter. SBQ steel is made to restrictive chemical compositions and high internal purity levels and is used in critical mechanical applications. We make these products from nearly 100% recycled steel, using our expertise in raw materials to create custom steel products with a competitive cost structure similar to that of a high-volume producer. We focus on creating tailored products and services for our customers&#8217; most demanding applications. Our engineers are experts in both materials and applications, so we can work closely with each customer to deliver flexible solutions related to our products as well as to their applications and supply chains. We believe our unique operating model and production assets give us a competitive advantage in our industry. 

Our recent capital investments are expected to significantly strengthen our position as a leader in providing differentiated solutions for the energy, industrial and automotive market sectors, while enhancing our operational performance and customer service capabilities. In October 2014, we cast our first heat on the world&#8217;s largest jumbo bloom vertical caster. The new caster will improve yield by approximately 15%, increase annual finished ton capacity by up to 125,000 tons and expand our product range servicing the energy and industrial market sectors by providing large bar capabilities unique in the United States. 

Operating Segments 

We operate in and report financial results for two segments: 1) Industrial &#38; Mobile and 2) Energy &#38; Distribution. A significant portion of our production facilities services all of our end markets across both reportable segments. As a result, we allocate certain costs based on the segments&#8217; use of these shared resources. These segments represent the level at which we review our financial performance and make operating decisions. Segment earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT) is the measure of profit and loss that our Chief Operating Decision Maker (CODM) uses to evaluate the financial performance of our business and is the basis for resource allocation and performance reviews. For these reasons, we believe that segment EBIT represents the most relevant measure of segment profit and loss. We may exclude certain charges or gains, such as corporate charges and other special charges, from EBIT to arrive at a segment EBIT that is a more meaningful measure of profit and loss upon which to base our operating decisions. We define segment EBIT margin as segment EBIT as a percentage of segment net revenues. 

Effective January 1, 2016, we realigned our reportable segments as a result of recent organizational changes made to better align resources to support our business strategy. As a result, we will conduct our business activities and report financial results in one business segment. We believe the presentation of financial results as one reportable segment is consistent with the way we operate our business under the realigned organization and is consistent with the manner in which our CODM evaluates performance and makes resource and operating decisions for the business. 

Industrial &#38; Mobile 

Our Industrial &#38; Mobile segment is a leading provider of high-quality air-melted alloy steel bars, tubes, precision components and value-added services. For the industrial market sector, we sell to original equipment (OE) manufacturers including agriculture, construction, machinery, military, mining, power generation and rail. For the mobile market sector, we sell to automotive customers, including light-vehicle, medium-truck and heavy-truck applications. Our products in this segment are in applications including engine, transmission and driveline components, large hydraulic system components, military ordnance, mining and construction drilling applications and other types of equipment. 

Energy &#38; Distribution 

Our Energy &#38; Distribution segment is a leading provider of high quality air-melted alloy steel bars, seamless tubes and value-added services such as thermal treatment and machining. The Energy &#38; Distribution segment offers unique steel chemistries in various product configurations to improve our customers&#8217; performance in demanding drilling, completion and production activities. Application of our engineered material solutions can be found in both offshore and land-based drilling rig activities. Vertical and horizontal drilling and completion applications include high strength drill string components and specialized completion tools that enable hydraulic fracturing for shale gas and oil. Distribution channel activity also is conducted through this segment. Our distribution channel activity constitutes direct sales of steel bars and seamless mechanical tubes to our distributors. TimkenSteel authorized service centers enable us to collaborate with various independent service centers to deliver differentiated solutions for our end users. 

Industry Segments and Geographical Financial Information 

Information required by this Item is incorporated herein by reference to Note 11 &#32;&#8212; &#8220; Segment Information &#8221; in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Strengths and Strategy 

We believe our business model is unique in our industry and focuses on creating tailored products and services for our customers&#8217; most demanding applications and supply chains. Our team, including degreed engineers and experienced manufacturing professionals in both materials and applications, work closely with each customer to deliver flexible solutions related to our products as well as their applications and supply chains. We believe few others can consistently deliver that kind of customization and responsiveness. 

The TimkenSteel business model delivers these tailored solutions based on the following foundation: 

&#8226; 

Deep and experienced management and technical team. 

&#8226; 

Close and trusted working relationship with customers across diverse end markets. 

&#8226; 

Leadership position in niche markets with differentiated products. 

&#8226; 

Track record of innovation that grows from a deep technical knowledge of steel materials, manufacturing processes and end-user applications. Our research and development efforts focus on creating the answers to our customer&#8217;s toughest engineering challenges and then leveraging those answers into new product offerings. On average, 30% of our sales are based on new business from the last five years. 

Recent capital investments are expected to significantly strengthen our leadership position while enhancing our operational performance and customer service. 

Major Customers 

We sell products and services that are used in a diverse range of demanding applications around the world. Our customers include companies in the following market sectors: oil &#38; gas; automotive; industrial equipment; mining; construction; rail; aerospace and defense; heavy truck; agriculture; and power generation. Our customer base is diverse. In 2015 , we did not have direct sales to any single customer that accounted for 10% or more of total sales. 

Products 

We believe we produce some of the cleanest, highest performing alloy air-melted steels in the world for our customers&#8217; most demanding applications. Most of our steel is custom-engineered. We leverage our technical knowledge, development expertise and production and engineering capabilities across all of our products and end-markets to deliver high-performance products to our customers. 

SBQ Steel and Seamless Mechanical Steel Tubing. &#32;Our focus is on alloy steel, although in total we manufacture more than 450 grades of high-performance carbon, micro-alloy and alloy steel, sold as ingots, bars and tubes. These products are custom-made in a variety of chemistries, lengths and finishes. Our metallurgical expertise and what we believe to be unique operational capabilities drive high-value solutions for industrial, energy and mobile customers. Our specialty steels are featured in a wide variety of end products including: oil country drill pipe; bits and collars; gears; hubs; axles; crankshafts and connecting rods; bearing races and rolling elements; bushings; fuel injectors; wind energy shafts; anti-friction bearings; and other demanding applications where mechanical power transmission is critical to the end-customer. 

Value-added Precision Products and Services . In addition to our customized steels, we also custom-make precision components that provide us with the opportunity to further expand our market for bar and tubing products and capture additional sales by streamlining customer supply chains. These products provide customers, especially those in the automotive, energy and bearing industries, with ready-to-finish components that simplify vendor management, streamline supply chains and often cost less than other alternatives. We also customize products and services for the energy market sector. We offer well-boring and finishing products that, when combined with our wide range of high-quality alloy steel bars and tubes, can create a one-stop steel source for customers in the energy market sector. Our experts operate precision honing, pull-boring, skiving, outside diameter turning and milling equipment to deliver precision hole-finishing to meet exacting dimensional tolerances. 

Sales and Distribution 

Our products are sold by a sales force largely made up of engineers that are backed by a team of metallurgists and other technical experts. While most of our products are sold directly to OE manufacturers, a portion of our sales are made through authorized distributors and steel service centers. This portion of our business represented approximately 15% of net sales during 2015. 

The majority of our customers are served through individually negotiated contracts that have one-year terms. A smaller percentage of our contracts extend for more than one year and contain prices fixed for a period extending beyond current shipments. Typically, these types of contracts include a commitment by the customer to purchase a designated percentage of its requirements from us. We do not believe that there is any significant loss of earnings risk associated with any given contract. 

Competition 

The steel industry, both domestically and globally, is highly competitive and is expected to remain so. Maintaining high standards of product quality and reliability, while keeping production costs competitive, is essential to our ability to compete with domestic and foreign manufacturers of mechanical components and alloy steel. For bar products less than 6-inch in diameter, principal competitors include foreign-owned domestic producers Gerdau Special Steel North America (a unit of Brazilian steelmaker Gerdau, S.A) and Republic Steel (a unit of Mexican steel producer ICH). For bar products up to 9-inch in diameter, domestic producers Steel Dynamics, Inc. and Nucor Corporation are our principal competitors. For very large bars from 9 to 16 inches in diameter, offshore producers are the primary competitors as well as specialty forging companies in North America such as Scot Forge and Sorel Steel. For seamless tubing, offshore producers such as Tenaris, S.A. and Vallourec, S.A. are our primary competitors as well as the foreign-owned domestic producer ArcelorMittal Tubular Products (a unit of Luxembourg based ArcelorMittal, S.A.). We also provide unique value-added steel products and supply chain solutions to our customers in the industrial, energy and automotive sectors. 

Backlog 

The backlog of orders for our operations is estimated to have been $242.7 million at December 31, 2015 &#32;and $571.1 million at December 31, 2014 . 

Virtually our entire backlog at December 31, 2015 &#32;is scheduled for delivery in the succeeding 12 months. Actual shipments depend upon customers&#8217; ever-changing production schedules. During periods of shorter lead times, backlog may not be a meaningful indicator of future sales. Accordingly, we do not believe our backlog data and comparisons thereof, as of different dates, reliably indicate future sales or shipments. 

Raw Materials 

The principal raw materials that we use to manufacture steel are recycled scrap metal, chrome, nickel, molybdenum oxide, vanadium and other alloy materials. Raw materials comprise a significant portion of the steelmaking cost structure and are subject to price and availability changes due to global demand fluctuations and local supply limitations. Proper selection and management of raw materials can have a significant impact on procurement cost, flexibility to supply changes, steelmaking energy 

costs and mill productivity. Because of our diverse order book and demanding steel requirements, we have developed differentiated expertise in this area and created a raw material management system that contributes to our competitive cost position and advantage. 

In addition to accessing scrap and alloys through the open market, we have established a scrap return supply chain with many of our customers. We operate a scrap processing company for improved access, reliability and cost. Our raw material feeder system is designed to achieve high consistency, reliable chemistry and low variability from a number of our sources. We have extensive segregation points, chemistry monitoring, computerized modeling of variability and total systems optimization (inventory, operating practices, capacity impact, order book, procurement flexibility and strategy). Roughly 40% of our raw material sources are considered &#8220;highly controlled,&#8221; which gives us greater flexibility to substitute lower-cost scrap based on availability. Our raw material management process achieves competitive procurement at competitive costs. This part of our business solidly rests on a deep knowledge of the raw material supply industry and an extensive network of relationships that result in steady, reliable supply from our raw material sources. 

Research 

Our engineers analyze customer application challenges and develop new solutions to address them. With nearly a century of experience in materials science and steelmaking, we leverage our technical know-how to improve the performance of our customers&#8217; products and supply chains. 

We invest in technology that results in cleaner, stronger, and more easily processed materials. Our engineers drive technology advances in many market sectors, producing new and improved products that have demonstrated increased performance in high-stress conditions. Whether we need to develop new material specifications or help solve a customer processing challenge, our advanced material engineers are among the most knowledgeable in our industry. 

This expertise extends to advanced process technology in which advanced material conversion, finishing, gaging and assembly enables high quality production of our products. With resources dedicated to studying, developing and implementing new manufacturing processes and technologies, we are able to support new product growth and create value for our customers. 

Our research and development expenditures for the years ended December 31, 2015 , 2014 &#32;and 2013 &#32;were $8.6 million , $8.5 million &#32;and $9.4 million , respectively. 

Environmental Matters 

We continue our efforts to protect the environment and comply with environmental protection laws. Additionally, we have invested in pollution control equipment and updated plant operational practices. We are committed to implementing a documented environmental management system worldwide and to becoming certified under the ISO 14001 standard. As of December 31, 2015, all of our steel making and value-add plants have obtained ISO 14001 certification. 

We believe we have established appropriate reserves to cover our environmental expenses. We have a well-established environmental compliance audit program for our domestic units. This program measures performance against applicable laws as well as against internal standards that have been established for all units. It is difficult to assess the possible effect of compliance with future requirements that differ from existing ones. As previously reported, we are unsure of the future financial impact to us that could result from the United States Environmental Protection Agency&#8217;s (EPA) final rules to tighten the National Ambient Air Quality Standards for fine particulate and ozone. In addition, we are unsure of the future financial impact to us that could result from the EPA instituting hourly ambient air quality standards for sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxide. We are also unsure of the potential future financial impact to us that could result from possible future legislation regulating emissions of carbon dioxide or greenhouse gases. 

We and certain of our subsidiaries located in the U.S. have been identified as potentially responsible parties under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (CERCLA), or state laws similar to CERCLA, for investigation and remediation at certain off-site disposal or recycling facilities. In general, such claims for investigation and remediation also have been asserted against numerous other entities, which are believed to be financially solvent and are expected to substantially fulfill their proportionate share of any obligations. 

From time to time, we may be a party to lawsuits, claims or other proceedings related to environmental matters and/or receive notices of potential violations of environmental laws and regulations from the EPA and similar state or local authorities. As of December 31, 2015 &#32;and 2014 , we recorded reserves for such environmental matters of $1.3 million &#32;and $1.3 million , respectively, classified as other current liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Accruals related to such environmental matters represent management&#8217;s best estimate of the fees and costs associated with these matters. Although it is not possible to 

predict with certainty the outcome of such matters, management believes that their ultimate dispositions should not have a material adverse effect on our financial position, cash flows, or results of operations. 

Legal Proceedings 

We are involved in various claims and legal actions arising in the ordinary course of business. In the opinion of our management, the ultimate disposition of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 

Patents, Trademarks and Licenses 

We own a number of U.S. and foreign patents, trademarks, licenses, copyrights and trade secrets, as well as substantial know-how and technology relating to certain products and the processes for their production. While we regard these as important, we do not deem our business as a whole, or any segment, to be materially dependent upon any one item or group of items. 

Employment 

At December 31, 2015 , we had approximately 2,600 employees. Approximately 58% of our employees are covered under one of two collective bargaining agreements that run through December 2016 and September 2017, respectively. The collective bargaining agreement that runs through December 2016 covers approximately 1% of our employees. 

Available Information 

We use our Investor Relations website at http://investors.timkensteel.com, as a channel for routine distribution of important information, including news releases, analyst presentations and financial information. We post filings as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), including our annual, quarterly and current reports on Forms 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K, respectively; our proxy statements; and any amendments to those reports or statements. All such postings and filings are available on our website free of charge. In addition, our website allows investors and other interested persons to sign up to automatically receive e-mail alerts when we post news releases and financial information on our website. The SEC also maintains a web site, www.sec.gov, which contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. The content on any website referred to in this Annual Report on Form 10-K is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report unless expressly noted. 

