 ITEM 1 - BUSINESS 

As used in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the terms &#8220;we,&#8221; &#8220;us,&#8221; or &#8220;our,&#8221; refer to Fuel Tech, Inc. and our wholly-owned subsidiaries. 

GENERAL 

We are a leading technology company engaged in the worldwide development, commercialization and application of state-of-the-art proprietary technologies for air pollution control, process optimization, combustion efficiency and advanced engineering services. These technologies enable our customers to operate efficiently in a cost-effective and environmentally sustainable manner. We operate as a fully integrated company to apply our extensive knowledge of carbonaceous fuel and combustion engineering to serve a variety of end markets. Our Air Pollution Control (APC) and FUEL CHEM &#174; &#32;business processes rely heavily on our unique ability to inject chemical slurries into combustion units, in precise concentrations and locations, to achieve a desired outcome. Our Fuel Conversion business is a development stage opportunity focused on creating and manufacturing value-added engineered carbon feedstock products for carbon feedstock customer markets. 

&#8226; 

Our APC technologies include advanced combustion modification techniques including low NO x &#32;burners and over fire air systems, along with post-combustion nitrogen oxide (NO x ) control approaches, including NO x OUT &#174; &#32;and HERT&#8482; Selective Non-Catalytic Reduction (SNCR) and Rich Reagent Injection (RRI) systems. Our Advanced Selective Catalytic Reduction (ASCR) system utilizes the combination of combustion systems and SNCR to provide a cost effective alternative to high capital cost, standalone conventional SCR systems while providing similar NO x &#32;reduction levels. The ULTRA&#8482; system generates ammonia on-site for SCR systems using safe urea reagent. Our SCR group provides process design optimization, performance testing and improvement, and catalyst selection services for SCR systems on coal-fired boilers. These technologies have established us as a leader in NO x &#32;reduction, with installations on over 1,000 units worldwide, where coal, fuel oil, natural gas, municipal waste, biomass, and other fuels are utilized. 

&#160; 

&#8226; 

Our FUEL CHEM technologies revolve around the unique application of chemical injection programs which improve the efficiency, reliability, fuel flexibility and environmental status of combustion units by controlling slagging, fouling, corrosion, opacity and acid plume, as well as the formation of sulfur trioxide, ammonium bisulfate, particulate matter (PM 2.5 ), sulfur dioxide (SO 2 ), and carbon dioxide (CO 2 ). We use our patented TIFI &#174; &#32;Targeted In-Furnace Injection&#8482; processes to apply specialty chemical programs to units burning a wide variety of fuels including coal, heavy oil, biomass, and municipal waste. These TIFI programs incorporate design, modeling, equipment, reagent, and service to provide complete customized on-site programs designed to improve plant operations and provide a return on investment in addition to helping meet emission regulatory requirements. 

&#8226; 

The Fuel Conversion business represents the continuing evolution of a new research and business development initiative we first commenced in 2014 following our acquisition of intellectual property rights and know-how related to the CARBONITE &#174; fuel conversion process and technology. The goal of our Fuel Conversion technology is to convert coals of various grades into value-added engineered carbon feedstock products that are designed to be high in energy content and manufactured to contain other customizable carbon feedstock characteristics desirable in a variety of carbon feedstock use applications. Our Fuel Conversion technology has a number of potential applications including certain coal replacement, electric arc furnace reductant, ferro-alloy feedstock, and mercury reduced carbon feedstock. During 2015, 

we have been testing and developing certain engineered carbon feedstock products for specific market applications. We are in the process of evaluating the commercialization of these product offerings with prospective customers. 

Many of our products and services rely heavily on our computational fluid dynamics and chemical kinetics modeling capabilities, which are enhanced by internally developed, high-end visualization software. These capabilities, coupled with our innovative technologies and multi-disciplined team approach, enable us to provide practical solutions to some of our customers' most challenging issues. 

AIR POLLUTION CONTROL 

Regulations and Markets: Domestic 

The continued growth of our APC technology segment is dependent upon the adoption and enforcement of increasingly stringent environmental regulations in the U.S. and globally. In the U.S., federal and state laws regulating the emission of NO x &#32;are the primary driver in our APC technology segment. The principal regulatory drivers currently in effect are as follows: 

Clean Air Act: The Clean Air Act (CAA) requires the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to establish national ambient air quality standards (NAAQS) at levels that are protective of public health with an adequate margin of safety. The six pollutants specified include: Ozone (O 3 ), Particulate Matter (PM), Nitrogen Dioxide (NO 2 ), Sulfur Dioxide (SO 2 ), Lead, and Carbon Monoxide (CO). The NAAQS provisions require that states comply with ozone and particulate emissions standards. NO x &#32;emissions are a precursor to ozone formation and also contribute to fine particulate emissions (PM 2.5 ), which has been the recent regulatory driver through the Cross-State Air Pollution Rule (CSAPR). NO x &#32;emissions were targeted as contributors to fine particulate emissions and ozone emissions. Since 1990, programs have been established by the EPA at the regional and federal level to help states in their mission to define and meet their State Implementation Plans (SIPs) for attainment. NAAQS PM standards were issued in 1997, with more stringent standards issued in 2006 and 2012. The NAAQS ozone standards issued in 1997 were made more stringent in 2008. On October 1, 2015, the EPA strengthened the NAAQS for ground-level ozone by reducing the minimum acceptable level from 75 to 70 parts per billion (ppb). 

Cross-State Air Pollution Rule (CSAPR): &#32;On July 7, 2011, the Environmental Protection Agency passed the Cross-State Air Pollution Rule (CSAPR) under the &#8220;good neighbor&#8221; provision of the Clean Air Act to reduce emissions of SO 2 &#32;and NO x &#32;from power plants in the eastern half of the United States. This rule replaces the Clean Air Transport Rule (CATR) and focuses on reducing air emissions contributing to fine particle (PM 2.5 ) and ozone nonattainment that often travel across state lines; including SO 2 &#32;and NO x &#32;which contribute to PM 2.5 &#32;transport. CSAPR affected 27 states, with compliance for the first phase in 2012, with additional reductions required in the second phase by 2014. Under CSAPR, state emission caps were designated to mitigate the emission impact on downwind states by controlling emissions from upwind states. If sources within a state caused the state to exceed its assurance limit, severe penalties including a two-for-one reduction based on each source&#8217;s contribution percentage of the state overage would be applied. The timing of CSAPR's implementation has been affected by a number of court actions. In December 2011, CSAPR was stayed prior to implementation due to lawsuits filed by various states and combustion sources, and in August 2012 the U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals, D.C. Circuit, vacated CSAPR and remanded it to the EPA. The U.S. Supreme Court reversed that decision in April, 2014. Following the remand of the case to the D.C. Circuit, the EPA requested that the court lift the CSAPR stay and toll the CSAPR compliance deadlines by three years. In October, 2014, the D.C. Circuit granted the EPA's request and, accordingly, CSAPR Phase 1 implementation commenced in 2015, with Phase 2 beginning in 2017. 

Most recently, in November 2015, the EPA proposed an update to CSAPR for the 2008 ozone NAAQS. The rule is expected to be finalized in 2016. 

Industrial Boiler MACT: In December 2011, the EPA re-proposed its new emissions rule for industrial, commercial and institutional boilers and process heaters, known as the Industrial Boiler Maximum Achievable Control Technology (MACT) standard. The EPA proposed the final rule on January 31, 2013, with compliance scheduled for January 2016. Emissions regulated include acid gas emissions including hydrochloric acid (HCl), carbon monoxide (CO), mercury, PM, and dioxins. 

Clean Air Visibility Rule (CAVR: The Clean Air Visibility Rule (CAVR), also known as the Regional Haze rule, is part of the Clean Air Act and was finalized in 2005. Under CAVR, certain States are required to submit implementation plans to the EPA to comply with the Regional Haze requirements, and updates are required every five years. The overall obligation of CAVR is to return the US scenic areas to &#8220;active&#8221; visibility by 2064. 

Consent Decrees: Consent decree activity through the US Department of Justice or EPA may require emission sources to meet individual requirements. Sources may also agree to specific air pollution requirements with states or environmental groups. 

Regulations and Markets: International 

We also sell NO x &#32;control systems outside the United States, specifically in Europe, Latin America, and in the Pacific Rim, including the People&#8217;s Republic of China (China). Under European Union Directives, existing coal fired power plants will need to meet tighter emission regulations, and come into compliance by 2019 or 2020 (country specific). The Latin American countries will also present some opportunities for SNCR systems with plants that have inter-company directives for curbing emissions, in the absence of national regulations. However, these opportunities will not be time sensitive, and will greatly depend on allocation of capital budgets from the parent companies. 

China continues to represent an attractive opportunity for us as the government sets pollution control, energy conservation and efficiency improvements as top priorities, as part of tightened standards addressed by the super clean emission regulation officially released in December, 2015. We have viable technologies to help achieve these objectives. China&#8217;s dominant reliance on coal as an energy resource is not expected to change in the foreseeable future. China alone is forecasted to account for 76% of the projected increase in world coal use through 2035. Clean air will continue to be a pressing issue and has become a political issue, especially given China&#8217;s growing awareness of air pollution and increasingly expanded role in international events and organizations. 

China&#8217;s Ministry of Environmental Protection issued super clean emission regulations to be fully implemented by 2020, in support of reducing harmful pollutants and further defining the technologies recommended to achieve the reductions. Super clean emission requires NOx emission under 50 mg/Nm3, SO2 emission under 35 mg/Nm3 and particulate emission under 10 mg/Nm3. The regulations apply to all public utility units of 300MW or larger and private power generation units of 100MW or larger, and will be progressively implemented in the eastern region by 2017, the central region by 2018, and the western region by 2020. Newly constructed units and existing units must meet the same stringent emission standard. The existing units which cannot be retrofitted will be closed, particularly for units under 300MW as part of Thirteenth Five Year Plan-improving overall energy efficiency and clean emission from 2015-2020. In addition, Chinese government promotes the use of waste incineration plants to replace landfills with focus on major cities. New construction of MSW&#8217;s units which are equipped with SNCR or SCR has been growing. 

The European Industrial Emissions Directive (IED) sets the target for NOx emissions to be at or below 200 mg/Nm3 from 1 st &#32;January 2016. 15 member states have applied for temporary derogation primarily due to aging coal-fired fleets and compliance time frames vary between 2016 and 2020. The implementation is country specific and each member country sets its own limits based on this guideline. Turkey, while not a member state, is also looking to meet this guideline as part of their bid to join the European Union. Presently, Fuel Tech is best positioned to compete in the UK market based on the relationships and partnerships built there over last several years. A number of coal-fired units in the UK are converting to biomass firing due to the subsidies available from the government. Other European countries that rely heavily on coal generation, and are impacted by the IED include Spain, Poland and Czech Republic. Turkey will also see modernization of its fleet of coal-based power generation. 

The Latin American governments in general have not enacted NOx specific emission regulations (with the exception of Chile). However, certain companies have set internal targets for pollution control and these will present a few opportunities for Fuel Tech in the next 2 - 3 years. Current Chilean NOx emission limits for existing units are being met with retrofitting of Low NOx burners and OFA systems, while the new units are being fitted with SCRs. Further tightening of NOx limits may require the addition of SCRs to existing plants for compliance. 

Products 

Our NO x &#32;reduction and particulate control technologies are installed worldwide on over 1000 combustion units, including utility, industrial and municipal solid waste applications. Our products include customized NO x &#32;control systems and our patented ULTRA &#8482; &#32;technology, which converts urea-to-ammonia on site and provides safe reagent for use in Selective Catalytic Reduction (SCR) systems. 

&#8226; 

SNCR Systems: Our NO x OUT &#174; &#32;and HERT&#8482; SNCR processes use non-hazardous urea as the reagent rather than ammonia. Both the NO x OUT &#174; &#32;and HERT&#8482; processes on their own are capable of reducing NO x &#32;by up to 25% - 50% for utilities and by potentially significantly greater amounts for industrial units in many types of plants with capital costs ranging from $5 - $20/kW for utility boilers and with total annualized operating costs ranging from $1,000 - $2,000/ton of NO x &#32;removed. 

&#8226; 

Combined Systems: Our Advanced Selective Catalytic Reduction (ASCR&#8482;) systems include LNB, OFA, and SNCR components, along with a downsized SCR catalyst, Ammonia Injection Grid (AIG), and Graduated Straightening Grid (GSG&#8482;) system. Together, these systems provide up to 90% NO x &#32;reduction at significantly lower capital and operating costs than conventional SCR systems while providing greater operational flexibility to plant operators. The capital costs for ASCR systems can range from $30 - $150/kW depending on boiler size and configuration, which is significantly less than that of conventional SCRs, which can cost $300/kW or more, while operating costs are competitive with those experienced by SCR systems. The NO x OUT CASCADE &#174; &#32;and NO x OUT-SCR &#174; &#32;processes are basic types of ASCR systems which use just SNCR and SCR catalyst components. The NO x OUT CASCADE &#174; &#32;systems can achieve 60% - 70% NO x &#32; 

reduction, with capital costs being a portion of the ASCR values defined above. Our NO x OUT-SCR &#174; &#32;process utilizes urea as the SCR catalyst reagent to achieve NO x &#32;reductions of up to 85% from smaller stationary combustion sources with capital and operating costs competitive with equivalently sized, standard SCR systems. 

&#8226; 

ULTRA Technology: Our ULTRA&#8482; process is designed to convert urea to ammonia safely and economically for use as a reagent in the SCR process for NO x &#32;reduction. Recent local objections in the ammonia permitting process have raised concerns regarding the safety of ammonia shipment and storage in quantities sufficient to supply SCR. In addition, the Department of Homeland Security has characterized anhydrous ammonia as a Toxic Inhalation Hazard commodity. Overseas, new coal-fired power plants incorporating SCR systems are expected to be constructed at a rapid rate in China, and our ULTRA&#8482; process is believed to be a market leader for the safe conversion of urea to ammonia just prior to injection into the flue gas duct, which is particularly important near densely populated cities, major waterways, harbors or islands, or where the transport of anhydrous or aqueous ammonia is a safety concern. 

&#8226; 

SCR Processes and Services: Our SCR group provides process design optimization, performance testing and improvement, and catalyst selection services for SCR systems on coal-fired boilers. In addition, other related services, including start-ups, maintenance support and general consulting services for SCR systems, Ammonia Injection Grid design and tuning to help optimize catalyst performance, and catalyst management services to help optimize catalyst life, are now offered to customers around the world. We also specialize in both physical experimental models, which involve construction of scale models through which fluids are tested, and computational fluid dynamics models, which simulate fluid flow by generating a virtual replication of real-world geometry and operating inputs. We design flow corrective devices, such as turning vanes, ash screens, static mixers and our patent pending Graduated Straightening Grid (GSG&#8482;). Our models help clients optimize performance in flow critical equipment, such as selective catalytic reactors in SCR systems, where the effectiveness and longevity of catalysts are of utmost concern. The Company&#8217;s modeling capabilities are also applied to other power plant systems where proper flow distribution and mixing are important for performance, such as flue gas desulphurization scrubbers, electrostatic precipitators, air heaters, exhaust stacks and carbon injection systems for mercury removal. 

&#8226; 

ESP Processes and Services: ESP technologies for particulate control include Electrostatic Precipitator (ESP) products and services including ESP Inspection Services, Performance Modeling, and Performance and Efficiency Upgrades, along with complete turnkey capability for ESP retrofits. Flue gas conditioning (FGC) systems include treatment using sulfur trioxide (SO 3 ) and ammonia (NH 3 ) based conditioning to improve the performance of ESPs by modifying the properties of the fly ash particle. Our ULTRA technology can provide the ammonia system feed requirements for FGC applications as a safe alternative to ammonia reagent based systems. FGC systems offer a lower capital cost approach to improving ash particulate capture versus the alternative of installing larger ESPs or utilizing fabric filter technology to meet targeted emissions and opacity limits. Fuel Tech&#8217;s particulate control technologies have been installed on more than 125 units worldwide. 

&#8226; 

Burner Systems: Low NO x &#32;Burners and Ultra Low NO x &#32;Burners (LNB and ULNB) are available for coal-, oil-, and gas-fired industrial and utility units. Each system application is specifically designed to maximize NO x &#32;reduction. Computational fluid dynamics combustion modeling is used to validate the design prior to fabrication of equipment. NO x &#32;reductions can range from 40%-60% depending on the fuel type. Over-Fire Air (OFA) systems stage combustion for enhanced NO x &#32;reduction. Additional NO x &#32;reductions, beyond Low NO x &#32;Burners, of 35% - 50% are possible on different boiler configurations on a range of fuel types. Combined overall reductions range from 50% - 70%, with overall capital costs ranging from $10 - $20/kW and total costs ranging from $300 - $1,500/ton of NO x &#32;removed, depending on the scope. 

The key market dynamic for the APC product line is the continued use of coal as the principal fuel source for global electricity production. Coal currently accounts for approximately 39% &#32;of all U.S. electricity generation and roughly 67% &#32;of Chinese electricity generation. Major coal consumers include China, the United States and India. 

Sales of APC products were $43.5 million , $42.0 million , and $72.6 million &#32;for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. 

NO x &#32;Reduction Competition 

Competition with our NO x &#32;reduction suite of products may be expected from companies supplying urea SNCR systems, combustion modification products, SCR systems and ammonia SNCR systems. In addition, we experience competition in the urea-to-ammonia conversion market. 

Combustion modifications, including Low NO x &#32;Burners and Over-Fire Air systems, can be fitted to most types of boilers with cost and effectiveness varying with specific boilers. Combustion modifications may yield up to 20% - 60% NO x &#32;reduction economically with capital costs ranging from $10 - $20/kW and total costs ranging from $300 - $1,500/ton of NO x &#32;removed. The modifications are designed to reduce the formation of NO x &#32;and are typically the first NO x &#32;reduction efforts employed. Companies 

such as Alstom, Babcock Power, Inc., The Babcock &#38; Wilcox Burner Business, Combustion Components Associates, Inc., Foster Wheeler Corporation, and Siemens are active competitors in the Low NO x &#32;Burner business. Once NO x &#32;is formed, then the SCR process is an effective and proven method of control for removal of NO x &#32;up to 90%. SCR systems have a high capital cost of $300+/kW on retrofit coal applications. Such companies as Alstom, Babcock Power, The Babcock &#38; Wilcox Company, Foster Wheeler Corporation, Peerless Manufacturing Company, and Hitachi, are active SCR system providers, or providers of the catalyst itself. 

The use of ammonia as the reagent for the SNCR process can reduce NO x &#32;by 30% - 70% on incinerators, but has limited applicability in the utility industry. Ammonia system capital costs range from $5 - $20/kW, with annualized operating costs ranging from $1,000 - $3,000/ton of NO x &#32;removed. These systems require the use of either anhydrous or aqueous ammonia, both of which are hazardous substances. 

In addition to or in lieu of using the foregoing processes, certain customers may elect to close or de-rate plants, purchase electricity from third-party sources, switch from higher to lower NO x -emitting fuels or purchase NO x &#32;emission allowances. 

Lastly, with respect to urea-to-ammonia conversion technologies, a competitive approach to our controlled urea decomposition system competes with Wahlco, Inc., which manufactures a system that hydrolyzes urea under high temperature and pressure. 

APC Backlog 

Consolidated APC segment backlog at December 31, 2015 &#32;was $22.2 million versus backlog at December 31, 2014 &#32;of $18.0 million. A substantial portion of the backlog as of December 31, 2015 &#32;should be recognized as revenue in fiscal 2016, although the timing of such revenue recognition in 2016 is subject to the timing of the expenses incurred on existing projects. 

FUEL CHEM 

Product and Markets 

The FUEL CHEM &#174; &#32;technology segment revolves around the unique application of specialty chemicals to improve the efficiency, reliability and environmental status of plants operating in the electric utility, industrial, pulp and paper, waste-to-energy, and university and district heating markets. FUEL CHEM programs are currently in place on combustion units in North America, Mexico and Europe, treating a wide variety of solid and liquid fuels, including coal, heavy oil, black liquor, biomass and municipal waste. 

Central to the FUEL CHEM approach is the introduction of chemical reagents, such as magnesium hydroxide, to combustion units via in-body fuel application (pre-combustion) or via direct injection (post-combustion) utilizing our proprietary TIFI &#174; &#32;technology. By attacking performance-hindering problems, such as slagging, fouling and corrosion, as well as the formation of sulfur trioxide (SO 3 ), ammonium bisulfate (ABS), particulate matter (PM 2.5 ), carbon dioxide (CO 2 ), and unburned carbon in fly ash, our programs offer numerous operational, financial and environmental benefits to owners of boilers, furnaces and other combustion units. 

The key market dynamic for this product line is the continued use of coal as the principal fuel source for global electricity production. Coal currently accounts for approximately 39% of all U.S. electricity generation and roughly 67% of Chinese electricity generation. Major coal consumers include the United States, China and India. Additional market dynamics include a growing, worldwide utilization of biomass for both steam and electrical production, as well as the strengthening of the pulp and paper industry worldwide, resulting in black liquor recovery boilers needing to maximize throughput. 

The principal markets for this product line are electric power plants burning coals with slag-forming constituents such as sodium, iron and high levels of sulfur. Sodium is typically found in the Powder River Basin coals of Wyoming and Montana. Iron is typically found in coals produced in the Illinois Basin region. High sulfur content is typical of Illinois Basin coals and certain Appalachian coals. High sulfur content can give rise to unacceptable levels of SO 3 &#32;formation especially in plants with SCR systems and flue gas desulphurization units (scrubbers). 

The combination of slagging coals and SO 3 -related issues, such as &#8220;blue plume&#8221; formation, air pre-heater fouling and corrosion, SCR fouling and the proclivity to suppress certain mercury removal processes, represents an attractive market potential for Fuel Tech. 

Sales of the FUEL CHEM products were $30.2 million , $37.0 million , and $36.8 million &#32;for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013 , respectively. 

Competition 

Competition for our FUEL CHEM product line includes chemicals sold by specialty chemical and combustion engineering companies, such as Ashland Inc., Environmental Energy Services, Inc., and GE Infrastructure. No technologically comparable 

substantive competition currently exists for our TIFI technology, which is designed primarily for slag control and SO 3 &#32;abatement, but there can be no assurance that such lack of substantive competition will continue. 

FUEL CONVERSION 

The Fuel Conversion business represents a new business initiative we commenced in 2014. As described in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements included in this Form 10-K, we acquired intellectual property rights and know-how related to the CARBONITE&#174; Fuel Conversion process and technology. This process can convert coals of various grades into value-added products that are high in energy content, carbon-rich and contain less pollutants. Our Fuel Conversion technology has a number of potential applications including certain coal replacement, electric arc furnace reductant, ferro-alloy feedstock, and mercury reduced carbon feedstock. During 2015, we have been testing and developing the engineered carbon products for specific markets. We are in the process of evaluating the commercialization of these product offerings with prospective customers and considering alternatives. Refer to Item 1A. RISK FACTORS for further detail regarding the risk factors associated with this segment. We have not yet earned revenue from prospective customers. 

INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY 

The majority of our products are protected by U.S. and non-U.S. patents. We own 117 granted patents worldwide and 14 allowed utility model patents in China. We have 111 patent applications pending; including 13 in the United States and 98 in non-U.S. Jurisdictions. These patents and applications cover some 31 inventions, 15 associated with our NO x &#32;reduction business, 13 associated with the FUEL CHEM business, one associated with Fuel Conversion business, and two associated with non-commercialized technologies. Our granted patents have expiration dates ranging from March of 2016 to August of 2035 . 

Management believes that the protection provided by the numerous claims in the above referenced patents or patent applications is substantial, and afford us a significant competitive advantage in our business. Accordingly, any significant reduction in the protection afforded by these patents or any significant development in competing technologies could have a material adverse effect on our business. 

EMPLOYEES 

At December 31, 2015 , we had 182 employees, 134 in North America, 38 in China, five in Europe and five in Chile. We enjoy good relations with our employees and are not a party to any labor management agreement. 

RELATED PARTIES 

Douglas G. Bailey, a member of our executive team, is a stockholder of American Bailey Corporation (ABC), which is a related party. Please refer to Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements in this Form 10-K for information about our transactions with ABC. Additionally, see the more detailed information relating to this subject under the caption &#8220;Certain Relationships and Related Transactions&#8221; in our definitive Proxy Statement to be distributed in connection with our 2016 &#32;Annual Meeting of Stockholders, which information is incorporated by reference. 

AVAILABLE INFORMATION 

We are a fully integrated company using a suite of advanced technologies to provide boiler optimization, efficiency improvement and air pollution reduction and control solutions to utility and industrial customers worldwide. Originally incorporated in 1987 under the laws of the Netherlands Antilles as Fuel-Tech N.V., we were domesticated in the United States on September 30, 2006, and continue as a Delaware corporation with our corporate headquarters at 27601 Bella Vista Parkway, Warrenville, Illinois, 60555-1617. Fuel Tech maintains an Internet website at www.ftek.com . Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act are made available through our website as soon as reasonably practical after we electronically file or furnish the reports to the Securities and Exchange Commission. Our website also contains our Corporate Governance Guidelines and Code of Ethics and Business Conduct, as well as the charters of the Audit, Compensation, and Nominating and Corporate Governance committees of the Board of Directors. All of these documents are available in print without charge to stockholders who request them. Information on our website is not incorporated into this report. 

