 ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

Founded in 1982, Adobe Systems Incorporated is one of the largest and most diversified software companies in the world. We offer a line of products and services used by creative professionals, marketers, knowledge workers, application developers, enterprises and consumers for creating, managing, delivering, measuring, optimizing and engaging with compelling content and experiences across multiple operating systems, devices and media. We market and license our products and services directly to enterprise customers through our sales force and to end users through app stores and our own website at www.adobe.com. We offer many of our products via a Software-as-a-Service (&#8220;SaaS&#8221;) model or a managed services model (both of which are referred to as a hosted or cloud-based model) as well as through term subscription and pay-per-use models. We also distribute certain products and services through a network of distributors, value-added resellers (&#8220;VARs&#8221;), systems integrators (&#8220;SIs&#8221;), independent software vendors (&#8220;ISVs&#8221;), retailers, software developers and original equipment manufacturers (&#8220;OEMs&#8221;). In addition, we license our technology to hardware manufacturers, software developers and service providers for use in their products and solutions. Our products run on personal and server-based computers, as well as on smartphones, tablets and other devices, depending on the product. We have operations in the Americas, Europe, Middle East and Africa (&#8220;EMEA&#8221;) and Asia-Pacific (&#8220;APAC&#8221;). See Note 18 of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further geographical information. 

Adobe was originally incorporated in California in October 1983 and was reincorporated in Delaware in May 1997. We maintain executive offices and principal facilities at 345 Park Avenue, San Jose, California 95110-2704. Our telephone number is 408-536-6000 and our website is www.adobe.com. Investors can obtain copies of our SEC filings from this site free of charge, as well as from the SEC website at www.sec.gov. The information posted to our website is not incorporated into this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

BUSINESS OVERVIEW 

&#160; 

For over 30 years, Adobe&#8217;s innovations have transformed how individuals, businesses and governments interact. Across these markets, we help our customers create and deliver the most compelling experiences in a streamlined workflow, and optimize those experiences for greater return on investment. Our solutions turn ordinary interactions into valuable digital experiences, across media and devices, anywhere, anytime. 

While we continue to offer a broad portfolio of products and solutions, we focus our investments in two strategic growth areas: 

Digital Media &#8212; providing tools, services and solutions that enable individuals, small and medium businesses and enterprises to create, publish and promote their content anywhere. Our customers include content creators, web designers, app developers and digital media professionals, as well as management in marketing departments and agencies, companies and publishers. Our customers also include knowledge workers who create, collaborate and distribute documents. This is the core of what we have delivered for over 25 years, and we have evolved our business model rapidly to provide these customers with a more complete and integrated workflow across the variety of new devices, formats and business models that continue to emerge. 

Digital Marketing &#8212; providing solutions and services for creating, managing, executing, measuring and optimizing digital advertising and marketing campaigns across multiple channels. Our customers include marketers, advertisers, agencies, publishers, merchandisers, web analysts, marketing executives, information management executives, product development executives, and 

&#32;3 

sales and support executives. We process over forty trillion data transactions a year via our SaaS products, providing our customers with analytics, social, targeting, media optimization, digital experience management, cross-channel campaign management, audience management and video solutions. This complements our digital media franchise, bringing together the art of creating and managing content with the science of measuring and optimizing it, enabling our customers to achieve their optimal business outcomes. 

We believe we are uniquely positioned to be a leader in both the Digital Media and Digital Marketing categories, where our mission is to change the world through digital experiences. By integrating products from each of these two areas of Adobe&#8217;s business, our customers are able to utilize a comprehensive suite of solutions and services that no other entity currently offers. In addition, our ability to deliver innovation and productivity improvements across customer workflows involving the creation, management, delivery, measurement and optimization of rich and engaging content favorably positions Adobe as our customers invest more to engage their constituents digitally. 

SEGMENTS 

Our business is organized into three reportable segments: Digital Media, Digital Marketing and Print and Publishing. These segments provide Adobe&#8217;s senior management with a comprehensive financial view of our key businesses. Our segments are aligned around the company&#8217;s two strategic growth opportunities described above, placing our Print and Publishing business in a third segment that contains many of our mature products and solutions. 

This overview provides an explanation of our markets and a discussion of strategic opportunities in fiscal 2016 &#32;and beyond for each of our segments. &#32; See &#8220;Results of Operations&#8221; within Part II, Item 7 titled &#8220;Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations&#8221; &#32;and Note 18 of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further segment information. 

PRODUCTS AND SERVICES OVERVIEW 

Digital Media 

Digital Media Opportunity 

Recent trends in digital communications continue to provide a significant market opportunity for Adobe in digital media. Due to the increase in mobile computing, rich media consumed in digital environments and the rise of online social communities, the demand for digital media solutions to create engaging online experiences is higher than ever. Adobe is in a unique position to capitalize on this opportunity by delivering rapid innovation to increase our customer reach, deepen engagement with communities and accelerate long-term revenue growth by focusing on cloud-based offerings, which are licensed on a subscription basis. 

The flagship of our Digital Media business is Creative Cloud&#8212;a subscription service that allows members to download and install the latest versions of our creative products such as Adobe Photoshop, Adobe Illustrator, Adobe Premiere Pro, Adobe Photoshop Lightroom and Adobe InDesign. Creative Cloud members can also access a growing marketplace of digital content through Adobe Stock, a leading online marketplace for photos, graphics and videos. Creative Cloud also offers members access to online services to sync, store, and share files, participate in our Behance community of more than five million creative professionals, publish and deliver digital content via app stores, develop mobile apps, and create and manage websites. Adobe is redefining the creative process with Creative Cloud so that our customers can obtain everything they need to create, collaborate and deliver engaging digital content. 

Creative Cloud addresses the needs of creative professionals including graphic designers, production artists, web designers and developers, user interface designers, videographers, motion graphic artists, prepress professionals, video game developers, mobile application developers, students and administrators. They rely on our solutions for publishing, web design and development, video and animation production, mobile app and gaming development and document creation and collaboration. End users of our creative tools work in businesses ranging from large publishers, media companies and global enterprises, to smaller design agencies, small and medium-sized businesses and individual freelancers. Moreover, our creative products are used to create much of the printed and online information people see, read and interact with every day, including video, animation, mobile and advertising content. Knowledge workers, educators, hobbyists and consumers also use our products to create and deliver creative content. 

In addition to Creative Cloud, our Digital Media business offers many of the products included in Creative Cloud on a standalone basis, including subscriptions to the Creative Cloud version of certain point products, and also offers a range of other creative tools and services, including our hobbyist products such as Adobe Photoshop Elements and Adobe Premiere Elements, Adobe Digital Publishing Solution (formerly Adobe Digital Publishing Suite), Adobe Typekit and mobile apps such as Adobe Photoshop Mix, Adobe Photoshop Sketch, Adobe Photoshop Fix and Adobe Premiere Clip that run on tablets and mobile devices. Further descriptions of our Digital Media products are included below under &#8220;Principal Products and Services&#8221;. 

&#32;4 

Adobe&#8217;s Digital Media segment also includes our Document Cloud business, built around our Acrobat family of products, the Adobe Acrobat Reader and a set of integrated cloud-based document services. For over twenty years, Adobe Acrobat has provided for the reliable creation and exchange of electronic documents, regardless of platform or application source type. Users can collaborate on documents with electronic comments and tailor the security of a file in order to distribute reliable Adobe PDF documents that can be viewed, printed or filled out utilizing our free Adobe Acrobat Reader. Acrobat provides essential electronic document capabilities and services to help knowledge workers accomplish a wide range of tasks ranging from simple publications and forms to mission-critical engineering documentation and architectural plans. With our Acrobat product and its innovative cloud services, we have extended the capabilities of our solution. Users can take advantage of electronic document signing with Adobe eSign (formerly EchoSign) and manage, track and control documents through Adobe Send &#38; Track. 

Digital Media Strategy 

Our goal is to be the leading provider of tools and services that allow individuals, small and medium businesses and enterprises to create, publish and monetize their content anywhere. 

Creative Cloud, a subscription service with competitive monthly pricing, is attractive to users of older versions of our products who desire to use our latest releases and services, but who in the past have been unwilling to upgrade to newer versions due to price sensitivity. Similarly, as we gain new customers, we expect to continue to drive new user adoption of our creative business over the next several years outside of our core creative professional target market because of Creative Cloud&#8217;s attractive monthly subscription pricing combined with the strong brand of our creative products and the broad value proposition provided by Creative Cloud. We anticipate that our sustained focus on a subscription model will continue to increase the amount of our recurring revenue that is ratably reported, driven by broader Creative Cloud adoption over the next several years. 

To accelerate the adoption of Creative Cloud, we have focused on migrating existing users of our creative products from perpetual licenses to a subscription-based offering, as well as driving new customer adoption. Aspects of this strategy include: focusing future innovation by our engineering teams on delivering new cloud-based functionality, such as Creative Cloud Libraries and Adobe CreativeSync, to enable our customers to use our creative tools and services across a variety of devices in ways that are not possible with previous desktop versions; integrating Creative Cloud with our Adobe Stock online marketplace offerings; increasing the value of Creative Cloud by delivering frequent product updates and enhancements to subscribers to address their content creation challenges; using promotions to attract customers to the offering; expanding our go-to-market reach through channel partners to reach new customers; and utilizing Creative Cloud for teams and Creative Cloud for enterprise offerings to drive broad adoption with customers who license our products in volume. 

As part of our Creative Cloud strategy, we utilize our digital marketing solutions to drive customer awareness of our creative products and increase sales of our products through our website and across other channels. Adobe.com is increasingly becoming the destination site where we engage individual and small business customers to sign up for and renew Creative Cloud subscriptions. We utilize channel partners to target mid-size creative customers with our Creative Cloud for teams offering. Our direct sales force is focused on building relationships with our largest customers and driving adoption of our Creative Cloud for enterprise offering. 

In our Document Cloud business, although Acrobat has achieved strong market adoption in document-intensive industries such as government, financial services, pharmaceutical, legal, aerospace, insurance and technical publishing, we believe there are tens of millions of users who still need the capabilities provided by Acrobat. We plan to continue to market the benefits of our Document Cloud solutions, combined with the low entry point of subscription-based pricing, to individuals as well as small and medium-sized businesses, large enterprises and government institutions around the world and increase our seat penetration in these markets through the utilization of our corporate and volume licensing programs. We also intend to increase our focus on marketing and licensing Acrobat in targeted vertical markets such as education, financial services, telecommunications and government, as well as on expanding into emerging markets, while simultaneously enhancing and building out the delivery of cloud-based document services to our Acrobat and Adobe Acrobat Reader users. We intend to continue to promote the capabilities of our cloud-based document solution, such as its integration with users&#8217; Dropbox documents, to millions of Acrobat users and hundreds of millions of Adobe Acrobat Reader users. Our Adobe eSign services provide a green alternative to costly paper-based solutions, and are an easier way for customers to manage their contract workflows. We believe that by growing the awareness of eSign services in the broader contract delivery and signing market and continuing to add new capabilities to this offering, we can help our customers migrate away from paper-based express mailing and adopt our solution, growing our revenue with this business in the process. 

Digital Marketing 

Digital Marketing Opportunity 

Consumers today increasingly demand personalized content and experiences in their online interactions, across multiple channels and devices. As a result, any business or entity with an online presence must figure out how to best attract, engage, acquire and retain customers in a world where the reach and quality of experiences directly impacts success. Delivering the best experience 

&#32;5 

to a consumer at a given moment requires the right combination of data, insights and content. Marketing executives are increasingly demanding solutions that optimize their consumers&#8217; experiences and deliver the greatest return on their marketing spend so they can demonstrate the success of their programs using objective metrics. 

We believe there is a significant opportunity to address these challenges and help customers transform their businesses. Chief Marketing Officers, digital marketers, advertisers and publishers are increasingly steering their marketing, advertising, and development budgets toward digital media. Many industry analysts predict more advertising dollars will be spent in digital than in traditional media in the future. As marketers make this move to digital, our opportunity is accelerating as customers look for vendors to help them navigate this transition. However, marketing in a digital world is not simply about executing campaigns in each digital channel. Marketers, and entire enterprises, also need to ensure they deliver meaningful experiences to their consumers across both digital and traditional channels and in areas such as sales, support, and product interactions where consumers expect experiences to be personalized. 

Our Digital Marketing business targets this large and growing opportunity by providing comprehensive solutions that include analytics, social marketing, targeting, media optimization, digital experience management, cross-channel campaign management, audience management, premium video delivery and monetization. We deliver these capabilities through our Adobe Marketing Cloud, an integrated offering enabling marketers to measure, personalize and optimize marketing campaigns and digital experiences across channels for optimal marketing performance. With its broad set of solutions, including Adobe Analytics, Adobe Target, Adobe Social, Adobe Media Optimizer, Adobe Experience Manager, Adobe Campaign, Adobe Audience Manager and Adobe Primetime, as well as real-time dashboards and a collaborative interface, customers of Adobe Marketing Cloud are able to combine data, insights and digital content to deliver a personalized brand experience to their consumers. 

In addition to Chief Marketing Officers and digital marketers, users of our Adobe Marketing Cloud solutions include marketing professionals such as search engine marketers, media managers, media buyers and marketing research analysts. Customers also include web content editors, web analysts and web marketing managers. These customers often are involved in workflows that utilize other Adobe products, such as our Digital Media offerings and our video workflow and delivery technologies. By combining the creativity of our Digital Media business with the science of our Digital Marketing business, we help our customers to more efficiently and effectively make, manage, measure and monetize their content across every channel with an end-to-end workflow and feedback loop. 

Our Digital Marketing segment also contains two legacy enterprise software offerings: our Adobe Connect web conferencing platform and Adobe LiveCycle, an enterprise document and forms platform. Since fiscal 2012, the focus of marketing and licensing of these products has been to financial services and government markets, driven by a subset of our enterprise sales force. We have also been focused on migrating some legacy LiveCycle customers to an updated offering with similar capabilities based on our Adobe Experience Manager solution. 

Digital Marketing Strategy 

Our goal is to be the leading provider of marketing solutions and a standard for the way digital advertising and marketing is created, measured, managed, executed and optimized. 

We believe that our success will be driven by focusing our efforts on making Adobe Marketing Cloud the most comprehensive and integrated marketing solution available. Adobe Marketing Cloud consists of eight key solutions&#8212;Adobe Analytics, Adobe Target, Adobe Social, Adobe Media Optimizer, Adobe Experience Manager, Adobe Campaign, Adobe Audience Manager and Adobe Primetime. Adobe Marketing Cloud provides marketers with key capabilities, such as the ability to: 

&#8226; 

Combine data across the Adobe Marketing Cloud solutions and third-party data sources, such as customer relationship management, point of sale, email, and survey, to create a single view of the consumer; 

&#8226; 

Deliver personalized customer experiences across channels and on any device; 

&#8226; 

Use predictive analytics to enable marketers to utilize past marketing program data and success to predict and drive their future success with digital marketing programs; 

&#8226; 

Access all Adobe Marketing Cloud solutions from one centralized platform and visualize, socialize, and collaborate across teams with the interface; 

&#8226; 

Interact with creatives through integration with Creative Cloud, enabling content creators and marketers to collaborate and communicate in real time within a cloud-based platform; 

&#8226; 

Accurately forecast and continually optimize their mix of campaigns across digital media; 

&#32;6 

&#8226; 

Provide robust cross-channel campaign management capabilities utilizing real-time insights, rich customer data and a sophisticated automation and execution platform; 

&#8226; 

Manage, publish, track, and monetize social programs; 

&#8226; 

Store, assemble, and distribute digital assets to deliver high-quality brand, campaign, and content experiences; 

&#8226; 

Build unique audience profiles, allowing marketers to identify their most valuable segments and use them across digital channels; 

&#8226; 

Easily add, alter, and deploy marketing tags on websites, resulting in consistent page performance and accurate data collection; and 

&#8226; 

Integrate with a robust network of partners, covering the expansive digital marketing ecosystem. 

To drive growth of Adobe Marketing Cloud, we also intend to streamline how customers learn about, acquire and deploy Adobe Marketing Cloud solutions. We believe we can accelerate the growth of our business by continuing to build out more direct sales capacity, as well as continuing to enable a rich ecosystem of agencies and SIs who sell, implement and service our solutions. We believe these investments will result in continued growth in revenue in our Digital Marketing segment in fiscal 2016 and beyond. 

Print and Publishing 

Our Print and Publishing segment contains legacy products and services that address diverse market opportunities including eLearning solutions, technical document publishing, web application development and high-end printing. Graphics professionals and professional publishers continue to require quality, reliability and efficiency in production printing, and our Adobe PostScript and Adobe PDF printing technologies provide advanced functionality to meet the sophisticated requirements of this marketplace. As high-end printing systems evolve and transition to fully digital, composite workflows, we believe we are uniquely positioned to be a supplier of software and technology based on the PostScript and Adobe PDF standards for use by this industry. 

We generate revenue by licensing our technology to OEMs that manufacture workflow software, printers and other output devices. In fiscal 2015, we maintained a relatively consistent quarterly revenue run-rate with the mature products we market and license in our Print and Publishing business. 

PRINCIPAL PRODUCTS AND SERVICES 

Digital Media Products 

Creative Cloud 

Creative Cloud is a subscription offering that enables the creation of rich and engaging digital content. Through Creative Cloud, users can easily explore, create, publish and share their work across devices, the desktop and the web. Members have access to a vibrant creative community, publishing services to deliver apps and websites, cloud storage to easily access their work, the ability to sync their files to virtually any device, collaboration capabilities with team members, and new products and exclusive updates as they are developed. 

Creative Cloud members can build a Creative Profile which persists wherever they are. A user&#8217;s Creative Profile moves with them via Creative Cloud services from app-to-app and device-to-device, giving them immediate access to their personal files, photos, graphics, colors, fonts, text styles, desktop setting customizations and other important assets. Furthermore, CreativeSync synchronizes all files, photos, fonts and other assets used in a particular workflow so that users can begin creative work on any device and seamlessly continue it on another. 

New Creative Cloud services have been developed and delivered to subscribers to increase the utilization of Creative Cloud capabilities beyond the use of our desktop applications. One of these new services, Adobe Stock, is an online marketplace with over 40 million curated photos, graphics and videos that is deeply integrated with Creative Cloud apps. We believe services such as Adobe Stock will drive higher user interaction with Creative Cloud and create upsell opportunities as users increasingly utilize higher-tiered versions of these services. 

New mobile apps that run on tablets and smartphones enable connections between essential Creative Cloud desktop tools and a new family of mobile apps that extend the capabilities of Photoshop, Illustrator, Premiere Pro and Lightroom onto mobile devices. Our mobile apps enable users to create designs with tablets and bring them into their creative workflows. 

&#32;7 

We license Creative Cloud to individuals and teams of users through Adobe.com either on a monthly subscription basis or as an annual subscription. Channel partners also license Creative Cloud with annual team subscriptions to small or medium-sized businesses, or to workgroups in enterprises. With larger enterprise customers, our direct sales force utilizes enterprise term license agreements (&#8220;ETLAs&#8221;), for volume-based agreements often for multi-year terms. 

Photoshop 

Adobe Photoshop CC is the world&#8217;s most advanced digital imaging software. It is used by photographers, designers, animators, web professionals, and video professionals, and is available to Creative Cloud subscribers. Customers can also subscribe to Photoshop CC as an individual subscription product, or through our Creative Cloud Photography Plan, which is an offer targeted at photographers and photo hobbyists and includes our popular Photoshop Lightroom product as a companion tool to Photoshop. We also offer Photoshop Elements separately, which is targeted at consumers who desire the brand and power of Photoshop through an easy-to-use interface. For tablet and smartphone users, we offer several mobile apps including Photoshop Sketch, Photoshop Mix, Lightroom for mobile and Photoshop Fix &#8212; all of which enable sophisticated photo editing and content creation using a touch-based interface on tablet and mobile devices. 

Illustrator 

Adobe Illustrator CC is our industry-standard vector graphics software used worldwide by designers of all types who want to create digital graphics and illustrations for all kinds of media: print, web, interactive, video, and mobile. Illustrator is available to Creative Cloud subscribers, and customers can also subscribe to use it as an individual subscription product. Users can also utilize mobile apps such as Illustrator Draw to gain access to Illustrator capabilities on their tablets and mobile devices, and sync their work through CreativeSync for use with Illustrator on their desktop. 

InDesign 

InDesign is the leading professional page layout software for print and digital publishing. Our customers use it to design, preflight, and publish a broad range of content including newspapers and magazines for print, online, and tablet app delivery. Customers can create simple or complex layouts quickly and efficiently with precise control over typography, built-in creative tools, and an intuitive design environment. Tight integration with other Adobe software such as Photoshop, Illustrator, Acrobat, and Adobe Animate enables customers to work productively in print and digital workflows. Customers can also access Adobe Digital Publishing Solution from within InDesign to create and publish engaging apps for a broad range of devices, including iOS, Android and Amazon-based devices. 

InDesign is built for designers, prepress and production professionals, and print service providers who work for magazines, design firms, advertising agencies, newspapers, book publishers, and catalog companies, as well as in corporate design, commercial printing, and other leading-edge publishing environments. Customers using InDesign often use Adobe InCopy, a companion product used for professional writing and editing to enable an efficient collaborative workflow between design and editorial staff. InDesign and InCopy are available to Creative Cloud subscribers, and customers can also subscribe to use InDesign as an individual subscription product. 

Adobe Premiere Pro 

Adobe Premiere Pro is our powerful, customizable, nonlinear video editing tool used by video professionals. Customers can import and combine virtually any type of media, from video shot on a smartphone to raw 4K and higher resolution footage, and then edit in its native format without transcoding. The user interface includes a customizable timeline and numerous editing shortcuts which enable faster, keyboard-driven editing. 

With the demands of shorter production schedules and high-resolution digital media formats, real-time performance is crucial to videographers. Premiere Pro utilizes our Mercury Playback Engine to provide the fastest performance solution in the industry. It also supports a vast majority of formats, and customers can now use multiple graphics cards to accelerate render and export times. As part of Creative Cloud, Premiere Pro tightly integrates with other Adobe creative applications. Customers can also subscribe to use it as an individual subscription product. 

To address the increase in use of video capture and sharing on mobile devices, we offer Adobe Premiere Clip, which provides users with easy-to-use features to quickly edit and enhance video, and Adobe Capture CC, which provides an easy way to capture and share production-quality lighting and color schemes. We also offer an Elements version of Premiere Pro, which is a powerful yet easy-to-use video-editing software for home video editing. Premiere Elements provides tools for hobbyists to quickly edit and enhance video footage with fun effects and transitions and create custom DVDs for sharing video with friends and family. 

&#32;8 

After Effects 

After Effects is our industry-leading animation and creative compositing software used by a wide variety of motion graphics and visual effects artists. It offers superior control, a wealth of creative options, and integration with other post-production applications. After Effects is available to Creative Cloud subscribers, and customers can also subscribe to use it as an individual subscription product. 

Dreamweaver 

Dreamweaver provides a complete toolset for professional web designers and front-end developers to create, code and manage modern, responsive websites. Dreamweaver makes it fast and efficient to design and develop responsive sites from scratch or with built-in templates, preview them in real time on mobile devices and quickly extract web-optimized elements from Adobe Photoshop documents directly into projects. Dreamweaver recently combined innovative visual aids with first-class support for the Bootstrap framework, making it the premiere tool for responsive web design. Device Preview in Dreamweaver makes it easy to preview and inspect websites or mobile app designs on actual devices. As part of Creative Cloud, Dreamweaver tightly integrates with other Adobe creative applications like Photoshop, as well as services like Adobe Stock and Typekit. Customers can also subscribe to use Dreamweaver as an individual subscription product. 

Animate 

Adobe Animate CC, formerly Adobe Flash Professional, is the leading toolset for professional designers to create interactive animations, and publish them to multiple formats or platforms - including HTML5 Canvas, WebGL, SWF, FLV or even custom platforms. Using Animate, professional designers can reach viewers on virtually any desktop or mobile device. Animate is available to Creative Cloud subscribers, and customers can also subscribe to use it as an individual subscription product. 

Digital Publishing Solution 

Adobe Digital Publishing Solution is a complete solution that enables media publishers, large brand organizations, enterprise customers and advertising agencies to transform their print publications into interactive digital reading experiences for tablet devices and smartphones. Consisting of hosted services and viewer technology, Digital Publishing Solution tightly integrates with our Creative Cloud applications for efficient design, distribution, and monetization of a new class of innovative magazines, newspapers, brand loyalty materials, merchandising content, marketing communications, and more. A wide range of media publishers have used Digital Publishing Solution to produce well-known titles. Businesses are also using Digital Publishing Solution to produce corporate publications. 

Typekit 

Adobe Typekit is a subscription font service that brings thousands of fonts from foundry partners into one library for quick browsing, easy use on the web or on the user&#8217;s desktop, and endless typographic inspiration. The full font library is available to Creative Cloud subscribers, while a more limited option is available to consumers free of charge. 

Behance 

Behance is the leading social community to showcase and discover creative work online. Adobe Portfolio allows users to quickly and simply build a fully customizable and hosted website that seamlessly syncs with Behance. 

Acrobat and Document Cloud 

Adobe Document Cloud is a complete portfolio of secure digital document solutions that speeds business transactions through digital workflows. With Adobe Document Cloud, users can create, review, approve, sign and track documents, whether on a desktop or mobile device. 

At the heart of Adobe Document Cloud is Adobe Acrobat DC, the industry standard for PDF creation and conversion. Acrobat enables users to create secure, reliable and compact Adobe PDF documents from desktop authoring applications such as Microsoft Office software, graphics applications and more. Use of Acrobat enables automated collaborative workflows with a rich set of commenting tools and review tracking features and includes everything needed to create and distribute rich, secure electronic documents that can be viewed easily within leading web browsers or on computer desktops via the free Adobe Acrobat Reader. 

Acrobat DC is available to both Creative Cloud and Document Cloud subscribers. Customers can also license Acrobat Pro or Acrobat Standard (which has a subset of Acrobat Pro features) as individual point products, either as a subscription or in the form of desktop software. Adobe Acrobat DC is also available as a free mobile app that allows users to view, create and edit 

&#32;9 

documents, and Mobile Link synchronizes those files across multiple devices. Adobe Acrobat Reader is our free software for reliable viewing, searching, reviewing and printing of Adobe PDF documents on a variety of hardware and operating system platforms. Users of both Adobe Acrobat DC and Adobe Acrobat Reader can also access, edit and save changes to their PDF files stored on the Dropbox website or mobile app. 

Our eSign Services, which can be purchased as part of Document Cloud, allow users to safely electronically send and sign any document from any device. Adobe eSign Manager DC is a mobile app companion for our eSign Services that allows users to electronically sign documents and forms, send them for signature, track responses in real-time, and obtain instant signatures with in-person signing. Adobe eSign integrates with Adobe Experience Manager Forms to provide seamless experiences to customers across web and mobile sites. We also plan to integrate key components of Adobe Marketing Cloud to help businesses test, measure and manage documents in order to provide the same visibility into usage and interactions with documents that marketers already have with digital marketing assets today. 

Adobe Marketing Cloud Solutions 

Adobe Analytics 

Adobe Analytics helps our customers create a holistic view of their business by turning consumer interactions into actionable insights. With intuitive and interactive dashboards and reports, our customers can sift, sort, and share real-time information to provide insights that can be used to identify problems and opportunities and to drive conversion and relevant consumer experiences. Adobe Analytics enables web, social, video, mobile, attribution, and predictive analytics across online and offline channels to continuously improve the performance of marketing activities. It also provides the ability to perform advanced ad-hoc segmentation and to integrate data from offline and third-party sources. 

Adobe Target 

Adobe Target lets our customers test, target and personalize content across multiple devices. With Adobe Target, our customers have the tools they need to quickly discover what gets noticed, what increases conversion, and what keeps consumers coming back for more. Adobe Target paves a path from simple testing to targeting to true segmentation and optimization through A/B and multivariate testing, rules-based targeting and automated decision-making. 

Adobe Social 

Adobe Social provides marketers a comprehensive solution to build stronger connections through content guided by tangible data. Customers can create more relevant posts, monitor and respond to conversations, measure results, and connect social activities to business results. With Adobe Social, our customers can: manage social content and activities across multiple social networks and profile pages; listen and respond to consumer conversations in real time; create social campaigns; and track performance with integrated analytics. 

Adobe Media Optimizer 

Adobe Media Optimizer is a powerful advertisement management platform. Customers get a consolidated view of how their media is performing, along with tools to both accurately forecast and continually optimize their mix of paid campaigns across digital media. Media Optimizer includes cross-channel optimization capabilities, search engine marketing management, and display and social advertising management. 

Adobe Experience Manager 

Adobe Experience Manager helps customers organize, create, and manage the delivery of creative assets and other content across digital marketing channels, including web, mobile, email, communities and video. It enables customers to manage content on premise or host it in the cloud, delivering agile and rapid deployment. With this ultimate control of content and campaigns, customers are able to deliver relevant experiences to consumers that help build the customers&#8217; brand, drive demand and extend reach. Adobe Experience Manager includes digital asset management, web content management, integrated mobile app development, enterprise-level forms management, and social capabilities, providing customers with tools enabling users to improve their market and brand perception and provide a personalized experience to their consumers. 

Adobe Campaign 

Adobe Campaign enables marketers to orchestrate personalized experiences determined by each consumer&#8217;s behaviors and preferences. As part of its feature set, Adobe Campaign provides visual campaign orchestration, allowing for intuitive design and automated consumer experiences across channels, from one-off campaigns to triggered messages, with a graphically rich interface. Marketers can also integrate consumer data from across marketing channels to develop and deliver more relevant marketing 

&#32;10 

experiences to their consumers. Features also included targeted segmentation, email execution, real-time interaction, in-app messaging, and operational reporting to easily see how well campaigns are performing. 

Adobe Audience Manager 

&#32;&#32;&#32;&#32;&#32;&#32;&#32;&#32;&#32;&#32;&#32;Adobe Audience Manager is a data management platform that helps digital publishers build unique audience profiles in order to identify the most valuable segments and use them across any digital channel. Adobe Audience Manager consolidates audience information from all available sources. It then identifies, quantifies, and optimizes high-value target audiences, which can then be offered to advertisers via an integrated, secure, privacy-friendly management system that works across all advertising distribution platforms. Adobe Audience Manager provides access to multiple data sources, offering digital publishers the ability to use a wide variety of third-party data as well as Audience Manager&#8217;s private data co-op. 

Adobe Primetime 

Adobe Primetime is a modular platform for video publishing, advertising, and analytics, enabling content programmers and distributors to profit from their video content by making every screen a TV &#8212; including personal computer, smartphone and tablet screens. Primetime consists of the following components: PayTV Pass, a universal system for validating access to pay TV content; DRM, which is digital rights management technology to protect video content from unauthorized copying or access; Ad Insertion, providing for the seamless insertion of advertisements into live and video-on-demand content; Ad Decisioning, providing for the ability to determine which advertisements should be published; and Video Player SDK, which gives programmers and distributors the ability to measure, analyze and optimize online video delivery. 

Other Products and Solutions 

We also offer a broad range of other enterprise and digital media products and solutions. Information about other products not referenced here can be found on our corporate website, www.adobe.com, under the &#8220;Products&#8221; tab available in the &#8220;Menu&#8221;. 

COMPETITION 

The markets for our products and services are characterized by intense competition, new industry standards, evolving business and distribution models, disruptive software and hardware technology developments, frequent new product introductions, short product life cycles, price cutting with resulting downward pressure on gross margins and price sensitivity on the part of consumers. Our future success will depend on our ability to enhance and better integrate our existing products, introduce new products on a timely and cost-effective basis, meet changing customer needs, provide best-in-class information security to build customer confidence and combat cyber-attacks, extend our core technology into new applications and anticipate and respond to emerging standards, business models, software delivery methods and other technological changes. 

Digital Media 

No single company has offerings identical to our Creative Cloud products and services, but we face collective competition from a variety of point offerings, free products and downloadable apps. Our competitors include offerings from companies such as Apple, Autodesk, Avid, Corel, Microsoft, Quark, Getty Images, Shutterstock and others, as well as from many lower-end offerings available on touch-enabled devices via app stores, and from various open source initiatives. We believe our greatest advantage in this market is the scope of our integrated solutions, which work together as part of Creative Cloud. With Creative Cloud we also compete favorably on the basis of features and functionality, ease of use, product reliability, value and performance characteristics. 

Professional digital imaging, drawing and illustration products are characterized by feature-rich competition, brand awareness and price sensitivity. Competition in this market is also emerging with drawing and illustration applications on tablet and smartphone platforms. The demand for professional web page layout and professional web content creation tools is constantly evolving and highly volatile. In this area we face direct and indirect competition from desktop software companies and various proprietary and open source web-authoring tools. 

The needs of digital imaging and video editing software users are constantly evolving due to rapid technology and hardware advancements in digital cameras, digital video cameras, printers, personal computers, tablets, smartphones and other new devices. Our imaging and video software offerings, including Photoshop, Lightroom, After Effects and Premiere Pro, face competition from established and emerging companies offering similar products. 

New image editing applications for mobile devices and tablets with features that compete with our professional products are also emerging as adoption of these devices grows. Our consumer digital imaging and video editing offerings are subject to intense competition, including customer price sensitivity, competitor brand awareness and competitor strength in OEM bundling 

&#32;11 

and retail distribution. We face direct and indirect competition in the consumer digital imaging market from a number of companies that market software that competes with ours. 

The stock content market has significant competition, especially in the microstock segment, where Adobe primarily operates today with Fotolia.com and the newly launched Adobe Stock offering. Key competitors in this market include Shutterstock,Getty Images and a number of smaller companies. Adobe Stock&#8217;s deep product integration with Creative Cloud and superior reach and relationships with creative professionals around the world differentiate our offerings. 

In addition, we face competition from device, hardware and camera manufacturers as they try to differentiate their offerings by bundling, for free, their own digital imaging software, or those of our competitors. Similarly, we face potential competition from operating system manufacturers as they integrate or offer hobbyist-level digital imaging and image management features with their operating systems. We also face competition from smartphone and tablet manufacturers that integrate imaging and video software into their devices to work with cameras that come as part of their smartphone and tablet offerings. In addition, social networking platforms such as Facebook (including Instagram), Snapchat, Twitter (including Vine) and Pinterest, as well as portal sites such as Google and Yahoo! are becoming a direct means to post, edit and share images, bypassing the step of using image editing and sharing software. Online storage and synchronization are becoming free and ubiquitous. Consumers in particular will be encouraged to use the image and video editing software offered by those storage products, thus competing with our software. 

Competition is also emerging with imaging and video applications on smartphone and tablet platforms. Competitors are extending their products and feature sets to platforms such as Apple&#8217;s iPhone and iPad, and other smartphone and tablet devices. Similarly, new cloud-based offerings continue to emerge which offer image editing and video-editing capabilities, as well as social and sharing features. 

As customers such as publishers and media companies increase their desire to deliver their assets to new platforms, we expect new and existing companies to continue to offer solutions that address these challenges that are competitive with our Digital Publishing Solution. Many design agencies are building capabilities to offer such solutions, and companies such as Amazon, Apple and Google offer an alternative format and business model for the delivery of newspaper and magazine content to mobile devices. 

The nature of traditional digital document creation, storage, and collaboration has been rapidly evolving as knowledge workers and consumers shift their behavior increasingly to non-desktop workflows. Competitors like Microsoft, Google, Box and Dropbox all offer competitive alternatives to our Document Cloud business for creating and managing PDFs. In addition, other PDF creation solutions can be found at a low cost or for free on the web. To address these competitive threats, we are working to ensure our Adobe Document Cloud applications stay at the forefront of innovation in emerging opportunities such as PDF document generation, document collaboration and document security. 

As electronic signatures with Adobe eSign Services are quickly becoming a core element of digital documents, competitors such as DocuSign and Citrix have been jumping in to take advantage of the growing space. We face strong competition from these and other companies in this market. 

Digital Marketing 

The markets in which our Digital Marketing business unit competes are growing rapidly and characterized by intense competition. Our Adobe Marketing Cloud solutions face competition from large companies such as Google, IBM, Oracle, salesforce.com, SAP, SAS, Teradata and others, in addition to point product solutions and focused competitors. Additionally, new competitors are constantly entering these markets. Some of these competitors provide SaaS solutions to customers, generally through a web browser, while others provide software that is installed by customers directly on their servers. In addition, we compete at times with our customers&#8217; or potential customers&#8217; internally developed applications. Of the competitors listed above, no single company has products identical to our Adobe Marketing Cloud offerings. Adobe Marketing Cloud competes in a variety of areas, including: reporting and analytics; cross-channel marketing and optimization; online and social marketing; audience management; video delivery and monetization; web experience management and others. 

Many of the companies with which we compete offer a variety of products or services and as a result could also bundle their products or services, which may result in these companies effectively selling their products or services at or below market prices for individual products. In addition, large software, Internet and database management companies have expanded their offerings in the digital marketing area, either by developing competing services or by acquiring existing competitors or strategic partners of ours. We believe competitive factors in our markets include the proven performance, security, scalability, flexibility and reliability of services; the strategic relationships and integration with third-party applications; the intuitiveness and visual appeal of user interfaces; demonstrable cost-effective benefits to customers; pricing; the flexibility of services to match changing business demands; enterprise-level customer service and training; perceived market leadership; the usability of services; real-time data and reporting; independence from portals and search engines; the ability to deploy the services globally; and success in educating customers in how to utilize services effectively. We believe we compete favorably with both the enterprise and low- 

&#32;12 

cost alternatives based on many of these competitive factors including our strong feature set, the breadth of our offerings, our focus on global, multi-brand companies, our superior user experience, tools for building multi-screen, cross-channel applications, standards-based architecture, scalability and performance and leadership in industry standards efforts. 

Creative and digital agencies, as well as SIs, are increasingly investing in acquiring their own digital marketing technology platforms to complement their creative services offerings. Adobe may face competition from these agencies and SIs as they come to market with best-of-breed offerings in one or more digital marketing capabilities, or if agencies attempt to create a more complete technology platform offering. We believe our creative tools heritage differentiates us from our competitors. We have worked closely with marketing and creative customers for over thirty years. We also believe we have leadership in this market, with current customers representing leading global brands. Our comprehensive solutions extend more broadly than any other company in serving the needs of marketers and addressing this market opportunity; we integrate content and data, analytics, personalization, web experience management, cross-channel campaign management, audience management, video delivery and monetization and social capabilities in our Adobe Marketing Cloud, surpassing the reach of any competitor. Most importantly, we provide a vision for our digital marketing customers as we engage with them across the important aspects of their business, extending from their use of Creative Cloud, to how they manage, deliver, measure and monetize their content with our Adobe Marketing Cloud. 

Print and Publishing 

Our Print and Publishing product offerings face competition from large-scale electronic and web publishing systems, XML-based publishing companies as well as lower-end desktop publishing products. Depending on the product line, competition is based on a number of factors, including: the quality and features of products, ease-of-use, printer service support, the level of customization and integration with other publishing system components, the number of hardware platforms supported, service and price. We believe we can successfully compete based upon the quality and features of our products, our strong brand among users, the widespread adoption of our products among printer service bureaus, and our extensive application programming interface. 

In printing technologies, we believe the principal competitive factors for OEMs in selecting a page description language or a printing technology are product capabilities, market leadership, reliability, price, support and engineering development assistance. We believe that our competitive advantages include our technology competency, OEM customer relationships and our intellectual property portfolio. 

OPERATIONS &#160; 

Marketing and Sales 

We market and license our products directly using our sales force and through our own website at www.adobe.com. We also market and distribute our products through sales channels, which include distributors, retailers, software developers, SIs, ISVs and VARs, as well as through OEM and hardware bundle customers. 

We support our end users through local field offices and our worldwide distribution network, which includes locations in Australia, Austria, Belgium, Brazil, Canada, Czech Republic, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, India, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Mexico, Moldova, the Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Singapore, South Africa, South Korea, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Taiwan, Turkey, the United Kingdom and the United States. 

We sell the majority of our products through a software subscription model where our customers purchase access to a product for a specific period of time during which they always have rights to use the most recent version of that product. We also license perpetual versions of our software with maintenance and support, which includes rights to upgrades, when and if available, support, updates and enhancements. 

For fiscal 2015 , 2014 &#32;and 2013 , there were no customers that represented at least 10% of net revenue. In fiscal 2015 &#32;and 2014 , no single customer was responsible for over 10% of our trade receivables. 

Order Fulfillment Distribution 

The procurement of the various components of packaged products, including DVDs and printed materials, and the assembly of packages for retail and other applications products is controlled by our product delivery operations organization. We outsource our procurement, production, inventory and fulfillment activities to third parties in the United States, Germany and Singapore. 

To date, we have not experienced significant difficulties in obtaining raw materials for the manufacture of our products or in the replication of DVDs, printing and assembly of components. 

&#32;13 

Our evolution to a services and subscription-based business model has decreased the need to produce and distribute physical products. We still produce packaged products for a subset of our business, but that percentage is declining as the digital delivery of our services and subscriptions continues to grow. 

Services and Support 

Adobe Global Services provides expert consulting, customer success management, technical support, and training across all our customer segments, including enterprises, small and medium businesses, creative professionals, and consumers. With a focus on ensuring sustained customer success and realized value, this comprehensive portfolio of services is designed to help customers and partners maximize the return on their investments in our cloud solutions and licensed products. Our service and support revenue consists primarily of consulting fees, software maintenance, technical support fees and training fees. 

Consulting Services 

We have a global professional services team dedicated to designing and implementing solutions for our largest customers. Our professional services team uses a comprehensive, customer-focused methodology, that has been refined over years of capturing and analyzing best practices from numerous customer engagements across a diverse mix of solutions, industries, and customer segments. Increasingly, our customers seek to integrate across Adobe&#8217;s products and cloud solutions, and engage our professional services teams to share their expertise in leading customers&#8217; digital strategies and multi-solution integrations. Using our methodology, our professional services teams are able to accelerate customers&#8217; time to value, and maximize the return customers earn on their investment in Adobe solutions. 

In addition, Adobe Global Services focuses on its large and vibrant partner ecosystem that includes a mix of global SIs, regional SIs, VARs, digital agencies, and solution partners. Adobe invests in this ecosystem to ensure its partners have with the right skills and knowledge about our technologies and integration best practices. Consequently, this ecosystem provides our customers several different options to supplement their internal capabilities, and a large accessible pool of skilled resources that can help deploy and manage Adobe solutions. This approach not only creates value for our customers and partners, but also creates a large and productive go-to-market channel for our sales teams. 

Customer Success Account Management 

For our largest Digital Marketing and Digital Media customers, Adobe Global Services provides post-sales Customer Success Managers, who work individually with customers on an ongoing basis to understand their current and future business needs, promote faster solution adoption, and align solution capabilities to customers&#8217; business objectives to maximize the return on their investment in Adobe&#8217;s solutions. We engage customers to share innovative best practices, relevant industry and vertical knowledge, and proven success strategies based on our extensive engagements with leading marketers and brands. The performance of these teams is directly associated with customer-focused outcomes, notably ongoing customer retention. 

Technical Support 

Adobe provides enterprise maintenance and support services to customers of subscription products as part of the subscription entitlement, and to perpetual license customers via annual fee-based maintenance and support programs. These offerings provide: 

&#8226; 

technical support on the products they have purchased from Adobe; 

&#8226; 

&#8220;how to&#8221; help in using our products; and 

&#8226; 

product upgrades and enhancements during the term of the maintenance and support or subscription period, which is typically one to three years. 

We provide product support through a global support organization that includes several regional and global support centers, supplemented with outsourced vendors for specific services. Customers can seek help through multiple channels including phone, chat, web, social media, and email, allowing quick and easy access to the information they need. These teams are responsible for providing timely, high-quality technical expertise on all our products. 

We also offer a range of support programs, from fee-based incidents to annual support contract options. As a registered owner of the current version of an Adobe desktop product, consumers are eligible to receive Getting Started support on certain matters, to support easy adoption of their products. Support for some products and in some countries may vary. For enterprise customers with higher-level support needs, we offer personalized service options through Premium Services options, delivered by technical account managers who can also provide proactive risk mitigation services and on-site support services for those with business critical deployments. 

&#32;14 

Lastly, we also offer delivery assurance, technical support, and enablement services to partners and developer organizations. Through the Adobe Partner Connection Program, we provide developers with high-quality tools, software development kits, information and services. 

Training Services 

Adobe Global Services offers a comprehensive portfolio of training services to assist our customer and partner teams in the use of our products, including those within Digital Marketing, Digital Media and other legacy products and solutions. Our training portfolio includes a large number of free online self-service learning options on www.training.adobe.com. These self-service offerings are supplemented by a number of free introductory programs on best practices that Adobe conducts. Adobe also provides a number of fee-based education options, including a wide range of traditional classroom, virtual, and on-demand training and certifications delivered by our team of training professionals and partners across the globe. 

These core offerings are complemented by our custom learning and education services, such as our Digital Marketing Learning Center of Excellence, to support our largest enterprise customers and their unique requirements. Solution-specific Skills Assessments help our enterprise customers objectively assess the knowledge and competencies within their marketing teams, and tailor their learning priorities accordingly. Finally, aligned with our cloud strategy, we have introduced a new learning subscription service that enables customers to access all available Digital Marketing training over a 12-month period, to support the ongoing advancement of our customers&#8217; marketing teams and skill sets. 

Investments 

We make direct investments in privately held companies. We enter into these investments with the intent of securing financial returns as well as for strategic purposes as they often increase our knowledge of emerging markets and technologies, as well as expand our opportunities to provide Adobe products and services. 

PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT 

&#160; 

As the software industry is characterized by rapid technological change, a continuous high level of investment is required for the enhancement of existing products and services and the development of new products and services. We develop our software internally as well as acquire products or technology developed by others by purchasing the stock or assets of the business entity that owned the technology. In other instances, we have licensed or purchased the intellectual property ownership rights of programs developed by others with license or technology transfer agreements that may obligate us to pay a flat license fee or royalties, typically based on a dollar amount per unit shipped or a percentage of the revenue generated by those programs. 

During fiscal 2015 , 2014 &#32;and 2013 , our research and development expenses were $862.7 million , $844.4 million &#32;and $826.6 million , respectively. 

PRODUCT PROTECTION 

We regard our software as proprietary and protect it under the laws of copyrights, patents, trademarks and trade secrets. We have a number of domestic and foreign patents and pending applications that relate to various aspects of our products and technology. While we believe our patents have value, no single patent is material to us or to any of our reporting segments. We protect the source code of our software programs as trade secrets and make source code available to third parties only under limited circumstances and subject to specific security and confidentiality constraints. From time to time, we secure rights to third-party intellectual property if beneficial to our business. 

Our products are generally licensed to end users under one of the following two methods: 

(1) 

We offer products on a &#8220;right to use&#8221; basis pursuant to a license that restricts the use of the products to a designated number of devices, users or both. We also rely on copyright laws and on &#8220;shrink wrap&#8221; and electronic licenses that are not physically signed by the end user. Copyright protection may be unavailable under the laws of certain countries and the enforceability of &#8220;shrink wrap&#8221; and electronic licenses has not been conclusively determined in all jurisdictions. 

(2) 

We offer products under a SaaS or on-demand model, where hosted software is provided on demand to customers, generally through a web browser. The use of these products is governed by either the online terms of use or an enterprise licensing agreement associated with the product. 

Policing unauthorized use of computer software is difficult and software piracy is a persistent problem for the software industry. This problem is particularly acute in international markets. We conduct piracy conversion and prevention programs 

&#32;15 

directly and through certain external software associations. In addition, we have activation technology in certain products to guard against illegal use and will continue to do so in certain future products. 

EMPLOYEES &#160; 

As of November 27, 2015 , we employed 13,893 &#32;people. We have not experienced work stoppages and believe our employee relations are good. 

AVAILABLE INFORMATION &#160; 

Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to reports filed or furnished pursuant to Sections 13(a) and 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, are available free of charge on our Investor Relations website at www.adobe.com/adbe as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. The information posted on our website is not incorporated into this report. 

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS &#160; 

Adobe&#8217;s executive officers as of January 15, 2016 &#32;are as follows: 

Name 

&#160; 

Age 

&#160; 

Positions 

Shantanu Narayen 

&#160; 

&#160; 

&#160; 

&#160; 

President and Chief Executive Officer 

&#160; 

Mr. Narayen currently serves as Adobe&#8217;s President and Chief Executive Officer. Mr. Narayen joined Adobe in January 1998 as Vice President and General Manager of Adobe&#8217;s engineering technology group. In January 1999, he was promoted to Senior Vice President, Worldwide Products and in March 2001 he was promoted to Executive Vice President, Worldwide Product Marketing and Development. In January 2005, Mr. Narayen was promoted to President and Chief Operating Officer and in December 2007, he was appointed Chief Executive Officer of Adobe and joined the Adobe Board of Directors. Prior to joining Adobe, Mr. Narayen co-founded Pictra Inc., a digital photo sharing software company, in 1996. He was Director of Desktop and Collaboration products at Silicon Graphics Inc. before founding Pictra. Mr. Narayen is also a director of Pfizer Inc. 

Mark Garrett 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer 

&#160; 

Mr. Garrett joined Adobe in February 2007 as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. Mr. Garrett served as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Software Group of EMC Corporation, a products, services and solutions provider for information management and storage, from June 2004 to January 2007, his most recent position since EMC&#8217;s acquisition of Documentum, Inc., an enterprise content management company, in December 2003. Mr. Garrett first joined Documentum as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer in 1997, holding that position through October 1999 and then re-joining Documentum as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer in 2002. Mr. Garrett is also a director of Pure Storage, Inc. and Model N, Inc. 

Matthew Thompson 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Executive Vice President, Worldwide Field Operations 

&#160; 

Mr. Thompson currently serves as Executive Vice President, Worldwide Field Operations. Mr. Thompson joined Adobe in January 2007 as Senior Vice President, Worldwide Field Operations. In January 2013, he was promoted to Executive Vice President, Worldwide Field Operations. Prior to joining Adobe, Mr. Thompson served as Senior Vice President of Worldwide Sales at Borland Software Corporation, a software delivery optimization solutions provider, from October 2003 to December 2006. Prior to joining Borland, Mr. Thompson was Vice President of Worldwide Sales and Field Operations for Marimba, Inc., a provider of products and services for software change and configuration management, from February 2001 to January 2003. From July 2000 to January 2001, Mr. Thompson was Vice President of Worldwide Sales for Calico Commerce, Inc., a provider of eBusiness applications. Prior to joining Calico, Mr. Thompson spent six years at Cadence Design Systems, Inc., a provider of electronic design technologies. While at Cadence, from January 1998 to June 2000, Mr. Thompson served as Senior Vice President, Worldwide Sales and Field Operations and from April 1994 to January 1998 as Vice President, Worldwide Professional Services. 

&#32;16 

Name 

&#160; 

Age 

&#160; 

Positions 

Michael Dillon 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary 

Mr. Dillon joined Adobe in August 2012 as Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary. Prior to joining Adobe, Mr. Dillon served as General Counsel and Corporate Secretary of Silver Spring Networks, a networking solutions provider, from November 2010 to August 2012. Before joining Silver Spring Networks, Mr. Dillon served in various capacities at Sun Microsystems, a diversified computer networking company, prior to its acquisition by Oracle Corporation. While at Sun Microsystems, from April 2006 to January 2010, Mr. Dillon served as Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary, from April 2004 to April 2006, as Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary, and from July 2002 to March 2004 as Vice President, Products Law Group. From October 1999 until June 2002, Mr. Dillon served as Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary of ONI Systems Corp, an optical networking company. 

Bryan Lamkin 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Senior Vice President and General Manager, Digital Media 

Mr. Lamkin currently serves as Senior Vice President and General Manager, Digital Media. He rejoined Adobe in February 2013 as Senior Vice President, Technology and Corporate Development. From June 2011 to May 2012, Mr. Lamkin served as President and Chief Executive Officer of Clover, a mobile payments platform. Prior to Clover, Mr. Lamkin co-founded and served as the Chief Executive Officer of Bagcheck, a sharing and discovery platform, from June 2010 to May 2011. From April 2009 to June 2010, Mr. Lamkin served as Senior Vice President of Consumer Products and Applications at Yahoo!, a global technology company providing online search, content and communication tools. From May 2008 to April 2009 Mr. Lamkin served as Executive in Residence at Sutter Hill Ventures. Mr. Lamkin previously was with Adobe from 1992 to 2006 and held various senior management positions including Senior Vice President, Creative Solutions Business Unit. 

Ann Lewnes 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Senior Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer 

Ms. Lewnes joined Adobe in November 2006 and currently serves as Senior Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer. Prior to joining Adobe, Ms. Lewnes spent 20 years at Intel Corporation, where she was Vice President of Sales and Marketing. Ms. Lewnes has been elected to the board of directors of Mattel, Inc., effective February 1, 2015. 

Donna Morris 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Senior Vice President, Customer and Employee Experience 

Ms. Morris currently serves as Senior Vice President of Adobe&#8217;s Global Customer and Employee Experience organization. Ms. Morris joined Adobe as Senior Director of Global Talent Management in April 2002 through the acquisition of Accelio Corporation, a Canadian software company, where she served as Vice President of Human Resources and Learning. In December 2005 Ms. Morris was promoted to Vice President Global Human Resources Operations and subsequently to Senior Vice President Human Resources in March 2007. 

Abhay Parasnis 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Senior Vice President, Cloud Technology &#38; Services and Chief Technology Officer 

Mr. Parasnis joined Adobe in July 2015 as Senior Vice President of Adobe's Cloud Technology &#38; Services organization and Chief Technology Officer. Prior to joining Adobe, he served as President and Chief Operating Officer at Kony, Inc. from March 2013 to March 2015. From January 2012 to November 2013, Mr. Parasnis was a Senior Vice President and later Strategic Advisor for the Oracle Public Cloud at Oracle. Prior to joining Oracle, he was General Manager of Microsoft Azure AppFabric at Microsoft from April 2009 to December 2011. 

Bradley Rencher 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Senior Vice President and General Manager, Digital Marketing 

Mr. Rencher serves as Senior Vice President and General Manager of Adobe&#8217;s Digital Marketing business unit. Mr. Rencher joined Omniture, Inc. in January 2008 as Vice President of Corporate Development and was promoted to Senior Vice President of Business Operations prior to Adobe&#8217;s acquisition of Omniture in 2009. Following the acquisition he joined Adobe as Vice President of Business Operations. Mr. Rencher was promoted to Vice President and General Manager, Omniture business unit in 2010 and subsequently to Senior Vice President in 2011. Prior to joining Omniture, Mr. Rencher was a member of the technology investment banking team at Morgan Stanley from 2005 to 2008 and a member of the investment banking team at RBC Capital Markets from 1998 to 2004. 

&#32;17 

Name 

&#160; 

Age 

&#160; 

Positions 

Richard T. Rowley 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Vice President, Corporate Controller and Chief Accounting Officer 

&#160; 

Mr. Rowley joined Adobe in November 2006 and currently serves as Vice President, Corporate Controller and Principal Accounting Officer. Prior to joining Adobe, Mr. Rowley served as Vice President, Corporate Controller, Treasurer and Principal Accounting Officer at Synopsys, Inc., a semiconductor design software company, from December 2002 to September 2005 and from 1999 to December 2002, Mr. Rowley served as Vice President, Corporate Controller and Principal Accounting Officer. From 1994 to 1999, Mr. Rowley served in several finance-related positions at Synopsys. Mr. Rowley is a certified public accountant. 

