 ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

Introduction 

The Toro Company was incorporated in Minnesota in 1935 as a successor to a business founded in 1914 and reincorporated in Delaware in 1983. Unless the context indicates otherwise, the terms "company," "Toro," "we," "us," and "our" refer to The Toro Company and its consolidated subsidiaries. Our executive offices are located at 8111 Lyndale Avenue South, Bloomington, Minnesota, 55420-1196, and our telephone number is (952) 888-8801. Our web site for corporate and investor information is www.thetorocompany.com, which also contains links to our branded product sites. The information contained on our web sites or connected to our web sites is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K and should not be considered part of this report. 

We design, manufacture, and market professional turf maintenance equipment and services, turf irrigation systems, landscaping equipment and lighting products, snow and ice management products, agricultural micro-irrigation systems, rental and specialty construction equipment, and residential yard and snow thrower products. We produced our first mower for golf course use in 1921 when we mounted five reel mowers on a Toro tractor, and we introduced our first lawn mower for residential use in 1935. We have continued to enhance our product lines over the more than 100 years we have been in business. We classify our operations into three reportable business segments: Professional, Residential, and Distribution. Our Distribution segment, which consists of our company-owned domestic distributorship, has been combined with our corporate activities and is shown as "Other." Net sales of our three reportable segments accounted for the following percentages of our consolidated net sales for fiscal 2016: Professional, 71 percent; Residential, 28 percent; and Other, 1 percent. 

Our products are advertised and sold at the retail level under the primary trademarks of Toro&#174;, Exmark&#174;, BOSS&#174;, Irritrol&#174;, Hayter&#174;, Pope&#174;, Unique Lighting Systems&#174;, and Lawn-Boy&#174; most of which are registered in the United States and/or in the primary countries outside the United States where we market such products. This report also contains trademarks, trade names, and service marks that are owned by other persons or entities, such as The Home Depot, Inc. ("The Home Depot"). 

We emphasize quality and innovation in our products, customer service, manufacturing, and marketing. We strive to provide well-built, dependable products supported by an extensive service network. We have committed funding for research, development, and engineering in order to improve and enhance existing products and develop new products. Through these efforts, we seek to be responsive to trends that may affect our target markets now and in the future. A significant portion of our revenues has historically been, and we expect will continue to be, attributable to new and enhanced products. We define new products as those introduced in the current and previous two fiscal years. We plan to continue to pursue targeted acquisitions using a disciplined approach that adds value while supplementing our existing brands and product portfolio. 

Our purpose is to help our customers enrich the beauty, productivity, and sustainability of the land. Our vision is to be the most trusted leader in solutions for the outdoor environment. Every day. Everywhere. Our mission, or how we strive to make our vision a reality and what we intend to accomplish, is to deliver superior innovation and to deliver superior customer care. 

Products by Market 

We strive to be a leader in adapting advanced technologies to products and services that provide solutions for turf care maintenance, landscapes, agricultural fields, rental and specialty construction, snow and ice management, and residential demands. The following is a summary of our products, by market, for our Professional segment and our products for the Residential segment: 

Professional Segment &#151; We design professional turf, landscape and lighting, rental and specialty construction, snow and ice management, and agricultural products and market them worldwide through a network of distributors and dealers, as well as directly to government customers, rental companies, and large retailers. These channel partners then sell our products primarily to professional users engaged in creating, renovating, and illuminating landscapes; irrigating turf and agricultural fields; installing, repairing, and replacing underground utilities; managing snow and ice needs; maintaining turf, such as golf courses, sports fields, municipal properties, as well as residential and commercial landscapes. 

Golf Market. Products for the golf course market include large reel and rotary riding products for fairway, rough, and trim cutting; riding and walking mowers for putting greens and specialty areas; greens rollers; turf sprayer equipment; utility vehicles; aeration equipment; and bunker maintenance equipment. In fiscal 2016, we introduced the Reelmaster&#174; 3555-D and Reelmaster&#174; 3575-D, fairway mowers with a lighter design that are engineered to be more productive and fuel efficient with reduced turf compaction. These mowers, as well as most other Reelmaster&#174; and Greensmaster&#174; models, include our new EdgeSeries TM Reels introduced in fiscal 2016 that feature new reel material and geometry that are designed to facilitate a more accurate cut and improved after-cut appearance while reducing required maintenance. 

We manufacture and market underground irrigation systems for the golf course market, including sprinkler heads, controllers, turf sensors, and electric, battery-operated, and hydraulic valves. These irrigation systems are designed to use computerized management systems and a variety of other technologies to help customers manage their consumption of water. Several of our golf course sprinklers are equipped with a unique TruJectory&#153; feature that provides an adjustable angle of nozzle trajectory, as well as enhanced water distribution control. Our Network VP&#174; Satellite combines modular flexibility, ease of use, and increased control in a single controller with programming to the individual station level that supports station-based flow management. Our Turf Guard&#174; wireless soil monitoring systems are designed to measure and communicate soil moisture, salinity, and temperature through sensors to a user's software. Our R Series&#153; conversion assemblies enable the upgrade of select competitive sprinklers to our technologies, such as the above-mentioned TruJectory&#153; or ratcheting riser. Our INFINITY&#174; Series golf course sprinklers with the Smart Access&#174; feature are designed to provide easy access to critical components of the sprinkler without needing to dig. Our popular Lynx&#174; central control system allows superintendents to control the irrigation of their course from a web-enabled device, or via our National Support Network, which provides remote troubleshooting. 

Additionally, we manufacture and market Twilight&#153; golf lighting products that include a collection of LED-powered cup lights and removable lighting fixtures designed to illuminate putting greens during club events or special functions. 

Landscape Contractor Equipment Market. We market products to landscape contractors under the Toro and Exmark brands. Products for the landscape contractor market include zero-turn radius riding mowers, heavy-duty walk behind mowers, mid-size walk behind mowers, stand-on mowers, and turf renovation and tree care equipment. We offer some products with electronic fuel injection engine options, which are designed to provide improved fuel efficiency and lower emissions. In fiscal 2016, we introduced the TITAN&#174; HD zero-turn radius riding mower which features the ability to attach tools and other accessories to the mower with tool-mounting brackets. We introduced the Exmark Radius&#153; zero-turn radius riding mower featuring a heavy-duty fabricated frame and improved control and handling in order to provide commercial durability, reliability, and comfort. We enhanced our line of Toro Z Master&#174; mowers with a suspension system that provides a suspended operator platform and isolates the operator from the rest of the machine. Along with adjustable shocks, this design is intended to reduce impacts, bumps, and vibrations for a more comfortable ride. We introduced the next generation GrandStand&#174; MULTI FORCE&#174; stand-on mower in fiscal 2016, which features simplified hydraulic systems intended for easier maintenance, higher groundspeed for transport, and easier to use operator controls. The GrandStand&#174; MULTI FORCE&#174; is designed to provide year-long productivity by adding versatile attachments. 

Sports Fields and Grounds Equipment Market. Products for the sports fields and grounds market include riding rotary and reel mowers and attachments, aerators, and debris management products, which include versatile debris vacuums, blowers, and sweepers. Other products include infield grooming equipment and multipurpose vehicles, such as the new Toro Workman&#174; GTX introduced in fiscal 2016, that can be used for turf maintenance, towing, and industrial hauling. These products are sold through distributors, who then sell to owners and/or managers of sports fields, governmental properties, and residential and commercial landscapes, as well as directly to government customers. 

Snow and Ice Management Market. Products for the snow and ice management market are marketed mainly in North America under the BOSS brand and include snowplows, salt and sand spreaders, and related parts and accessories for light and medium duty trucks, all-terrain vehicles ("ATVs"), utility task vehicles ("UTVs"), skid steers, and front-end loaders. These products are mainly sold through distributors and dealers, who then sell to end-users that in many cases are the same customers as those in our landscape contractor and grounds equipment markets, such as contractors, municipalities, and other governmental entities. In fiscal 2016, we introduced the EXT Plow, with pitched-forward wings that extend the plow width from eight feet to ten feet to enhance productivity. In addition, in fiscal 2016, we began offering the HTX V-Plow designed for light-duty and half-ton trucks that combines strength with less weight. Both are equipped with our new SmartLight TM 3 LED headlight system, which features our Ice Shield Technology TM designed to prevent snow and ice build-up. 

Rental and Specialty Construction Market. Our compact utility loaders are the cornerstone products for our Toro Sitework Systems business, which are designed to improve the efficiency in creation and renovation of landscapes. Our Dingo&#174; TX 1000 compact utility loader provides market leading operating capacity in a lightweight, maneuverable design. We offer over 35 attachments for our compact utility loaders, including trenchers, augers, vibratory plows, and backhoes. 

Products for the rental and specialty construction market include compact utility loaders, walk-behind trenchers, stump grinders, and turf renovation products, many of which are also sold to landscape contractors. We also have a line of rental products that feature concrete and mortar mixers, material handlers, compaction equipment, and other concrete equipment. 

Underground Construction Market. We manufacture a line of directional drills and riding trenchers used to install water, gas, electric, and telecommunication distribution systems. Our underground products are used by specialty contractors worldwide. 

Residential/Commercial Irrigation and Lighting Market. Turf irrigation products marketed under the Toro and Irritrol brands 

include rotors; sprinkler bodies and nozzles; plastic, brass, and hydraulic valves; drip tubing and subsurface irrigation; electric control devices; and wired and wireless rain, freeze, climate, and soil sensors. These products are designed for use in residential and commercial turf irrigation applications and can be installed into new systems or used to replace or retrofit existing systems. Most of the product lines are designed for professionally installed, underground automatic irrigation. Electric controllers activate valves and sprinklers in a typical irrigation system. Both the Toro and Irritrol brands have achieved Environmental Protection Agency ("EPA") WaterSense certification for numerous irrigation controller families and models. Our Irritrol Climate Logic&#174; smart device automatically adjusts irrigation system watering times based on real-time weather data from an on-site sensor combined with historical averages, while our award-winning Toro Precision&#153; Soil Sensor wirelessly transmits soil moisture content to an irrigation controller and signals whether or not watering is needed. Our Precision&#153; Spray Nozzles &#38; Precision&#153; Soil Sensor are intended to deliver an optimum precipitation rate and superior distribution uniformity, resulting in the use of less water without affecting the health of landscapes. The EVOLUTION&#174; controller is an intuitive, menu-based controller family that offers computer programming, lighting control, multiple soil sensors, smart add-ons, and downloadable updates through a USB device. The T5 Rotor with RapidSet&#174; technology allows convenient arc adjustment with no tools, and the new stainless steel model introduced in fiscal 2016 is designed for areas subject to heavy foot traffic and sandy soil conditions. 

Our retail irrigation products are designed for homeowner installation and include sprinkler heads, valves, timers, sensors, and drip irrigation systems. The XTRA SMART&#174; ECXTRA&#153; sprinkler timer and its intuitive, online Scheduling Advisor&#153; are designed to recommend the proper watering schedule based on the local weather, plant type, and sprinkler type. 

We manufacture and market lighting products under the Unique Lighting Systems&#174; brand name consisting of a line of high quality, professionally installed lighting fixtures and transformers for residential and commercial landscapes. Our lighting product line is offered through distributors and landscape contractors that also purchase our irrigation products. The Light Logic&#153; remote control system provides operators with wireless scene control for landscape lighting and can upgrade existing systems with expanded control. 

In fiscal 2016, we introduced two cloud-based landscape control solutions. SMRT Logic TM under the Toro and Irritrol brands and Light Logic TM Plus under the Unique Lighting Systems brand are our first landscape solutions using our SMRTscape TM mobile app or website to control irrigation and lighting anywhere with an internet connection. 

Micro-Irrigation Market. Products for the micro-irrigation market include products that are designed to apply water precisely, including Aqua-Traxx&#174; PBX drip tape, Neptune&#174; flat emitter dripline, Blue Stripe&#174; polyethylene tubing, BlueLine&#174; drip line, and NGE&#174; emitters, all used in agriculture, mining, and landscape applications. Global food demand and increased water use restrictions have continued to drive the need for more efficient irrigation solutions for agriculture, including our Aqua-Traxx&#174; FC (flow control) drip tape that is designed to allow growers to achieve water uniformity while retaining flexibility to adjust system flow rates when needed. In addition to these core products, we offer a full complement of control devices and connection options to complete the system, including a software package used to help design drip irrigation systems. These products are sold mainly through dealers and distributors who then sell to end-users for use primarily in vegetable fields, fruit and nut orchards, vineyards, landscapes, and mines. 

Residential Segment &#151; We market our Residential segment products to homeowners through a variety of distribution channels, including outdoor power equipment distributors and dealers, hardware retailers, home centers, mass retailers, and over the Internet. We also license our trademark on certain home solutions products as a means of expanding our brand presence. 

Walk Power Mower Products. We manufacture and market numerous walk power mower models under our Toro and Lawn-Boy brand names, as well as the Hayter brand in the United Kingdom. Models differ as to cutting width, type of starter mechanism, method of grass clipping discharge, deck type, operational controls, and power sources, and are either self-propelled or push mowers. We offer a line of rear-roller walk power mowers, a design that provides a striped finish, for the United Kingdom market. In fiscal 2016, we extended our SmartStow&#174; technology that allows the mower to be stored vertically, thereby reducing space needed for storage, to walk power motors with our Personal Pace&#174; self-propel system. We introduced the new Lawn-Boy all-wheel drive lawnmower that delivers power to all four wheels, which is designed to make it easier to climb hills and power through rough terrain. 

Riding Products. We manufacture and market riding products under the Toro brand name. Riding products primarily consist of zero-turn radius mowers that are designed to save homeowners time by using superior maneuverability to cut around obstacles more quickly and easily than tractor technology. Our TimeCutter&#174; SS and TimeCutter&#174; MX zero-turn radius riding mowers are equipped with our Smart Speed&#174; control system, which is designed to allow the operator to choose different ground speed ranges with the flip of a lever without changing the blade or engine speed. We sell direct-collect riding mowers that are manufactured and sold in the European market. Many models of our riding products are available with a variety of engines, decks, transmissions, and accessories. 

Home Solutions Products. We design and market home solutions products under the Toro and Pope brand names. Our Toro brand name products include yard tools such as electric, gas, and cordless grass trimmers; electric and cordless hedge trimmers; and electric, gas, and cordless blower-vacuums. In Australia, we design and market garden product offerings, such as underground, hose and hose-end retail irrigation products under the Pope brand name. 

Snow Thrower Products. We manufacture and market a range of gas-powered single-stage and two-stage snow thrower models, as well as a range of electric snow thrower models. Single-stage snow throwers are walk behind units with lightweight four-cycle gasoline engines. Most single-stage snow thrower models include Power Curve&#174; snow thrower technology, and some feature our Quick Shoot&#153; control system that is designed to enable operators to quickly change snow-throwing direction. Our pivoting scraper is designed to keep the rotor in constant contact with the pavement. Our two-stage snow throwers are generally designed for relatively large areas of deep and heavy snow. Our two-stage snow throwers include a line of models featuring our patented Anti-Clogging System and Quick Stick&#174; chute control technology. Our electric snow throwers are lightweight and ideal for clearing up to six inches of snow from decks, steps, sidewalks, and small driveways. The Toro SnowMaster&#174; snow thrower combines the power of a two-stage snow thrower to handle deep snow with the handling and maneuverability of a lightweight, single-stage snow thrower in a design intended to increase efficiency by clearing more snow per minute. 

Financial Information about International Operations and Business Segments 

We currently manufacture our products in the United States ("U.S."), Mexico, Australia, the United Kingdom, Italy, Romania, and China for sale throughout the world. We maintain sales offices in the U.S., Belgium, the United Kingdom, Australia, Singapore, Japan, China, Italy, South Korea, and Germany. New product development is pursued primarily in the U.S. Our net sales outside the U.S. were 24.2 percent, 25.5 percent, and 28.7 percent of total consolidated net sales for fiscal 2016, 2015, and 2014, respectively. 

A portion of our cash flow is derived from sales and purchases denominated in foreign currencies. To reduce the uncertainty of foreign currency exchange rate movements on these sales and purchase commitments, we enter into foreign currency exchange contracts for select transactions. For additional information regarding our foreign currency exchange contracts, see Part II, Item 7A, "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk" of this report. For additional financial information regarding our international operations and geographical areas, and each of our three reportable business segments, see Note 12 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, in the section entitled "Segment Data," included in Part II, Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" of this report. 

Engineering and Research 

We are committed to an ongoing engineering program dedicated to developing innovative new products and improvements in the quality and performance of existing products. However, a focus on innovation also carries certain risks that new technology could be slow to be accepted or not accepted by the marketplace. We attempt to mitigate these risks through our focus on and commitment to understanding our customers' needs and requirements. We invest time upfront with customers, using "Voice of the Customer" tools, to help us develop innovative products that are intended to meet or exceed customer expectations. We use Design for Manufacturing and Assembly ("DFM/A") tools to ensure early manufacturing involvement in new product designs intended to reduce production costs. DFM/A focuses on reducing the number of parts required to assemble new products, as well as designing products to move more efficiently through the manufacturing process. We strive to make improvements to our new product development system as part of our continuing focus on Lean methods to shorten development time, reduce costs, and improve quality. 

Our engineering expenses are primarily incurred in connection with the development of new products that may have additional applications or represent extensions of existing product lines, improvements to existing products, and cost reduction efforts. Our expenditures for engineering and research were $77.4 million (3.2 percent of net sales) in fiscal 2016, $73.6 million (3.1 percent of net sales) in fiscal 2015, and $69.7 million (3.2 percent of net sales) in fiscal 2014. 

Manufacturing and Production 

We have strategically identified specific core manufacturing competencies for vertical integration, such as injection molding, extrusion, welding, stamping, fabrication, laser cutting, painting, machining, and aluminum die casting, and have chosen outside vendors to provide other services. We design component parts in cooperation with our vendors, contract with them for the development of tooling, and then enter into agreements with these vendors to purchase component parts manufactured using the tooling. In addition, our vendors regularly test new technologies to be applied in the design and production of component parts. Manufacturing operations include robotic and computer-automated equipment intended to speed production, reduce costs, and improve the quality, fit, and finish of our products. Operations are also designed to be flexible enough to accommodate product design changes that are necessary to respond to market conditions and changing customer requirements. 

In order to utilize our manufacturing facilities and technology more effectively, we pursue continuous improvements in our 

manufacturing processes with the use of Lean methods that are intended to streamline work and eliminate waste. We spend considerable effort to reduce manufacturing costs through Lean methods and process improvement, product and platform design, application of advanced technologies, enhanced environmental management systems, safety improvements, and improved supply-chain management. We also have some agreements with other third party manufacturers to manufacture products on our behalf. 

Our Professional segment products are manufactured throughout the year. Our Residential segment lawn and garden products are also generally manufactured throughout the year. However, our Residential segment snow thrower products are manufactured in the summer and fall months but may be extended into the winter months, depending upon demand. Our products are tested in conditions and locations similar to those in which they are used. We use computer-aided design and manufacturing systems to shorten the time between initial concept and final production. DFM/A principles are used throughout the product development process to optimize product quality and cost. 

Our production levels and inventory management goals are based on estimates of retail demand for our products, taking into account production capacity, timing of shipments, and field inventory levels. Our production system utilizes Kanban, supplier pull, and build-to-order methodologies in our manufacturing facilities, as appropriate, for the business units they support in order to better align the production of our products to meet customer demand. We believe this has resulted in improved service levels for our participating suppliers, distributors, and dealers. 

We periodically shut down production at our manufacturing facilities in order to allow for maintenance, rearrangement, capital equipment installation, and as needed, to adjust for market demand. Capital expenditures for fiscal 2017 are planned to be approximately $65 million as we continue to invest in tooling and technology, as well as the renovation of our corporate facilities located in Bloomington, Minnesota. Additionally, we plan to invest in production processes and equipment, replacement production equipment, and investments in new and existing facilities. 

Raw Materials 

We purchase raw materials such as steel, aluminum, petroleum and natural gas-based resins, linerboard, and other commodities, and components, such as engines, transmissions, transaxles, hydraulics, and electric motors, for use in our products. In addition, we are a purchaser of components and parts containing various commodities, including steel, aluminum, copper, lead, rubber, and others that are integrated into our end products. During fiscal 2016, we experienced lower average commodity prices compared to the average prices paid for commodities in fiscal 2015. We anticipate commodity prices in fiscal 2017 to be slightly higher than average prices paid for commodities during fiscal 2016. Historically, we have mitigated, and we currently expect that we would mitigate, commodity cost increases, if any, in part, by collaborating with suppliers, reviewing alternative sourcing options, substituting materials, engaging in internal cost reduction efforts, and increasing prices on some of our products, all as appropriate. 

Most of the raw materials and components used in our products are affected by commodity cost pressures, are commercially available from a number of sources, and are in adequate supply. However, certain components are sourced from single suppliers. In fiscal 2016, we experienced no significant work stoppages because of shortages of raw materials or commodities. The largest spend for raw materials and components are generally for steel, engines, hydraulic components, transmissions, resin, and electric motors, all of which we purchase from several suppliers around the world. 

Service and Warranty 

Our products are warranted to ensure customer confidence in design, workmanship, and overall quality. Warranty coverage is generally for specified periods of time and on select products' hours of usage, and generally covers parts, labor, and other expenses for non-maintenance repairs. Warranty coverage generally does not cover operator abuse or improper use. An authorized company distributor or dealer must perform warranty work. Distributors and dealers submit claims for warranty reimbursement and are credited for the cost of repairs, labor, and other expenses as long as the repairs meet our prescribed standards. Warranty expense is accrued at the time of sale based on the estimated number of products under warranty, historical average costs incurred to service warranty claims, the trend in the historical ratio of claims to sales, the historical length of time between the sale and resulting warranty claim, and other minor factors. Special warranty reserves are also accrued for major rework campaigns. Service support outside of the warranty period is provided by authorized distributors and dealers at the customer's expense. We sell extended warranty coverage on select products for a prescribed period after the original warranty period expires. 

Product Liability 

We have rigorous product safety standards and continually work to improve the safety and reliability of our products. We monitor for accidents and possible claims and establish liability estimates based on internal evaluations of the merits of individual claims. We purchase insurance coverage for catastrophic product liability claims for incidents that exceed our self-insured retention levels. 

Patents and Trademarks 

We own patents, trademarks, and trade secrets related to our products in the U.S. and certain countries outside the U.S. in which we conduct business. We expect to apply for future patents and trademarks, as appropriate, in connection with the development of innovative new products, services, and enhancements. Although we believe that, in the aggregate, our patents are valuable, and patent protection is beneficial to our business and competitive positioning, our patent protection will not necessarily deter or prevent competitors from attempting to develop similar products. We are not materially dependent on any one or more of our patents. However, certain Toro trademarks that contribute to our identity and the recognition of our products and services, including the Toro&#174; name and logo, are an integral part of our business. 

We regularly review certain patents issued by the United States Patent and Trademark Office ("USPTO") and international patent offices to help avoid potential liability with respect to others' patents. Additionally, we periodically review competitors' products to prevent possible infringement of our patents by others. We believe these activities help us minimize our risk of being a defendant in patent infringement litigation. We are currently involved in patent litigation cases where we are asserting our patents against competitors and defending against patent infringement assertions by others. Such cases are at varying stages in the litigation process. 

Similarly, we periodically monitor various trademark registers and the market to prevent infringement of and damage to our trademarks by others. From time to time, we are involved in trademark oppositions where we are asserting our trademarks against third parties who are attempting to establish rights in trademarks that are confusingly similar to ours. We believe these activities help minimize risk of harm to our trademarks, and help maintain distinct products and services that we believe are well regarded in the marketplace. 

Seasonality 

Shipments of our Residential segment products, which accounted for 28 percent of total consolidated net sales in fiscal 2016, are seasonal, with shipments of lawn and garden products occurring primarily between February and June, depending upon seasonal weather conditions and demand for our products. Shipments of snow thrower products occur primarily between July and January, depending upon in-season snowfalls, pre-season demand, and product availability. Opposite seasons in global markets in which we sell our products somewhat moderate this seasonality of our Residential segment product sales. Seasonality of Professional segment product sales also exists, but is tempered because the selling season in the Southern U.S. and our markets in the Southern hemisphere continue for a longer portion of the year than in Northern regions of the world. The BOSS business offers a portfolio of counter-seasonal products in our Professional segment with our shipments of snowplows and salt and sand spreaders occurring primarily between April and December, which also results in a greater variability of shipment volumes due to dependency on snowfalls for these products. 

Overall, our worldwide shipment levels are historically highest in our fiscal second quarter and retail demand is generally highest in our fiscal third quarter. Typically, our accounts receivable balances increase between January and April because of higher shipment volumes and extended payment terms made available to our customers. Accounts receivable balances typically decrease between May and December when payments are received. Our financing requirements are subject to variations due to seasonal changes in working capital levels, which typically increase in the first half of our fiscal year and decrease in the second half of our fiscal year. Seasonal cash requirements of our business are financed from a combination of cash balances, cash flows from operations, and short-term borrowings under our credit facilities. 

The following table shows total consolidated net sales and net earnings for each fiscal quarter as a percentage of the total fiscal year. 

&#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#160; &#160; Fiscal 2016 &#160; &#160; Fiscal 2015 &#160; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; Quarter &#160; &#160; Net Sales &#160; &#160; Net Earnings &#160; &#160; Net Sales &#160; &#160; Net Earnings &#160; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; First &#160; &#8203; 20% &#160; &#8203; 17% &#160; &#8203; 20% &#160; &#8203; 15% &#160; Second &#160; &#160; 35 &#160; &#160; 46 &#160; &#160; 35 &#160; &#160; 47 &#160; Third &#160; &#8203; 25 &#160; &#8203; 24 &#160; &#8203; 25 &#160; &#8203; 26 &#160; Fourth &#160; &#160; 20 &#160; &#160; 13 &#160; &#160; 20 &#160; &#160; 12 &#160; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; 

Effects of Weather 

From time to time, weather conditions in particular geographic regions or markets may adversely or positively affect sales of some of our products and field inventory levels and result in a negative or positive impact on our future net sales. If the percentage of our net sales from outside the U.S. increases, our dependency on weather in any one part of the world decreases. Nonetheless, weather conditions could materially affect our future net sales. 

Working Capital 

Our businesses are seasonally working capital intensive and require funding for purchases of raw materials used in production; replacement parts inventory; payroll and other administrative costs; capital expenditures; establishment of new facilities; expansion, renovation, and upgrading of existing facilities; as well as for financing receivables from customers that are not financed with Red Iron Acceptance, LLC ("Red Iron"), our joint venture with TCF Inventory Finance, Inc. ("TCFIF"). We fund our operations through a combination of cash and cash equivalents, cash flows from operations, short-term borrowings under our credit facilities, and long-term debt. Cash management is centralized, and intercompany financing is used, wherever possible, to provide working capital to wholly owned subsidiaries as needed. In addition, our credit facilities are available for additional working capital needs, acquisitions, or other investment opportunities. 

Distribution and Marketing 

We market the majority of our products through 36 domestic and 110 international distributors, as well as a large number of equipment dealers, irrigation dealers and distributors, hardware retailers, home centers, mass retailers, and online in more than 90 countries worldwide. 

Professional segment products are sold to distributors and dealers primarily for resale to golf courses, sports fields, industrial facilities, contractors, and government customers, and in some markets for resale to dealers. We sell some Professional segment products directly to government customers, rental companies, and agricultural irrigation dealers, as well as to end-users in certain international markets. Select residential/commercial irrigation and lighting products are sold to professional irrigation and lighting distributors and dealers, and certain retail irrigation products are sold directly to home centers. Products for the rental and specialty construction market are sold directly to dealers and rental companies. Toro and Exmark landscape contractor products are also sold directly to dealers in certain regions of North America. BOSS snow and ice management products are sold to distributors and dealers for resale to contractors. 

Residential segment products, such as walk power mowers, zero-turn radius riding mowers, and snow throwers, are generally sold directly to home centers, dealers, hardware retailers, and mass retailers. In certain markets, these same products are sold to distributors for resale to hardware retailers and dealers. Home solutions products are primarily sold directly to home centers, mass retailers, and hardware retailers. We also sell select Residential segment products over the Internet. Internationally, Residential segment products are sold directly to dealers and mass merchandisers in Australia, Canada, and select countries in Europe. In most other countries, Residential segment products are mainly sold to distributors for resale to dealers and mass retailers. 

On November 27, 2015, in our first quarter of fiscal 2016, we completed the sale of our Northwestern U.S. distribution company. During the remainder of fiscal 2016, we owned one domestic distribution company. Our primary purpose for continuing to own a domestic distributorship is to improve operations, as well as to test and deploy new strategies and business practices that could be replicated by our independent distributors. 

Our distribution systems are intended to assure quality of sales and market presence, as well as to provide effective after-purchase service and support. We believe our distribution network provides a competitive advantage as it is focused on selling and marketing our products, as well as having long-term established relationships with experienced personnel to deliver high levels of customer satisfaction. 

Our current marketing strategy is to maintain distinct brands and brand identification for Toro&#174;, Exmark&#174;, BOSS&#174;, Irritrol&#174;, Hayter&#174;, Pope&#174;, Unique Lighting Systems&#174;, and Lawn-Boy&#174; products. 

Across our brands, we market our Professional segment and Residential segment products during the appropriate season through multiple channels, including television, radio, print, direct mail, email, digital and online media, and social media. Most of our advertising and marketing efforts emphasize our brands, products, features, and other valuable trademarks. Advertising is purchased by us, through our agency partners, as well as through cooperative programs with distributors, dealers, and retailers. 

Customers 

Overall, we believe that in the long-term we are not dependent on any single customer; however, the Residential segment of our business is dependent on The Home Depot as a customer, which accounted for approximately 11 percent of our total consolidated gross sales in fiscal 2016 and 2015. While the loss of any substantial customer, including The Home Depot, could have a material adverse short-term impact on our business, we believe that our diverse distribution channels and customer base should reduce the long-term impact of any such loss. 

Backlog of Orders 

Our backlog of orders is dependent upon when customers place orders and is not necessarily an indicator of our expected results for our fiscal 2017 net sales. The approximate backlog of orders as of October 31, 2016 and 2015 was $92.4 million and $106.7 million, respectively, a decrease of 13.4 percent. The decrease was mainly driven by low snowfall totals in the 2015/2016 winter season which decreased pre-season demand of our snow products; this decrease was partially offset by increased orders of new products. We expect the existing backlog of orders will be filled in early fiscal 2017. 

Competition 

Our products are sold in highly competitive markets throughout the world. The principal competitive factors in our markets are product innovation, quality and reliability, pricing, product support and customer service, warranty, brand awareness, reputation, distribution, shelf space, and financing options. We believe we offer total solutions and full service packages with high quality products that have the latest technology and design innovations. In addition, by selling our products through a network of distributors, dealers, hardware retailers, home centers, and mass retailers, we offer comprehensive service support during and after the warranty period. We compete in many product lines with numerous manufacturers, some of which have substantially larger operations and financial resources than us. We believe that we have a competitive advantage because we manufacture a broad range of product lines, we are committed to product innovation and customer service, we have a strong history in and focus on irrigation and maintaining turf and landscapes, and our distribution channels position us well to compete in various markets. 

Internationally, our Residential segment products face more competition because many foreign competitors design, manufacture, and market products in their respective countries. We experience this competition primarily in Europe. In addition, fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar affect the price of our products in foreign markets, thereby impacting their competitiveness. We provide pricing support, as needed, to foreign customers to remain competitive in international markets. 

Environmental Matters and Other Governmental Regulation 

We are subject to numerous international, federal, state, and other governmental laws, rules, and regulations relating to, among others, climate change; emissions to air, including Tier 4 or similar engine emission regulations; discharges to water; restrictions placed on water usage and water availability; product and associated packaging; use of certain chemicals; restricted substances, including "conflict minerals" disclosure rules; import and export compliance, including country of origin certification requirements; worker and product user health and safety; energy efficiency; product life-cycles; outdoor noise laws; and the generation, use, handling, labeling, collection, management, storage, transportation, treatment, and disposal of hazardous substances, wastes, and other regulated materials. For example: 

&#149; The United States EPA, the California Air Resources Board, and similar regulators in other U.S. states and foreign jurisdictions in which we sell our products have phased in, or are phasing in, emission regulations setting maximum emission standards for certain equipment. Specifically, these agencies from time to time adopt increasingly stringent engine emission regulations. Following the EPA implementation of Tier 4 emission requirements applicable to diesel engines several years ago, China and the European Union ("EU") also have adopted similar regulations, and similar emission regulations are also being considered in other markets in which we sell our products. &#149; The United States federal government, several U.S. states, and certain international jurisdictions in which we sell our products, including the EU and each of its member states, have implemented one or more of the following: (i) product life-cycle laws, rules, or regulations, which are intended to reduce waste and environmental and human health impact, and require manufacturers to label, collect, dispose, and recycle certain products, including some of our products, at the end of their useful life, including the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment ("WEEE") directive, which mandates the labeling, collection, and disposal of specified waste electrical and electronic equipment; (ii) the Restriction on the use of Hazardous Substances ("RoHS") directive or similar substance level laws, rules, or regulations, which restrict the use of several specified hazardous materials in the manufacture of specific types of electrical and electronic equipment; (iii) the Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals ("REACH") directive or similar substance level laws, rules, or regulations that require notification of use of certain chemicals, or ban or restrict the use of certain chemicals; (iv) country of origin laws, rules, or regulations, which require certification of the geographic origin of our finished goods products and/or components used in our products through documentation and/or physical markings, as applicable; (v) energy efficiency laws, rules, or regulations, which are intended to reduce the use and inefficiencies associated with energy and natural resource consumption and require specified efficiency ratings and capabilities for certain products; (vi) outdoor noise laws, which are intended to reduce noise emissions in the environment from outdoor equipment; and (vii) conflict minerals laws, such as the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act and the rules promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission, which require specific procedures for the determination and disclosure of the use of certain minerals, known as "conflict minerals," which are mined from the Democratic Republic of the Congo and adjoining countries. &#149; Our products, when used by residential customers, may be subject to various federal, state, and international laws, rules, and regulations that are designed to protect consumers, including rules and regulations of the United States Consumer Product Safety Commission. Although we believe that we are in substantial compliance with currently applicable laws, rules, and regulations, we are unable to predict the ultimate impact of adopted or future laws, rules, and regulations on our business, properties or products. Such laws, rules, or regulations may cause us to incur significant expenses to achieve or maintain compliance, may require us to modify our products, may adversely affect the price of or demand for some of our products, and may ultimately affect the way we conduct 

our operations. Failure to comply with these current or future laws, rules, or regulations could result in harm to our reputation and/or could lead to fines and other penalties, including restrictions on the importation of our products into, or the sale of our products in, one or more jurisdictions until compliance is achieved. 

We are also involved in the evaluation and clean-up of a limited number of properties currently and previously owned. We do not expect that these matters will have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position or results of operations. 

Customer Financing 

Wholesale Financing. We are party to a joint venture with TCFIF, a subsidiary of TCF National Bank, established as Red Iron. The primary purpose of Red Iron is to provide inventory financing to certain distributors and dealers of our products in the U.S. Under a separate arrangement, TCF Commercial Finance Canada, Inc. ("TCFCFC") provides inventory financing to dealers of our products in Canada. Under these financing arrangements, down payments are not required, and depending on the finance program for each product line, finance charges are incurred by us, shared between us and the distributor and/or the dealer, or paid by the distributor or dealer. Red Iron retains a security interest in the distributors' and dealers' financed inventories, and those inventories are monitored regularly. Floor plan terms to the distributors and dealers require payment as the equipment, which secures the indebtedness, is sold to customers or when payment terms become due, whichever occurs first. Rates are generally indexed to LIBOR plus a fixed percentage that differs based on whether the financing is for a distributor or dealer. Rates may also vary based on the product that is financed. 

We continue to provide financing in the form of open account terms directly to home centers and mass retailers; general line irrigation dealers; international distributors and dealers other than the Canadian distributors and dealers to whom Red Iron provides financing arrangements; micro-irrigation dealers and distributors; government customers; rental companies; and a limited number of BOSS dealers. Some independent international dealers continue to finance their products with third party sources. 

End-User Financing. We have agreements with third party financing companies to provide lease-financing options to golf course and sports fields and grounds equipment customers in the U.S and select countries in Europe. The purpose of these agreements is to increase sales by giving buyers of our products alternative financing options when purchasing our products. 

We have agreements with third party financing companies to provide financing programs under both generic and private label programs in the U.S. and Canada. These programs, offered primarily to Toro and Exmark dealers, provide end-user customers revolving and installment lines of credit for Toro and Exmark products, parts, and services. 

Distributor Financing. Occasionally, we enter into long-term loan agreements with some distributors. These transactions are used for expansion of the distributors' businesses, acquisitions, refinancing working capital agreements, or ownership transitions. 

Employees 

During fiscal 2016, we employed an average of 6,834 employees. The total number of employees as of October 31, 2016 was 6,329. We consider our employee relations to be good. As of October 31, 2016, we had four collective bargaining agreements that expire in October 2017, March 2018, May 2018, and October 2019, and cover approximately 17 percent of our total employees. 

Available Information 

We are a U.S. public reporting company under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended ("Exchange Act"), and file reports, proxy statements, and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). Copies of these reports, proxy statements, and other information can be inspected and copied at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. You may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. Because we make filings to the SEC electronically, you may also access this information from the SEC's home page on the Internet at http://www.sec.gov. 

We make available, free of charge on our web site www.thetorocompany.com (select the "Investor Information" link and then the "Financials" link), our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, Proxy Statements on Schedule 14A, Section 16 reports, amendments to those reports, and other documents filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. The information contained on our web site or connected to our web site is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K and should not be considered part of this report. 

Forward-Looking Statements 

This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains, or incorporates by reference, not only historical information, but also forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended ("Securities Act"), and Section 21E of the Exchange Act and that are subject to the safe harbor created by those sections. In addition, we or others on our behalf may make forward-looking statements from time to time in oral presentations, including telephone conferences and/or web casts 

open to the public, in press releases or reports, on our web sites or otherwise. Statements that are not historical are forward-looking and reflect expectations and assumptions. Forward-looking statements are based on our current expectations of future events, and often can be identified in this report and elsewhere by using words such as "expect," "strive," "looking ahead," "outlook," "guidance," "forecast," "goal," "optimistic," "anticipate," "continue," "plan," "estimate," "project," "believe," "should," "could," "can," "will," "would," "possible," "may," "likely," "intend," "seek," "potential," "pro forma," or the negative thereof and similar expressions or future dates. Our forward-looking statements generally relate to our future performance, including our anticipated operating results, liquidity requirements, and financial condition; our business strategies and goals; and the effect of laws, rules, regulations, new accounting pronouncements, and outstanding litigation on our business and future performance. 

Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected or implied. The most significant factors known to us that could materially adversely affect our business, reputation, operations, industry, financial position, or future financial performance are described below in Part I, Item 1A, "Risk Factors." We caution readers not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statement which speaks only as of the date made and to recognize that forward-looking statements are predictions of future results, which may not occur as anticipated. Actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements and from historical results, due to the risks and uncertainties described elsewhere in this report, including in Part I, Item 1A, "Risk Factors," as well as others that we may consider immaterial or do not anticipate at this time. The risks and uncertainties described in this report, including in Part I, Item 1A, "Risk Factors," are not exclusive and further information concerning our company and our businesses, including factors that potentially could materially affect our operating results or financial condition, may emerge from time to time. 

We make no commitment to revise or update any forward-looking statements in order to reflect actual results, events or circumstances occurring or existing after the date any forward-looking statement is made, or changes in factors or assumptions affecting such forward-looking statements. We advise you, however, to consult any further disclosures we make on related subjects in our future Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K that we file with or furnish to the SEC. 

