 Item 1. Business MKS Instruments, Inc. (the &#147;Company&#148; or &#147;MKS&#148;) was founded in 1961 as a Massachusetts corporation. We are a global provider of instruments, subsystems and process control solutions that measure, control, power, monitor and analyze critical parameters of advanced manufacturing processes to improve process performance and productivity. We also provide services relating to the maintenance and repair of our products, software maintenance, installation services and training. 

We group our products into three groups of similar products based upon the similarity of product function. These three groups of products are: Instruments, Control and Vacuum Products; Power and Reactive Gas Products; and Analytical Solutions Products. Our products are derived from our core competencies in pressure measurement and control, materials delivery, gas composition analysis, control and information technology, power and reactive gas generation and vacuum technology. Our products are used in diverse markets, applications and processes. Our primary served markets are manufacturers of capital equipment for semiconductor devices, and for other thin film applications, including flat panel displays, solar cells light emitting diodes (&#147;LEDs&#148;), data storage media, and other advanced coatings. We also leverage our technology in other markets with advanced manufacturing applications, including medical equipment, pharmaceutical manufacturing, energy generation and environmental monitoring. 

Effective January 1, 2015, we changed the structure of our reportable segments based upon how the information is provided to our Chief Operating Decision Maker. Our four reportable segments prior to the change in structure were: Advanced Manufacturing Capital Equipment, Analytical Solutions Group, Europe Region Sales &#38; Service and Asia Region Sales &#38; Service. Our current structure still reflects four reportable segments, however, the composition of the segments has changed. 

Our current reportable segments are Advanced Manufacturing Capital Equipment, Global Service, Asia Region Sales and Other. The primary change to the segment structure was to separate worldwide service from product sales and create a separate reportable segment known as Global Service. Product sales in the Advanced Manufacturing Capital Equipment segment remained with that segment. Asia product sales became a separate reportable segment. The product sales from the operating segments that made up the Analytical Solutions Group and Europe Region Sales were combined into the Other segment and are not reported separately, as they are individually immaterial and collectively remain below the separate segment guidelines. We report corporate expenses and certain intercompany pricing transactions in a Corporate and Eliminations reconciling column. 

The Advanced Manufacturing Capital Equipment segment includes the development, manufacture and sales of instruments, control and vacuum products; and power and reactive gas products, all of which are utilized in semiconductor processing and other similar advanced manufacturing processes. Sales in this segment include both external sales and intercompany product sales, which are recorded at transfer prices in accordance with applicable tax requirements. The Global Service segment includes the worldwide servicing of instruments, 

&#160; 

control and vacuum products, power and reactive gas products and certain other product groups, all of which are utilized in semiconductor processing and other similar advanced manufacturing processes. The Asia Region Sales segment mainly includes sale of products that are re-sold from the Advanced Manufacturing Capital Equipment and Other segments into Asia regions. The Other segment includes operating segments that are not required to be reported separately as reportable segments and includes sales of products that are re-sold from the Advanced Manufacturing Capital Equipment into Europe regions as well as sales from other operating segments. 

For further information on our segments please see Note 21 to the Notes to the Consolidated Financials contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Since our inception, we have focused on satisfying the needs of our customers by establishing long-term, collaborative relationships. We have a diverse base of customers that includes manufacturers of semiconductor capital equipment and semiconductor devices; thin film equipment, process industries, environmental monitoring, life science and other advanced manufacturing companies, as well as university, government and industrial research laboratories. 

We file reports, proxy statements and other documents with the Securities and Exchange Commission (&#147;SEC&#148;). You may read and copy any document we file at the SEC Headquarters at the Office of Investor Education and Assistance, 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549. You should call 1-800-SEC-0330 for more information on the public reference room. Our SEC filings are also available to you on the SEC&#146;s internet site at http://www.sec.gov. 

Our internet address is http://www.mksinst.com. We are not including the information contained in our website as part of, or incorporating it by reference into, this annual report on Form 10-K. We make available free of charge through our internet site our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to these reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the &#147;Exchange Act&#148;), as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such materials with, or furnish them to, the SEC. 

Recent Events 

On February 23, 2016, we announced that we had entered into a definitive agreement to acquire Newport Corporation (&#147;Newport&#148;), a worldwide leader in photonics solutions. Pursuant to the merger agreement, and subject to the terms and conditions contained therein, at the closing of the acquisition, we will acquire all of the outstanding shares of Newport for a purchase price of approximately $980 million in cash. The parties&#146; obligations to consummate the acquisition are subject to customary closing conditions, including required approvals for the transaction from governmental authorities and approval from Newport&#146;s shareholders. Our obligations under the merger agreement are not subject to any financing condition. 

Markets and Applications 

We are focused on improving process performance and productivity by measuring, controlling, powering, monitoring and analyzing advanced manufacturing processes in semiconductor, thin film and certain other advanced market sectors. Approximately 69%, 70% and 68% of our net revenues for the years 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively, were from sales to semiconductor capital equipment manufacturers and semiconductor device manufacturers. Approximately 31%, 30% and 32% of our net revenues in the years 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively, were from other advanced manufacturing applications. These include, but are not limited to, thin film processing equipment applications such as flat panel displays; LEDs, solar cells, data storage media and other thin film coatings; as well as medical equipment, pharmaceutical manufacturing, energy generation and environmental monitoring processes; other industrial manufacturing; and university, government and industrial research laboratories. 

During the years 2015, 2014 and 2013, international net revenues accounted for approximately 44%, 43% and 46% of our total net revenues, respectively. Net revenues from our Japan and Korea subsidiaries were 21%, 

&#160; 

20% and 20% of our total net revenues for the years 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. Long-lived assets, excluding long-term tax-related accounts located in the U.S., were $56.6 million, $57.7 million and $60.7 million as of December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. Long-lived assets, excluding long-term tax-related accounts located outside of the U.S., were $14.7 million, $17.0 million, and $19.0 million as of December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. 

Semiconductor Manufacturing Applications 

The majority of our sales are derived from products sold to semiconductor capital equipment manufacturers and semiconductor device manufacturers. Our products are used in the major semiconductor processing steps such as depositing thin films of material onto silicon wafer substrates and etching and cleaning circuit patterns. In addition, we provide specialized instruments and software to monitor and analyze process performance. 

We anticipate that the semiconductor manufacturing market will continue to account for a substantial portion of our sales. While the semiconductor device manufacturing market is global, major semiconductor capital equipment manufacturers are concentrated in China, Japan, Korea, Taiwan and the United States. 

Other Advanced Manufacturing Applications 

Our products are used in the manufacture of flat panel displays, LEDs, data storage media, solar cells and other coating applications, including architectural glass, that require the same or similar thin film processes as semiconductor manufacturing. 

Flat Panel Display Manufacturing 

Flat panel displays are used in electronic hand-held devices, laptop computers, desktop computer monitors and television sets. We sell products to flat panel display equipment manufacturers and to end-users in the flat panel display market. Major manufacturers of flat panel displays are concentrated in China, Japan, Korea and Taiwan, and major manufacturers of flat panel display equipment are concentrated in China, Japan, Korea and the United States. The transition to larger panel sizes and higher display resolution is driving the need for improved process control to reduce defects. 

Light Emitting Diodes 

LEDs are made using vacuum processes similar to semiconductor chip manufacturing. Because of their high brightness and long life, as well as environmentally friendly benefits such as lower power consumption, LEDs have experienced rapid acceptance in back side lighting of flat screen television displays and in general lighting applications. 

Solar Cells 

Our products are used in crystalline silicon and thin film processes to manufacture photovoltaic cells. Crystalline silicon technology requires wafer based deposition systems and is currently the dominant manufacturing technology in the solar panel industry. 

Data Storage Media 

Our products are used to manufacture storage media that store and read data magnetically; optical storage media that store and read data using laser technology; hard disks; data storage devices; and digital video discs. 

The transition to higher density storage capacity requires manufacturing processes incorporating tighter process controls. Major manufacturers of storage media are concentrated in Japan and the Asia Pacific region, and major manufacturers of storage media capital equipment are concentrated in Europe, Korea and the United States. 

&#160; 

Other Advanced Coatings 

Thin film coatings for diverse applications such as architectural glass and packaging are deposited using processes similar to those used in semiconductor manufacturing. Thin film processing manufacturers are concentrated in Europe, Korea and the United States. 

Other Advanced Applications 

Our products are used in other advanced applications, including energy generation and environmental monitoring processes such as nuclear fuel processing, fuel cell research, greenhouse gas monitoring, and chemical agent detection; medical instrument sterilization; consumable medical supply manufacturing and pharmaceutical applications. Our power delivery products are also incorporated into other end-market products such as medical imaging equipment. In addition, our products are sold to government, university and industrial laboratories for vacuum applications involving research and development in materials science, physical chemistry and electronics materials. Major equipment and process providers and research laboratories are concentrated in Europe, Korea and the United States. 

Product Groups 

We group our products into three product groups, based upon the similarity of the product function, type of product and manufacturing processes. These three groups of products are: Instruments, Control and Vacuum Products; Power and Reactive Gas Products; and Analytical Solutions Products. 

Instruments, Control and Vacuum Products 

This group of products includes pressure and vacuum measurement solutions, materials delivery products, automation and control products and vacuum products. 

Pressure and Vacuum Measurement Solutions . Each of our pressure measurement and control product lines consists of products that are designed for a variety of pressure ranges and accuracies. 

Baratron &#174; Pressure Measurement Products . These products are typically used to measure the pressure of the gases being distributed upstream of the process chambers, process chamber pressures and pressures between process chambers, vacuum pumps and exhaust lines. We believe we offer the widest range of gas pressure measurement instruments in the semiconductor and advanced thin film materials processing industries. 

Automatic Pressure and Vacuum Control Products . These products enable precise control of process pressure by electronically actuating valves that control the flow of gases in and out of the process chamber to minimize the difference between desired and actual pressure in the chamber. 

In most cases, Baratron &#174; pressure measurement instruments provide the pressure input to the automatic pressure control device. Together, these components create an integrated automatic pressure control subsystem. Our pressure control products can also accept inputs from other measurement instruments, enabling the automatic control of gas input or exhaust based on parameters other than pressure. 

Vacuum Gauging Products . We offer a wide range of vacuum instruments consisting of vacuum measurement sensors and associated power supply and readout units as well as transducers where the sensor and electronics are integrated within a single package. These gauges complement our Baratron &#174; capacitance manometers for medium and high vacuum ranges. 

Granville-Phillips &#174; Gauges . Our indirect gauges use thermal conductivity and ionization gauge technologies to measure pressure and vacuum levels, and our direct gauges use the pressure measurement technology of a Micro-electromechanical systems (MEMS)-based piezo sensor. 

&#160; 

Materials Delivery Products . Each of our materials delivery product lines combines MKS flow, pressure measurement and control technologies to provide customers with integrated subsystems and precise control capabilities that are optimized for a given application. 

Flow Measurement and Control Products . Flow measurement products include gas flow measurement products based upon thermal conductivity and pressure technologies. The flow control products combine the flow measurement device with valve control elements based upon solenoid, piezo-electric and piston pump technologies. These products measure and automatically control the mass flow rate of gases into the process chamber. 

Valve Products. Our vacuum valves are used for vacuum isolation of vacuum lines, load locks, vacuum chambers and pumps for chamber isolation and vacuum containment. The MKS family of vacuum isolation valves include bellows and ball valves, manual, pneumatic and electro-pneumatic actuated valves in heated or unheated angle and inline configurations, safety shut off valves and soft start valves. Our pressure control valve line includes butterfly, vane and poppet throttle valves with integrated control subsystems. 

Automation and Control Products . We design and manufacture a suite of products that allow semiconductor and other manufacturing customers to better control their processes through computer-controlled automation. These products include automation platforms, programmable automation controllers, temperature controllers, software solutions for automation, I/O and distributed programmable I/O, gateways and connectivity products. 

Automation and control products are used to connect sensors, actuators and subsystems to the chamber and system control computers. They support a variety of industry-standard connection methods as well as conventional discrete digital and analog signals. Chamber and system control computers process these signals in real time and allow customers to precisely manage the process conditions. 

Connecting sensors, chambers and tools to the factory network is essential for improving quality and productivity. Our connectivity products allow information to flow from the process sensors and subsystems and from the process tool control computer to the factory network. By enabling this information flow, we believe that we help customers optimize their processes through advanced process control, and diagnose equipment problems from a remote location, which is referred to as &#147;e-diagnostics.&#148; 

Vacuum Products. This group of products consists of vacuum technology products, including vacuum containment components, effluent management subsystems and custom stainless steel chambers, vessels and pharmaceutical process equipment hardware and housings. 

Stainless Steel Components, Process Solutions and Custom Stainless Steel Hardware. Our vacuum process solutions consist of vacuum fittings, traps and heated lines that are used downstream from the process chamber to control process effluent gases by preventing condensable materials from depositing particles near or back into the process chamber. 

Custom Vacuum Solutions . Our design and manufacturing facilities build high purity chambers for material and thin film coating processes. We design and build custom panels, weldments, American Society of Manufacturing Engineers vessels and housings, as well as a line of Bioprocessing Equipment Standard certified components for biopharmaceutical processes. 

Power and Reactive Gas Products 

This group of products includes power delivery and reactive gas generation products used in semiconductor and other thin film applications and in medical imaging equipment applications. 

&#160; 

Power Delivery Products . We design and manufacture microwave, direct current and radio frequency power delivery systems as well as radio frequency matching networks and metrology products. In the semiconductor, thin film and other market sectors, our power supplies are used to provide energy to various etching, stripping and deposition processes. Our power amplifiers are also used in medical imaging equipment . 

Reactive Gas Generation Products . We design and manufacture reactive gas generation products, which create reactive species. A reactive species is an atom or molecule in an unstable state, which is used to facilitate various chemical reactions in processing of thin films (deposition of films, etching and cleaning of films and surface modifications). A number of different technologies are used to create reactive gas including different plasma technologies and barrier discharge technologies. 

Our reactive gas products include ozone generators and subsystems used for deposition of insulators onto semiconductor devices, ozonated water delivery systems for advanced semiconductor wafer and flat panel display and solar panel cleaning, microwave plasma based products for photo resist removal and food and beverage applications and a line of remote plasma generators which provide reactive gases for a wide range of semiconductor, flat panel and other thin film process applications. 

As materials are deposited on wafers, films, or solar cells, the deposited material also accumulates on the walls of the vacuum process chamber. Our atomic fluorine generators are used to clean the process chambers between deposition steps to reduce particulates and contamination caused by accumulated build up on the chamber walls. 

Analytical Solutions Products 

This group of products includes gas composition analysis products as well as information technology products and custom vacuum solutions. 

Gas Composition Analysis Products . Gas composition analysis instruments are sold to a wide variety of industries including the engine development, environmental emissions monitoring, air safety monitoring and semiconductor industries. 

Mass Spectrometry-Based Gas Composition Analysis Instruments . These products are based on quadrupole mass spectrometer sensors that separate gases based on molecular weight. These sensors include built-in electronics and software that analyzes the composition of background and process gases in the process chamber. These instruments are provided both as bench top laboratory systems and as process gas monitoring systems used in the diagnosis of semiconductor manufacturing process systems. 

Fourier Transform Infra-Red (FTIR) Based Gas Composition Analysis Products . FTIR-based products provide information about the composition of gases by measuring the absorption of infra-red light as it passes through the sample being measured. Gas analysis applications include measuring the compositions of mixtures of reactant gases; measuring the purity of individual process gases; measuring the composition of process exhaust gas streams to determine process health; monitoring emissions to ensure environmental compliance and monitoring ambient air for safety. These instruments are provided as stand-alone monitors and as process gas monitoring systems. 

Tunable Filter Spectroscopy (TFS&#153;) Products. The TFS sensor platform consists of a light source, a sample cell (for gases, liquids or solids), a wavelength separating element (spectrometer) and a photo-detector. A wavelength separating element &#147;slices&#148; the wavelength components of the broadband light source which then interacts with the sample molecules. The resulting spectrum acts as &#147;fingerprints&#148; which are used to identify sample components and/or quantify the sample composition. Our TFS products provide real-time gas analysis in the natural gas analysis and hydrocarbon processing industries. 

&#160; 

Mass spectrometry-based, FTIR-based and TFS-based gas monitoring systems can indicate out-of-bounds conditions, such as the presence of undesirable contaminant gases and water vapor or out-of-tolerance amounts of specific gases in the process, which alert operators to diagnose and repair faulty equipment. 

Information Technology Products. &#160; We design software products including design of experiment and multivariate analysis software, quality prediction, optimization, interactive decision-making, advanced process control, and early fault detection for analyzing large and complex data sets. Our focus is on providing solutions which improve the quality and yield of manufacturing processes for the pharmaceutical, biotech and other industries. 

Custom Vacuum Solutions. Our fabrication facility builds precision machined components and electromechanical assemblies for the analytical instrument, scientific, semiconductor and medical industries to ultra-high vacuum standards. 

Customers 

Our largest customers include leading semiconductor capital equipment manufacturers such as Applied Materials, Inc. and Lam Research Corporation. Revenues to our top ten customers accounted for approximately 49%, 50% and 46% of our net revenues for the years 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. Applied Materials, Inc. accounted for approximately 18%, 19% and 17% and Lam Research Corporation accounted for 13%, 13% and 12% of our net revenues for the years 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. 

Sales, Marketing, Service and Support 

Our worldwide sales, marketing, service and support organization is critical to our strategy of maintaining close relationships with semiconductor capital equipment and device manufacturers and manufacturers of other advanced applications. We sell our products primarily through our direct sales force. As of December 31, 2015, we had 168 sales employees worldwide, located in China, Germany, Italy, Japan, Korea, the Netherlands, Singapore, Sweden, Taiwan, the United Kingdom and the United States. We also maintain sales representatives and agents in a number of countries, who supplement our direct sales force. We maintain a marketing staff that identifies customer requirements, assists in product planning and specifications, and focuses on future trends in semiconductor and other markets. 

As semiconductor device manufacturers have become increasingly sensitive to the significant costs of system downtime, they have required that suppliers offer comprehensive local repair service and close customer support. Manufacturers require close support to enable them to repair, modify, upgrade and retrofit their equipment to improve yields and adapt new materials or processes. To meet these market requirements, technical support is provided from offices located in China, Germany, Japan, Korea, Singapore, Taiwan, the United Kingdom and the United States. Repair and calibration services are provided at nineteen internal service depots and six authorized service providers located worldwide. We typically provide warranties for one to three years, depending upon the type of product, with the majority of our products ranging from one to two years. 

Research and Development 

Our products incorporate sophisticated technologies to power, measure, control and monitor increasingly complex gas-related semiconductor and other advanced manufacturing processes, thereby enhancing uptime, yield and throughput for our customers. Our products have continuously advanced as we strive to meet our customers&#146; evolving needs. We have developed, and continue to develop, new products to address industry trends, such as the shrinking of integrated circuit critical dimensions to 14 nanometers and below and, in the flat panel display and solar markets, the transition to larger substrate sizes, which require more advanced process control technology. In addition, we have developed, and continue to develop, products that support the migration to new classes of materials, ultra-thin layers, and new structures such as copper for low resistance conductors, 

&#160; 

high-k dielectric materials for capacitors and gates and low-k dielectric materials for low loss insulators and 3D structures that are used in small geometry manufacturing. We involve our marketing, engineering, manufacturing and sales personnel in the development of new products in order to reduce the time to market for new products. Our employees also work closely with our customers&#146; development personnel, helping us to identify and define future technical needs on which to focus research and development efforts. We support research at academic institutions targeted at advances in materials science and semiconductor process development. 

As of December 31, 2015, we had 363 research and development employees, primarily located in the United States. Our research and development expenses were $68.3 million, $62.9 million and $63.6 million for the years 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. Our research and development efforts include numerous projects, none of which are individually material, and generally have a duration of 3 to 30 months depending upon whether the product is an enhancement of existing technology or a new product. Our current initiatives include projects to enhance the performance characteristics of older products, to develop new products and to integrate various technologies into subsystems. 

Manufacturing 

Our manufacturing facilities are located in the China, Germany, Israel, Italy, Korea, Mexico, the United Kingdom and the United States. Manufacturing activities include the assembly and testing of components and subassemblies, which are integrated into our products. We outsource some of our subassembly work. We purchase a wide range of electronic, mechanical and electrical components, some of which are designed to our specifications. We consider our lean manufacturing techniques and responsiveness to customers&#146; significantly fluctuating product demands to be a competitive advantage. As of December 31, 2015, we had 1,324 manufacturing related employees, located mostly in China and the United States. 

Competition 

The market for our products is highly competitive. Principal competitive factors include: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; historical customer relationships; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; product quality, performance and price; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; breadth of product line; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; manufacturing capabilities; and 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; customer service and support. 

Although we believe that we compete favorably with respect to these factors, there can be no assurance that we will continue to do so. 

We encounter substantial competition in most of our product lines, although no single competitor competes with us across all product lines. Certain of our competitors may have greater financial and other resources than we do. In some cases, competitors are smaller than we are, but are well established in specific product niches. Hitachi Ltd. and Horiba Ltd. offer materials delivery products that compete with our product line of mass flow controllers. Nor-Cal Products, Inc. and VAT, Inc. offer products that compete with our vacuum components. Inficon, Inc. offers products that compete with our vacuum measurement and gas analysis products and our vacuum gauging products. Advanced Energy Industries, Inc. offers products that compete with our power delivery and reactive gas generator products. 

Patents and Other Intellectual Property Rights 

We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws and license agreements to establish and protect our proprietary rights. As of December 31, 2015, we owned 376 U.S. patents and 696 

&#160; 

foreign patents that expire at various dates through 2035. As of December 31, 2015, we had 77 pending U.S. patent applications. Foreign counterparts of certain U.S. applications have been filed or may be filed at the appropriate time. 

We require each of our employees, including our executive officers, to enter into standard agreements pursuant to which the employee agrees to keep confidential all of our proprietary information and to assign to us all inventions while they are employed by us. 

Employees 

As of December 31, 2015, we employed 2,181 persons. We believe that our ongoing success depends upon our continued ability to attract and retain highly skilled employees for whom competition is intense. None of our employees is represented by a labor union or is party to a collective bargaining agreement. We believe that our employee relations are good. 

Acquisitions 

On March 17, 2015, we acquired Precisive, LLC (&#147;Precisive&#148;) for $12.1 million, net of cash acquired of $0.4 million. Precisive is an innovative developer of optical analyzers based on Tunable Filter Spectroscopy, which provide real-time gas analysis in the natural gas and hydrocarbon processing industries, including refineries, hydrocarbon processing plants, gas-to-power machines, biogas processes and fuel gas transportation and metering, while delivering customers a lower total cost of ownership. 

On May 30, 2014, we acquired Granville-Phillips (&#147;GP&#148;), a division of Brooks Automation, Inc., for $87 million. GP is a leading global provider of vacuum measurement and control instruments to the semiconductor, thin film and general industrial markets. 

On March 12, 2013, we acquired Alter S.r.l. (&#147;Alter&#148;) located in Reggio Emilia, Italy. Alter develops advanced microwave power generators, components and systems for industrial microwave heating, microwave plasma coating and semiconductor applications. The purchase price, net of cash acquired and after final debt and working capital post-closing adjustments, was $2.4 million. 

&#160;

