 ITEM 1. BUSINESS. 

General Development of Business 

Hickok Incorporated was founded in 1910 and organized in 1915 as an Ohio corporation, and first offered its securities to the public in 1959. Except as otherwise stated, the terms "Company" or "Hickok" as used herein mean Hickok Incorporated and its two wholly-owned subsidiaries, Supreme Electronics Corp. and Waekon Corporation. Hickok develops and manufactures products used by companies in the transportation industry. Primary markets served are automotive, emissions testing, aircraft, and locomotive with sales both to original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) and to the aftermarkets. 

The Company's Internet address is http://www.hickok-inc.com . Hickok makes available free of charge on or through its website its annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 12(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as soon as reasonably practicable after the Company electronically files such materials with, or furnishes it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"). The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains these reports at www.sec.gov . 

The Company was founded producing D&#8217;Arsonval indicators and continues to manufacture these products today. The current Indicator product line is focused on highly reliable specialized indicators used in the cockpits of certain aircraft, locomotives, and transit vehicles. It is a stable line of business with few competitors in the market. The indicator business represents approximately 22% of the Company&#8217;s revenue.

Until the mid 1980s, Hickok was known primarily for its ability to develop and manufacture electronic instruments for electronic servicers, precision indicating instruments for aircraft, locomotive, and industrial applications, and electronic teaching systems for vocational schools. For the past twenty-eight years the Company has used this expertise to develop and manufacture electronic diagnostic tools and equipment used by automotive technicians in the automotive service market. This is now the Company's largest business segment. The Company generated approximately 78% of its fiscal 2015 revenue from designing and manufacturing diagnostic tools for automotive diagnostics and testing. These tools enable service technicians to identify problems in both electronic systems and other non-electronic systems in automobiles and trucks. 

Twenty years ago, two large automotive OEM companies comprised over 80% of the Company's business. A substantial portion of this business was contingent on large programs initiated by these OEMs on a year-to-year basis. The Company recognized that OEMs were changing and that the likelihood of the continuation of these yearly large programs was diminishing. Recognizing that customer diversification was desirable and that much of the technology that had been developed for OEMs could have application to the non-dealer service market (known as the aftermarket), the Company added new products, customers and an established aftermarket sales channel with the acquisition of Waekon Industries in 1998. As a result, the Company executed a strategy to use this existing technical and manufacturing expertise and to develop sales and marketing skills applicable to the automotive aftermarket service industry. The Company uses Waekon, Hickok, and Hickok/Waekon as the brands of its products that are primarily marketed to aftermarket service organizations. 

The Company continues to develop aftermarket service tools and in recent years has successfully cultivated relationships with Tier 1 OEM service tool suppliers as well. The Company has increased its revenue from these customers in the past several years and now puts as much emphasis on this market segment as it does with respect to tools for the aftermarket. Most of these tools are branded to the Tier 1 supplier&#8217;s requirements. These tools tend to be more complex than typical aftermarket tools, but the technology developed often has application to subsequent aftermarket products.

The Company's operations are currently concentrated in the United States of America. Sales are primarily to domestic customers, although the Company also makes sales to international customers through domestically based distribution companies. 

Operating Segment Information 

The Company's operations are combined into two reportable business segments: 1) indicators and gauges and 2) automotive diagnostic tools and equipment. Reference is made to "Segment and Related Information" included in the notes to the financial statements. 

Indicators and Gauges 

For over one hundred years the Company has developed and manufactured precision indicating instruments used in aircraft, locomotives and other applications. In recent years the Company has specialized in aircraft and locomotive cockpit instruments. Within the aircraft market, instruments are sold primarily to manufacturers or servicers of business, military, and pleasure aircraft. Within the locomotive market, indicators are sold to both original equipment manufacturers and to operators of railroad equipment. Indicators and gauges represented approximately 22% of the Company's sales for fiscal 2015 and 24% for fiscal 2014. A number of the Company's aircraft instruments are FAA certified and a number of others are type certified with aircraft manufacturers. A significant revenue source within this segment is for high reliability ruggedized movements used on certain military aircraft. However, these products are subject to federal government funding of military programs and can vary significantly from year to year.

Although the Company does not view this segment as having a high growth potential, it does contribute significant revenues and margins. The Company believes year to year variation of revenue is more dependent on customer timing than any general market direction. 

Automotive Diagnostic Tools and Equipment 

The Company has concentrated on designing and marketing instruments used to diagnose automotive electronic systems. These products were initially sold to one OEM but are now sold to several automotive OEMs through Tier 1 suppliers, and to the aftermarket using jobbers, wholesalers and mobile distributors. Sales of products designed specifically to OEM requirements have been balanced with products developed for automotive aftermarket servicers and the emissions testing industry. The aftermarket accounted for approximately 28% of the Company's automotive diagnostic and specialty tool sales in fiscal 2015 and 22% for fiscal 2014. As a whole, automotive diagnostic tools and equipment represented approximately 78% of the Company's sales for fiscal 2015 and 76% for fiscal 2014. The percentage increase was due primarily to higher automotive diagnostic tools and equipment sales to total sales in fiscal 2015 compared to fiscal 2014. 

The Company's primary expertise is electronic measurement of physical properties and it has cultivated a reputation for developing innovative tools for automotive diagnostics. The Company uses this reputation as leverage when it introduces new offerings. Our recent focus on tools for automotive technicians results in low cost tools that are easy to use, save technicians time, and improve diagnostic accuracy. OEM tools tend to be tools that are sophisticated and allow the technician diagnostic access to vehicle systems that are otherwise inaccessible for the technician to pinpoint the vehicle&#8217;s issue. An example of this is the Active Fuel Injector Tester ("AFIT"), which the Company introduced several years ago to General Motors dealers.

In 2009, at the OEM&#8217;s request, we developed accessory interfaces that allow the same level of ability to diagnose fuel injection system issues for Diesel engines and the recently introduced Gasoline Direct Injection ("GDI") engines. General Motors decided to equip their North American dealers with technology to diagnose fuel issues on their GDI engines and the Company furnished over 3,800 adapters to the AFIT Tester during fiscal 2014. General Motors has also inquired about the technology for a global tool to address the GDI engines and the Company prepared a proposal for global use based on the technology developed for North American dealers that is still under consideration by GM. During fiscal 2015 the Company supplied a number of cables and accessories for use on new GDI engines that extend the utility of the AFIT system. In addition to General Motors, the Company produces several testers for use on Chrysler and John Deere products as well as several other OEMs that are also sold through Tier 1 suppliers. Several OEM customers continue to show interest in a number of our products that were developed for aftermarket customers and we continue to pursue those opportunities in addition to responding to requests for tools specified by OEMs. 

New products are particularly important in the aftermarket. We continue to introduce three to four new products into this market each year. Over the past three years, we have updated essentially all our aftermarket products and about a year ago introduced a unique product that economically offers a service person the capabilities of an oscilloscope to view waveforms, but with the simple operation of a digital camera. Introduced in September 2014, the response to this product has been exceptional and we believe has improved sales of other products that we produce. We plan to introduce a two channel version of the product in the spring of 2016. Our plan is to continue to develop products for automotive service, and at least three new products are currently expected to be introduced during fiscal 2016. 

Aftermarket sales channels are always changing and 2015 was no exception. The most effective way to introduce new products has been to grant a major distributor an exclusive right to purchase and market the product for an initial period during introduction because they historically put a great emphasis on the product for the duration of the exclusivity period. The AutoWave single channel oscilloscope referred to above is an example of the success this approach can yield. The Company&#8217;s plan is to continue to develop new and unique products for the automotive aftermarket and likely we will continue to use the exclusive distributor introduction strategy.

During 2014, our sales and marketing team upgraded our internet sites. The Company introduced a subscription program for the NGS PC product that required developing the infrastructure and expertise necessary for an internet store. However, the Internet continues to evolve and during 2015 we had to implement another major overhaul to accommodate smart phones, tablets, and other mobile technologies or lose our positioning in search engine results pages. We believed going into fiscal 2015 that many of our automotive aftermarket products with minor adaptations could be attractive tools for many service technicians outside the automotive industry. Our current distribution channels are relatively concentrated in the automotive market, however, we have been successful in having a number of our products incorporated on the internet sites of Home Depot and Amazon and many of our sales through these channels have been to non-automotive service customers even though the products themselves were primarily designed for automotive servicers. 

We have launched a marketing effort on slightly modified versions of our automotive products to service technicians in non-automotive repair professions such as industrial machine repair, air conditioning and appliance repair. We obtained a new Internet address www.hickoktools.com which will be the sales channel for these non-automotive tools. This new initiative is using the Internet as the sales avenue to these customers and we will be extensively using media e-mail lists, video demonstration on U-Tube, and social media to reach these non-automotive customers. The emphasis we have placed on upgrading our websites and Internet savvy discussed below has made this approach possible and we are optimistic it will open new markets for our products. We are extensively using social media, video demonstration, and e-mail advertising to reach all our customers. Our plan is to continue this emphasis to further improve our presence in the electronic market places. During fiscal 2014, we completed the upgrade of our MIS system to the latest capability and began investigation of a major upgrade to the Company's IT infrastructure, both hardware and software. During fiscal 2015, we determined the best course of action for an upgrade that is intended to keep us current for at least the next 5 to 10 years and began testing of a prototype system. Critical to the changeover is minimal disruption of capability during the changeover and so we are pretesting as much as possible and have programmed a staged changeover to avoid interruptions. The IT infrastructure changeover is expected to take place in the second quarter of fiscal 2016 which will enhance not only our internal operations but also offer better electronic presence to our customers. 

Emissions testing products for gas caps and gas tanks were a major revenue contributor for the Company for a number of years as new state testing programs were implemented. Despite very few state programs being implemented in recent years, we continue to enjoy a base level of business for these products as replacements and as new stations join the various state programs. In 2013, the only competing manufacturer of gas cap testers announced that it was discontinuing the manufacture and service of their gas cap testers. Except for a short flurry of increased sales immediately after this announcement, our gas cap tester product sales have remained steady over the past number of years. In addition, we continue to sell small quantities of our gas tank tester to service stations in California. 

Sources and Availability of Raw Materials 

Raw materials essential to the business are acquired from a large number of United States of America manufacturers and some materials are now purchased from European and Southeast Asian sources. Materials acquired from the electronic components industry include transistors, integrated circuits, resistors, capacitors, switches, potentiometers, micro controllers, and other passive parts. Fabricated metal or plastic parts are generally purchased from local suppliers or manufactured by the Company from raw materials. In general, the required materials are available, if ordered with sufficient lead times, from multiple sources at current prices. 

Importance of Patents, Licenses, Franchises, Trademarks and Concessions 

The Company presently has several patents that relate to several of its products. The Company believes that its position in the industry is dependent upon its present level of engineering skill, research, sales relationships, production techniques and service. However, the Company does have several basic methodology patents related to products it offers that it considers very important to future revenue. Of the Company's most critical patents, one is related to the testing of evaporative emissions systems that was the basis for the Company's product offering for the State of California. This patent expires in the year 2022. Another critical patent is related to vehicle fuel cap testing which expires in 2018. The Company monitors the marketplace for infringement of its patents and intends to pursue its rights should an infringement take place. The Company is currently engaged in such a proceeding. See Item 3 Legal Proceedings. Other than the names "Hickok" and "Waekon", the Company does not have any material licenses, trademarks, franchises or concessions. 

Seasonality 

The Company believes that there is a seasonality to the automotive aftermarket revenues. Typically the first and fourth quarters tend to be weaker than the other two quarters in this market. Orders for OEM or emissions testing products are primarily subject to customer timing requirements and have no known seasonality aspect to them. As a result, operating results can fluctuate widely from quarter to quarter and year to year.

Practices Relative to Working Capital Items 

The nature of the Company's business requires it to maintain sufficient levels of inventory to meet rapid delivery requirements of customers. The Company provides its customers with payment terms prevalent in the industry. 

Dependence on Single or Few Customers 

Several aftermarket distribution companies and several equipment OEMs have become significant sources of revenue for the Company. Sales in fiscal 2015 to Bosch, a Tier 1 supplier to numerous OEMs, amounted to approximately $2,158,000 or 37% of the consolidated sales of the Company. In fiscal 2014 sales to Bosch amounted to approximately $2,768,000 or 44% of the consolidated sales of the Company. Sales in fiscal 2013 to Bosch amounted to approximately $2,304,000 or 36% of the consolidated sales of the Company. The Company does not have exclusive supply agreements or long-term contractual relationships with these large customers.

Backlog 

The Company's order backlog as of September 30, 2015 totaled $648,000 as compared to $539,000 as of September 30, 2014 and $631,000 as of September 30, 2013. The increase in fiscal 2015 versus 2014 was due primarily to increased orders for automotive diagnostic products orders to OEM's of approximately $122,000. In addition, orders for indicators and gauges increased approximately $19,000, offset by a decrease of approximately $33,000 for non-emission aftermarket products. The decrease in fiscal 2014 versus 2013 was due to decreased orders for indicators and gauges of approximately $215,000. In addition, automotive diagnostic products orders to OEM's increased by approximately $102,000 and $24,000 for emission products, offset by a decrease of $3,000 for non-emission aftermarket products. Government Contract Renegotiation 

No major portion of the business is open to renegotiation of profits or termination of contracts or subcontracts at the election of the United States Government. The amount of revenue derived from government contracts is currently minimal and not material. 

Competitive Conditions 

The Company is engaged in a highly competitive industry and faces competition from domestic and international firms. Several of the Company's competitors have greater financial resources and larger sales organizations than the Company. Competition with respect to the Company's diagnostic tool business arises from the existence of a number of other significant manufacturers in the field, such as Bosch and Snap-On, which dominate the available market in terms of total sales. The instrumentation industry is composed primarily of companies that specialize in the production of particular items as compared to a full line of instruments. The Company believes that its competitive position in this field is in the area of smaller, specialized products, an area in which the Company has operated and in which the Company has established itself competitively by offering high-quality, high-performance products in comparison to high-volume, mass-produced items.

The Company depends on the automotive industry for sales of its OEM and aftermarket products. The Company's results of operations were adversely affected by the deterioration in the automotive industry's performance during the fiscal 2012 and 2011 years, as well as poor economic conditions throughout the country. The Company anticipates that it will continue to face significant challenges due to competition, however markets appear to be continuing to improve. The two markets are driven by different considerations. The OEM market tends to be driven by the need for new tools due to the introduction of new technologies in vehicles or excessive warranty costs. Because of dealership economics, OEMs are reluctant to require dealers to purchase service tools. The aftermarket is largely driven by the economics of fixing vehicles. During poor economic times, purchases can be delayed. Although aftermarket parts suppliers have done well during the past few years, aftermarket tool suppliers have not. Our strategy of developing products that target the technician and low cost tools for shop use is an outgrowth of these realities in the marketplace. We believe substantial opportunities for growth depends primarily on the introduction of new and innovative products to the sectors we service. In addition to automotive service products, the Company diversified some years ago into the emissions testing market. This market has also been depressed partially because EPA requirements for state emissions testing program requirements have changed and partially because state budgets have not allowed the implementation of new testing programs. The Company briefly experienced improved sales of emissions products in part due to the discontinuance of certain emissions products by a competitor and we expect the market to remain at historical levels.

Research and Development Activities 

The Company expensed as incurred product development costs of $1,015,414 in 2015, $965,975 in 2014 and $939,373 in 2013. These expenditures included engineering product support and development of manuals for both of the Company's business segments.

Compliance with Environmental Provisions 

The Company's capital expenditures, earnings and competitive position are not materially affected by compliance with federal, state and local environmental provisions which have been enacted or adopted to regulate the distribution of materials into the environment. 

Number of Persons Employed 

Total employment by the Company at September 30, 2015 was 83 full-time employees which represents a 5% decrease from 87 employees in fiscal 2014 and a 5% increase from 79 employees in fiscal 2013. The Company has no part-time employees. None of the employees are represented by a union. The Company considers its relations with its employees to be good. 

Financial Information Concerning Foreign and Domestic Operations and Export Sales 

During the fiscal year ended September 30, 2015, all manufacturing, research and development and administrative operations were conducted in the United States of America. Revenues derived from export sales approximated $174,000 in 2015, $156,000 in 2014, and $148,000 in 2013. Shipments to Australia, Canada, England, Mexico and Taiwan make up the majority of export sales. 

