 ITEM 1 . BUSINESS 

GENERAL

Community West Bancshares (&#8220;CWBC&#8221;), incorporated under the laws of the state of California, is a bank holding company providing full service banking through its wholly-owned subsidiary Community West Bank, N.A. (&#8220;CWB&#8221; or the &#8220;Bank&#8221;). These entities are collectively referred to herein as the &#8220;Company&#8221;.

PRODUCTS AND SERVICES

Through its wholly owned bank, the Company provides a variety of financial products and services to customers including lending and deposit products. The Company has primarily focused on meeting the needs of professionals, small to mid-sized businesses and individual households.

Relationship Banking

Relationship banking is conducted at the community level through five full-service branch offices in the cities of Goleta, Santa Barbara, Santa Maria, Ventura and Westlake Village, California and one loan production office in San Luis Obispo. The primary customers are small to mid-sized businesses in these communities and their owners and managers.

Through CWB the Company provides a variety of financial products and services to customers. These products and services include deposit products such as checking accounts, savings accounts, money market accounts and fixed rate, fixed maturity certificates of deposits and lending products including; commercial, commercial real estate and consumer loans.

The competition in our markets is strong. The Company has historically been successful due to its focus on high quality customer service and our experienced relationship bankers who have strong relationships within the communities we serve.

&#160;

Manufactured Housing

The Company has a financing program for manufactured housing to provide affordable home ownership. These loans are offered in approved mobile home parks throughout California primarily on or near the coast. The parks must meet specific criteria. The manufactured housing loans are secured by the manufactured home and are retained in the Company&#8217;s loan portfolio.

Agricultural Loans for Real Estate and Operating Lines

The Company has an agricultural lending program for agricultural land, agricultural operational lines, and agricultural term loans for crops, equipment and livestock. The primary product is supported by guarantees issued from the U.S. Department of Agriculture (&#8220;USDA&#8221;), Farm Service Agency (&#8220;FSA&#8221;), and the USDA Business and Industry loan program. The FSA loans typically issue a 90% guarantee up to $1,392,000 (amount adjusted annually based on inflation) for up to 40 years.

CWB is an approved Federal Agricultural Mortgage Corporation (&#8220;Farmer Mac&#8221;) lender under the Farmer Mac I and Farmer Mac II Programs. Under the Farmer Mac I Program, loans are sourced by CWB, underwritten, funded and serviced by Farmer Mac. CWB receives an origination fee and an ongoing field servicing fee for maintaining the relationship with the borrower and performing certain loan compliance monitoring, and other duties as directed by the Central Servicer. The Farmer Mac II Program was authorized by Congress in 1991 to establish a uniform national secondary market for originators and investors using the USDA guaranteed loan programs. Under this program, CWB will sell the guaranteed portions of USDA loans directly to Farmer Mac&#8217;s subsidiary, Farmer Mac II LLC, services the loans, and retains the unguaranteed portions of those loans in accordance with the terms of the existing USDA guaranteed loan programs. Eligible loans include FSA and Business and Industrial loans. To participate in the program, CWB was subject to the requirement of purchasing 2,000 shares of Farmer Mac Class A Stock (&#8220;AGM&#8221;).

Small Business Administration Lending

CWB has been a preferred lender/servicer of loans guaranteed by the Small Business Administration (&#8220;SBA&#8221;) since 1990. The Company originates SBA loans which can be sold into the secondary market. The Company continues to service these loans after sale and is required under the SBA programs to retain specified amounts. The two primary SBA loan programs that CWB offers are the basic 7(a) Loan Guaranty (&#8220;SBA 7(a)&#8221;) and the Certified Development Company (&#8220;CDC&#8221;), a Section 504 (&#8220;504&#8221;) program.

The SBA 7(a) serves as the SBA&#8217;s primary business loan program to help qualified small businesses obtain financing when they might not be eligible for business loans through normal lending channels. Loan proceeds under this program can be used for most business purposes including working capital, machinery and equipment, furniture and fixtures, land and building (including purchase, renovation and new construction), leasehold improvements and debt refinancing. Loan maturity is generally up to 10 years for working capital and up to 25 years for fixed assets. The 7(a) loan is approved and funded by a qualified lender, guaranteed by the SBA and subject to applicable regulations. In general, the SBA guarantees up to 85% of the loan amount depending on loan size. The Company is required by the SBA to retain a contractual minimum of 5% on all SBA 7(a) loans. The SBA 7(a) loans are typically variable interest rate loans.

&#160;

The 504 program is an economic development-financing program providing long-term, low down payment loans to expanding businesses. Typically, a 504 project includes a loan secured from a private-sector lender with a senior lien, a loan secured from a CDC (funded by a 100% SBA-guaranteed debenture) with a junior lien covering up to 40% of the total cost, and a contribution of at least 10% equity from the borrower. Debenture limits are $5.0 million for regular 504 loans and $5.5 million for those 504 loans that meet a public policy goal.

CWB also offers Business &#38; Industry ("B &#38; I") loans. These loans are similar to the SBA product, except they are guaranteed by the U.S. Department of Agriculture. The maximum guaranteed amount is 80%. B&#38;I loans are made to businesses in designated rural areas and are generally larger loans to larger businesses than the 7(a) loans. Similar to the SBA 7(a) product, they can be sold into the secondary market.

As a Preferred Lender, CWB has been delegated the loan approval, closing and most servicing and liquidation responsibility from the SBA.

Mortgage Lending

The Company originated residential real estate loans primarily in the Central Coast of California until the third quarter of 2015. The Company exited the lending market for conforming residential real estate loans sold into the secondary market to focus on the manufactured housing sector.

Loans to One Borrower

State banking law generally limits the amount of funds that a bank may lend to a single borrower. Under federal law, the unsecured obligations of any one borrower to a national bank generally may not exceed 15% of the sum of the bank&#8217;s unimpaired capital and unimpaired surplus; and the secured and unsecured obligations of any one borrower to a bank generally may not exceed 25% of the unimpaired capital and unimpaired surplus.

Foreign Operations

The Company has no foreign operations. The Bank provides loans, letters of credit and other trade-related services to commercial enterprises that conduct business outside the United States.

&#160;

Customer Concentration

The Company does not have any customer relationships that individually account for 10% of consolidated or segment revenues, respectively.

COMPETITION

The financial services industry is highly competitive. Many of our competitors are much larger in total assets and capitalization, have greater access to capital markets, and offer a broader range of financial services than we can offer and may have lower cost structures.

This increasingly competitive environment is primarily a result of long term changes in regulation that made mergers and geographic expansion easier; changes in technology and product delivery systems and web-based tools; the accelerating pace of consolidation among financial services providers; and the flight of deposit customers to perceived increased safety. We compete for loans, deposits and customers with other banks, credit unions, securities and brokerage companies, mortgage companies, insurance companies, finance companies, and other non-bank financial services providers. This strong competition for deposit and loan products directly affects the rates of those products and the terms on which they are offered to consumers.

Technological innovation continues to contribute to greater competition in domestic and international financial services markets.

Mergers between financial institutions have placed additional pressure on banks to consolidate their operations, reduce expenses and increase revenues to remain competitive. The competitive environment is also significantly impacted by federal and state legislation that makes it easier for non-bank financial institutions &#160; to compete with the Company.

EMPLOYEES

As of December 31, 2015, the Company had 107 full-time equivalent team members. The Company's employees are not represented by a union or covered by a collective bargaining agreement. Management believes that its employee relations are good.

GOVERNMENT POLICIES

The Company&#8217;s operations are affected by various state and federal legislative changes and by regulations and policies of various regulatory authorities, including those of the states in which it operates and the U.S. government. These laws, regulations and policies include, for example, statutory maximum legal lending rates, domestic monetary policies by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System which impact interest rates, U.S. fiscal policy, anti-terrorism and money laundering legislation and capital adequacy and liquidity constraints imposed by bank regulatory agencies. Changes in these laws, regulations and policies may greatly affect our operations. See &#8220;Item 1A Risk Factors &#8211; Curtailment of government guaranteed loan programs could affect a segment of our business&#8221; and &#8220;Item 7. Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations &#8211; Supervision and Regulation.&#8221;

Additional Available Information

The Company maintains an Internet website at http://www.communitywest.com. The Company makes available its annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to such reports filed or furnished pursuant to Sections 13(a) and 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Other information related to the Company is available free of charge, through this website as soon as reasonably practicable after it has been electronically filed or furnished to the Securities Exchange Commission (&#8220;SEC&#8221;). The SEC maintains an Internet site, http://www.sec.gov, in which all forms filed electronically may be accessed. The Company&#8217;s internet website and the information contained therein are not intended to be incorporated in this Form 10-K. In addition, copies of the Company&#8217;s annual report will be made available, free of charge, upon written request.

