 Item 1. Business. 

Overview 

We employ innovative e-commerce marketplace solutions to manage, value, and sell inventory and equipment for business and government clients. We operate a network of leading e-commerce marketplaces that enable buyers and sellers to transact in an efficient, automated environment offering over 500 product categories. The Company's marketplaces provide professional buyers access to a global, organized supply of new, surplus, and scrap assets presented with digital images and other relevant product information. Additionally, the Company enables its corporate and government sellers to enhance their financial return on assets offered for sale by providing a liquid marketplace and value-added services that encompass the consultative management, valuation, and sale of surplus assets. Our broad range of services include program management, valuation, asset management, reconciliation, RTV and RMA ("Return to Vendor" and "Returns Management Authorization"), refurbishment and recycling, fulfillment, marketing and sales, warehousing and transportation, buyer customer support, and compliance and risk mitigation. We organize the products on our marketplaces into categories across major industry verticals such as consumer electronics, general merchandise, apparel, scientific equipment, aerospace parts and equipment, technology hardware, energy equipment, industrial capital assets, fleet and transportation equipment and specialty equipment. Our network of marketplaces includes: www.liquidation.com, www.govliquidation.com, www.govdeals.com, www.networkintl.com, www.truckcenter.com, www.secondipity.com, www.unclesamsretailoutlet.com, www.go-dove.com, and www.irondirect.com. We have over 8,000 clients, including Fortune 1000 and Global 500 organizations as well as government agencies. The Company has one reportable segment consisting of an aggregation of five operating segments that manage e-commerce marketplaces for sellers and buyers of new, surplus, and scrap assets. 

We believe our ability to create liquid marketplaces for surplus and salvage assets generates a continuing flow of goods from our corporate and government sellers. This valuable and reliable flow of goods in turn attracts an increasing number of professional buyers to our marketplaces. During fiscal year 2016, the number of registered buyers grew from approximately 2,845,000 to approximately 2,986,000, or 5.0%. 

During the past three fiscal years, we have conducted over 1,688,000 online transactions generating approximately $2.4 billion in gross merchandise volume or GMV. We believe the continuing flow of goods in our marketplaces attracts a growing buyer base which creates a self-sustaining cycle for our buyers and sellers. 

In the fiscal year ended September 30, 2016, we generated GMV of $642.1 million and revenue of $316.5 million through multiple sources, including transaction fees from sellers and buyers, revenue sharing arrangements, value-added service charges and online advertising fees. Our GMV has grown at a compound annual growth rate of approximately 14% since fiscal year 2006. 

We were incorporated in Delaware in November 1999 as Liquidation.com, Inc. and commenced operations in early 2000. 

Industry Overview 

While a well-established forward supply chain exists for the procurement of assets, most manufacturers, retailers, corporations and government agencies have not made significant investments in their reverse supply chain process or systems. The reverse supply chain addresses the redeployment 

and remarketing of surplus and salvage assets. These assets generally consist of retail customer returns, overstock products and end-of-life goods or capital assets from both the corporate and government sectors. The market is large, as indicated by a National Retail Federation (NRF) report in November 2015 that $260.5 billion of merchandise is returned on an annual basis. According to a May 2015 report by the retail analyst firm IHL Group, retailers worldwide lose $1.75 trillion annually due to the cost of overstocks, out-of-stocks and needless returns. Additionally, the Investment Recovery Association, a professional association for managers of surplus assets, reports on its website that at any given time, almost 20% of a typical organization's capital assets are surplus to its needs. 

The supply of surplus and salvage assets in the reverse supply chain results from a number of factors, including: 

&#149; Supply chain inefficiencies. Forecasting inaccuracies, manufacturer overruns, cancelled orders, evolving market preferences, discontinued product lines, merchandise packaging changes and seasonal fluctuations result in the growth of surplus assets. &#149; Product innovation. Continuous innovation in technology products, such as computer and office equipment, consumer electronics, and personal communication and entertainment devices, results in a continuous flow of surplus assets. &#149; Return policies of large national and online retailers. The flexible return practices of many large national retailers and online shopping sites result in a continuous supply of returned merchandise, a significant portion of which must be liquidated. The NRF from November 2015 reports that approximately 8% of all merchandise purchases are returned. &#149; Compliance with government regulations. An increasingly stringent regulatory environment necessitates the verifiable recycling and remarketing of surplus assets that would otherwise be disposed of as waste. &#149; Increasing focus by corporate and government agencies to seek green solutions for surplus assets. Most organizations appreciate the growing need to be environmentally friendly by improving their management of end of life or surplus goods, including creating the need to repurpose or efficiently redistribute surplus and capital assets to minimize waste and maximize value for themselves and the communities they serve. &#149; Changing budgetary trends in corporate and governmental entities. As corporate and governmental entities increasingly are being pressured to enhance efficiencies, while utilizing less resources, surplus and salvage capital assets become a source of funds once liquidated. Organizations that manufacture, distribute, sell or use finished goods regularly need to dispose of excess inventory or returned merchandise. We believe the management and remarketing of surplus assets traditionally has been an inefficient process. While many organizations spend considerable resources developing systems and channels supporting the flow of finished goods to their core customers, we believe that many have not historically dedicated significant resources to the reverse supply chain. Factors contributing to these inefficiencies in the reverse supply chain include the lack of: 

&#149; a centralized and global marketplace to sell bulk products in the reverse supply chain; &#149; awareness of effective methods and mechanisms for disposal of surplus assets; &#149; experience in managing the reverse supply chain to seek optimal net returns and improve gross margins; and &#149; real time market data on surplus assets as they move through the final steps of the product life cycle. 2 

Traditional methods of surplus and salvage asset disposition include ad-hoc, negotiated direct sales, utilization of individual brokers or sales agents and live on-site auctions. We believe these solutions are generally highly fragmented, geographically dispersed and poorly integrated with supply chain operations. The manual, negotiated and geographically dispersed nature of traditional surplus resale methods results in a lack of pricing transparency for offered goods, multiple brokers/parties ultimately involved in the final disposition and a lower number of potential buyers and bids, which we believe typically leads to lower recovery for sellers. 

A significant number of professional buyers seek surplus and salvage assets to sustain their operations and meet demands of end-customers. They include online and offline retailers, convenience and discount stores, value-added resellers such as refurbishers and scrap recyclers, import and export firms, and small businesses. Traditionally, these buyers have had limited access to a reliable flow of surplus goods and assets, relying instead on their own network of industry contacts and fixed-site auctioneers to locate, evaluate and purchase specific items of interest. Traditional methods are inefficient for buyers due to the lack of: 

&#149; global access to an available continuous supply of desired goods and assets; &#149; efficient and inexpensive sourcing processes; &#149; a professionally managed central marketplace with transparent, high quality services; &#149; detailed information and product description for the offered goods; and &#149; pricing transparency or ability to compare asset prices. The Internet is a global medium enabling millions of people worldwide to share information, communicate and conduct business electronically. Strong growth has occurred in the business-to-business (B2B) online retail market, which can be attributed to the rapid migration of manufacturers and wholesalers to open, online platforms. This continued evolution toward ubiquitous B2B platforms that enable sellers and buyers to interact with each other anywhere in the world, totaled $855 billion in total B2B e-commerce sales in the United States in 2016, led by the industrials sector which is on pace to grow 2016 sales by 8% to $246.5 billion (Source: Forrester Research Inc.). Forrester also anticipates that B2B e-commerce sales will reach $1.1 trillion by 2020, a compound average growth rate of 7.7% since 2014. We believe professional buyers of surplus and salvage assets will increasingly use these B2B platforms to identify and source goods available for immediate online purchase. 

Our Solution 

Our solution is comprised of ecommerce marketplaces and value-added services. Our marketplaces and services are designed to provide sellers a comprehensive solution to quickly bring surplus assets to market and enhance the financial value realized from the sale of their surplus assets while providing buyers with confidence in the reliable flow of goods they purchase. We provide our sellers access to a network of liquid marketplaces with over 2.9 million professional buyers and a suite of services including consultative surplus asset management, valuation, sales solutions, and logistics capabilities to efficiently manage our clients' reverse supply chain and maximize total supply chain value. We also seek the optimal methods to maximize our clients' net recovery using channel strategies and dedicated programs to deliver transparent, sustained value. 

Through our relationships with sellers, we provide buyers convenient access to a substantial and continuous flow of surplus and salvage assets. We provide buyers with products in over 500 categories in lot sizes ranging from full truck loads to pallets, packages and individual items. Our solution combines leading ecommerce marketplaces with a full suite of integrated sales, marketing, merchandising, fulfillment, payment collection, customer support, dispute mediation and logistics 

services. We provide buyers a convenient method for sourcing surplus consumer goods and commercial capital assets including, industrial equipment, energy equipment, and transportation assets. For any given asset, buyers have access to a detailed product description, product manifest, digital images of a product, relevant transaction history regarding the seller, shipping weights, product dimensions and estimated shipping costs to the buyer's location. This enables our solutions to become the primary source for surplus and salvage assets for many of our professional buyers and end-users. 

We believe our marketplaces benefit over time from greater scale and adoption by our constituents creating a virtual cycle for our buyers and sellers. As of September 30, 2016, we had aggregated approximately 2,986,000 registered buyers in our marketplaces and access to millions of end-users through a range of existing consumer marketplaces. Aggregating this level of buyer demand and market data enables us to generate a continuous flow of goods from corporate and government sellers, which in turn attracts an increasing number of professional buyers. During the fiscal year ended September 30, 2016 we had over 2,417,000 auction participants in our online auctions from our registered buyers. During fiscal year 2016, we grew our registered buyer base by 5.0% or approximately 141,000. As buyers continue to discover and use our ecommerce marketplaces as an effective method to source assets, we believe our solutions become an increasingly attractive sales channel for corporate and government agency sellers. We believe this self-reinforcing cycle results in greater transaction volume and enhances the value of our marketplaces. 

Competitive Factors 

We have created liquid marketplaces for virtually any type, quantity or condition of surplus or salvage assets. The strengths of our business model include: 

Aggregation of supply and demand for surplus and salvage assets 

Our ability to aggregate sellers and buyers through our marketplaces is a fundamental strength of our business model. Sellers benefit from a liquid, transparent market and the active participation of our large base of professional buyers, which enhances returns. Buyers benefit from our relationships with high-volume, corporate and government sellers, which provides them with continuous access to a comprehensive selection of surplus and salvage assets. Our solution eliminates the need for sellers and buyers to rely on the highly fragmented and geographically dispersed group of traditional liquidators. Instead, sellers and buyers conveniently access our ecommerce marketplaces for their entire surplus and salvage asset needs. 

Integrated and comprehensive solution 

Our marketplaces are designed to provide sellers and buyers with a comprehensive solution for the online sale and purchase of surplus and salvage assets. We offer a full suite of value-added services to simplify the sales and supply chain processes for sellers and improve the utility of our marketplaces for buyers. For corporate and government sellers, we provide sales, marketing, logistics and customer support services that are fully integrated with our marketplaces, creating operational and system efficiencies. For many of these sellers, asset disposition is not a core business function to which they desire to dedicate internal resources. With our solution, we manage each step of the transaction and supply chain for our sellers reducing complexity while providing the ability to optimize the client's net financial return in the sale of surplus goods and assets. Sellers simply make goods available at their facilities or deliver them to our distribution centers and we deliver the profits after the sale is completed. Our buyer services include intelligent alerts, search tools, dynamic pricing, shipping and delivery, secure settlement, live customer support and dispute resolution to enable the most effective methods to source assets for their businesses. 

Flexible and aligned transaction model 

We offer three primary transaction models to our sellers: purchase, consignment and profit-sharing. Under these models, our compensation is derived from either the gross or net proceeds received from the sale of the assets. Our consignment and profit-sharing arrangements are designed to maximize returns by aligning our economic interests with those of our sellers. 

Faster transaction cycle times for our sellers and buyers 

We believe our marketplace solutions allow sellers to complete the entire sales process more rapidly than through other liquidation methods by generally reducing the complexities in the reverse supply chain and utilizing our multi-channel strategies to optimize recovery and velocity. As a result, sellers are able to reduce surplus or less valuable inventory quickly, generate additional working capital and reduce the cost of carrying unwanted assets. We provide a one stop solution to enable professional buyers of any size throughout the world to purchase assets in an efficient manner. For these buyers, we provide a broad range of services to give them the information necessary to make an informed bid and ensure they quickly and efficiently receive the goods purchased. 

Solutions that promote sustainability and green solutions for improved corporate/government stewardship 

Our solutions provide a range of capabilities that enable corporate and government agencies to directly reduce the amount of waste generated by redistributing end-of-life products or assets, through our solutions, improving the net financial recovery generated while positively impacting the communities they serve. Some of the world's largest forward thinking corporations and government agencies have significantly enhanced their stewardship of communities and the environment by partnering with us. 

Our Strategy 

The focus of our growth strategy is to provide commercial, municipal government, and federal agency clients and buying customers the world's most transparent, innovative and effective ecommerce marketplaces and integrated services for surplus assets. Our business has already attracted nearly 3.0 million registered buyers and achieved over $642 million of gross merchandise volume in fiscal year 2016 and is well positioned to serve any seller for virtually any asset type in every industry sector. Our goal is to develop a multi-billion dollar business through organic growth by expanding our platform to a diversified base of Fortune 1000 corporations, municipal agencies and small and medium size businesses that can benefit from our global marketplace, buyer liquidity and integrated services. 

The key elements of our growth strategy are to: 

Intensify Supply and Demand in our core vertical markets 

We intend to increase the active buyer participation within our consumer goods, commercial capital assets (energy, industrial, transportation and other markets), and municipal government marketplaces, by attracting new buyers and more deeply penetrating our base of existing professional buyers. We intend to attract new buyers by using a variety of online and traditional marketing programs while improving the services and experience for our valued professional buyers. In addition, we plan to use the comprehensive buyer profiles, preferences and transactional data we have compiled over the last 17 years to enable us to identify and market highly relevant assets available through our marketplaces to the most likely buyers. We believe these initiatives will help us to increase the total number of auction participants and increase loyalty among our buyer base. In turn, increased buyer participation within our marketplaces should enable us to sell higher volumes of surplus assets, expand into new vertical markets, and maintain high recovery values for our selling clients. 

Increase value and services for sellers 

We intend to build upon our client base of the world's largest retailers and manufacturers, thousands of municipal clients and our expertise with the Department of Defense ("DoD") to attract additional corporate and government sellers to our marketplaces. The majority of corporations and government agencies still rely on inefficient, traditional, and less transparent disposition methods for their surplus assets. To help more organizations address these inefficiencies, we plan to extend our platform to new partners, including dealers, auctioneers and refurbishers, who would benefit from accessing our marketplaces, leveraging our global buyer base, and relying on our service offerings, including dealers, auctioneers, refurbishers, and other principals. 

We also intend to partner with our seller base to address inefficient markets and practices in the forward supply chain of select industries, such as construction equipment, through our IronDirect marketplace, to provide a full lifecycle solution from initial purchase to disposition. By addressing inefficiencies in forward supply chain markets and bundling solutions with our core reverse supply chain services, we anticipate that we will increase our base of buyers and sellers and handle higher volumes of surplus in the industries we serve. 

Develop new relationships and expand our solution to the full supply chain life cycle 

We intend to build upon our client base of the world's largest retailers and manufacturers, thousands of municipal clients and our expertise with the DoD to attract additional corporate and government sellers to our marketplaces. The majority of corporations and government agencies still rely on inefficient, traditional, and less transparent disposition methods for their surplus assets. To further our reach in helping organizations address these inefficiencies, we will extend our platform to partners who would benefit from accessing our marketplace, leveraging our global buyer base, and tapping into our service offerings, including dealers, auctioneers, refurbishers, and other principals. We will also partner with our seller base to address and disrupt inefficient markets and practices in the forward supply chain of select industries, such as construction equipment through our IronDirect marketplace, to provide a full lifecycle solution from initial purchase to disposition. By addressing inefficiencies in forward supply chain markets and bundling solutions with our core reverse supply chain services, we anticipate that we would increase our entry points with both buyers and sellers to handle higher volumes of surplus in the industries we serve. 

Innovation and technology development 

Currently our marketplaces operate on separate platforms. Pursuant to our LiquidityOne Transformation initiative, we are creating a single integrated platform to support customer management, property management, transaction management, and financial and human capital management across all of our marketplaces. This initiative is designed to implement a uniform set of best practices across our entire business and to provide a superior customer experience by making more personalized tools and services available to our buyers and sellers. Upgraded features on our e-commerce platform and enhancements to our multi-channel optimization capabilities made as part of this initiative have already improved our business and we expect that the efficiencies and operating leverage created by LiquidityOne will drive profitability, including by enabling us to be more competitive in pricing new client programs. The LiquidityOne program will further automate our global solution and leverage the scalability of our technology investments across all of our marketplaces, including multi-currency and multi-lingual solutions. In addition to enhancing the features, experience, and services available for our buyers and sellers, we seek to leverage the increasing insight we gain with each transaction to enhance the recovery value clients realize along with improving the relevancy for our buyers in the reverse supply chain. The LiquidityOne Transformation initiative will also simplify and streamline our operations, improve the functionality of our systems support, and decrease the cost of our systems infrastructure. 

Our Marketplaces 

Our ecommerce marketplaces serve as an efficient and convenient method for the sale of surplus and salvage consumer goods and capital assets. They are designed to address the particular requirements and needs of buyers and sellers. We operate and enable several marketplaces, including the following: 

&#149; Our www.liquidation.com marketplace enables corporations located in the United States to sell surplus and salvage consumer goods and capital assets. This leading business to business marketplace and our related value-added services are designed to meet the needs of clients by selling their surplus assets to domestic and international buyers. &#149; Our www.govliquidation.com marketplace enables selected federal government agencies as well as commercial businesses to sell surplus and scrap assets. In addition to goods sold on behalf of other federal agencies, the surplus and scrap assets we sell as the exclusive contractor of the Defense Logistics Agency (DLA) Disposition Services of the U.S. Department of Defense are sold in this marketplace. To satisfy the requirements of U.S. federal government agency sellers, this marketplace incorporates additional terms and conditions of sale, such as U.S. Trade Security Controls clearance for the sale of export-controlled property. &#149; Our www.govdeals.com marketplace enables local and state government entities including city, county and state agencies as well as school boards and public utilities located in the United States to sell surplus and salvage assets. This marketplace and our related services are designed to meet the unique needs of public sector clients selling to domestic and international buyers. &#149; Our www.networkintl.com marketplace enables corporations to sell idle, surplus, and scrap equipment in the oil and gas, petrochemical and power generation industries. This marketplace and our related services are designed to meet the unique needs of energy sector clients. &#149; Our www.go-dove.com marketplace enables corporations located in the United States, Europe, and Asia to sell manufacturing surplus and salvage capital assets. This marketplace and our related services are designed to meet the specific needs of manufacturing sector clients by selling their surplus assets to domestic and international buyers. &#149; Our www.truckcenter.com marketplace enables corporations located in the United States to sell surplus and salvage transportation assets. This marketplace and our related services are designed to meet the specific needs of companies and financial institutions by selling their surplus transportation assets to domestic and international buyers. During fiscal year 2016, TruckCenter also began selling trucks through its newly created Retail channel, primarily to Owner Operators and small fleets. &#149; Our www.irondirect.com marketplace enables buyers to purchase value-priced equipment, attachments, parts and services from proven global manufacturers of construction equipment. IronDirect allows companies to consider the full life cycle of their equipment and the value that accrues through proper fleet management. In addition to these leading business-to-business marketplaces, we recognize the need to reach end users for some of the assets our clients have entrusted to us. Thus, we have developed the capability to sell products on our client's behalf directly to end-users and/or consumers using a range of existing marketplaces. Our www.secondipity.com marketplace provides consumers a trusted source of value products through a socially conscious online experience designed to provide "Better Value, Better Life," through donating a portion of the proceeds of every sale to charity. Our Uncle Sam's Retail Outlet website uses a business-to-consumer model to sell surplus military goods. We also have an established global buyer base that seeks to buy in larger quantities than are offered through our standard auction platform. Thus, we have dedicated sales teams to support their needs and supply 

chain. These range from a single truckload to ongoing flows for export anywhere in the world, where we market, handle, and support the full transaction on behalf of our buyers. We expect to continue to meet the needs of our clients and to access a growing range of products for all our buyers by enabling our multi-channel strategy to ensure we create the greatest value for assets at the end of their initial product life cycle. 

Our Value-Added Services for Buyers and Sellers 

We have integrated value-added services to simplify the reverse supply chain processes for our buyers and sellers. We believe these services create the greatest operational efficiencies within this element of the supply chain enabling the greatest value for sellers and buyers with the highest level of confidence and transparency in the services we provide. Additionally, we believe these services improve compliance with the various policies, regulations and sale restrictions of our corporate and government sellers while supporting, or greatly enhancing, many corporate or government environmental initiatives. 

Seller services. We offer value-added services to sellers in three areas: (1) merchandising and channel optimization, (2) logistics and (3) settlement and customer support, including compliance services. 

&#149; Merchandising and Channel Optimization efforts encompass all of the services necessary to prepare merchandise for a successful auction and include the following: &#149; Channel Optimization&#151;we determine the marketplace and channel sales strategy that creates the greatest value for the individual asset using our real time transaction systems and proprietary data to support ongoing optimization. &#149; Marketing and promotion&#151;we use a variety of both online and traditional marketing methods to promote our sellers' merchandise and generate the greatest interest in each asset. &#149; Asset lotting and merchandising&#151;we leverage our industry experience to organize the merchandise we receive into size and product combinations that meet buyer preferences within each marketplace and channel. &#149; Product information enhancement&#151;we provide digital images of the merchandise to be sold and combine the images with relevant information. In order to increase the realized sales value, we also research, collect and use supplemental product information to enhance product descriptions. &#149; Logistics. We provide logistics services designed to support the receipt, handling, transportation and tracking of merchandise offered through our marketplaces, including the following: &#149; Distribution centers&#151;we provide sellers with the flexibility of either having us manage the sales process at their location or delivering merchandise to one of our distribution centers. &#149; Inventory management&#151;sellers benefit from our management and inventory tracking system designed so that merchandise is received, processed and delivered in a timely manner. &#149; Cataloguing merchandise&#151;we catalogue all merchandise, which enables us to provide useful product information to buyers and sellers. In certain circumstances, we will inspect the merchandise and provide condition descriptions to improve quality and the financial recovery to the client. &#149; Testing, data wiping, de-labeling and refurbishment&#151;we test products, wipe electronic data, refurbish and remove labels and product markings from merchandise prior to sale in order to add value to the asset and protect sellers' brand equity and distribution relationships. 8 

&#149; Return to vendor or product disposition to non-sales channels&#151;we will manage the end-to-end processes for our clients ensuring that returned merchandise is disposed through a variety of disposition requirements including the end-to-end management of returning products to vendors, charities, or channels outside of our leading marketplace solutions. &#149; Outbound fulfillment&#151;we can arrange for domestic or international shipping for all merchandise, whether it's a small item or container load for export located in one of our distribution centers or at a seller's facility. &#149; Settlement and customer support. Settlement and customer support services are designed for successful and reliable completion of transactions and include: &#149; Buyer qualification&#151;we qualify buyers to ensure their compliance with applicable government or seller mandated terms of sale, as well as to confirm their ability to complete a transaction. &#149; Collection and settlement&#151;we collect payments on behalf of sellers prior to delivery of any merchandise and disburse the profits to the seller after the satisfaction of all conditions of a sale. &#149; Transaction tracking and reporting&#151;we enable sellers and buyers to track and monitor the status of their transactions throughout the sales process. We support the successful completion of each transaction on behalf of the buyer and seller. We provide a range of comprehensive reporting services to sellers upon the completion of a transaction. Our invoicing and reporting tools can be integrated with the seller's information system, providing a more efficient flow of data. &#149; Customer support and dispute resolution&#151;we provide full customer support throughout the transaction process and dispute resolution for our customers if needed. Buyer services. Many of the services we provide to sellers also benefit buyers by providing them with the information necessary to make a more informed bid and by delivering the goods they purchased. Our buyer-focused services include the following: 

&#149; Intelligent alerts and recommendations&#151;we notify buyers of upcoming auctions based on their registered preferences and prior transaction history. Registered preferences can be as broad as a product category or as specific as a part number or key word. We use this information to ensure informed recommendations whenever we identify a product that fits a buyer's preference. We will alert our buyers based on their preferences when auctions are initially launched or nearing conclusion and based on various other parameters to enable our buyers to see the most relevant products. &#149; Search and navigation tools&#151;buyers can search our marketplaces for products based on a variety of criteria and personalized settings, including product category, keyword, lot size, product condition, product geographic location and auction ending date. &#149; Dynamic pricing tools, product information, and shipping quotes&#151;we offer multiple dynamic pricing tools including outbid notification, automated bid agent and automatic auction extension. In addition, we provide buyers the information they need to make informed decisions, including product data, seller performance, and online shipping quotes to help understand their landed cost. &#149; Broad and flexible range of shipping/pick-up options&#151;we can provide packaging and shipping services for each transaction, whether it is a small item or container loads for export, including buyer pick-up at our premises, for the majority of transactions, or support of buyer arranged transportation. We support the most efficient solution for each transaction and each buyer. 9 

&#149; Secure settlement and customer support&#151;in addition to qualifying sellers, providing several electronic payment options and serving as a trusted market intermediary, we verify transaction completion, which in turn enhances buyer confidence. In addition, we provide full reliable customer support throughout the transaction process. Sales and Marketing 

We utilize a direct sales and marketing force to acquire and manage our seller and buyer accounts. As of September 30, 2016, we had 120 sales and marketing personnel. Our sales activities are focused primarily on acquiring new sellers and improving the value of our solutions to existing sellers. Our marketing activities are focused primarily on acquiring and activating new buyers and increasing existing buyer participation. Our marketing team also manages our Liquidity Services and marketplace brands as well as driving lead generation efforts that support the sales team. 

Sales 

Our sales personnel develop seller relationships, establish agreements to provide our services and manage the business accounts on an on-going basis. Our sales team focuses on building long-term relationships with sellers that we believe will generate recurring transactions. They also leverage our years of experience and market data of completed transactions to identify which of our various services would be beneficial to each new or existing seller. 

Our sales group is organized to serve three distinct groups of sellers: large corporate accounts, medium to small corporate accounts and government accounts. This approach is based on our experience in understanding and serving the unique needs of each type of seller: 

&#149; Large corporate sellers. These sellers require a customized approach, using a combination of our industry-focused sales team and our value-added services to create a comprehensive solution. &#149; Medium to small corporate sellers. These sellers are offered a turn-key solution enabling them to self-serve in our marketplaces by accessing tools and resources to optimize their internal processes and net recovery. &#149; Government sellers. These sellers require a customized approach. Sales efforts are both pro-active and re-active, including responding to already structured contract proposal requests and assisting government agencies in developing the appropriate scope of work to serve their needs. Our sales personnel receive a salary and performance-based commissions. 

Marketing 

We use a variety of online and traditional marketing strategies to attract and activate professional buyers to maximize the number of bidders participating in our ecommerce marketplaces as well as to support our sales team: 

&#149; Buyer acquisition. We utilize sophisticated marketing automation and digital online marketing, including paid search advertising, search engine optimization, affiliate programs and cross promotion on all of our marketplaces to acquire new buyers. We supplement this online marketing with special event print media, classified advertisements and selected direct mail campaigns. Public relations campaigns, participation in trade shows and speaking engagements also complement our overall buyer acquisition efforts. &#149; Buyer participation. We use a variety of tools to increase buyer participation, including: targeted opt-in e-mail newsletters that rely on the buyer's stated categories of interest and past bidding or transaction activity; special e-mail alerts highlighting specific products of interest; personalized 10 

recommendation engines; and convenient search tools that enable a buyer or prospective buyer to find desired items on our ecommerce marketplaces. 

&#149; Market research. In order to better target buyers by industry segment, geographic location or other criteria, our marketing department continually gathers data and information from each of the buyer segments we serve. In addition, the marketing department conducts regular surveys to better understand buyers' behavior and needs. We have a privacy policy and have implemented security measures to protect this information. &#149; Sales support. Our marketing department has a robust lead generation program, creates supporting documentation and research to support our sales team in presenting our company to potential sellers and buyers, including sales brochures, white papers and participation in selected trade shows. All marketing activities are evaluated based on the level of auction participation in our marketplaces, the cost to acquire new sellers, and the cost effectiveness of each action. 

Technology and Infrastructure 

Our marketplaces are fully web-based and can be accessed from any Internet-enabled device by using a standard web browser. Our technology systems enable us to automate and streamline many of the manual processes associated with finding, evaluating, bidding on, paying for and shipping surplus and salvage assets. The technology and content behind our marketplaces and integrated value-added services were developed in-house by full-time employees, providing us with control over the marketplaces and the ability to make rapid enhancements to better fit the specific needs of our business and customers. Our marketplaces are supported by a common database architecture and a shared system application. This infrastructure provides: 

&#149; an efficient channel to sell online through a variety of pricing mechanisms (standard auction, sealed bid, Dutch auction and fixed price); &#149; a scalable back office that enables buyers and sellers to efficiently manage transactions among remote business users by utilizing account management tools, including payment collection, invoicing management, shipping and transaction settlement; and &#149; an input/output agnostic platform, including Application Programming Interface (APIs) or other conduits that enable us to integrate seamlessly with partner enterprise applications of sellers and third party service providers. We have designed our websites and supporting infrastructure to be highly robust and to support new services and increased traffic. Our servers are fully-managed and hosted by Amazon Web Services and Microsoft Azure Platforms. Every critical piece of our application is fully redundant, and we maintain off-site back-up systems and can provision a disaster recovery facility. Our network connectivity offers high performance and scalability to accommodate increases in website traffic. Since January 1, 2003, we have experienced no material service interruptions on our ecommerce marketplaces. 

Our applications support multiple layers of security, including password-protected log-ins, encryption technology to safeguard information transmitted in web sessions and firewalls to help prevent unauthorized access to our network and servers. We devote significant efforts to protecting our systems from intrusion. 

During the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2016, we launched our first marketplace, the IronDirect marketplace, on the new LiquidityOne Platform. The launch of IronDirect supports our strategy of leveraging investments in technology, superior process and integrated services to drive transparency, 

convenience and win-win value creation for customers in large, global markets. During fiscal year 2017, we will continue to migrate our remaining marketplaces to the LiquidityOne Platform. 

Operations 

Supporting large organizations that have a recurring need to sell surplus and salvage assets requires systematic processes to enhance the financial value and convenience received by our customers. We believe we have integrated all of the required operational processes into our solution to efficiently and to effectively support our buyers and sellers. Our operations group is comprised of three functions: (1) buyer relations, (2) shipping logistics and (3) distribution center and field service operations. 

Buyer relations 

Our buyer relations group supports the completion of buyer transactions by managing the buyer registration and qualification process, answering questions and requests from buyers, collecting buyer payments and resolving disputes. Our websites contain extensive information about buying through our ecommerce marketplaces, including an online tutorial regarding the use of our marketplaces, answers to frequently-asked buyer questions and an indexed help section. Buyers are able to contact a customer service representative by live chat as well as e-mail or phone if they need additional support. 

Shipping logistics 

Our shipping logistics group manages and coordinates inbound and outbound shipping of merchandise for sellers and buyers. We offer, as part of our value-added services, integrated shipping services using our own fleet or multiple vetted and pre-qualified carrier partners. In addition, our shipping coordination group personnel monitor the performance and service level of our network of carriers to help ensure speed and quality of service. 

Distribution center and field service operations 

Our distribution center and field service operations group performs selected pre-sale and post-sale value-added services at our distribution centers and at seller locations globally. These activities include unloading, manifesting and reporting discrepancies for all received assets and sales preparation of offered assets, including merchandising and organizing offered assets, writing product descriptions, capturing digital images and/or video and providing additional optional value-added services such as returns management (RM) services, return to vendor (RTV) services and product delabeling, data cleaning/wiping, testing, refurbishment and repackaging. Our distribution center and field service operations group personnel also arrange the outbound shipping or pick-up of purchased assets with our buyers. 

Competition 

The online services market for auctioning or liquidating surplus and salvage assets is competitive and growing rapidly. We currently compete with: 

&#149; other e-commerce providers; &#149; auction websites; &#149; government agencies that have created websites to sell surplus and salvage assets; and &#149; traditional liquidators and fixed-site auctioneers. We expect our market to become even more competitive as traditional and online liquidators and auctioneers continue to develop online and offline services for disposition, redeployment and 

remarketing of surplus and salvage assets. In addition, manufacturers, retailers and additional government agencies may decide to create their own websites to sell their own surplus and salvage assets and those of third parties. Competitive pressures could harm our business, financial condition and operating results. 

In our IronDirect and retail TruckCenter businesses we compete with local, regional and national sellers and rental companies offering vehicles and construction equipment, respectively, as well as parts and service suppliers. 

Some of our other current and potential competitors have longer operating histories, larger client bases, greater brand recognition and significantly greater financial, marketing and other resources than we do. In addition, some of these competitors may be able to devote greater financial resources to marketing and promotional campaigns, secure merchandise from sellers on more favorable terms, adopt more aggressive pricing or inventory availability policies and devote substantially more resources to website and systems development than we are able to do. Increased competition may result in reduced operating margins and loss of market share. We may not be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors. 

Our Contracts with the U.S. Department of Defense 

We have two material contracts with the DoD, the Surplus Contract and the Scrap Contract, under which we acquire, manage and sell government property. This relationship provides a significant supply of goods that we offer to our buyer base through our ecommerce marketplace www.govliquidation.com . In support of these contracts, we provide services in over 2 million square feet of military space at over 150 military bases throughout the United States and in U.S. territories. 

The Surplus Contract is a competitive-bid contract under which we acquire, manage and sell usable DoD surplus personal property turned into the DLA Disposition Services ("DLA"). Surplus property generally consists of items determined by the DoD to be no longer needed, and not claimed for reuse by, any federal agency, such as computers, electronics, office supplies, scientific and medical equipment, aircraft parts, clothing and textiles. The Surplus Contract requires us to purchase all usable surplus property offered by the DoD at 4.35% of the DoD's original acquisition value (OAV). The current, or third, Surplus Contract became effective December 2014, covers only non-rolling stock and has a base term of two years with four one-year options to extend. The prior, or second, Surplus Contract required us to purchase all rolling and non-rolling usable surplus property offered by the DoD at 1.8% of the DoD's OAV; the wind-down period under the second Surplus Contract will remain in effect until January 2017 to allow for the continued processing of usable Recycling Control Point (RCP) non-rolling stock surplus property. 

Revenue from the second and third Surplus Contracts (including buyer premiums) accounted for approximately 26.8%, 24.7%, and 31.0% of our total revenue for the twelve months ended September 30, 2014, 2015, and 2016. The property sold under the second and third Surplus Contracts accounted for approximately 14.3%, 12.3%, and 12.7% of our GMV for the twelve months ended September 30, 2014, 2015 and 2016. 

The DoD has broad discretion to determine what property will be made available for sale to us under the Surplus Contract and may retrieve or restrict property previously sold to us for national security, public safety, or other reasons or if the property is otherwise needed to support the mission of the DoD. 

Scrap Contract. The Scrap Contract is a competitive-bid contract under which we acquire, manage and sell substantially all scrap property of the DoD turned into the DLA at a per pound price. Scrap property generally consists of items determined by the DoD to have no value beyond their base material content value, such as metals, alloys, and building materials. Under the current Scrap 

Contract, which became effective on October 1, 2016, we acquire scrap property from the DLA and pay the DLA a revenue-sharing payment equal to 64.5% of the gross resale proceeds. We bear all of the costs for the sorting, merchandising and sale of the property. The Scrap Contract has a 36-month base term, with two 12-month extension options exercisable by the DLA. 

Under the prior Scrap Contract that expired September 30, 2016, we paid the DLA 65-75% of the profits realized from the sale of the inventory, after deduction for allowable expenses. We refer to the disbursement payments to the DoD as profit-sharing distributions, and we recognize as revenue the gross proceeds from the sales. 

During fiscal 2015, if the Company's customer base met certain small business criteria as defined in the contract, we received an additional incentive payment which was withheld from payments to the DLA. 

Revenue from the Scrap contract accounted for approximately 14.4%, 15.3% and 10.2% of our total revenue for the fiscal years ended September 30, 2014, 2015 and 2016, respectively, and 7.7%, 7.6%, and 5.0% of our GMV for the twelve months ended September 30, 2014, 2015 and 2016, respectively. 

These Surplus and Scrap contracts require us to satisfy export control and other regulatory requirements in connection with sales. Specifically, for specified categories of property sold under the contracts that are designated by the DoD as being subject to export controls, we are required to (1) obtain an end-use certificate from the prospective buyer describing the nature of the buyer's business, describing the expected disposition and specific end-use of the property, and acknowledging the applicability of pertinent export control and economic sanctions laws and (2) confirm that each buyer has been cleared to purchase export-controlled items. Applicable export controls include the Export Administration Regulations enforced by the Bureau of Industry and Security ("BIS") of the U.S. Department of Commerce, and the International Traffic In Arms Regulations enforced by the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls ("DDTC") of the U.S. Department of State. Our collection, settlement tools and procedures are designed so that transactions for these categories of property cannot be completed until we receive a completed end-use certificate and confirmation of the buyer's trade security controls clearance. In addition, we do not combine export-controlled property into auction lots with property not subject to export controls. 

We are also prohibited from selling property to persons or entities that appear on lists of restricted or prohibited parties maintained by the United States or other governments, including the Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List maintained by the Office of Foreign Assets Control of the U.S. Department of Treasury and the Entity List maintained by BIS, the Denied Persons List maintained by BIS and the Debarred Parties List maintained by DDTC. In addition, we are prohibited from selling to countries, regimes, or nationals that are the target of applicable economic sanctions or other embargoes. As part of each sale, we collect information from potential customers that our systems cross reference against a list of restricted or prohibited parties and countries, regimes, or nationals that are the target of economic sanctions or other embargoes in order to comply with these restrictions. Failure to satisfy any of these export control and other regulatory requirements could subject us to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of the DLA Disposition Services contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspension or debarment from doing business with U.S. federal government agencies. 

Government Regulation 

We are subject to federal and state consumer protection laws, including laws protecting the privacy of customer non-public information and regulations prohibiting unfair and deceptive trade practices. Furthermore, the growth and demand for ecommerce has resulted in and may continue to result in more stringent consumer protection laws that impose additional compliance burdens on ecommerce 

companies. Many jurisdictions also regulate "auctions" and "auctioneers" and may regulate online auction services. These consumer protection laws and regulations could result in substantial compliance costs and could interfere with the conduct of our business. 

In many states, there is currently great uncertainty about whether or how existing laws governing issues such as property ownership, sales and other taxes, auctions and auctioneering, libel and personal privacy apply to the Internet and commercial online services. These issues may take years to resolve. New legislation or regulation, the application of laws and regulations from jurisdictions whose laws do not currently apply to our business or the application of existing laws and regulations to the Internet and commercial online services could result in significant additional taxes or regulatory restrictions on our business. These potential restrictions could have an adverse effect on our cash flows and results of operations. Furthermore, there is a possibility that we may be subject to significant fines or other payments for any past failures to comply with these requirements. 

In connection with our contracts with the U.S. federal government, the U.S. federal government has the right to audit and review our performance on our government contracts, as well as our compliance with applicable laws and regulations. In addition, we sell merchandise under our government contracts, such as scientific instruments, information technology equipment and aircraft parts, that is subject to further government regulations, some of which may require us to obtain an export license in certain circumstances or an end-use certificate from the buyer. In the United States, the sale of this type of merchandise is further regulated by, among others, the U.S. Export Administration Regulations, International Traffic in Arms Regulations and the economic sanctions and embargo laws enforced by the Office of Foreign Assets Control Regulations. If a government audit uncovers improper or illegal activities, or if we are alleged to have violated any laws or regulations governing the products we sell under our government contracts, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, denial of export privileges, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines, and suspension or debarment from doing business with U.S. federal government agencies. See "Risk Factors&#151;Unfavorable findings resulting from a government investigation or audit could subject us to a variety of penalties and sanctions, could negatively impact our future operating results and could force us to adjust previously reported operating results." 

Intellectual Property 

We regard our intellectual property, particularly domain names, copyrights and trade secrets, as critical to our success. We rely on a combination of contractual restrictions and common law copyright and trade secret laws to protect our proprietary rights, know-how, information and technology. These contractual restrictions include confidentiality and non-compete provisions. We generally enter into agreements containing these provisions with our employees, contractors and third parties with whom we have strategic relationships. Despite these precautions, it may be possible for a third party to copy or otherwise obtain and use our intellectual property without our authorization. We currently are the registered owners of several Internet domain names, including www.liquidation.com , www.govliquidation.com , www.govdeals.com, www.networkintl.com, www.truckcenter.com, www.secondipity.com, www.go-dove.com, and www.irondirect.com . We pursue the registration of our trademarks in the U.S. and internationally. Effective patent, copyright, trademarks, trade secret and domain name protection is expensive to maintain and may require litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights. We seek to protect our domain names in an increasing number of jurisdictions and may not be successful in certain jurisdictions. 

We rely on technologies that we license from third parties. These licenses may not continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms in the future. As a result, we may be required to obtain substitute technology of lower quality or at greater cost, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 

We do not believe that our business, sales policies or technologies infringe the proprietary rights of third parties. However, third parties have in the past and may in the future claim that our business, sales policies or technologies infringe their rights. We expect that participants in the e-commerce market will be increasingly subject to infringement claims as the number of services and competitors in the industry grows. Any such claim, with or without merit, could be time consuming, result in costly litigation or an injunction or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements. Such royalty or licensing agreements might not be available on terms acceptable to us, or at all or may be prohibited by an injunction. As a result, any such claim of infringement against us could have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 

Employees 

As of September 30, 2016, we had 713 U.S. employees, including 93 in sales and marketing, 92 in technology, 73 in customer service, 369 in operations and 86 in finance and administration. In addition, as of that date, we had 240 international employees, including 88 in sales and marketing, 8 in technology, 3 in customer service, 103 in operations and 38 in finance and administration. 

None of our U.S. employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. We believe that we have good relationships with our employees. 

Available Information 

Our annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements, amendments to those reports and other information are also made available free of charge on our website www.liquidityservices.com , as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file these materials with, or furnish them to, the SEC. We use our website as a channel of distribution for material company information. Important information, including news releases, analyst presentations and financial information regarding the Company is routinely posted on and accessible at www.liquidityservices.com . 

Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements 

This document contains forward-looking statements. These statements are only predictions. The outcome of the events described in these forward-looking statements is subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our actual results, levels of activity, performance or achievements to differ materially from any future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. These risks and other factors include but are not limited to those listed in Part I, Item 1A ("Risk Factors") and in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) from time to time. You can identify forward-looking statements by terminology such as "may," "will," "should," "could," "would," "expects," "intends," "plans," "anticipates," "believes," "estimates," "predicts," "potential," "continues" or the negative of these terms or other comparable terminology. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot guarantee future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements. There may be other factors of which we are currently unaware or deem immaterial that may cause our actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements. 

All forward-looking statements apply only as of the date of this Annual Report and are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements included in this document. Except as may be required by law, we undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances occurring after the date of this Annual Report or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. 

