 ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

Our Corporate History and Background 

The Company was incorporated in the State of Nevada on September 23, 2010, under the name Recursos Montana S.A. The Company&#146;s principal activity was as a pre-exploration stage company engaged in the acquisition and exploration of mineral properties then owned by the Company. During this time, the Company was deemed a &#147;shell company&#148; in the pre-exploration stage of our business and was ultimately unable to commence exploration activities.

On February 2, 2015, the Company entered into a Share Exchange Agreement with Tanaris Power Holdings, Inc., whereby the Company acquired 100% of Tanaris Power Holdings, Inc. issued and outstanding common stock in exchange for shares of the Company&#146;s common stock equal 51% of the issued and outstanding common stock of the Company at the closing, and cash consideration to Tanaris in the aggregate amount of $350,000. Tanaris Power Holdings, Inc. was the owner of certain rights in connection with the marketing and sale of smart lithium-ion batteries and battery technologies for various industrial vehicles markets and related applications. On March 6, 2015, the Company amended its Articles of Incorporation to change its name to Tanaris Power Holdings, Inc.

On April 25, 2016, Tanaris Power Holdings, Inc., a Nevada corporation entered into a Share Exchange Agreement (the &#147;Share Exchange Agreement&#148;) with Hammer Fiber Optics Investments, Ltd., a Delaware corporation (&#147;HFOI&#148;), and the controlling stockholders of HFOI (the &#147;HFOI Shareholders&#148;). Pursuant to the Share Exchange Agreement, the Company acquired 20,000,000 shares of common stock of HFOI from the HFOI shareholders (the &#147;HFOI Shares&#148;) and in exchange the Company issued to the HFOI Shareholders 50,000,000 (post-Merger) restricted shares of its common stock (the &#147;HMMR Shares&#148;). As a result of the Share Exchange Agreement, HFOI shall become a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company. Hammer Fiber Optics Investments, Ltd. was formed in the State of Delaware on June 13, 2014.

On April 13, 2016, our board of directors approved a Plan of Merger (the &#147;Plan of Merger&#148;) under Nevada Revised Statutes (NRS) Section 92A.180 to merge (the &#147;Merger&#148;) with our wholly-owned subsidiary Hammer Fiber Optics Holdings Corp., a Nevada corporation, to effect a name change from Tanaris Power Holdings, Inc. to Hammer Fiber Optics Holdings Corp. The Plan of Merger also provides for a 1 for 1,000 exchange ratio for shareholders of both the Company and Hammer Fiber Optics Holdings Corp., which had the effect of a 1 for 1,000 reverse split of our common stock. Articles of Merger were filed with the Secretary of State of Nevada on April 13, 2016 and, on April 14, 2016, this corporate action was submitted to FINRA for its review and approval. 

On May 3, 2016, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (&#147;FINRA&#148;) approved our merger with our wholly-owned subsidiary, Hammer Fiber Optics Holdings Corp. Accordingly, thereafter the Company&#146;s name was changed and our shares of common stock began trading on the Over the Counter Bulletin Board (OTCBB) under our new ticker symbol &#147;HMMR&#148; as of May 27, 2016.

Current Operations 

Hammer Fiber Optics Holdings Corp. is an alternative telecommunications carrier that is poised to position itself as the premier provider of diversified dark fiber networking solutions as well as high capacity broadband wireless access networks in the New Jersey [Southern and Central region] and the Metro Philadelphia area. Our goal is to provide network access to under-served markets along the transatlantic landing corridors that contains the flexibility to deliver cutting edge solutions to data centers, carriers and other various communication providers, aggregators, enterprise and poorly served residential broadband customers.

Despite the fact that the USA has literally millions of miles of fiber optic in the ground across this vast country, very little of the country actually enjoys the significant speeds that this technology has promised for decades now. This is due to the fact that delivering services to residences and small business enterprises in urban and semi-urban areas have proven over the years to be severely cost prohibitive for all the major service providers across the USA. Several companies selling services in the fiber optic industry will promise consumers that they can deliver fiber to them shortly and cost effectively, but in effect, this has barely happened and it is becoming more evident that such a scenario is bound to never happen. The one thing about this industry that is factual is that fiber and wireless technologies are on track to co-exist in the deployment of broadband services to the masses. The exponential growth of streaming media has driven massive demand by consumers but the unsolved &#147;last mile&#148; connectivity will slow this demand down to a snail pace and most consumers will simply only hear about how wonderful it is to enjoy true broadband capacity from the few that actually have been privileged to receive it. It is for this reason that that the Company was formed.

WHAT IS DARK FIBER?

Dark Fiber is optical fiber cable which has been set in place for anticipated future use in carrying network signals in the form of light, but is not yet &#147;lit&#148; by laser equipment intended to be placed on both ends for the purposes of creating data connectivity between points. The dark strands can be leased to customers who want to establish optical connections between their own locations or co-location facilities, utilizing their own network equipment and security protocols. The cable-laying industry is seeing accelerated growth once again. In a widely quoted statistic, the CRU Group research firm estimated 19 million miles of optical fiber were installed in the USA in 2011, the most since 2000. Even in the areas that were connected during the initial boom, there are new structures to be served and more are built every year. At the present time, fiber still only reaches a relatively small percentage of all the buildings in the country. With this buildout process ongoing, more customers than at any other point in history are looking for fiber solutions to connect their junction points into existing data transport substructures.

WHY USE DARK FIBER?

Purchasing &#147;LIT&#148; fiber services requires service providers to pay significantly higher prices and incremental costs for provisioned bandwidth as demand increases, which proportionally increases cost to the end consumer. Dark fiber solutions provide HMMR with the ability to upgrade from 1 Gbps to 10 Gbps to 400 Gbps as technology evolves by simply installing the latest in Wavelength-Division Multiplexing [&#147;WDM&#148;] on a single dark fiber pair. This ensures that our products always have sufficient bandwidth planned to cater for the ever-expanding consumer demand for high capacity broadband services without the need to continually increase cost to consumers as bandwidth demand increases.

LATENCY

Latency is the time it takes for a data packet to travel from one point to another in a network and is commonly expressed in terms of milliseconds (ms). Latency can be a major factor in overall performance of broadband services and it is important that we have full control of its network end-to-end. By provisioning dark fiber, we have the ability to manage the amount of routers and switching services installed on its fiber backbone network which greatly reduces the potential of latency and improves the overall customer experience.

THE INDUSTRY TODAY

Fiber penetration in the local access network is still very limited, even in the developed parts of the USA and this is mainly due to the high cost of installation and maintenance of a fiber access network. Cable technology has evolved with ever-increasing data rates and remains the most popular wire line broadband technology in terms of subscriptions. Close to four-fifths of the United States is now connected in some form to the broadband internet universe with cable remaining the dominant mode of access across the continent-wide landmass. Despite this, a large component of this connectivity fails to deliver sufficient capacity to satisfy the high demand for bandwidth-intensive modern consumer applications.

THE COMPANY&#146;S COMPETITIVE SOLUTION

The Company has taken advantage of deploying its last mile wireless technology over the latest DOCSIS 3.0 standard which is fundamentally what cable technology is based on. This strategy allows for the use of tried and tested methodology utilizing cable modems that are produced in bulk and are inexpensive off- the-shelf items. In all cases of its current deployment, consumers are enjoying the power that fiber optic services promised, however the USA has been notoriously slow to recognize and accept that this is the solution to solve inadequate last mile access. We have therefore decided to enter this market without the involvement and/or validation of the incumbent operators who, in our opinion, are all actively engaged in depreciating their existing massive legacy technology CAPEX commitments. We will operate our wireless broadcast solution in the 28 and 31GHz frequencies, providing as much as 2.5 Gbps of capacity per sector in the cell range [up to 10Gbps per tower]. Licensing for frequencies in these bands has been facilitated by StraightPath Communications (NYSE MKT. Symbol: STRP) who owns a large section of the 28GHz and 31 GHz Local Multipoint Distribution Service [LMDS] spectrum across the USA. Diagram 1 describes the architecture of the 28GHz and 31GHz access deployment as planned. We will purchase dark fiber [wherever possible] on the Terrestrial Fiber Backhaul networks as well as in the Metro Fiber rings. Fiber spurs will then be deployed from fiber breakout splitters to leased towers where the wireless broadband transmitters are located as indicated in the following diagram:

DIAGRAM 1: THE COMPANY&#146;S END-TO-END NETWORK ARCHITECTURE

LAST MILE ACCESS SOLUTION

The &#147;Access Network&#148; portion of the architecture described in Diagram 1 is the ultimate in the value proposition provided by the Company throughout the Eco-System. The components forming an integral part of this &#147;first to market&#148; and unique technology is more fully diagrammatically described in Diagram 2. The Hammer Wireless technology is licensed exclusively to the Company in the State of New Jersey.

DIAGRAM 2: HAMMER WIRELESS ACCESS ARCHITECTURE

A SIMPLE AND PRACTICAL CONCEPT

The concept is very easy to understand. A single tower is erected to serve an area of up to 10km in circumference and every roof top that is in range of, and can be seen from the tower [or high site] where the wireless technology is erected, can be served within less than two hours of an order being received and executed by us. This means no digging up of roads, pavements or lawns to reach a subscriber premises, rendering time to market substantially reduced over competing technologies. The system utilizes a combination of a tried and proven set of applications such as fiber optic backhaul and DOCSYS 3.0 technologies deployed in an innovative manner. The last mile connectivity is between a microwave receiver mounted at the customer premises and a microwave transmitter mounted on a tower or high site. The main advantage of a modern microwave system is its high immunity to interference, easy reconfiguration and quick time deployment to market. Thus it can be a practical alternative compared to the high cost and complicated logistics of deploying last mile fiber cable. The main drawback is that it requires line-of-sight just like a satellite network. The benefits of wireless microwave as a preferred last mile access solution has, however, fueled technological innovation in microwave research and the development of an advanced point-to-multipoint solution known as &#147;Hammer Wireless AIR&#148; has emerged. This ground-breaking innovation in microwave technology is now capable of delivering upwards of a 100Mbps of dedicated bandwidth to an end-user in a fast and easy deployment, unlocking a whole new array of revenue streams and consumer options for network operators such as Hammer. We manage our own ISP and Content Delivery Node [CDN] equipment from several data centers situated along the Metro Fiber rings, traversing city and suburban centers. This network topology will always be managed by us across the entire eco-system to ensure that costs are managed and curbed, and that quality is guaranteed throughout the entire distribution chain [see Diagram 3].

DIAGRAM 3: NETWORK RESPONSIBILITY MATRIX

MULTI DWELLING UNITS [MDU] INSTALLATION

In cases where MDU&#146;s are selected, Diagram 4 displays a typical shared model where one Hammer Wireless AIR Metro Transceiver is utilized to provide the building with a high capacity broadband connection and the rest of the tenants are connected to this single connection by way of dedicated standard off the shelf cable modems. This is very typical of a cable plant where one feeder cable enters the building and is distributed to each apartment by way of cable splitters. The Hammer Wireless Transceiver will then provide a COAX cable run [or will utilize existing COAX cable runs] to each tenant&#146;s apartment or office which represents a significantly optimized MDU model. 

DIAGRAM 4: TYPICAL MDU INSTALLATION SERVED BY SINGLE WIRELESS CONNECTION

OUALITY OF SERVICE ASSURANCE

A Single 28GHz Transceiver to the MDU provides all the bandwidth needed to deliver HDTV in both broadcast and Video-On-Demand mode, ultra high speed internet service as well as fixed voice services to each residential dwelling or corporate office suite.

Due to the fact that the cable modems share in the pool of bandwidth per sector on each tower, the constant available bandwidth ensures that the subscriber enjoys the most enjoyable broadband and TV experience possible. When the network is at peak capacity which normally occurs around 5pm to 9pm at night, the system will automatically pull more capacity off the fiber backbone to ensure that a good customer experience is maintained at all times.

SINGLE DWELLING UNITS [SDU] INSTALLATION

The Company expects to connect many single-family homes to the high-speed broadband access network during the rollout of the Hammer Wireless network, especially those rebuilt following the devastation by the Sandy Super Storm during 2012, where many homes were left un-served. A single standard satellite dish with the Hammer Wireless technology transceiver connected to standard &#147;Off-The-Shelf&#148; modems and set top boxes is deployed for each household to enjoy all the multimedia services available today. Deployment is extremely quick and non-invasive to the customer.

DIAGRAM 5: TYPICAL SDU INSTALLATION

CONTENT ACCESS AND MANAGEMENT

Hammer is able to provide access to a significant amount of TV &#38;Video content via its relationship with select vendors and is therefore able to deliver content for a variety of languages and cultures alike. It is envisaged that the Company will provide a choice of 100 plus quality TV channels based on content from all over the globe. Video on Demand will be delivered utilizing the latest Over- The-Top [OTT] technologies and literally thousands of movie titles will be stored in the video storage area network at the main Company network operations center in New Jersey. This content is capable of being delivered to customers at the highest quality HD format due to the very high capacity bandwidth delivery mechanism of our Fiber Optic Backbone and the Hammer Wireless Access network. As per capita incomes start improving as a result of a better economic outlook, more people will be able to afford access to Hammer services in the region and it is as or more affordable than competitive offerings for similar speeds. Its large bandwidth capabilities with internet and data access speeds are capable of being delivered up to 100Mbps and more to the consumer. Diagram 6 indicates all the Multi-Media services capable of being delivered over the Hammer Wireless Hybrid Fiber network architecture.

DIAGRAM 6: HAMMER MULTIMEDIA SERVICE DELIVERY PLATFORM

MARKET TERRITORIAL EXCLUSIVITY

The concept of delivering multi-media services such as television, interactive TV, video on demand, internet and voice services is by no means unique to our solution and is a tried and tested methodology evident in hundreds of developed markets world-wide. What is abundantly unique is the way in which we deliver this multi-media content in these developed markets that are particularly poorly served and critically lacking in reliable cost-effective broadband service. The Hammer Wireless Access Technology has been awarded to Hammer on an EXCLUSIVE basis across the entire State of New Jersey, USA. Additional territories will be added to Hammers&#146; exclusivity on a case-by-case basis following successful deployment of New Jersey.

INITIAL DEPLOYMENT IN THE 28GHz SPECTRUM IN NEW JERSEY

According to the 2008&#150;2012 American Community Survey, New Jersey is the fourth-smallest state but the most densely populated of the 50 United States. New Jersey lies entirely within the combined statistical areas of New York City and Philadelphia, and is also the second-wealthiest U.S. State by median household income. We have elected to initially roll out the Hammer Wireless Access Network along the New Jersey Shore area, which is indicated by way of the orange circles. These circles represent the household and businesses in service range of the Hammer wireless transmitters. These areas have been carefully studied and scoped out as the first market that we will serve, due to its perfect Line-Of-Sight [LOS] characteristics and poorly served broadband coverage by incumbent operators. The coverage area falls within the licensed 28GHz LMDS spectrum of Straight Path Communications issued by the FCC, which is sub-licensed to the Company for deployment of the planned broadband wireless network.

TYPICAL TOWER SITE LAYOUT

Towers similar to those of Cellular communications are planned for deployment in many poorly served areas across New Jersey shore line. Typical coverage of a tower in indicated in Diagram 7. Approximately 10 towers are planned for deployment across the Jersey Shore Area.

DIAGRAM 7: TYPICAL TOWER COVERAGE IN NEW JERSEY

Employees 

We currently have 15 full-time employees and 5 full-time management consultants. 

