ITEM 1. BUSINESS

You should read the following summary together with the more detailed business
information and the financial statements and related notes that appear elsewhere
in this annual report. In this annual report, unless the context otherwise
denotes, references to "we", "us", "our", "the Company", "Lake Forest" and "Lake
Forest Minerals" are to Lake Forest Minerals Inc.

Lake Forest Minerals was incorporated in the State of Nevada on June 23, 2008.
We are a development stage company with no revenues or operating history.

We have sold $42,000 in equity securities since inception, $12,000 from the sale
of 8,000,000 shares of stock to our officer and director and $30,000 from the
sale of 3,000,000 shares registered pursuant to our S-1 Registration Statement
which became effective on August 18, 2008. The offering was completed on
September 11, 2008.

Our financial statements from inception through the year ended June 30, 2016
report a net loss of $127,768. Seale and Beers, Certified Public Accountants,
our independent auditor, has issued an audit opinion for Lake Forest Minerals
which includes a statement expressing substantial doubt as to our ability to
continue as a going concern.

Effective June 26, 2008, the Company entered into a Mineral Property Option
Agreement with T.L. Sadlier-Brown, whereby the Company obtained an option to
acquire the VIN Mineral Claim located in the Princeton Mining Division of
British Columbia.

Under the terms of the Agreement, the Company paid $2,500 by June 30, 2008, paid
a further $5,000 by August 15, 2009 and in order to maintain the option was
required to pay an additional $7,500 by June 30, 2010. Upon completion of the
required payments the Company would have owned an undivided 100% interest in the
VIN Mineral Claim subject to a 2% net smelter returns royalty reserved in favour
of the Optionor.

Prior to completing the payments required under the Agreement, the Company had
the right to conduct exploration and development activities on the property at
its sole discretion and, having provided notice to the vendor, had the option to
terminate the Agreement and relieve itself from any obligations thereunder.

On February 22, 2010 the Company provided notice to Mr. Sadlier-Brown, and
terminated the Option Agreement and relieved itself from any obligations
thereunder.

Our plan is to seek, investigate, and consummate a merger or other business
combination, purchase of assets or other strategic transaction (i.e. a merger)
with a corporation, partnership, limited liability company or other operating
business entity (a "Merger Target") desiring the perceived advantages of
becoming a publicly reporting and publicly held corporation. We have no
operating business, and conduct minimal operations necessary to meet regulatory
requirements. Our ability to commence any operations is contingent upon
obtaining adequate financial resources. We are currently considered a "shell"
company inasmuch as we are not generating revenues, do not own an operating
business, and have no specific plan other than to engage in a merger or
acquisition transaction with a yet-to-be identified operating company or
business. We have no employees and no material assets.

We currently have no definitive agreements or understandings with any
prospective business combination candidates and there are no assurances that we
will find a suitable business with which to combine. The implementation of our
business objectives is wholly contingent upon a business combination and/or the

                                       3
<PAGE>
successful sale of our securities. We intend to utilize the proceeds of any
offering, any sales of equity securities or debt securities, bank and other
borrowings or a combination of those sources to effect a business combination
with a target business which we believe has significant growth potential. While
we may, under certain circumstances, seek to effect business combinations with
more than one target business, unless additional financing is obtained, we will
not have sufficient proceeds remaining after an initial business combination to
undertake additional business combinations.

A common reason for a target company to enter into a merger with a shell company
is the desire to establish a public trading market for its shares. Such a
company would hope to avoid the perceived adverse consequences of undertaking a
public offering itself, such as the time delays and significant expenses
incurred to comply with the various federal and state securities law that
regulate initial public offerings.

As a result of our limited resources, unless and until additional financing is
obtained we expect to have sufficient proceeds to effect only a single business
combination. Accordingly, the prospects for our success will be entirely
dependent upon the future performance of a single business. Unlike certain
entities that have the resources to consummate several business combinations or
entities operating in multiple industries or multiple segments of a single
industry, we will not have the resources to diversify our operations or benefit
from the possible spreading of risks or offsetting of losses. A target business
may be dependent upon the development or market acceptance of a single or
limited number of products, processes or services, in which case there will be
an even higher risk that the target business will not prove to be commercially
viable.

Our officer is only required to devote a small portion of his time to our
affairs on a part-time or as-needed basis. We expect to use outside consultants,
advisors, attorneys and accountants as necessary, none of which will be hired on
a retainer basis. We do not anticipate hiring any full-time employees so long as
we are seeking and evaluating business opportunities.

We do not expect our present management to play any managerial role for us
following a business combination. Although we intend to scrutinize closely the
management of a prospective target business in connection with our evaluation of
a business combination with a target business, our assessment of management may
be incorrect.

In evaluating a prospective target business, we will consider several factors,
including the following:

     -    experience and skill of management and availability of additional
          personnel of the target business;

     -    costs associated with effecting the business combination;

     -    equity interest retained by our stockholders in the merged entity;

     -    growth potential of the target business;

     -    capital requirements of the target business;

     -    capital available to the target business;

     -    stage of development of the target business;

     -    proprietary features and degree of intellectual property or other
          protection of the target business;

     -    the financial statements of the target business; and

     -    the regulatory environment in which the target business operates.

                                       4
<PAGE>
The foregoing criteria are not intended to be exhaustive and any evaluation
relating to the merits of a particular target business will be based, to the
extent relevant, on the above factors, as well as other considerations we deem
relevant. In connection with our evaluation of a prospective target business, we
anticipate that we will conduct a due diligence review which will encompass,
among other things, meeting with incumbent management as well as a review of
financial, legal and other information.

The time and costs required to select and evaluate a target business (including
conducting a due diligence review) and to structure and consummate the business
combination (including negotiating and documenting relevant agreements and
preparing requisite documents for filing pursuant to applicable corporate and
securities laws) cannot be determined at this time. Our president intends to
devote only a very small portion of his time to our affairs, and, accordingly,
the consummation of a business combination may require a longer time than if he
devoted his full time to our affairs. However, he will devote such time as he
deems reasonably necessary to carry out our business and affairs. The amount of
time devoted to our business and affairs may vary significantly depending upon,
among other things, whether we have identified a target business or are engaged
in active negotiation of a business combination.

We anticipate that various prospective target businesses will be brought to our
attention from various sources, including securities broker-dealers, investment
bankers, venture capitalists, bankers and other members of the financial
community, including, possibly, the executive officers and our affiliates.

Various impediments to a business combination may arise, such as appraisal
rights afforded the stockholders of a target business under the laws of its
state of organization. This may prove to be deterrent to a particular
combination.

BANKRUPTCY OR SIMILAR PROCEEDINGS

There has been no bankruptcy, receivership or similar proceeding.

REORGANIZATIONS, PURCHASE OR SALE OF ASSETS

There have been no material reclassifications, mergers, consolidations, or
purchase or sale of a significant amount of assets not in the ordinary course of
business.

PATENTS, TRADEMARKS, FRANCHISES, ROYALTY AGREEMENTS OR LABOR CONTRACTS

We have no current plans for any registrations such as patents, trademarks,
copyrights, franchises, concessions, royalty agreements or labor contracts. We
will assess the need for any copyright, trademark or patent applications on an
ongoing basis.

NEED FOR GOVERNMENT APPROVAL OF PRODUCTS OR SERVICES

We are not required to apply for or have any government approval for our
products or services.

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT COSTS DURING THE LAST TWO YEARS

We have not expended funds for research and development costs since inception.

EMPLOYEES AND EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENTS

Our only employee is our sole officer, Jeffrey Taylor. Mr. Taylor currently
devotes 10 hours per week to company matters and he will continue to devote as
much time as the board of directors determines is necessary to manage the
affairs of the company. There are no formal employment agreements between the
company and our current employee.

                                       5
<PAGE>
REPORTS TO SECURITIES HOLDERS

We provide an annual report that includes audited financial information to our
shareholders. We make our financial information equally available to any
interested parties or investors through compliance with the disclosure rules for
a small business issuer under the Securities Exchange Act. We are subject to
disclosure filing requirements, including filing Form 10-K annually and Form
10-Q quarterly. In addition, we will file Form 8-K and other proxy and
information statements from time to time as required. We do not intend to
voluntarily file the above reports in the event that our obligation to file such
reports is suspended under the Exchange Act. The public may read and copy any
materials that we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission, ("SEC"), at
the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street NE, Washington, DC 20549. The
public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by
calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet site
(http://www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements,
and other information regarding issuers that file electronically.

