 ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

General 

We are the original and leading specialty retailer of storage and organization products in the United States and the only national retailer solely devoted to the category. We provide creative, multifunctional, customizable storage and organization solutions that help our customers save time, save space and improve the quality of their lives. Through a differentiated shopping experience delivered by expert salespeople, our goal is to deliver the promise of an organized life to our customers. These customers are predominantly female, highly educated and busy&#151;from college students to empty nesters. 

We were founded in 1978 in Dallas, Texas as The Container Store, Inc. In 2007, The Container Store, Inc. was sold to The Container Store Group, Inc. In November 2013, we completed the initial public offering of our common stock (the "IPO"). Our common stock now trades on the New York Stock Exchange ("NYSE") under the symbol "TCS." In fiscal 2015, we generated net sales of $794.6 million. Today our operations consist of two operating segments: 

&#149; The Container Store ("TCS") , which consists of our retail stores, website and call center, as well as our installation and organizational services business. We operate 79 stores with an average size of approximately 25,000 square feet (19,000 selling square feet) in 28 states and the District of Columbia. Our stores present our products in a unique and engaging atmosphere. Our visual merchandising team works to ensure that all of our merchandise is appropriately showcased to highlight the value and functionality of our products and maximize the appeal of our image and brand. We maintain a consistent store layout which creates a familiar shopping experience across our store base. Our stores are clean and spacious with strict, orderly merchandising and strategic product placements to optimize our selling space and increase productivity. We allow our customers to shop with us in a variety of ways&#151;anywhere, anytime, any way she wants through a multi-channel shopping experience. Our stores receive substantially all of our products directly from our distribution center co-located with our corporate headquarters and call center in Coppell, Texas. In fiscal 2015, TCS had net sales of $724.1 million, which represented approximately 91% of our total net sales. &#149; Elfa, The Container Store, Inc.'s wholly owned Swedish subsidiary, Elfa International AB ("Elfa"), which designs and manufactures component-based shelving and drawer systems and made-to-measure sliding doors. Elfa was founded in 1948 and is headquartered in Malm&#246;, Sweden. Elfa's shelving and drawer systems are customizable for any area of the home, including closets, kitchens, offices and garages. Elfa operates four manufacturing facilities with two located in Sweden, one in Finland and one in Poland. The Container Store began selling elfa&#174; products in 1978 and acquired Elfa in 1999. Today our TCS segment is the exclusive distributor of elfa&#174; products in the U.S. and represented approximately 40% of Elfa's total sales in fiscal 2015. Elfa also sells its products on a wholesale basis to various retailers in approximately 30 countries around the world, with a concentration in the Nordic region of Europe. In fiscal 2015, the Elfa segment had $70.6 million of third party net sales, which represented approximately 9% of our total net sales. For information on key financial highlights and segment financial information, see Item 6, Selected Financial and Operating Data, Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplemental Data and Note 14 thereto. For financial information by geographic area, see Note 14 to our audited consolidated financial statements. 

On March 30, 2016, the Board of Directors of the Company approved a change in the Company's fiscal year end from the Saturday closest to February 28 to the Saturday closest to March 31 of each year. The fiscal year change became effective beginning with the Company's 2016 fiscal year, which began on April 3, 2016 and will end on April 1, 2017 (the "New Fiscal Year"). As a result of the change, the Company had a March 2016 fiscal month transition period from February 28, 2016 to April 2, 2016. The results of the transition period are expected to be reported in the Company's Form 10-Q to be filed for the first quarter of the New Fiscal Year, which will end on July 2, 2016, and in the Company's Form 10-K to be filed for the New Fiscal Year. 

Our Unique Product Mix and Distinctive Vendor Relationships 

We merchandise more than 11,000 products in each of our stores and online and well over half of our sales come from exclusive or proprietary products. Each year, we introduce approximately 2,000 new SKUs on average into the assortment. Additionally, we execute a solutions-based (versus items-based) approach to selling through our highly trained salespeople. We believe by selling solutions made up of exclusive proprietary products that you simply can't find anywhere else, it helps to differentiate us from competition. 

Our stores are typically organized into 16 distinct lifestyle departments. The products sold in each department are as follows: 

Lifestyle departments 

&#160; Select products Bath &#160; Countertop Organizers, Cosmetic and Jewelry Organizers, Shower and Bathtub Organizers, Drawer Organization, Cabinet Storage Box &#160; Corrugated Boxes, Packing Material, Tape, Storage Bags, Specialty Boxes Closet &#160; Shoe Racks, Hangers, Drawer Organizers, Boxes and Bins, Hanging Storage Bags, Garment Racks Collections &#160; Media Storage, Photo Storage, Display, Small Craft and Parts Organizers Containers &#160; Small Boxes, Small Baskets, Tins, Divided Boxes, Decorative Containers Custom Closets &#160; Includes elfa&#174; collection of Wall and Door Rack Systems, Drawer Systems and Accessories, Ventilated and Solid Shelving Systems, Utility and Garage Systems and TCS Closets&#153;, an exclusive luxury solid closet system with drawers, integrated lighting and accessories Food Storage &#160; Canisters, Jars, Lunchtime Essentials, Bulk Food Storage, Plastic and Glass Food Storage Gift Packaging &#160; Gift Wrap and Tags, Ribbons and Bows, Gift Wrap Organizers, Gift Bags and Sacks, Gift Boxes Hooks &#160; Wall Mounted, Self Adhesive, Magnetic, Overdoor, Removable Kitchen &#160; Drawer Liners and Organizers, Countertop Organizers, Dish Drying Racks, Cabinet Storage, Pantry Organizers Laundry &#160; Step Stools, Hampers, Laundry Bags and Baskets, Clothes Drying Racks, Cleaning Tools Office &#160; Desktop Collections, Paper Storage, File Carts and Cabinets, Literature Organizers, Message Boards Shelving &#160; Free Standing Shelving, Wall Mounted Shelving, Cube Systems, Component Shelving, Desks, Chairs 

Lifestyle departments 

&#160; Select products Storage &#160; Drawers, Boxes and Bins, Totes, Crates, Carts Trash &#160; Recycle Bins, Wastebaskets, Open Cans, Step-on Cans, Bags Travel &#160; Luggage, Totes, Clothing Organizers, Cosmetic and Jewelry Organizers, Travel Bottles 

We strive to form meaningful, long-lasting relationships with more than 800 vendors from around the world. We have been developing and refining our distinctive relationship-focused approach to our vendors for over 37 years. We do not view vendor negotiations, or any business relationship, as a zero-sum game, but rather as an opportunity to creatively craft mutually beneficial relationships, which we believe has fostered a unique sense of loyalty among our vendors. Seventeen of our top 20 vendors have been with us for at least 10 years and several of those vendors have been with us since our inception in 1978. Our strong vendor relationships benefit us in a number of ways, including an increased number of exclusive products, competitive pricing and favorable payment terms. We estimate that over half of our net sales in fiscal 2015 were generated from merchandise exclusive to The Container Store. 

For the TCS segment, our top 10 vendors, excluding Elfa, accounted for less than 29% of our total purchases in fiscal 2015. Approximately 17% of our fiscal 2015 TCS segment purchases were attributed to intercompany purchases from our Elfa segment. In order to maximize our purchasing flexibility, we generally do not enter into long-term contracts with our vendors. Accordingly, we generally operate without any contractual assurances of continued supply, pricing or access to new products. Further, due to our vertical integration of Elfa, we have control over the sourcing and availability of our best selling and highest margin product, elfa&#174;. We are the exclusive distributor of elfa&#174; products in the United States. Each of our stores includes an elfa&#174; Custom Design Center where our highly trained experts can assist customers in designing and installing a customized storage solution. In fiscal 2015, the elfa&#174; department represented approximately $176.0 million, or approximately 24%, of TCS net sales, which included approximately $130.4 million of elfa&#174; Custom Design Center net sales with an average ticket of $650. 

Key Growth Initiatives 

Driving comparable store sales growth: 

We believe we can grow our comparable store sales by continuing to provide a differentiated shopping experience through our solutions-based selling approach, new product and service introductions and well-maintained stores. In fiscal year 2015, we continued to focus on three key initiatives as we position our company for sustained long-term growth. 

&#149; TCS Closets &#153;: We completed the rollout of our line of custom, luxury closets to all stores in fiscal 2015. We continue to believe that TCS Closets provides a unique opportunity to drive comparable store sales through higher average ticket. The rollout included a complete remodel of the custom closet department featuring new displays for TCS Closets and elfa&#174;. TCS Closets average ticket has exceeded $10,000 since launching the new product line. We offer the complete solution&#151;not just the closet, but the full array of closet organization products that accompany the closet, as well as a national footprint with millions of customers coming through the door each year. We believe that selling closets is our core competency and that there is no other comparable retailer executing this high ticket, high quality, custom closet business. The initial focus for TCS Closets has been the closet, but based on customer demand and current trends, we intend to expand our offering of TCS Closets solutions to other areas of the home. We believe that we have a unique strategic position that allows us to meaningfully increase overall average ticket with our focus on custom closets, and with our highly trained and experienced 6 

sales force, which has been selling proprietary, custom-designed elfa&#174; product solutions for over 37 years. Additionally, we have plans to implement a new customer financing program, with a planned launch in fiscal 2016, which is a key component of our focus on custom closets. 

&#149; Contained Home &#153;: We concluded the rollout of Contained Home&#153; to all stores in fiscal 2015. The in-home, customized design and organization service where expert organizers come directly into customers' homes continues to see an average ticket in excess of $2,500 as of February 27, 2016. &#149; POP! Perfectly Organized Perks &#174;: As of February 27, 2016, our customer frequency program has reached more than 3.3 million customer enrollments. We leverage this program to drive traffic and sales through one-on-one, customized connections, offers and conversations with these loyal customers. Expanding our store base: 

We believe that our expansion opportunities in the United States are significant and that we have a long runway of growth to more than 300 stores. The rate of future store additions in any particular period is inherently uncertain and is subject to numerous factors that are outside of the Company's control. As a result, we do not currently have an anticipated time frame for such expansion. We have adopted a disciplined expansion strategy designed to leverage the strength of our business model and nationally recognized brand name to successfully develop new stores in an array of markets that are primed for growth, including new, existing, small and large markets. Our current footprint of 79 stores extends to 28 states and the District of Columbia. We opened a total of ten new stores (including one relocation) in the 2015 fiscal year and we expect to open a total of eight new stores (including one relocation) in the 2016 fiscal year. While our current expansion focus is on domestic markets, we believe international expansion may provide additional growth opportunities for us in the future. Our new store opening execution strategy involves a strategic formula of hiring, training, marketing, and public relations and culminates in a multi-day grand opening celebration in partnership with a local charity. This distinctive approach enables our new stores to deliver strong sales volume more quickly. 

Enhancing our customer experience: 

We are a multi-channel retailer, with a fully-integrated website, responsive mobile site, and call center to complement our physical stores. Our website, www.containerstore.com, is intended to replicate the store experience offering the same product assortment and real time inventory information for our stores, as well as certain products found exclusively online. In April 2015, we launched free shipping on orders over $75 to enhance our multi-channel customer experience. Additionally, our customers are able to purchase online and pick up at a store, with curbside pick-up in most markets, or request same-day home delivery in select markets. The website, mobile site, and call center sales channels accounted for an aggregate of approximately 14.0% of TCS net sales in fiscal 2015. 

Knowing many of our customers utilize our website for research before visiting our stores, we continue to create opportunities to further improve the customer experience by creating cohesive marketing campaigns, which extend across all channels&#151;digital and offline. We are able to enhance the customer's experience and deepen loyalty by creating these consistent, relevant messages, regardless of which channel is being used. We aim to continuously create more capabilities throughout the length of the shopping experience by synergistically combining the strengths of each channel&#151;online, mobile and in-store. As a result, customer loyalty is enhanced through a more engaging experience having a wider variety of convenient shopping options, each executed consistently with excellence. 

What We Stand For&#151;Organization with Heart 

The Container Store has been getting people organized for more than 37 years, and since 1978, we've also been running our business guided by our values-based set of principles. Back then, we just called it doing business. Today, we're proud to be one of the founding companies in a movement called Conscious Capitalism&#174;, which includes a group of like-minded businesses, thought leaders, authors and academics all working together to change the way business is done in America and around the world. Businesses that practice Conscious Capitalism&#174; have leaders who "walk the talk" by developing and nurturing a conscious culture. We have a firm belief that creating value for and optimizing relationships between all of the stakeholders of our business&#151;employees, customers, vendors, community and shareholders&#151;is the right thing to do. 

Consistent with our commitment to Conscious Capitalism, we believe that happy employees lead directly to better performance and higher profits. We believe in putting employees first and staying true to our seven Foundation Principles&#153;&#151;simple business philosophies that guide each decision we make. One of those Foundation Principles is 1 Great Person = 3 Good People in terms of business productivity&#151;that's our hiring philosophy. In fact, in fiscal 2015, we hired only 5% of job applicants. Our employee-first culture includes a tremendous commitment to communication, training and career development that helps deliver a differentiated experience to our customers, which we believe results in a higher average ticket, repeat visits and frequent referrals to other potential customers. In fact, full-time store employees receive more than 260 hours of formal training in their first year alone&#151;significantly higher than industry average. Our stores offer flexible work schedules, comprehensive benefits and above industry average compensation to both full-time and part-time employees. As a result, TCS has an average full-time employee turnover rate of approximately 10% annually, significantly below the retail average. It's for these reasons and more that The Container Store has been named by FORTUNE Magazine to its annual list of 100 Best Companies to Work For&#174; 17 years in a row. 

As of February 27, 2016, we had approximately 5,300 employees, of which approximately 4,700 were TCS employees and approximately 600 were Elfa employees. Of the 4,700 TCS employees, approximately 3,000 were part-time employees. 

You can learn about our Foundation Principles&#174; and Conscious Capitalism&#174; on our blog, www.whatwestandfor.com. The information contained on our blog is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Distribution 

In the TCS segment, substantially all of our merchandise flows through a centralized distribution center prior to transport to our retail stores. Our distribution center is co-located with our corporate offices in Coppell, Texas. The approximately 1.1 million square foot facility was designed and constructed specifically for The Container Store and is comprised of approximately 78,000 square feet of corporate office space and approximately 1 million square feet of warehouse space. 

Our Coppell, Texas distribution center is utilized for retail store replenishment and direct-to-customer orders. With the exception of the Dallas / Fort Worth market, we utilize third party truckload carriers to transport all of our products to our stores. We utilize best in class logistics technology to optimize operations and current processes for picking, packing and shipping while providing a strong foundation for future growth. We believe our enhanced distribution and supply chain operations allow us to distribute merchandise to our stores and customers in an efficient and cost-effective manner, improving our customer's overall buying experience. We continue to strengthen our distribution center with ongoing process and material handling improvements in order to achieve even greater efficiencies in service levels and the management of our inventory. This includes automation improvements to enhance our store fulfillment and customer delivery logistics performance. 

Within our distribution operations, we have a culture of safety and efficiency, with a robust metric program and a commitment to continuous improvement. All processes, teams and individuals are held to high efficiency and performance standards. We believe that the size and scalability of the distribution center is sufficient to support our future expansion over the next 2 to 3 years. We are currently considering the need for a second distribution center in the longer term. 

Elfa utilizes a broad network of third-party carriers to deliver products from its manufacturing facilities to customers worldwide. 

Intellectual property 

Our "The Container Store," "Contain Yourself", "Foundation Principles", "POP! Perfectly Organized Perks", "TCS Closets", "Contained Home", and "elfa" trademarks and certain variations thereon, such as our "The Container Store" logo and many trademarks used for our product lines and sales campaigns are registered or are the subject of pending trademark applications with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and with the trademark registries of many foreign countries. In addition, we own many domain names, including " www.containerstore.com ," " www.whatwestandfor.com " and others that include our trademarks. We also own a patent for our proprietary retail shopping computer systems and copyrights in our catalogs, websites, and other marketing material. We believe that our trademarks, product designs and copyrighted works have significant value and we vigorously protect them against infringement. 

Competition 

We operate within the storage and organization category which extends across many retail segments including housewares, office supplies and travel, among many others. Our category of retail is highly fragmented and we are the only national retailer solely devoted to it. However, storage and organization products are sold by a variety of retailers, including mass merchants and specialty retail chains that devote a smaller portion of their merchandise assortment to storage and organization than our stores, and internet-based retailers. Some of these retailers are larger and have greater financial, marketing and other resources than The Container Store. We compete with such retailers on the basis of vendor relationships, product selection, product quality, brand recognition, price, customer service, convenience, effective consumer marketing and promotional activities, and the ability to identify and satisfy emerging consumer preferences, among other things. We believe that the strength of our solutions-based selling with highly trained employees, exclusive offerings and vendor relationships, our passionate and loyal customer base and the quality, differentiation and breadth of product assortment compare favorably to those of our competitors. 

Seasonality 

Our storage and organization product offering makes us less susceptible to holiday season shopping patterns than many retailers. Historically, our business has realized a higher portion of net sales, operating income and cash flows from operations in the fourth fiscal quarter, attributable primarily to the impact of Our Annual elfa&#174; Sale, which traditionally starts on December 24th and runs into February. As such, our business has historically realized greater leverage on our selling, general and administrative expenses during our fiscal fourth quarter. In fact, in excess of 60% of our adjusted net income was derived in the fiscal fourth quarter in the past three years, although we expect this percentage to decrease as a result of the change in our fiscal year end from the Saturday closest to February 28 to the Saturday closest to March 31, effective beginning with the 2016 fiscal year. For more information regarding our use of adjusted net income, and a reconciliation of adjusted net income to the GAAP financial measure of net income (loss) available to common shareholders, see "Item 6: Selected Financial and Operating Data." 

Regulation and legislation 

We are subject to labor and employment laws, laws governing truth-in-advertising, privacy laws, safety regulations and other laws, including consumer protection regulations, such as the Consumer Product Safety Improvement Act of 2008, that regulate retailers and govern the promotion and sale of merchandise and the operation of stores and warehouse facilities. We monitor changes in these laws and believe that we are in material compliance with applicable laws. 

We source a significant portion of our products from outside the United States. The U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and other similar anti-bribery and anti-kickback laws and regulations generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to non-U.S. officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Our policies and our vendor compliance agreements mandate compliance with applicable law, including these laws and regulations. 

Where you can find more information 

We maintain a website at http://investor.containerstore.com and make available, free of charge, through this site our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, Proxy Statements and Forms 3, 4 and 5 filed on behalf of directors and executive officers and holders of more than 10% of our common stock, as well as any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act") as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. We also put on our websites the charters for our Board of Directors' Audit Committee, Culture and Compensation Committee, Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee, as well as our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, which applies to all of our directors, officers, and employees, including our principal executive officer and our principal financial and accounting officers, our Corporate Governance Guidelines and other related materials. The information on our websites is not part of this annual report. 

Our Investor Relations Department can be contacted at The Container Store Group, Inc., 500 Freeport Parkway, Coppell, TX 75019-3863, Attention: Investor Relations; telephone: 972-538-6504; email: InvestorRelations@containerstore.com 

