 Item 1: Business 

Our Company 

We are a bank holding company headquartered in Wichita, Kansas. Our wholly-owned banking subsidiary, Equity Bank, provides a broad range of financial services primarily to businesses and business owners as well as individuals through our network of 29 full service branches located in Kansas and Missouri. As of December 31, 2015, we had, on a consolidated basis, total assets of $1.6 billion, total deposits of $1.2 billion, total loans net of allowance of $954.8 million and total stockholders&#146; equity of $167.2 million. 

Our principal objective is to increase stockholder value and generate consistent earnings growth by expanding our commercial banking franchise both organically and through strategic acquisitions. We strive to provide an enhanced banking experience for our customers by providing them with a comprehensive suite of sophisticated banking products and services tailored to meet their needs, while delivering the high-quality, relationship-based customer service of a community bank. 

Our History and Growth 

We were founded in November 2002 by our Chairman and CEO, Brad S. Elliott. Mr. Elliott believed that, as a result of in-market consolidation, there existed an opportunity to build an attractive commercial banking franchise and create long-term value for our stockholders. Following thirteen years&#146; experience as a finance executive, including serving as a Regional President for a Kansas bank with over $1.0 billion in assets, Mr. Elliott implemented his banking vision of developing a strategic consolidator of community banks and a destination for seasoned bankers and business persons who share our entrepreneurial spirit. In 2003, we raised capital from 23 local investors to finance the acquisition of National Bank of Andover in Andover, Kansas. At the time of our acquisition, National Bank of Andover had $32 million in assets and was subject to a regulatory enforcement agreement with the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, or the OCC. Subsequent to our acquisition of National Bank of Andover, we changed its name to Equity Bank and instilled in its commercial and retail staff our entrepreneurial spirit and disciplined credit culture. Within eight months of the acquisition, the enforcement action with the OCC was terminated. 

We believe we have a successful track record of selectively acquiring, integrating and consolidating community banks and branch networks. Our acquisition activity includes the following: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; June 2003 &#150; Acquired National Bank of Andover in Andover, Kansas for $3 million. At the time of our acquisition, National Bank of Andover had $32 million in total assets. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; February 2005 &#150; Acquired two branches of Hillcrest Bank, N.A. in Wichita, Kansas, which increased our deposits by $66 million. In conjunction with this acquisition, we relocated our headquarters to our current principal executive offices in Wichita. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; June 2006 &#150; Acquired the Mortgage Centre of Wichita and integrated it into our Bank as a department to expand our mortgage loan platform. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; October 2006 &#150; Acquired a Missouri charter from First National Bank in Sarcoxie, Missouri, which allowed us to subsequently open a full service branch in Lee&#146;s Summit, Missouri in 2007. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; November 2007 &#150; Acquired Signature Bancshares, Inc. in Spring Hill, Kansas, which provided us entry into the Overland Park, Kansas market. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; August 2008 &#150; Acquired Ellis State Bank with locations in Ellis and Hays, Kansas. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; December 2011 &#150; Acquired four branches of Citizens Bank and Trust in Topeka, Kansas, which increased our deposits by $110 million. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; October 2012 &#150; Acquired First Community Bancshares, Inc. in Overland Park, Kansas, which increased our deposits by approximately $515 million. At the time of acquisition, First Community had total assets of approximately $595 million, which significantly increased our total asset size and provided us with ten additional branches in Western Missouri and five additional branches in Kansas City. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; October 2015 &#150; Acquired First Independence Corporation of Independence, the registered savings and loan holding company for First Federal Savings &#38; Loan of Independence, based in Independence, Kansas. First Independence operated four full service branches in Southeastern Kansas, which represents a new market for us. At the time of acquisition, First Independence had consolidated total assets of $135.0 million, total deposits of $87.1 million and total loans of $89.9 million. In conjunction with our strategic acquisition growth, we strive to reposition and improve the loan portfolio and deposit mix of the banks we acquire. Following our acquisitions, we focus on identifying and disposing of problematic loans and replacing them with higher quality loans generated organically. In addition, we have focused on growth in our commercial loan portfolio, which we believe generally offers higher return opportunities than our consumer loan portfolio, primarily by hiring additional talented bankers, particularly in our metropolitan markets, and incentivizing our bankers to expand their commercial banking relationships. We also seek to increase our most attractive deposit accounts, primarily by growing deposits in our community markets and cross-selling our depository products to our loan customers. 

As a result of these strategic and organic growth efforts, since our inception through December 31, 2015, we have expanded our team of full-time equivalent employees from 19 to 297, and our network of branches from two to 29. We believe that we are well positioned to continue to be a strategic consolidator of community banks, while maintaining our history of attracting experienced and entrepreneurial bankers and organically growing our loans and deposits. 

Our Initial Public Offering 

We completed the underwritten initial public offering (&#147;IPO&#148;) of our common stock on November 16, 2015, where we sold an aggregate of 2,231,000 shares of our common stock at a price to the public of $22.50 per share. Our common stock began trading on the NASDAQ Global Select Market on November 11, 2015 under the ticker symbol &#147;EQBK.&#148; 

Our Strategies 

We believe we are a leading provider of commercial and personal banking services to businesses and business owners as well as individuals in our targeted Midwestern markets. Our strategy is to continue strategically consolidating community banks within such markets and maintaining our organic growth, while preserving our asset quality through disciplined lending practices. 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Strategic Consolidation of Community Banks . We believe our strategy of selectively acquiring and integrating community banks has provided us with economies of scale and improved our overall franchise efficiency. We expect to continue to pursue strategic acquisitions and believe our targeted market areas present us with many and varied acquisition opportunities. The following map illustrates the headquarters of potential acquisition opportunities broken out by asset size between $50.0 million and $1.5 billion within our target footprint. &#160;

We believe many of these banks will continue to be burdened by new and more complex banking regulations, resource constraints, competitive limitations, rising technological and other business costs, management succession issues and liquidity concerns. 

Despite the significant number of opportunities, we intend to continue to employ a disciplined approach to our acquisition strategy and only seek to identify and partner with financial institutions that possess attractive market share, low-cost deposit funding and compelling noninterest income-generating businesses. We believe consolidation will lead to organic growth opportunities for us following the integration of businesses we acquire. We also expect to continue to manage our branch network in order to ensure effective coverage for customers while minimizing any geographic overlap and driving corporate efficiency. 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Enhance the Performance of the Banks We Acquire . We strive to successfully integrate the banks we acquire into our existing operational platform and enhance stockholder value through the creation of efficiencies within the combined operations. As a result of our acquisition history, we believe we have developed an experienced approach to integration that seeks to identify and execute on such synergies, particularly in the areas of technology, data processing, compliance and human resources, while generating earnings growth. We believe that our experience and reputation as a successful integrator and acquiror will allow us to continue to capitalize on additional opportunities within our markets in the future. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Focus on Lending Growth in Our Metropolitan Markets While Increasing Deposits in Our Community Markets . We are focused on continuing to grow organically and believe the markets in which we operate currently provide meaningful opportunities to expand our commercial customer base and increase our current market share. We believe our branch network is strategically split between growing metropolitan markets, such as Kansas City and Wichita, and stable community markets within Western Kansas, Western Missouri and Topeka. We believe this diverse geographic footprint provides us with access to low cost, stable core deposits in community markets that we can use to fund commercial loan growth in our metropolitan markets. The following table shows our total deposits and 

&#160;

&#160; loans (net of allowances) in our community markets and our metropolitan markets as of December 31, 2015, which we believe illustrates our execution of this strategy. 

&#160;

&#160; &#160; Deposits &#160; &#160; Loans &#160; &#160; &#160; Amount (1) &#160; &#160; Overall % &#160; &#160; Amount (1) &#160; &#160; Overall % &#160; Metropolitan markets (2) 

&#160; $ 436,338 &#160; &#160; &#160; 36 % &#160; $ 671,630 &#160; &#160; &#160; 70 % Community markets (3) 

&#160; $ 779,576 &#160; &#160; &#160; 64 % &#160; $ 283,219 &#160; &#160; &#160; 30 % &#160;

(1) Amounts in thousands. (2) Represents 10 branches located in the Wichita and Kansas City metropolitan statistical areas, or MSAs. (3) Represents 19 branches located outside of the Wichita and Kansas City MSAs. Our team of seasoned bankers represents an important driver of our organic growth by expanding banking relationships with current and potential customers. We expect to continue to make opportunistic hires of talented and entrepreneurial bankers, particularly in our metropolitan markets, to further augment our growth. Our bankers are incentivized to increase the size of their loan and deposit portfolios and generate fee income while maintaining strong credit quality. We also seek to cross-sell our various banking products, including our deposit and treasury wealth management products, to our commercial loan customers, which we believe provides a basis for expanding our banking relationships as well as a stable, low-cost deposit base. We believe we have built a scalable platform that will support this continued organic growth. 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Preserve Our Asset Quality Through Disciplined Lending Practices . Our approach to credit management uses well-defined policies and procedures, disciplined underwriting criteria and ongoing risk management. We believe we are a competitive and effective commercial and industrial lender, supplementing ongoing and active loan servicing with early-stage credit review provided by our bankers. This approach has allowed us to maintain loan growth with a diversified portfolio of high quality assets. We believe our credit culture supports accountable bankers, who maintain an ability to expand our customer base as well as make sound decisions for our Company. We believe our success in managing asset quality is illustrated by our aggregate net charge-off history. Our Competitive Strengths 

We believe the following competitive strengths will allow us to continue to achieve our principal objective of increasing stockholder value and generating consistent earnings growth through the organic and strategic expansion of our commercial banking franchise: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Experienced Leadership and Management Team . Our seasoned and experienced executive management team, senior leaders and board of directors have exhibited the ability to deliver stockholder value by consistently growing profitably while expanding our commercial banking franchise through acquisition and integration. The members of our executive management team have, on average, more than twenty years&#146; experience working for large, billion-dollar-plus financial institutions in our markets during various economic cycles and have significant mergers and acquisitions experience in the financial services industry. Our executive management team has instilled a transparent and entrepreneurial culture that rewards leadership, innovation, and problem solving. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Focus on Commercial Banking . We are primarily a commercial bank. As measured by outstanding balances as of December 31, 2015, commercial loans composed over 70.5% of our loan portfolio, and within our commercial loan portfolio, 61.3% of such loans were commercial real estate loans and 38.7% were commercial and industrial loans. We believe we have developed strong commercial relationships in our markets across a diversified range of sectors, including key areas supporting regional and local economic activity and growth, such as manufacturing, freight/transportation, 

&#160;

&#160; consumer services, franchising and commercial real estate. We believe we have also been successful in attracting customers from larger competitors because of our flexible and responsive approach in providing banking solutions tailored to meet our customers&#146; needs while maintaining disciplined underwriting standards. Our relationship-based approach seeks to grow lending relationships with our customers as they expand their businesses, including geographically and through cross-selling our various other banking products, such as our deposit and treasury management products. We have a growing presence in attractive commercial banking markets, such as Wichita and Kansas City, which we believe present significant opportunities to continue to increase our business banking activities. 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Our Ability to Consolidate . Our branches are strategically located within metropolitan markets, such as Kansas City and Wichita as well as stable community markets that present opportunities to expand our market share. Our executive management team has identified significant acquisition and consolidation opportunities, ranging from small to large community banking institutions. We believe our track record of strategic acquisitions and effective integrations, combined with our expertise in our markets and scalable platform, will allow us to capitalize on these growth opportunities. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Disciplined Acquisition Approach . Our disciplined approach to acquisitions, consolidations and integrations, includes the following: (i) selectively acquiring community banking franchises only at appropriate valuations, after taking into account risks that we perceive with respect to the targeted bank; (ii) completing comprehensive due diligence and developing an appropriate plan to address any legacy credit problems of the targeted institution; (iii) identifying an achievable cost savings estimate and holding our management accountable for achieving such estimates; (iv) executing definitive acquisition agreements that we believe provide adequate protections to us; (v) installing our credit procedures, audit and risk management policies and procedures and compliance standards upon consummation of the acquisition; (vi) collaborating with the target&#146;s management team to execute on synergies and cost saving opportunities related to the acquisition; (vii) involving a broader management team across multiple departments in order to help ensure the successful integration of all business functions; and (viii) scheduling the acquisition closing date to occur simultaneously with the platform conversion date. We believe this approach allows us to realize the benefits of the acquisition and create stockholder value, while appropriately managing risk. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Efficient and Scalable Platform with Capacity to Support Our Growth . Through significant investments in technology and staff, our management team has built an efficient and scalable corporate infrastructure within our commercial banking franchise, including in the areas of banking processes, technology, data processing, underwriting and risk management, which we believe will support our continued growth. While expanding our infrastructure, several departmental functions have been outsourced to gain the experience of outside professionals while at the same time achieving more favorable economics and cost-effective solutions. Such outsourced areas include the internal audit function, investment securities management, and select loan review. This outsourcing strategy has proven to control costs while adding enhanced controls and/or service levels. We believe that this scalable infrastructure will continue to allow us to efficiently and effectively manage our anticipated growth. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Culture Committed to Talent Development, Transparency and Accountability . We have invested in professional talent since our inception by building a team of &#147;business persons first and bankers second&#148; and economically aligned them with our stockholders, primarily through our stock purchase opportunities. In our efforts to become a destination for seasoned bankers with an entrepreneurial spirit, we have developed numerous leadership development programs. For example, &#147;Equity University&#148; is a year-long program we designed for our promising company-wide leaders. In addition, in 2014 Equity Bank was named one of the &#147;Best Places to Work&#148; by the Wichita Business Journal , and in 2015, the Wichita Business Journal named Equity Bank a &#147;Best in Business&#148; winner. We believe our well-trained and motivated professionals work most effectively in a corporate environment that emphasizes transparency, respect, innovation and accountability. Our culture provides our professionals with the empowerment to better serve our clients and our communities. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Sophisticated and Customized Banking Products with High-Quality Customer Service . We strive to offer our customers the sophisticated commercial banking products of large financial institutions with the personalized service of a community bank. Our management team&#146;s significant banking and lending experience in our markets has provided us with an understanding of the commercial banking needs of our customers, which allows us to tailor our products and services to meet our customers&#146; needs. In addition to offering a diverse array of banking products and services, we offer our customers the high-touch, relationship-based customer service experience of a community bank. For example, we utilize Flight, a customized customer relationship management system, to assign relationship officers to enhance our relationships with our customers and to identify and meet their particular needs. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Strong Risk Management Practices . We place significant emphasis on risk management as an integral component of our organizational culture without sacrificing growth. We believe our comprehensive risk management system is designed to make sure that we have sound policies, procedures, and practices for the management of key risks under our risk framework (which includes market, operational, liquidity, interest rate sensitivity, credit, insurance, regulatory, legal and reputational risk) and that any exceptions are reported by senior management to our board of directors or audit committee. Our risk management practices are overseen by the Chairmen of our audit and risk committees, who have more than 60 years of combined banking experience, and our Chief Risk Officer, who has more than 30 years of banking experience. We believe that our enterprise risk management philosophy has been important in gaining and maintaining the confidence of our various constituencies and growing our business and footprint within our markets. We also believe our strong risk management practices are manifested in our asset quality statistics. Recent Developments 

On January 4, 2016, a portion of the proceeds of the IPO were used to redeem the Series C preferred stock at a liquidation amount of $16.4 million and to repay the bank stock loan in the amount of $18.6 million. 

On January 28, 2016, the Company entered into an agreement that provides for a maximum borrowing facility of $20.0 million, secured by the Company&#146;s stock in Equity Bank. The borrowing facility will mature on January 26, 2017. Each draw of funds on the facility will create a separate note that is repayable over a term of five years. Each note will bear interest at a variable interest rate equal to the prime rate published in the &#147;Money Rates&#148; section of the Wall Street Journal (or any generally recognized successor), floating daily. Accrued interest and principal payments will be due quarterly with one final payment of unpaid principal and interest due at the end of the five year term of each separate note. The Company is also required to pay an unused commitment fee in an amount equal to twenty basis points per annum on the unused portion of the maximum borrowing facility. 

Our Banking Services 

A general description of the range of commercial banking products and other services we offer follows. 

Lending Activities 

We offer a variety of loans, including commercial and industrial, commercial real estate-backed loans (including loans secured by owner occupied commercial properties), commercial lines of credit, working capital loans, term loans, equipment financing, acquisition, expansion and development loans, borrowing base loans, real estate construction loans, homebuilder loans, agricultural, government guaranteed loans, letters of credit and other loan products to national and regional companies, restaurant franchisees, hoteliers, real estate developers, manufacturing and industrial companies, agribusiness companies and other businesses. We also offer various consumer loans to individuals and professionals including residential real estate loans, home equity loans, home equity lines of credit ( &#147;HELOCs&#148;), installment loans, unsecured and secured personal lines of credit, overdraft protection and letters of credit. Lending activities originate from the relationships and efforts of our bankers, with an emphasis on providing banking solutions tailored to meet our customers&#146; needs while maintaining our underwriting standards. 

&#160;

At December 31, 2015, we had total loans of $954.8 million (net of allowances), representing 60.2% of our total assets. For additional information concerning our loan portfolio, see &#147;Item 7 &#150; Management&#146;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations &#150; Financial Condition &#150; Loan Portfolio.&#148; 

Concentrations of Credit Risk . Most of our lending activity is conducted with businesses and individuals in metropolitan Kansas City and Wichita. Our loan portfolio consists primarily of commercial and industrial loans, which were $260.7 million and constituted 27.3% of our total loans net of allowances as of December 31, 2015, commercial real estate loans, which were $395.0 million and constituted 41.4% of our total loans net of allowances as of December 31, 2015, and residential real estate loans, which were $248.4 million and constituted 26.0% of our total loans net of allowances as of December 31, 2015. Our commercial real estate loans are generally secured by first liens on real property. The remaining commercial and industrial loans are typically secured by general business assets, accounts receivable inventory and/or the corporate guaranty of the borrower and personal guaranty of its principals. The geographic concentration subjects the loan portfolio to the general economic conditions within Kansas and Missouri. The risks created by such concentrations have been considered by management in the determination of the adequacy of the allowance for loan losses. Management believes the allowance for loan losses is adequate to cover incurred losses in our loan portfolio as of December 31, 2015. 

Sound risk management practices and appropriate levels of capital are essential elements of a sound commercial real estate lending program. Concentrations of commercial real estate exposures add a dimension of risk that compounds the risk inherent in individual loans. Interagency guidance on commercial real estate concentrations describe sound risk management practices which include board and management oversight, portfolio management, management information systems, market analysis, portfolio stress testing and sensitivity analysis, credit underwriting standards, and credit risk review functions. Management believes these practices allow us to monitor concentrations in commercial real estate in our loan portfolio. 

Large Credit Relationships . As of December 31, 2015, the aggregate amount of loans to our ten largest borrowers (including related entities) amounted to approximately $160.3 million, or 16.7% of total loans. See &#147;Item 1A &#150; Risk Factors &#150; Risks Related to Our Business &#150; Our largest loan relationships currently make up a material percentage of our total loan portfolio.&#148; 

Loan Underwriting and Approval . Historically, we believe we have made sound, high quality loans while recognizing that lending money involves a degree of business risk. We have loan policies designed to assist us in managing this business risk. These policies provide a general framework for our loan origination, monitoring and funding activities, while recognizing that not all risks can be anticipated. Our board of directors delegates loan authority up to board-approved hold limits collectively to our Directors&#146; credit committee, which is comprised of members of our board of directors. Our board of directors also delegates limited lending authority to our internal loan committee, which is comprised of members of our executive management team. In addition, our board of directors also delegates more limited lending authority to our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Credit Officer, credit risk personnel, and, on a further limited basis, to selected lending managers in each of our target markets. Lending officers and relationship managers, including our bankers, have further limited individual loan authority. When the total relationship exceeds an individual&#146;s loan authority, a higher authority or credit committee approval is required. The objective of our approval process is to provide a disciplined, collaborative approach to larger credits while maintaining responsiveness to client needs. 

Loan decisions are documented as to the borrower&#146;s business, purpose of the loan, evaluation of the repayment source and the associated risks, evaluation of collateral, covenants and monitoring requirements, and the risk rating rationale. Our strategy for approving or disapproving loans is to follow conservative loan policies and consistent underwriting practices which include: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; maintaining close relationships among our customers and their designated banker to ensure ongoing credit monitoring and loan servicing; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; granting credit on a sound basis with full knowledge of the purpose and source of repayment for such credit; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; ensuring that primary and secondary sources of repayment are adequate in relation to the amount of the loan; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; developing and maintaining targeted levels of diversification for our loan portfolio as a whole and for loans within each category; and &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; ensuring that each loan is properly documented and that any insurance coverage requirements are satisfied. Managing credit risk is a Company-wide process. Our strategy for credit risk management includes well-defined, centralized credit policies, uniform underwriting criteria and ongoing risk monitoring and review processes for all credit exposures. Our processes emphasize early-stage review of loans, regular credit evaluations and management reviews of loans, which supplement the ongoing and proactive credit monitoring and loan servicing provided by our bankers. Our Chief Credit Officer provides Company-wide credit oversight and periodically reviews all credit risk portfolios to ensure that the risk identification processes are functioning properly and that our credit standards are followed. In addition, a third-party loan review is performed to assist in the identification of problem assets and to confirm our internal risk rating of loans. We attempt to identify potential problem loans early in an effort to seek aggressive resolution of these situations before the loans become a loss, record any necessary charge-offs promptly and maintain adequate allowance levels for probable loan losses incurred in the loan portfolio. 

Our loan policies generally include other underwriting guidelines for loans collateralized by real estate. These underwriting standards are designed to determine the maximum loan amount that a borrower has the capacity to repay based upon the type of collateral securing the loan and the borrower&#146;s income. Such loan policies include maximum amortization schedules and loan terms for each category of loans collateralized by liens on real estate. 

In addition, our loan policies provide guidelines for personal guarantees; an environmental review; loans to employees, executive officers and directors; problem loan identification; maintenance of an adequate allowance for loan losses and other matters relating to lending practices. 

Lending Limits . Our lending activities are subject to a variety of lending limits imposed by federal law. In general, the Bank is subject to a legal lending limit on loans to a single borrower based on the Bank&#146;s capital level. The dollar amounts of the Bank&#146;s lending limit increases or decreases as the Bank&#146;s capital increases or decreases. The Bank is able to sell participations in its larger loans to other financial institutions, which allows it to manage the risk involved in these loans and to meet the lending needs of its customers requiring extensions of credit in excess of these limits. 

The Bank&#146;s legal lending limit as of December 31, 2015 on loans to a single borrower was $34.8 million. However, we typically maintain an in-house limit of $15.0 million for loans to a single borrower. We have strict policies and procedures in place for the establishment of hold limits with respect to specific products and businesses and evaluating exceptions to the hold limits for individual relationships. 

Our loan policies provide general guidelines for loan-to-value ratios that restrict the size of loans to a maximum percentage of the value of the collateral securing the loans, which percentage varies by the type of collateral. Our internal loan-to-value limitations follow limits established by applicable law. 

Loan Types . We provide a variety of loans to meet our customers&#146; needs. The section below discusses our general loan categories. 

Commercial and Industrial Loans . We make commercial and industrial loans, including commercial lines of credit, working capital loans, commercial real estate-backed loans (including loans secured by owner occupied commercial properties), term loans, equipment financing, acquisition, expansion and development loans, borrowing base loans, real estate construction loans, homebuilder loans, restaurant franchisees, hoteliers, 

&#160;

government guaranteed loans, letters of credit and other loan products, primarily in our target markets that are underwritten on the basis of the borrower&#146;s ability to service the debt from income. We take as collateral a lien on general business assets including, among other things, available real estate, accounts receivable, inventory and equipment and generally obtain a personal guaranty of the borrower or principal. Our commercial and industrial loans generally have variable interest rates and terms that typically range from one to five years depending on factors such as the type and size of the loan, the financial strength of the borrower/guarantor and the age, type and value of the collateral. Fixed rate commercial and industrial loan maturities are generally short-term, with three-to-five year maturities, or include periodic interest rate resets. Terms greater than five years may be appropriate in some circumstances, based upon the useful life of the underlying asset being financed or if some form of credit enhancement, such as a government guarantee is obtained. 

We also participate in syndicated loans (loans made by a group of lenders, including us, who share or participate in a specific loan) with a larger regional financial institution as the lead lender. Syndicated loans are typically made to large businesses (which are referred to as shared national credits) or middle market companies (which do not meet the regulatory definition of shared national credits), both of which are secured by business assets or equipment, and also commercial real estate. The syndicate group for both types of loans usually consists of two to three other financial institutions. In particular, we frequently work with a large regional financial institution, which is often the lead lender with respect to these loans. We have grown this portfolio to diversify our balance sheet, increase our yield and mitigate interest rate risk due to the variable rate pricing structure of the loans. We have a defined set of credit guidelines that we use when evaluating these credits. Although other large financial institutions are the lead lenders on these loans, our credit department does its own independent review of these loans and the approval process of these loans is consistent with our underwriting of loans and our lending policies. We expect to continue our syndicated lending program for the foreseeable future. 

In 2015, we began to participate in mortgage finance loans with another institution, &#147;the originator.&#148; These mortgage finance loans consist of ownership interests purchased in single family residential mortgages funded through the originator&#146;s mortgage finance group. These loans are typically on our balance sheet for 10 to 20 days. We have grown this portfolio with the intent to diversify our balance sheet, increase our yield compared to other short term investment opportunities and mitigate interest rate risk due to the variable rate pricing structure of the loans. We have a defined set of credit guidelines we use when evaluating these loans, our credit department does its own independent review of these loans and the approval process of these loans is consistent with our underwriting of loans and our lending policies. We expect to continue our mortgage finance lending program for the foreseeable future. 

In general, commercial and industrial loans may involve increased credit risk and, therefore, typically yield a higher return. The increased risk in commercial and industrial loans derives from the expectation that such loans generally are serviced principally from the operations of the business, and those operations may not be successful. Any interruption or discontinuance of operating cash flows from the business, which may be influenced by events not under the control of the borrower such as economic events and changes in governmental regulations, could materially affect the ability of the borrower to repay the loan. In addition, the collateral securing commercial and industrial loans generally includes moveable property such as equipment and inventory, which may decline in value more rapidly than we anticipate exposing us to increased credit risk. As a result of these additional complexities, variables and risks, commercial and industrial loans require extensive underwriting and servicing. 

Commercial Real Estate Loans . We make commercial mortgage loans collateralized by real estate, which may be owner occupied or non-owner occupied real estate. Commercial real estate lending typically involves higher loan principal amounts and the repayment is dependent, in large part, on sufficient income from the properties securing the loans to cover operating expenses and debt service. We require our commercial real estate loans to be secured by well-managed property with adequate margins and generally obtain a guarantee from responsible parties. Our commercial mortgage loans generally are collateralized by first liens on real estate, have variable or fixed interest rates and amortize over a 10-to-20 year period with balloon payments or rate adjustments due at the 

&#160;

end of three to seven years. Periodically, we will utilize an interest rate swap to hedge against long term fixed rate exposures. Commercial mortgage loans considered for interest rate swap hedging typically have terms of greater than five years. 

Payments on loans secured by such properties are often dependent on the successful operation (in the case of owner occupied real estate) or management (in the case of non-owner occupied real estate) of the properties. Accordingly, repayment of these loans may be subject to adverse conditions in the real estate market or the economy to a greater extent than other types of loans. In underwriting commercial real estate loans, we seek to minimize these risks in a variety of ways, including giving careful consideration to the property&#146;s age, condition, operating history, future operating projections, current and projected market rental rates, vacancy rates, location and physical condition. The underwriting analysis also may include credit verification, reviews of appraisals, environmental hazards or reports, the borrower&#146;s liquidity and leverage, management experience of the owners or principals, economic condition and industry trends. 

Real Estate Construction Loans . We make loans to finance the construction of residential and non-residential properties. Construction loans generally are collateralized by first liens on real estate and have floating interest rates. We conduct periodic inspections, either directly or through an agent, prior to approval of periodic draws on these loans. Underwriting guidelines similar to those described above also are used in our construction lending activities. Our construction loans have terms that typically range from six months to two years depending on factors such as the type and size of the development and the financial strength of the borrower/guarantor. Loans are typically structured with an interest only construction period. Loans are underwritten to either mature at the completion of construction, or transition to a traditional amortizing commercial real estate facility at the completion of construction, in line with other commercial real estate loans held at the bank. 

Construction loans generally involve additional risks attributable to the fact that loan funds are advanced upon the security of a project under construction, and the project is of uncertain value prior to its completion. Because of uncertainties inherent in estimating construction costs, the market value of the completed project and the effects of governmental regulation on real property, it can be difficult to accurately evaluate the total funds required to complete a project and the related loan-to-value ratio. As a result of these uncertainties, construction lending often involves the disbursement of substantial funds with repayment dependent, in part, on the success of the ultimate project rather than the ability of a borrower or guarantor to repay the loan. If we are forced to foreclose on a project prior to completion, there is no assurance that we will be able to recover the entire unpaid portion of the loan. In addition, we may be required to fund additional amounts to complete a project and it may be necessary to hold the property for an indeterminate period of time subject to the regulatory limitations imposed by local, state or federal laws. 

1 &#150; 4 Family Residential Mortgages . We make residential real estate loans collateralized by owner occupied properties located in our market areas. We offer a variety of mortgage loan products with amortization periods up to 30 years including traditional 30-year fixed loans and various adjustable rate mortgages. Typically, loans with a fixed interest rate of greater than 10 years are held for sale and sold on the secondary market, and adjustable rate mortgages are held for investment. However, in connection with the acquisition of First Independence, we acquired $71 million in residential real estate loans, with a substantial amount having fixed interest rate terms of greater than 10 years. Loans collateralized by one-to-four family residential real estate generally are originated in amounts of no more than 80% of appraised value. Home equity loans and HELOCs are generally limited to a combined loan-to-value ratio of 80%, including the subordinate lien. We retain a valid lien on real estate, obtain a title insurance policy that insures that the property is free from encumbrances and require hazard insurance. 

From time to time we have purchased pools of residential mortgages originated by other financial institutions to hold for investment with the intent to diversify our residential mortgage loan portfolio, and increase our yield. These loans purchased typically have an adjustable rate with a fixed period of no more than 10-years, and are collateralized by one-to-four family residential real estate. We have a defined set of credit guidelines that we use 

&#160;

when evaluating these credits. Although these loans were originated and underwritten by another institution, our mortgage and credit departments do their own independent review of these loans. 

Agricultural Loans . We offer both fixed-rate and adjustable-rate agricultural real estate loans to our customers. We also make loans to finance the purchase of machinery, equipment and breeding stock, seasonal crop operating loans used to fund the borrower&#146;s crop production operating expenses, livestock operating and revolving loans used to purchase livestock for resale and related livestock production expense. 

Generally, our agricultural real estate loans amortize over periods not in excess of 20 years and have a loan-to-value ratio of 80%. We also originate agricultural real estate loans directly and through programs sponsored by the Farmers Home Administration, an agency of the United States Department of Agriculture (&#147;FHA&#148;), which provides a partial guarantee on loans underwritten to FHA standards. Agricultural real estate loans generally carry higher interest rates and have shorter terms than 1-4 family residential real estate loans. Agricultural real estate loans, however, entail additional credit risks compared to one- to four-family residential real estate loans, as they typically involve larger loan balances concentrated with single borrowers or groups of related borrowers We generally require farmers to obtain multi-peril crop insurance coverage through a program partially subsidized by the Federal government to help mitigate the risk of crop failures. 

Agricultural operating loans are generally originated at an adjustable- or fixed-rate of interest and generally for a term of up to 7 years. In the case of agricultural operating loans secured by breeding livestock and/or farm equipment, such loans are originated at fixed rates of interest for a term of up to 5 years. We typically originate agricultural operating loans on the basis of the borrower&#146;s ability to make repayment from the cash flow of the borrower&#146;s agricultural business. As a result, the availability of funds for the repayment of agricultural operating loans may be substantially dependent on the success of the business itself and the general economic environment. A significant number of agricultural borrowers with these types of loans may qualify for relief under a chapter of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code that is designed specifically for the reorganization of financial obligations of family farmers and which provides certain preferential procedures to agricultural borrowers compared to traditional bankruptcy proceedings pursuant to other chapters of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. 

Consumer Loans . We make a variety of loans to individuals for personal and household purposes, including secured and unsecured term loans and home improvement loans. Consumer loans are underwritten based on the individual borrower&#146;s income, current debt level, past credit history and the value of any available collateral. The terms of consumer loans vary considerably based upon the loan type, nature of collateral and size of the loan. Consumer loans entail greater risk than do residential real estate loans because they may be unsecured or, if secured, the value of the collateral, such as an automobile or boat, may be more difficult to assess and more likely to decrease in value than real estate. In such cases, any repossessed collateral for a defaulted consumer loan may not provide an adequate source of repayment for the outstanding loan balance. The remaining deficiency often will not warrant further substantial collection efforts against the borrower beyond obtaining a deficiency judgment. In addition, consumer loan collections are dependent on the borrower&#146;s continuing financial stability, and thus are more likely to be adversely affected by job loss, divorce, illness or personal bankruptcy. Furthermore, the application of various federal and state laws may limit the amount which can be recovered on such loans. 

Deposit Products 

Our lending and investing activities are primarily funded by deposits. We offer a variety of deposit accounts with a wide range of interest rates and terms including demand, savings, money market and time deposits with the goal of attracting a wide variety of customers, including small to medium-sized businesses. We employ customer acquisition strategies to generate new account and deposit growth, such as customer referral incentives, search engine optimization, targeted direct mail and email campaigns, in addition to conventional marketing initiatives and advertising. Our goal is to emphasize our Signature Deposits and cross-sell our deposit products to our loan customers. 

&#160;

We design our consumer deposit products specifically for the lifestyles of clients in the communities we serve. Some accounts emphasize and reward debit card usage, while others appeal to higher deposit customers. We also utilize Flight, which is our customer relationship management system, to assist our personnel in deepening and expanding current relationships by providing timely identification of potential needs. It also serves as a methodical tool to track customer onboarding and retention actions by account officers. While we do not actively solicit wholesale deposits for funding purposes and do not partner with deposit brokers, we do participate in the CDARS service via Promontory Interfinancial Network an as option for our customers to place funds. 

We also from time to time bid for, and accept, deposits from public entities in our markets. 

Other Products and Services 

We offer banking products and services that are competitively priced with a focus on convenience and accessibility. We offer a full suite of online banking solutions including access to account balances, online transfers, online bill payment and electronic delivery of customer statements, mobile banking solutions for iPhone and Android phones, including remote check deposit with mobile bill pay. We offer extended drive-through hours, ATMs and banking by telephone, mail and personal appointment. We offer debit cards with no ATM surcharges or foreign ATM fees for checking customers, plus night depository, direct deposit, cashier&#146;s and travelers checks and letters of credit, as well as treasury management services, wire transfer services and automated clearing house (&#147;ACH&#148;) services. 

We offer a full array of commercial treasury management services designed to be competitive with banks of all sizes. Treasury Management Services include balance reporting (including current day and previous day activity), transfers between accounts, wire transfer initiation, ACH origination and stop payments. Cash management deposit products consist of lockbox, remote deposit capture, positive pay, reverse positive pay, account reconciliation services, zero balance accounts and sweep accounts including loan sweep. 

Our Markets 

We currently conduct banking operations through our 29 full service branches located in Kansas and Missouri. We believe that an important factor contributing to our historical performance and our ability to execute our strategy is the attractiveness and specific characteristics of our existing and target markets. In particular, we believe our markets provide us with access to low cost, stable core deposits in smaller community markets that we can use to fund commercial loan growth in metropolitan areas. 

We believe our existing and target markets are among some of the most attractive in the Midwestern United States. Our markets are home to thousands of manufacturing and trade jobs, and have experienced recent growth in the healthcare, consumer services and technology sectors. We believe the central geographic footprint of our markets provides numerous industrial plants, facilities and manufacturing businesses with a central shipping location from which they can distribute their products. In addition, many of the jobs within these industries in our market are highly specialized, and as a result, employees receive a premium in wages. For example, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, during 2014 manufacturing employees in Kansas City, one of our largest markets, received an annual average salary that was 10% higher than the annual average salary received by aerospace engineers in the United States. Our markets also serve as the corporate headquarters for Koch Industries Inc., Hallmark Cards, Inc., H&#38;R Block, Inc., Sprint Corporation, Cerner Corporation, AMC Entertainment Holdings, Inc., Garmin International, Inc., Cessna Aircraft Company, Seaboard Corporation, Cargill Meat Solutions and The Coleman Company and host a major presence for companies across a variety of industries, including Spirit AeroSystems, Inc., Bombardier Learjet, Collective Brands, Inc., Hills Pet Nutrition, Inc., Beechcraft Corporation, Bayer Corporation and Dean &#38; Deluca, Inc. We understand the community banking needs of the businesses and individuals within our markets and have focused on developing a commercial and personal banking platform to service such needs. 

&#160;

The markets in which we operate have generally experienced stable population growth over the past five years, with modest population growth expected over the next five years. Wichita is the largest MSA in Kansas with a population of over 640,000, and Kansas City is the 29th largest MSA in the U.S. with a population of more than 2 million. In addition, over the next five years our markets are projected to experience moderate compounded annual growth in consumer and commercial deposits. Our markets are stable and have weathered various economic cycles relatively well. According to the FDIC, the aggregate noncurrent loans as a percentage of loans for all reporting institutions in both Kansas and Missouri were less than those of the United States during pre-recession periods (2005-2007), the most recent recession years (2008-2011) and post-recession years (2012-2014). More specifically, reporting banks nationwide posted average quarterly figures of 0.85%, 4.12% and 3.02% in the respective aforementioned time periods, while Kansas posted average quarterly figures of 0.78%, 2.76%, 1.53%, respectively, and Missouri posted average quarterly figures of 0.70%, 2.86%, and 1.77%, respectively. 

We compete for loans, deposits and financial services in our markets against many other bank and nonbank institutions, including community banks, regional banks, national banks, Internet-based banks, money market and mutual funds, brokerage houses, credit unions, mortgage companies and insurance companies. We believe that our comprehensive suite of sophisticated banking products provides us with a competitive advantage over smaller community banks within our markets while our high-quality, relationship-based customer service will allow us to take market share from larger regional and national banks. In addition, our markets present significant acquisition, integration and consolidation opportunities, and we expect to continue to pursue strategic acquisitions in our markets. We believe that many small to mid-sized banking organizations that currently serve our markets are acquisition opportunities for us, either because of scale and operational challenges, regulatory pressures, management succession issues or stockholder liquidity needs. We think we offer an attractive solution for such banks because we retain the community banking feel and services upon which their customers expect and rely. 

Information Technology Systems 

We have made and continue to make significant investments in our information technology systems and staff for our banking and lending operations and treasury management activities. We believe this investment will support our continued growth and enable us to enhance our capabilities to offer new products and overall customer experience, and to provide scale for future growth and acquisitions. We utilize a nationally recognized software vendor, and their support allows us to operate our data processing and core systems in-house. Our internal network and e-mail systems are maintained in-house and we recently enhanced our back-up site at a decentralized location. This back-up site provides for redundancy and disaster recovery capabilities. 

The majority of our other systems including our electronic funds transfer, transaction processing and our online banking services are hosted by third-party service providers. The scalability of this infrastructure will support our growth strategy. In addition, the tested capability of these vendors to automatically switch over to standby systems should allow us to recover our systems and provide business continuity quickly in case of a disaster. 

Competition 

The financial services industry is highly competitive. We compete for loans, deposits, and financial services in all of our principal markets. We compete directly with other bank and nonbank institutions located within our markets, Internet-based banks, out-of-market banks, and bank holding companies that advertise in or otherwise serve our markets, along with money market and mutual funds, brokerage houses, mortgage companies, and insurance companies or other commercial entities that offer financial services products. Competition involves efforts to retain current customers, obtain new loans and deposits, increase the scope and type of services offered, and offer competitive interest rates paid on deposits and charged on loans. Many of our competitors enjoy competitive advantages, including greater financial resources, a wider geographic presence, more accessible branch office locations, the ability to offer additional services, more favorable pricing alternatives, and lower 

&#160;

origination and operating costs. Some of our competitors have been in business for a long time and have an established customer base and name recognition. We believe that our competitive pricing, personalized service, and community involvement enable us to effectively compete in the communities in which we operate. 

Employees 

As of December 31, 2015, we had approximately 297 full-time equivalent employees. None of our employees are represented by any collective bargaining unit or is a party to a collective bargaining agreement. 

Available Information 

The Company files reports, proxy statements and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. You may read and copy this information at the SEC&#146;s Public Reference Room, 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. You may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC also maintains an internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information about issuers, like the Company, who file electronically with the SEC. The address of the site is http://www.sec.gov . 

Documents filed by the Company with the SEC are available from the Company without charge (except for exhibits to the documents). You may obtain documents filed by the Company with the SEC by requesting them in writing or by telephone from the Company at the following address: 

Equity Bancshares, Inc. 

7701 East Kellogg Drive , Suite 200 

Wichita, Kansas 67207 

Attention: Investor Relations 

Telephone: (316) 612-6000 

Documents filed by the Company with the SEC are also available on the Company&#146;s website, http://investor.equitybank.com . Information furnished by the Company and information on, or accessible through, the SEC&#146;s or the Company&#146;s website is not part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Supervision and Regulation 

Banking is a complex, highly regulated industry. Consequently, our growth and earnings performance can be affected, not only by management decisions and general and local economic conditions, but also by the statutes administered by and the regulations and policies of, various governmental regulatory authorities. These authorities include, but are not limited to, the Federal Reserve, the FDIC, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (&#147;OCC&#148;), the Kansas Office of State Bank Commissioner (&#147;OSBC&#148;), the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (&#147;CFPB&#148;), the IRS, and state taxing authorities. The effect of these statutes, regulations and policies and any changes to any of them can be significant and cannot be predicted. 

The primary goals of the bank regulatory scheme are to maintain a safe and sound banking system and to facilitate the conduct of sound monetary policy. In furtherance of those goals, the U.S. Congress and the individual states have created numerous regulatory agencies and enacted numerous laws, such as the Dodd-Frank Act, that govern banks and the banking industry. The system of supervision and regulation applicable to us establishes a comprehensive framework for our operations and is intended primarily for the protection of the FDIC&#146;s deposit insurance funds, our depositors and the public, rather than the stockholders and creditors. 

New regulations and statutes are regularly proposed that contain wide-ranging proposals for altering the structures, regulations and competitive relationships of financial institutions operating in the United States. The federal banking agencies have issued a number of significant new regulations as a result of the Dodd-Frank Act 

&#160;

and a number of additional regulations are pending or may be proposed. We cannot predict whether or in what form any proposed regulation or statute will be adopted or the extent to which our businesses may be affected by any new regulation or statute. 

The following is an attempt to summarize some of the relevant laws, rules and regulations governing banks and bank holding companies, but does not purport to be a complete summary of all applicable laws, rules and regulations governing banks. The descriptions are qualified in their entirety by reference to the specific statutes and regulations discussed. 

Bank Holding Company Regulation 

We are a bank holding company registered under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended, or the BHC Act, and are subject to supervision and regulation by the Federal Reserve. Federal laws subject bank holding companies to particular restrictions on the types of activities in which they may engage and to a range of supervisory requirements and activities, including regulatory enforcement actions, for violation of laws and policies. 

Activities Closely Related to Banking 

The BHC Act prohibits a bank holding company, with certain limited exceptions, from acquiring direct or indirect ownership or control of more than five percent of the voting shares of any company that is not a bank or from engaging in any activities other than those of banking, managing or controlling banks and certain other subsidiaries or furnishing services to or performing services for its subsidiaries. Bank holding companies also may engage in or acquire interests in companies that engage in a limited set of activities that are so closely related to banking as to be a proper incident thereto. If a bank holding company has become a financial holding company, or an FHC, it may engage in a broader set of activities, including insurance underwriting and broker-dealer services as well as activities that are jointly determined by the Federal Reserve and the U.S. Treasury to be financial in nature or incidental to such financial activity. FHCs may also engage in activities that are determined by the Federal Reserve to be complementary to financial activities. We have not elected to be an FHC at this time. To maintain FHC status, the bank holding company and all subsidiary depository institutions must be &#147;well managed&#148; and &#147;well capitalized.&#148; Additionally, all subsidiary depository institutions must have received at least a &#147;Satisfactory&#148; rating on its most recent CRA examination. Failure to meet these requirements may result in limitations on activities and acquisitions. 

Safe and Sound Banking Practices 

Bank holding companies are not permitted to engage in unsafe and unsound banking practices. The Federal Reserve may order a bank holding company to terminate an activity or control of a non-bank subsidiary if such activity or control constitutes a significant risk to the financial safety, soundness or stability of a subsidiary bank and is inconsistent with sound banking principles. Regulation Y also requires a holding company to give the Federal Reserve prior notice of any redemption or repurchase of its own equity securities if the consideration to be paid, together with the consideration paid for any repurchases or redemptions in the preceding year, is equal to 10% or more of the company&#146;s consolidated net worth. 

Consistent with the Dodd-Frank Act codification of the Federal Reserve&#146;s policy that bank holding companies must serve as a source of financial strength for their subsidiary banks, the Federal Reserve has stated that, as a matter of prudence, a bank holding company generally should not maintain a rate of distributions to stockholders unless its available net income has been sufficient to fully fund the distributions and the prospective rate of earnings retention appears consistent with a bank holding company&#146;s capital needs, asset quality and overall financial condition. 

In addition, the Federal Reserve Supervisory Letter SR 09-4 provides guidance on the declaration and payment of dividends, capital redemptions and capital repurchases by a bank holding company. Supervisory Letter SR 09-4 provides that, as a general matter, a bank holding company should eliminate, defer or significantly reduce its 

&#160;

dividends if: (i) the bank holding company&#146;s net income available to stockholders for the past four quarters, net of dividends previously paid during that period, is not sufficient to fully fund the dividends, (ii) the bank holding company&#146;s prospective rate of earnings retention is not consistent with the bank holding company&#146;s capital needs and overall current and prospective financial condition or (iii) the bank holding company will not meet, or is in danger of not meeting, its minimum regulatory capital adequacy ratios. Failure to do so could result in a supervisory finding that the bank holding company is operating in an unsafe and unsound manner. 

Limitations on Equity Bank&#146;s ability to pay dividends could, in turn, affect our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders. For more information concerning Equity Bank&#146;s ability to pay dividends, see &#147;Bank Regulation&#148; below. 

The Federal Reserve has broad authority to prohibit activities of bank holding companies and their non-banking subsidiaries which represent unsafe and unsound banking practices or which constitute violations of laws or regulations. Notably, the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery and Enforcement Act of 1989, or FIRREA, provides that the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve can assess civil money penalties for such practices or violations which can be as high as $1 million per day. FIRREA contains expansive provisions regarding the scope of individuals and entities against which such penalties may be assessed. 

Annual Reporting and Examinations 

We are required to file annual and quarterly reports with the Federal Reserve and such additional information as the Federal Reserve may require pursuant to the BHC Act. The Federal Reserve may examine a bank holding company or any of its subsidiaries and charge the company for the cost of such an examination. We are also subject to reporting and disclosure requirements under state and federal securities laws. 

Rules on Regulatory Capital 

Regulatory capital rules released in July 2013 pursuant to the Basel III requirements, or the Basel III rules, implement higher minimum capital requirements for bank holding companies and banks. The Basel III rules include a new common equity Tier 1 capital requirement and establish criteria that instruments must meet to be considered common equity Tier 1 capital, additional Tier 1 capital or Tier 2 capital. These enhancements are designed to both improve the quality and increase the quantity of capital required, on a fully phased-in basis, to be held by banking organizations, better equipping the U.S. banking system to deal with adverse economic conditions. The Basel III rules require banks and bank holding companies to maintain a minimum common equity Tier 1, or CET1, capital ratio of 4.5%, a total Tier 1 capital ratio of 6%, a total capital ratio of 8% and a leverage ratio of 4%. Once fully phased in, bank holding companies will also be required to hold a capital conservation buffer of CET1 capital of 2.5% to avoid limitations on capital distributions and executive compensation payments. Under the Basel III rules, bank holding companies must maintain a total risk-based capital ratio of 10% and a total Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 6% to be considered &#147;well capitalized&#148; for purposes of certain rules and requirements. 

The Basel III rules also require banks to maintain a CET1 capital ratio of 6.5%, a total Tier 1 capital ratio of 8%, a total capital ratio of 10% and a leverage ratio of 5% to be deemed &#147;well capitalized&#148; for purposes of certain rules and prompt corrective action requirements. The risk-based ratios include a &#147;capital conservation buffer&#148; of 2.5%. The new capital conservation buffer requirement is to be phased in beginning in January 2016 at 0.625% of risk-weighted assets and will increase by that amount each year until fully implemented in January 2019. An institution would be subject to limitations on certain activities, including payment of dividends, share repurchases and discretionary bonuses to executive officers, if its capital level is below the buffer amount. 

The Basel III rules attempt to improve the quality of capital by implementing changes to the definition of capital. Among the most important changes are stricter eligibility criteria for regulatory capital instruments that would disallow the inclusion of instruments, such as trust preferred securities, in Tier 1 capital going forward and new 

&#160;

constraints on the inclusion of minority interests, mortgage-servicing assets, deferred tax assets and certain investments in the capital of unconsolidated financial institutions. In addition, the Basel III rules require that most regulatory capital deductions be made from CET1 capital. 

Under the Basel III rules, to avoid limitations on capital distributions, including dividend payments and certain discretionary bonus payments to executive officers, a banking organization must hold a capital conservation buffer composed of common equity Tier 1 capital above its minimum risk-based capital requirements. This buffer will help to ensure that banking organizations conserve capital when it is most needed, allowing them to better weather periods of economic stress. The buffer is measured relative to risk-weighted assets. 

The Federal Reserve may also set higher capital requirements for holding companies whose circumstances warrant it. For example, holding companies experiencing internal growth or making acquisitions are expected to maintain strong capital positions substantially above the minimum supervisory levels, without significant reliance on intangible assets. At this time, the bank regulatory agencies are more inclined to impose higher capital requirements to meet well capitalized standards and future regulatory change could impose higher capital standards as a routine matter. Our regulatory capital ratios and those of Equity Bank are in excess of the levels established for well capitalized institutions under the Basel III rules. 

The Basel III rules also set forth certain changes in the methods of calculating certain risk-weighted assets, which in turn will affect the calculation of risk-based ratios. Under the Basel III rules, higher or more sensitive risk weights would be assigned to various categories of assets, including certain credit facilities that finance the acquisition, development or construction of real property, certain exposures or credits that are 90 days past due or on non-accrual, foreign exposures and certain corporate exposures. In addition, the Basel III rules include (i) alternative standards of credit worthiness consistent with the Dodd-Frank Act, (ii) greater recognition of collateral and guarantees and (iii) revised capital treatment for derivatives and repo-style transactions. 

In addition, the Basel III rules include certain exemptions to address concerns about the regulatory burden on community banks. For example, banking organizations with less than $15 billion in consolidated assets as of December 31, 2009 are permitted to include in Tier 1 capital trust preferred securities and cumulative perpetual preferred stock issued and included in Tier 1 capital prior to May 19, 2010 on a permanent basis, without any phase out. Community banks were also permitted to make a one-time election in their March 31, 2015 quarterly filings to opt-out of the requirement to include most accumulated other comprehensive income, or AOCI, components in the calculation of CET1 capital and, in effect, retain the AOCI treatment under the current capital rules. Under the Basel III rules, we made the one-time, permanent election to continue to exclude AOCI from capital. 

Imposition of Liability for Undercapitalized Subsidiaries 

The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of 1991, or the FDICIA, required each federal banking agency to revise its risk-based capital standards to ensure that those standards take adequate account of interest rate risk, concentration of credit risk and the risks of nontraditional activities, as well as reflect the actual performance and expected risk of loss on multifamily mortgages. 

Pursuant to the FDICIA, each federal banking agency has specified, by regulation, the levels at which an insured institution would be considered well capitalized, adequately capitalized, undercapitalized, significantly undercapitalized and critically undercapitalized. As of December 31, 2015, Equity Bank exceeded the capital levels required to be deemed well capitalized. 

Additionally, FDICIA requires bank regulators to take prompt corrective action to resolve problems associated with insured depository institutions. In the event an institution becomes undercapitalized, it must submit a capital restoration plan. 

&#160;

Under these prompt corrective action provisions of FDICIA, if a controlled bank is undercapitalized, then the regulators could require the bank to submit a capital restoration plan. If an institution becomes significantly undercapitalized or critically undercapitalized, additional and significant limitations are placed on the institution. The capital restoration plan of an undercapitalized institution will not be accepted by the regulators unless each company having control of the undercapitalized institution guarantees the subsidiary&#146;s compliance with the capital restoration plan until it becomes adequately capitalized. We have control of Equity Bank for the purpose of this statute. 

Further, by statute and regulation, a bank holding company must serve as a source of financial and managerial strength to each bank that it controls and, under appropriate circumstances, may be required to commit resources to support each such controlled bank. This support may be required at times when the bank holding company may not have the resources to provide the support. In addition, if the Federal Reserve believes that a bank holding company&#146;s activities, assets or affiliates represent a significant risk to the financial safety, soundness or stability of a controlled bank, then the Federal Reserve could require the bank holding company to terminate the activities, liquidate the assets or divest the affiliates. The regulators may require these and other actions in support of controlled banks even if such actions are not in the best interests of the bank holding company or its stockholders. 

Acquisitions by Bank Holding Companies 

The BHC Act requires every bank holding company to obtain the prior approval of the Federal Reserve before it may acquire all or substantially all of the assets of any bank or ownership or control of any voting shares of any bank if after such acquisition it would own or control, directly or indirectly, more than 5% of the voting shares of such bank. In approving bank acquisitions by bank holding companies, the Federal Reserve is required to consider the financial and managerial resources and future prospects of the bank holding company and banks concerned, the convenience and needs of the communities to be served, the effect on competition as well as the financial stability of the United States. The Attorney General of the United States may, within 30 days after approval of an acquisition by the Federal Reserve, bring an action challenging such acquisition under the federal antitrust laws, in which case the effectiveness of such approval is stayed pending a final ruling by the courts. Under certain circumstances, the 30-day period may be shortened to 15 days. 

Control Acquisitions 

The Change in Bank Control Act, or the CBCA, prohibits a person or group of persons from acquiring &#147;control&#148; of a bank holding company unless the Federal Reserve has been notified and has not objected to the transaction. Under a rebuttable presumption established by the Federal Reserve, the acquisition of 10% or more of a class of voting stock of a bank holding company with a class of securities registered under Section 12 of the Exchange Act, such as ourselves, would, under the circumstances set forth in the presumption, constitute acquisition of control of us. 

In addition, the CBCA prohibits any entity from acquiring 25% (the BHC Act has a lower limit for acquirers that are existing bank holding companies) or more of a bank holding company&#146;s or bank&#146;s voting securities, or otherwise obtaining control or a controlling influence over a bank holding company or bank without the approval of the Federal Reserve. On September 22, 2008, the Board of Managers of the Federal Reserve issued a policy statement on equity investments in bank holding companies and banks, which states the Federal Reserve generally will not consider an entity&#146;s investment to be &#147;controlling&#148; if the entity owns or controls less than 25% of the voting shares and less than 33% total equity of the bank holding company or bank and has limited business relationships, director representation or other indicia of control. Depending on the nature of the overall investment and the capital structure of the banking organization, the Federal Reserve will permit, based on the policy statement, noncontrolling investments in the form of voting and nonvoting shares that represent in the aggregate (i) less than one-third of the total equity of the banking organization (and less than one-third of any class of voting securities, assuming conversion of all convertible nonvoting securities held by the entity) and (ii) less than 15% of any class of voting securities of the banking organization. 

&#160;

Interstate Branching 

The Dodd-Frank Act permits a national or state bank, with the approval of its regulator, to open a branch in any state if the law of the state in which the branch is located would permit the establishment of the branch if the bank were a bank chartered in that state. 

Anti-Tying Restrictions 

Bank holding companies and their affiliates are prohibited from tying the provision of certain services, such as extensions of credit, to other services offered by a holding company or its affiliates. 

Bank Regulation 

Equity Bank operates under a Kansas state bank charter and is subject to regulation by the OSBC and the Federal Reserve. The OSBC and the Federal Reserve regulate or monitor all areas of Equity Bank&#146;s operations, including capital requirements, issuance of stock, declaration of dividends, interest rates, deposits, loans, investments, borrowings, record keeping, establishment of branches, acquisitions, mergers, information technology and employee responsibility and conduct. The OSBC places limitations on activities of Equity Bank, including the issuance of capital notes or debentures and the holding of real estate and personal property, and requires Equity Bank to maintain a certain ratio of reserves against deposits. The OSBC requires Equity Bank to file a report annually, in addition to any periodic report requested. 

The Federal Reserve and the OSBC regularly examine Equity Bank and its records. The FDIC may also periodically examine and evaluate insured banks. 

Standards for Safety and Soundness 

As part of FDICIA&#146;s efforts to promote the safety and soundness of depository institutions and their holding companies, appropriate federal banking regulators are required to have in place regulations specifying operational and management standards (addressing internal controls, loan documentation, credit underwriting and interest rate risk), asset quality and earnings. As discussed above, the Federal Reserve and the FDIC have extensive authority to police unsafe or unsound practices and violations of applicable laws and regulations by depository institutions and their holding companies. For example, the FDIC may terminate the deposit insurance of any institution that it determines has engaged in an unsafe or unsound practice. The agencies can also assess civil money penalties of up to $1 million per day, issue cease-and-desist or removal orders, seek injunctions and publicly disclose such actions. 

The ability of Equity Bank, as a Kansas state bank, to pay dividends is restricted under the Kansas Banking Code. Pursuant to the Kansas Banking Code, a Kansas state bank may declare and pay a dividend out of undivided profits after deducting losses to the holders of record of the stock outstanding on the date the dividend is declared. However, prior to the declaration of any dividend, a Kansas state bank must transfer 25% of its net profits since the last preceding dividend to its surplus fund until the surplus fund is equal to its total capital stock. In addition, no dividend may be declared without the approval of the OSBC, if such dividend would reduce the surplus fund to an amount less than 30% of the resulting total capital of the bank. 

Equity Bank is also subject to certain restrictions on the payment of dividends as a result of the requirement that it maintain an adequate level of capital in accordance with guidelines promulgated from time to time by the federal regulators. 

The present and future dividend policy of Equity Bank is subject to the discretion of its boards of directors. In determining whether to pay dividends to us and, if made, the amount of the dividends, the board of directors of Equity Bank considers many of the same factors discussed above. Equity Bank cannot guarantee that it will have the financial ability to pay dividends to us, or if dividends are paid, that they will be sufficient for us to make distributions to our stockholders. Equity Bank is not obligated to pay dividends. 

&#160;

Insider Transactions 

A bank is subject to certain restrictions on extensions of credit to insiders of the bank or of any affiliate. Insiders include executive officers, directors, certain principal stockholders, and their related interests. Extensions of credit include derivative transactions, repurchase and reverse repurchase agreements, and securities borrowing and lending transactions to the extent that such transactions cause a bank to have credit exposure to an insider. Any extension of credit to an insider must: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Be made on substantially the same terms, including interest rates and collateral, as those prevailing at the time for comparable transactions with third parties; and &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Involve no more than the normal risk of repayment or present other unfavorable features. For loans above certain threshold amounts, board approval is required, and the interested insider may not be involved. In addition, a bank may purchase an asset from or sell an asset to an insider only if the transaction is on market terms and, if representing more than 10% of capital, is approved in advance by the majority of disinterested directors. 

Additional and more stringent limits apply to a bank&#146;s transactions with its own executive officers and certain directors. These limits do not apply to transactions with all directors nor to insiders of the bank&#146;s affiliates. 

Restrictions on Transactions with Affiliates 

Section 23A of the Federal Reserve Act imposes quantitative and qualitative limits on transactions between a bank and any affiliate and requires certain levels of collateral for any such loans. It also limits the amount of advances to third parties which are collateralized by the securities or obligations of a holding company. Section 23B of the Federal Reserve Act requires that certain transactions between Equity Bank and its affiliates must be on terms substantially the same, or at least as favorable, as those prevailing at the time for comparable transactions with or involving other nonaffiliated companies. In the absence of such comparable transactions, any transaction between Equity Bank and its affiliates must be on terms and under circumstances, including credit standards, which in good faith would be offered to or would apply to nonaffiliated companies. 

Capital Adequacy 

In addition to the capital rules applicable to both banks and bank holding companies discussed above, under the prompt corrective action regulations, the federal bank regulators are required and authorized to take supervisory actions against undercapitalized banks. For this purpose, a bank is placed in one of the following five categories based on the bank&#146;s capital (as of the new capital rules discussed above): 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; well capitalized (at least 5% leverage capital, 6.5% common equity Tier 1 risk-based capital, 8% Tier 1 risk-based capital and 10% total risk-based capital); &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; adequately capitalized (at least 4% leverage capital, 4.5% common equity Tier 1 risk-based capital, 6% Tier 1 risk-based capital and 8% total risk-based capital); &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; undercapitalized (less than 4% leverage capital, 4.5% common equity Tier 1 risk-based capital, 6% Tier 1 risk-based capital and 8% total risk-based capital); &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; significantly undercapitalized (less than 3% leverage capital, 3% common equity Tier 1 risk-based capital, 4% Tier 1 risk-based capital and 6% total risk-based capital); and &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; critically undercapitalized (less than 2% tangible capital). Federal banking regulators are required to take various mandatory supervisory actions and are authorized to take other discretionary actions with respect to institutions in the three undercapitalized categories. The severity of the action depends upon the capital category in which the institution is placed. The regulators have the discretion to 

&#160;

downgrade a bank from one category to a lower category. Generally, subject to a narrow exception, banking regulators must appoint a receiver or conservator for an institution that is &#147;critically undercapitalized.&#148; An institution that is categorized as &#147;undercapitalized,&#148; &#147;significantly undercapitalized,&#148; or &#147;critically undercapitalized&#148; is required to submit an acceptable capital restoration plan to its appropriate federal banking agency. 

Failure to meet capital guidelines could subject Equity Bank to a variety of enforcement remedies, including issuance of a capital directive, the termination of deposit insurance by the FDIC, a prohibition on accepting brokered deposits and other restrictions on our business. 

As of December 31, 2015, Equity Bank exceeded the capital levels required to be deemed well capitalized. 

Deposit Insurance 

The FDIC insures the deposits of federally insured banks up to prescribed statutory limits for each depositor, through the Deposit Insurance Fund (&#147;DIF&#148;), and safeguards the safety and soundness of the banking and thrift industries. The Dodd-Frank Act permanently raised the standard maximum deposit insurance amount to $250,000. The amount of FDIC assessments paid by each insured depository institution is based on its relative risk of default as measured by regulatory capital ratios and other supervisory factors. 

In connection with the Dodd Frank Act&#146;s requirement that insurance assessments be based on assets, the FDIC has redefined its deposit insurance premium assessment base to be an institution&#146;s average consolidated total assets minus average tangible equity. The FDIC also has revised its deposit insurance assessment rate schedule in light of this change to the assessment base. The revised rate schedule and other revisions to the assessment rules became effective April 1, 2011. 

We are generally unable to control the amount of premiums that we are required to pay for FDIC insurance. At least semi-annually, the FDIC will update its loss and income projections for the DIF and, if needed, will increase or decrease assessment rates, following notice-and-comment rulemaking, if required. If there are additional bank or financial institution failures or if the FDIC otherwise determines to increase assessment rates, Equity Bank may be required to pay higher FDIC insurance premiums. Any future increases in FDIC insurance premiums may have a material and adverse effect on our earnings. 

In addition, all FDIC-insured institutions are required to pay assessments to the FDIC to fund interest payments on bonds issued by the Financing Corporation, or FICO, an agency of the federal government established to recapitalize the predecessor to DIF. These assessments, which are included in Deposit Insurance Premiums on the Consolidated Statements of Income, will continue until the FICO bonds mature between 2017 and 2019. 

Consumer Financial Protection Bureau 

The Dodd-Frank Act created the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, or the CFPB, which is granted broad rulemaking, supervisory and enforcement powers under various federal consumer financial protection laws, including the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, Truth in Lending Act, Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act, Fair Credit Reporting Act, Fair Debt Collection Act, the Consumer Financial Privacy provisions of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act and certain other statutes. The CFPB has examination and primary enforcement authority with respect to depository institutions with $10 billion or more in assets. Depository institutions with less than $10 billion in assets, such as Equity Bank, are subject to rules promulgated by the CFPB, which may increase their compliance risk and the costs associated with their compliance efforts, but such banks will continue to be examined and supervised by federal banking regulators for consumer compliance purposes. The CFPB has authority to prevent unfair, deceptive or abusive practices in connection with the offering of consumer financial products. 

&#160;

The Dodd-Frank Act authorizes the CFPB to establish certain minimum standards for the origination of residential mortgages, including a determination of the borrower&#146;s ability to repay. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act allows borrowers to raise certain defenses to foreclosure if they receive any loan other than a &#147;qualified mortgage&#148; as defined by the CFPB. The CFPB has opened inquiries into whether additional rule-making would be appropriate for overdraft protection programs. 

The CFPB has issued a number of regulations related to the origination of mortgages, foreclosure and overdrafts as well as many other consumer issues. Additionally, the CFPB has proposed, or will be proposing, additional regulations on issues that directly relate to our business. Although it is difficult to predict at this time the extent to which the CFPB&#146;s final rules impact the operations and financial condition of Equity Bank, such rules may have a material impact on Equity Bank&#146;s compliance costs, compliance risk and fee income. 

Privacy 

Under the Right to Financial Privacy Act, which imposes a duty to maintain confidentiality of consumer financial records and prescribes procedures for complying with administrative subpoenas of financial records, financial institutions are required to disclose their policies for collecting and protecting confidential information. Customers generally may prevent financial institutions from sharing personal financial information with nonaffiliated third parties except for third parties that market the institutions&#146; own products and services. Additionally, financial institutions generally may not disclose consumer account numbers to any nonaffiliated third party for use in telemarketing, direct mail marketing or other marketing through electronic mail to consumers. 

Recent cyber attacks against bank and other institutions that resulted in unauthorized access to confidential customer information have prompted the federal banking agencies to issue extensive guidance on cyber security. The regulatory agencies may devote more resources to this part of their safety and soundness examination than they may have in the past. 

Like other lending institutions, our subsidiary bank uses credit bureau data in its underwriting activities. Use of that data is regulated under the Federal Credit Reporting Act on a uniform, nationwide basis. The act and its implementing regulation, Regulation V, cover credit reporting, prescreening, sharing of information between affiliates, and the use of credit data. The Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act of 2003 allows states to enact identity theft laws that are not inconsistent with the conduct required by the provisions of the act. 

The Patriot Act, International Money Laundering Abatement and Financial Anti-Terrorism Act and Bank Secrecy Act 

A major focus of governmental policy on financial institutions has been aimed at combating money laundering and terrorist financing. The Patriot Act and the International Money Laundering and Financial Anti-Terrorism Act of 2001 substantially broadened the scope of U.S. anti-money laundering laws and penalties, specifically related to the Bank Secrecy Act and expanded the extra-territorial jurisdiction of the United States. The U.S. Treasury has issued a number of implementing regulations that apply various requirements of the Patriot Act to financial institutions, such as Equity Bank. These regulations impose obligations on financial institutions to maintain appropriate policies, procedures and controls to detect, prevent and report money laundering and terrorist financing and to verify the identity of their customers. 

Failure of a financial institution and its holding company to maintain and implement adequate programs to combat money laundering and terrorist financing, or to comply with relevant laws and regulations, could have serious legal, reputational and financial consequences for the institution. Because of the significance of regulatory emphasis on these requirements, Equity Bank will continue to expend significant staffing, technology and financial resources to maintain programs designed to ensure compliance with applicable laws and regulations and an effective audit function for testing of Equity Bank&#146;s compliance with the Bank Secrecy Act on an ongoing basis. 

&#160;

Community Reinvestment Act 

The CRA requires that, in connection with examinations of financial institutions within its jurisdiction, the federal and the state banking regulators, as applicable, evaluate the record of each financial institution in meeting the credit needs of its local community, including low and moderate-income neighborhoods. These facts are also considered in evaluating mergers, acquisitions and applications to open a branch or facility. Failure to adequately meet these criteria could impose additional requirements and limitations on us. Additionally, we must publicly disclose the terms of various CRA-related agreements. 

Other Regulations 

Interest and other charges that Equity Bank collects or contracts for are subject to state usury laws and federal laws concerning interest rates. Equity Bank&#146;s loan operations are also subject to federal laws applicable to credit transactions, such as: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; the Federal Truth-In-Lending Act, governing disclosures of credit terms to consumer borrowers; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act, requiring financial institutions to provide information to enable the public and public officials to determine whether a financial institution is fulfilling its obligation to help meet the housing needs of the community it serves; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, prohibiting discrimination on the basis of race, creed or other prohibited factors in extending credit; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; the Fair Credit Reporting Act, governing the use and provision of information to credit reporting agencies; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; the Fair Debt Collection Act, governing the manner in which consumer debts may be collected by collection agencies; and &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; the rules and regulations of the various governmental agencies charged with the responsibility of implementing these federal laws. In addition, Equity Bank&#146;s deposit operations are subject to the Electronic Funds Transfer Act and Regulation E issued by the Federal Reserve to implement such act, which govern automatic deposits to and withdrawals from deposit accounts and customers&#146; rights and liabilities arising from the use of automated teller machines and other electronic banking services. 

Concentrated Commercial Real Estate Lending Regulations 

The Federal Reserve and other federal banking regulatory agencies have promulgated guidance governing financial institutions with concentrations in commercial real estate lending. The guidance provides that a bank has a concentration in commercial real estate lending if (i) total reported loans for construction, land development and other land represent 100% or more of total capital or (ii) total reported loans secured by multifamily and non-farm residential properties and loans for construction, land development and other land represent 300% or more of total capital and the bank&#146;s commercial real estate loan portfolio has increased 50% or more during the prior 36 months. If a concentration is present, management must employ heightened risk management practices including board and management oversight and strategic planning, development of underwriting standards, risk assessment and monitoring through market analysis and stress testing and increasing capital requirements. 

All of the above laws and regulations add significantly to the cost of operating us and Equity Bank and thus have a negative impact on profitability. We would also note that there has been a tremendous expansion experienced in recent years by certain financial service providers that are not subject to the same rules and regulations as us and Equity Bank. These institutions, because they are not so highly regulated, have a competitive advantage over us and Equity Bank and may continue to draw large amounts of funds away from banking institutions, with a continuing adverse effect on the banking industry in general. 

&#160;

Effect of Governmental Monetary Policies 

The commercial banking business is affected not only by general economic conditions but also by both U.S. fiscal policy and the monetary policies of the Federal Reserve. Some of the instruments of fiscal and monetary policy available to the Federal Reserve include changes in the discount rate on member bank borrowings, the fluctuating availability of borrowings at the &#147;discount window,&#148; open market operations, the imposition of and changes in reserve requirements against member banks&#146; deposits and assets of foreign branches, the imposition of and changes in reserve requirements against certain borrowings by banks and their affiliates and the placing of limits on interest rates that member banks may pay on time and savings deposits. Such policies influence to a significant extent the overall growth of bank loans, investments and deposits and the interest rates charged on loans or paid on time and savings deposits. We cannot predict the nature of future fiscal and monetary policies and the effect of such policies on the future business and our earnings. 

&#160;

