 ITEM 1. BUSINESS Overview 

We are a biotechnology company focused primarily on the development of new products for diseases caused by inflammation and inborn errors of metabolism that are thought to be related to naturally occurring toxic and pro-inflammatory chemical species known as aldehydes. We have developed a series of aldehyde traps, molecules that are designed specifically to sequester and allow for the degradation of aldehydes. Our most advanced aldehyde trap, NS2, is a novel product candidate that we are developing for the treatment of: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Allergic Conjunctivitis, a common disease that affects more than 20% of the population worldwide, and related rare allergic ocular diseases that are characterized by inflammation of the conjunctiva (a membrane covering part of the front of the eye), resulting in ocular itching, excessive tear production, swelling and redness; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Noninfectious Anterior Uveitis, a severe inflammatory eye disease that can lead to blindness; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Sj&#246;gren-Larsson Syndrome, a rare inborn error of metabolism caused by mutations in an enzyme that metabolizes fatty aldehydes, resulting in severe skin and neurological disorders; and &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Succinic Semi-Aldehyde Dehydrogenase Deficiency, a rare inborn error of metabolism caused by genetic mutations in an aldehyde-metabolizing enzyme that lead to severe neurological disease. In 2015, we began clinical testing of NS2 in diseases where we believe aldehyde trapping may improve symptoms and slow or prevent disease progression. In February 2016, we announced that the results of a randomized, parallel-group, double-masked, vehicle-controlled Phase IIa clinical trial of NS2 ophthalmic 

&#160;

solution in patients with allergic conjunctivitis demonstrated statistically and clinically significant activity of NS2 over vehicle in reducing ocular itching and tearing. In the second quarter of 2016, we expect to report results of our randomized, parallel-group, double-masked, vehicle-controlled Phase II clinical trial of NS2 ophthalmic solution in patients with noninfectious anterior uveitis. In the second or third quarter of 2016, we expect to report results of our randomized, parallel-group, double-masked, vehicle-controlled Phase II clinical trial of a dermatologic formulation of NS2 for the treatment of the skin manifestations of SLS. By the end of 2016, we expect to initiate Phase I clinical testing of a systemic formulation of NS2 in preparation for potential Phase II clinical trials in SLS, SSADH Deficiency and severe inflammatory crises. We are also developing aldehyde traps different from NS2 that have the potential to treat diseases other than those described above. All of our development timelines could be subject to adjustment depending on recruitment rate, regulatory agency review, and other factors that could delay the initiation and completion of clinical trials. 

Aldehydes are pro-inflammatory, and we believe that aldehyde traps may represent a novel and important approach to treating diseases characterized by inflammation. Allergic conjunctivitis is a common ocular inflammatory disease that affects more than 20% of the population worldwide. The disease is thought to be mediated in part by pro-inflammatory aldehydes that exacerbate inflammation of the conjunctiva, resulting in ocular itching, excessive tear production, swelling, and redness. Other ophthalmic allergic diseases include atopic keratoconjunctivitis (AKC), a rare condition characterized by persistent inflammation of the front of the eye. In contrast to allergic inflammation, noninfectious anterior uveitis is a painful and severe autoimmune inflammatory disease of the eye that can lead to blindness. A portion of allergic conjunctivitis patients, many AKC patients, and most noninfectious anterior uveitis patients are treated with topical corticosteroids, a class of medication that over time leads to ocular toxicity, including cataract (ocular lens opacities resulting in vision impairment) formation, glaucoma (increased intraocular pressure that can, in some cases, lead to blindness), corneal ulcers, and increased rates of ocular infections. We believe that novel anti-inflammatory medications are needed to improve symptoms and deter disease progression, especially in order to reduce dependence on topical corticosteroids. 

Patients with inborn errors of metabolism due to genetic mutations in aldehyde-metabolizing enzymes endogenously generate elevated levels of aldehydes, which are directly toxic or lead to the formation of toxic aldehyde derivatives. By reducing aldehyde load, we believe that aldehyde traps have the potential to at least partially mitigate the pathology associated with inborn errors of aldehyde metabolism. Sj&#246;gren-Larsson Syndrome (SLS) is a rare condition that we believe afflicts approximately 1,000 patients in the United States. The disease is caused by mutations in fatty aldehyde dehydrogenase, an enzyme that metabolizes fatty (generally 16-18 carbon) aldehydes, resulting in high levels of toxic aldehydes that are the suspected cause of ichthyosis (a severe skin disease), mental delay, spasticity, and, in some patients, retinal dysfunction. The symptoms of SLS patients are poorly treated, and no therapy specifically indicated for SLS has been approved by the FDA. Succinic Semi-Aldehyde Dehydrogenase (SSADH) Deficiency is a rare inborn error of aldehyde metabolism that has been identified in over 400 patients worldwide, and is caused by genetic mutations in SSADH, leading to elevated aldehyde levels. High aldehyde load in SSADH deficiency is thought to cause severe neurologic dysfunction, including autism, motor disorders, cognitive delay and seizures. The symptoms of SSADH Deficiency patients are poorly treated, and no therapy specifically indicated for SSADH Deficiency has been approved by the FDA. Given the lack of efficacious therapy, we believe that novel medications are needed to improve symptoms and deter disease progression for inborn errors of aldehyde metabolism. 

Since most of the diseases we plan to study are rare, we intend to request orphan drug designation from the United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) in certain indications. Additionally, since the mechanism of action of NS2 and other aldehyde traps is novel and may address diseases of significant unmet medical need, we intend to apply for Breakthrough Therapy Designation from the FDA, pending clinical efficacy data or other information that may be required for the application. 

NS2 has been tested in a variety of in vitro and preclinical models, and has demonstrated efficacy in trapping aldehydes, diminishing inflammation, reducing healing time, protecting key cellular constituents from 

&#160;

aldehyde damage, and lowering the potential for scarring or fibrosis. In cell models of SLS, NS2 has demonstrated trapping of fatty aldehydes, and in a knock-out mouse model of SSADH Deficiency, NS2 has demonstrated trapping of succinic semi-aldehyde in key organs. NS2 has also completed a variety of toxicity studies in animals and appears generally safe. NS2 has been well tolerated to date in a Phase I clinical trial and two Phase II clinical trials as a topical ophthalmic solution, and in a Phase II clinical trial with topical dermatologic administration. 

Since our incorporation, we have devoted substantially all of our resources to the preclinical and clinical development of our product candidates. Our ability to generate revenues largely depends upon our ability, alone or with others, to complete the development of our product candidates to obtain the regulatory approvals for and to manufacture, market and sell our products and product candidates. The results of our operations will vary significantly from year-to-year and quarter-to-quarter and depend on a number of factors, including risks related to our business and industry, risks relating to intellectual property and other legal matters, risks related to our common stock, and other risks that are detailed in the section of this Annual Report on Form 10-K entitled &#147;Risk Factors.&#148; 

Business Strategy 

We intend to develop NS2 and other novel aldehyde traps for the diseases described above as well as potentially other diseases where aldehydes may mediate pathology. We believe that aldehyde trapping is a novel approach with broad therapeutic potential in inflammatory diseases and inborn errors of aldehyde metabolism. Accordingly, we have patented and will continue to attempt to patent novel drug compositions, formulations, and methods that relate to aldehyde trapping. While we may continue to develop and eventually attempt to market aldehyde traps for certain diseases following regulatory approval, if any, we may also partner with larger companies to develop and commercialize products for other diseases where aldehyde toxicity is implicated, particularly diseases that afflict large populations worldwide. 

Specifically, our business strategy is to: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Continue the development of and pursue regulatory approval for NS2. We have initiated clinical trials of NS2 in several diseases. If sufficient safety and efficacy is demonstrated over multiple clinical trials as part of the standard drug development process, we intend to apply to the FDA and comparable foreign agencies for marketing approval of NS2. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Aggressively develop new intellectual property and consider partnerships to accelerate and maximize the potential for other product candidates that are aldehyde traps. We have discovered and synthesized a variety of aldehyde traps that we intend to develop and patent for new indications. For some indications, especially those that afflict large populations worldwide, we will consider development and commercialization licensing opportunities with strategic partners that have significant financial resources, commercialization experience, and global infrastructure. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Explore building in-house capabilities to commercialize NS2 in the United States and other geographies. As, and if, NS2 progresses through clinical programs, in addition to partnering opportunities that we may consider, we also intend to evaluate the development of our own specialty sales force and marketing capabilities to allow us to directly market NS2 for rare diseases in the United States or in other geographies, if approved by FDA or analogous regulatory agencies outside the United States. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Consider in-licensing complementary drug programs. We may consider in-licensing drug candidates that are unrelated to aldehyde trapping but complementary to the indications of our current development programs. &#160;

The Market for Aldehyde Traps 

Occurring generally as a result of a large number of metabolic processes, aldehydes are an endogenously generated chemical species that, among other things, promote inflammation. At high levels, aldehydes are toxic and are implicated as mediators of many inflammatory diseases. Other diseases thought to be related to aldehydes include inborn errors of metabolism, where genetic mutations lead to the incapacity to metabolize certain toxic aldehydes. We believe that the medical needs of the patients suffering from aldehyde-mediated diseases are not currently well addressed and that there is a large market potential for therapies that can lower aldehyde levels. In particular, current therapies for inflammatory diseases often lead to toxicity, and there are no FDA-approved therapies specifically indicated for inborn errors of aldehyde metabolism. 

In September 2015, we initiated a randomized, parallel-group, double-masked, vehicle-controlled Phase IIa clinical trial of NS2 ophthalmic solution in patients with allergic conjunctivitis, an ocular inflammatory disease. In February 2016, we announced topline results for this trial, which demonstrated statistically significant activity of NS2 over vehicle in reducing ocular itching and tearing. We believe that this trial is the first demonstration of the clinical efficacy of aldehyde trapping in any human disease. In April 2015, we initiated a randomized, parallel-group, double-masked, vehicle-controlled Phase II clinical trial of NS2 ophthalmic solution in patients with noninfectious anterior uveitis, an ocular inflammatory disease. Data from this trial are expected in the second quarter of 2016. In March 2015, we initiated a randomized, parallel-group, double-masked, vehicle-controlled Phase II clinical trial of a dermatologic formulation of NS2 for the treatment of the skin manifestations of SLS, an inborn error of aldehyde metabolism. Data from this trial are expected in the second or third quarter of 2016. We may initiate clinical trials with NS2 in other diseases thought to be mediated in part by aldehydes, and we have commenced development of a systemic formulation of NS2, which we expect to initiate Phase I clinical testing by the end of 2016 in preparation for potential Phase II clinical trials in inborn errors of metabolism and severe inflammatory crises. We are also developing aldehyde traps different from NS2 that have the potential to treat diseases other than those described above. For mass-market diseases, we may partner with larger companies for development and commercialization. All of our development timelines could be subject to adjustment depending on recruitment rate, regulatory agency review, and other factors that could delay the initiation and completion of clinical trials. 

Allergic Conjunctivitis 

Allergic conjunctivitis is a common allergic disease that is thought to be mediated in part by pro-inflammatory aldehydes, and is characterized by inflammation of the conjunctiva, resulting in excessive ocular itching and tear production in addition to ocular swelling and redness. Allergic conjunctivitis has been estimated to affect more than 20% of the population worldwide. The mainstay of therapy for allergic conjunctivitis is anti-histamines, which may lead to mydriasis (large pupils) and, in some patients, blurry vision. Further, a significant number of patients do not respond to anti-histamines, especially after the acute effects of the medication subside. Many anti-histamine-recalcitrant patients are prescribed corticosteroids and other more potent drugs that may lead to a variety of ocular toxicities. Other ocular diseases related to allergic conjunctivitis include atopic keratoconjunctivitis (AKC), which is a rare condition characterized by persistent allergic inflammation of the front of the eye. Treatment of AKC generally requires chronic corticosteroid administration, which often results in ocular toxicity. 

By trapping pro-inflammatory aldehydes, we believe NS2 may reduce inflammation in allergic conjunctivitis, AKC, and related diseases. NS2 may also reduce the burden of corticosteroid use in patients with persistent disease or in patients that do not respond adequately to anti-histamines. Because corticosteroids exacerbate the formation of cataracts and glaucoma and may increase ocular infection and corneal ulceration, we believe that there is a high demand for a novel topical anti-inflammatory agent to be used in conjunction with, or in place of, corticosteroids. 

&#160;

Noninfectious Anterior Uveitis 

Noninfectious anterior uveitis is an inflammatory ocular disease that is associated with elevated aldehyde levels and is characterized by rapid-onset pain, sensitivity to light, and loss of vision that can progress to blindness. The disease may occur with other autoimmune diseases. The annual incidence of noninfectious anterior uveitis in the United States is estimated to be 25,000 patients, and approximately one-third of these patients have one or more episodes per year. Patients with recurrent episodes often develop cataracts, and severe cases may lead to glaucoma, retinal dysfunction, or blindness. The disease is typically treated with topical corticosteroids, though prolonged used of corticosteroids increases the incidence of cataracts and glaucoma in uveitis. Corticosteroids may also increase the incidence of infection and corneal ulceration. Even with corticosteroid therapy, it has been estimated that uveitis is responsible for 10% of the blindness in the United States. 

By trapping pro-inflammatory aldehydes, we believe NS2 may diminish inflammation in noninfectious anterior uveitis and reduce the burden of corticosteroid use. Because corticosteroids exacerbate the formation of cataracts and glaucoma in uveitis and may increase ocular infection and corneal ulceration, we believe that there is a high demand for a novel topical anti-inflammatory agent to be used in conjunction with, or in place of, corticosteroids. 

Sj&#246;gren-Larsson Syndrome 

Sj&#246;gren-Larsson Syndrome (SLS) is caused by a variety of mutations of an enzyme called fatty aldehyde dehydrogenase (FALDH), leading to the accumulation of fatty aldehydes or precursor molecules that are generally 16 to 18 carbons in length. The aldehyde accumulation is thought to result in the pathology of the disease, which includes a severe skin disorder called ichthyosis, as well as mental delay, spasticity, and, in some patients, retinal disorders. While FALDH dysfunction also leads to diminished levels of certain fatty acids, therapy with these fatty acids has been ineffective in SLS patients. SLS patients are generally diagnosed as neonates given the severe ichthyosis that presents at birth. The disease persists lifelong, and SLS patients have a shortened lifespan, often dying in the sixth decade of life. Some SLS patients are believed to inherit the disease, though most occurrences of SLS appear to be due to sporadic mutations. The disease occurs worldwide. To our knowledge, Sweden is currently the only country to have estimated the prevalence of the disease, at 1 per 250,000 people. Extrapolating from the Swedish estimate, it is generally assumed that there are approximately 1,000 or fewer SLS patients in the United States and a larger number in Europe. The United States SLS prevalence estimate is supported by frequency analysis of FALDH missense mutations in the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute exome sequencing database. We believe that many older SLS patients may be undiagnosed, potentially due to the lack of available dermatologic and genetic medicine expertise available when those patients were younger. There is no FDA-approved treatment specifically indicated for SLS. 

The primary day-to-day complaint of SLS patients and their caregivers is ichthyosis, a severe skin disease characterized in SLS patients by thick, scaly, dry, wrinkled, pigmented, pruritic (itchy), inflamed skin. SLS patients are consistently disturbed by pruritus and often excoriate skin by scratching. The ichthyosis in SLS affects most of the body, generally sparing the face, palms, and soles. There is currently no specific therapy approved for the treatment of the dermatologic disease in SLS, though some patients and their caregivers apply non-specific topical creams, including keratinolytics (acids that soften skin), moisturizers, and retinoids. We believe that the effects of keratinolytic and moisturizing creams are minimal or non-existent in treating severe ichthyosis, and due to toxicity, retinoids are not suitable for chronic use. 

The dermatologic disease in SLS is thought to be caused by aldehyde-mediated modification of lipids (fats) that are generated in the epidermis (the most superficial layer of skin) to form a moisture barrier that holds water in the skin. Moisture barrier compromise leads to water loss, which in turn leads to dermal thickening characteristic of ichthyosis. We believe that by lowering levels of aldehydes and thereby preventing lipid modification and the ensuing moisture barrier dysfunction, NS2, when applied topically to the skin, has the potential to ameliorate the dermatologic symptoms of SLS and deter disease progression. Further, by reducing aldehyde load throughout the body, we believe the systemic administration of NS2 or other aldehyde traps may be beneficial in the treatment of the neurological and ocular symptoms of SLS. 

&#160;

Succinic Semi-Aldehyde Dehydrogenase Deficiency 

Succinic Semi-Aldehyde Dehydrogenase (SSADH) Deficiency is a neurological disease caused by mutations in SSADH that result in elevated levels of succinic semi-aldehyde, a toxic aldehyde that is converted into gamma-hydroxybutyrate (GHB) and other metabolites that lead to severe neurological dysfunction, including cognitive delay, seizures, and motor disease. Over 400 patients with SSADH deficiency have been identified worldwide, though the precise prevalence of the disease is not known. GHB (also known as sodium oxybate, a drug marketed for psychiatric disorders) and possibly other succinic semi-aldehyde metabolites lead to depression of neurological function, and some patients with a diagnosis of autism have been found to have SSADH Deficiency. 

There is currently no FDA-approved therapy specifically indicated for SSADH Deficiency, and most patients are treated supportively with anti-epileptic medications. While several therapeutic approaches have been attempted in clinical trials, and one medication is currently undergoing testing in a clinical trial run by the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke, to our knowledge, none have shown promise in addressing the core toxicity of succinic semi-aldehyde, and patients are generally poorly treated. By trapping succinic semi-aldehyde, NS2 or other systemically administered aldehyde traps may have the potential to reduce the direct toxicity of succinic semi-aldehyde as well as the formation of neurotoxic metabolites, and represent a novel approach with considerable therapeutic potential in a disease where there remains significant unmet medical need. 

A New Therapeutic Approach for Inflammation and Inborn Errors of Aldehyde Metabolism: NS2 and Other Novel Aldehyde Traps 

Aldehyde Toxicity 

Aldehydes are generated through a variety of metabolic processes and are pro-inflammatory. At high levels, aldehydes are toxic, binding proteins, lipids, carbohydrates, and DNA, and may mediate inflammation in, and the progression of, many serious diseases through signaling cascades that lead to the activation of intracellular inflammatory factors, including NF-kB, an important protein in the inflammatory response. In addition, aldehyde binding to cellular constituents leads to the formation of indigestible adducts and aggregates that are pro-inflammatory and may lead to cellular dysfunction. Because of the inherent toxicity of aldehydes, most, if not all, living organisms contain enzymes such as aldehyde dehydrogenases that detoxify aldehydes. The toxicity of aldehydes is evidenced by human studies showing an increased rate of cognitive decline, cancer, and cardiovascular disease in populations with diminished aldehyde dehydrogenase capacity. Additionally, most inflammatory diseases, including autoimmune disease, neurodegenerative disease, and cardiovascular diseases, manifest elevated aldehyde levels that apparently overwhelm endogenous aldehyde catabolic capacity. To our knowledge, there has never been a concerted pharmaceutical effort to lower all aldehyde levels. Thus, we believe that trapping aldehydes represents a novel platform for the treatment of inflammatory conditions and inborn errors of aldehyde metabolism where genetic mutations prevent the normal degradation of aldehydes. 

NS2 &#150; Clinical Development 

We are currently developing NS2, a new chemical entity, for the treatment of inflammatory diseases and inborn errors of aldehyde metabolism. NS2 is a small molecule designed specifically to trap, and thereby allow for the degradation of, aldehydes. In in vitro and animal studies, NS2 appears to have minimal pharmacology, meaning that NS2 does not appear to affect most cellular components, including most receptors, enzymes, ion channels, or other proteins. NS2 has been shown to bind and trap aldehydes more rapidly than aldehydes bind any cellular constituent. Evidence suggests that NS2 covalently binds to aldehydes to form NS2-aldehyde adducts, which are rapidly transported to cellular lysosomes and degraded within hours. Outside the lysosome, the NS2-aldehyde adduct is remarkably non-reactive and stable, meaning that NS2-aldehyde binding is essentially irreversible in vivo , hence the notion of NS2 as an aldehyde trap. By essentially irreversibly binding aldehydes to form covalent adducts that are transported to lysosomes for degradation, NS2 has the potential to substantially lower aldehyde levels. 

&#160;

In order to assess the efficacy of aldehyde trapping in human disease, in 2015 we initiated a series of clinical trials in patients with ocular inflammatory disease and in patients with SLS, an inborn error of aldehyde metabolism. Our initial clinical trials in inflammation involved ocular testing, in part, due to the ability to non-invasively assess inflammation on the surface of and within the eye and the ability to treat the eye with topical administration of drug. Our initial clinical trial in inborn errors of aldehyde metabolism focused on SLS, in part, because the dermatologic aspects of the disease may respond to topical administration of drug, and assessment of dermatological response can be performed with relatively non-invasive techniques and clinical examination. Most inflammatory diseases and, that we are aware, all inborn errors of aldehyde metabolism, involve at least some tissues that cannot be effectively treated topically, and thus we are developing systemic formulations of aldehyde traps, including NS2, and plan to initiate Phase I clinical testing of a systemic formulation by the end of 2016. Potential indications for systemic aldehyde traps include: SLS and SSADH Deficiency, two inborn errors of aldehyde metabolism; and severe inflammatory crises where systemic corticosteroids or other potentially toxic anti-inflammatory drugs are currently used in acute care settings. 

In September 2015, we initiated a randomized, parallel-group, double-masked, vehicle-controlled Phase IIa clinical trial of NS2 ophthalmic solution in patients with allergic conjunctivitis. Using the conjunctival allergen provocation test (CAPT), one hundred healthy men and women with at least a two-year history of allergic conjunctivitis to grass, tree or ragweed pollen were randomized in equal groups for treatment with topical ocular NS2 or vehicle, and ocular inflammation was induced by exposure to allergen. The clinical endpoints in the trial included patient assessment (on a 0 to 4 point scale) of ocular itching and tearing, two prominent inflammation-related symptoms of allergic conjunctivitis. In February 2016, we announced topline results, which demonstrated statistically significant activity of NS2 over vehicle in reducing ocular itching and tearing, as shown in the graphics below, which, relative to baseline and relative to vehicle, indicate the efficacy of NS2 immediately after initiation of therapy (Visit 4) and after 14 days of dosing (Visit 5). Relative to baseline scores, NS2 demonstrated durable efficacy that persisted across substantially all time points over three hours following CAPT challenges. Despite a stronger than expected vehicle effect, peak changes in ocular itching and tearing scores were statistically superior to vehicle. The reductions from baseline scores were of the same magnitude previously observed in the CAPT model with existing therapies utilized in the treatment of allergic conjunctivitis, and peak changes exceeded one point for both ocular itching and tearing scores. Both drug and vehicle reduced ocular redness relative to baseline, but there were no differences in redness reduction between drug and vehicle groups. NS2 was generally well tolerated and there were no safety concerns during the trial. Transient and generally mild stinging was noted in the treatment arm. Two patients dropped out of the trial during treatment. 

&#160;

To our knowledge, the data from the allergic conjunctivitis Phase IIa clinical trial represent the first demonstration of the efficacy of aldehyde trapping in any human disease, and we believe that the results validate the potential of aldehyde traps as a novel anti-inflammatory therapy. To further assess the anti-inflammatory activity of NS2, and with the same concentration and dosing frequency of NS2 ophthalmic solution used in the allergic conjunctivitis Phase IIa trial, we initiated in April 2015 a randomized, parallel-group, double-masked, vehicle-controlled Phase II clinical trial of NS2 ophthalmic solution in patients with noninfectious anterior uveitis, another ocular inflammatory disease. Data from this trial are expected in the second quarter of 2016. To assess the activity of NS2 in inborn errors of aldehyde metabolism, we initiated in March 2015 a randomized, parallel-group, double-masked, vehicle-controlled Phase II clinical trial of a dermatologic formulation of NS2 for the treatment of the skin manifestations of SLS. Data from this trial are expected in the second or third quarter of 2016. Table 1 summarizes the key characteristics of the Phase II clinical trials with topical administration of NS2. The clinical designs of the trials in Table 1 have been posted on www.clinicaltrials.gov. 

&#160;

Table 1. Clinical Trial Designs 

&#160;

Indication &#160; Allergic Conjunctivitis &#160; Noninfectious Anterior Uveitis &#160; SLS Dermatologic Drug Product &#160; NS2 0.5% Ophthalmic solution QID &#160; NS2 0.5% Ophthalmic solution QID &#160; NS2 1% Dermatologic QD Patients &#160; 100 &#160; 45 &#160; 12 Control &#160; 1:1 Vehicle, Double-Masked &#160; 1:1:1 (NS2, topical corticosteroid, and sub-therapeutic corticosteroid + NS2), Double-Masked &#160; 1:1 Vehicle, Double-Masked Treatment Time &#160; 16 days &#160; 6 weeks &#160; 8 weeks Endpoints &#160; Ocular itching, tearing and redness &#160; Ocular inflammation, pain, and visual acuity &#160; Visual Ichthyosis Scale We completed a double-masked, placebo-controlled, United States-based Phase I clinical trial of 0.25% and 0.5% NS2 administered as an eye drop in 48 healthy volunteers. Up to four doses per day in both eyes were administered per volunteer for seven days for both concentrations. No NS2 was detectable in plasma, and NS2 was well tolerated in all subjects throughout the duration of the study. There was transient and mild stinging in some subjects. NS2 did not appear to affect visual acuity or dark adaptation, and therefore we believe did not disrupt the function of retinaldehyde in the retina or other physiologic processes that relate to visual function. 

NS2 &#150; Preclinical Development 

We believe we have been the first to demonstrate the positive effects of lowering aldehyde levels with an aldehyde trap in a variety of animal models relating to inflammation, suggesting that aldehyde traps may have potent anti-inflammatory effects that persist hours after NS2 administration at a variety of different doses relevant to clinical testing. In addition, we believe we have also been the first to demonstrate the activity of NS2 in binding aldehydes in in vitro and preclinical models of inborn errors of aldehyde metabolism. 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; In murine models of ocular inflammation and post-surgical healing, topically applied NS2 ophthalmic solution reduced ocular redness and inflammatory cytokines comparable to corticosteroid therapy and slowed the development of corneal haze (fibrosis). (Data presented at the Association for Research in Vision and Ophthalmology 2015 Annual Meeting) &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; In mice injected with a pro-inflammatory agent known as endotoxin, NS2 statistically reduced a variety of inflammatory cytokines (protein inflammatory mediators), including IL-5, Il-1&#223;, IL-17, and TNF- &#097; , while up-regulating the primary anti-inflammatory cytokine, IL-10. Additionally, in models of murine contact (induced by phorbol myristate acetate) and allergic (induced by sensitivity to oxazolone) dermatitis, NS2 statistically reduced inflammation as measured by edema (swelling). (Data presented at the American Academy of Asthma Allergy and Immunology 2015 Annual Meeting) &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; In a model of radiation mucositis (oral inflammation) in hamsters, chronic subcutaneous administration of NS2 reduced healing time and decreased fibrosis (scarring). (Data presented at the Multinational Association of Supportive Care in Cancer &#150; International Society of Oral Oncology 2015 Annual Meeting) &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; In human skin cells and in cells lacking FALDH (a model of SLS), NS2 prevented aldehydes from binding a lipid (fat) thought to be critical to the dermal moisture barrier. (Data presented at the Society for Inherited Metabolic Disorders 2015 Annual Meeting) &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; In a knock-out mouse model of SSADH Deficiency, NS2 trapped succinic semi-aldehyde in key tissues. (Data presented at the 2015 American Society of Human Genetics Annual Meeting). Thus, we believe that aldehyde trapping with NS2 potentially has a variety of mechanisms of action &#150; lowering inflammation, reducing healing time, diminishing scarring, and protecting a lipid important in tissue moisture barriers &#150; that may ameliorate aldehyde-mediated disease and deter aldehyde-mediated disease progression in different ways at the same time. 

NS2 &#150; Therapeutic Index 

Aside from increasing levels of inflammation, there is no generally accepted role of high levels of aldehydes. Some physiologic molecules have aldehyde forms, including retinaldehyde (a form of Vitamin A) and pyridoxal and pyridoxal phosphate (forms of Vitamin B6), but these molecules are not free aldehydes in that they are tightly chaperoned and protected by proteins that prevent the aldehydes from reacting with other molecules, including aldehyde traps. Thus, aldehyde trapping is expected a priori not to lead to overt toxicity by sequestering physiologic aldehydes. 

We have completed one Phase IIa clinical trial, one Phase II clinical trial and a number of non-clinical and preclinical toxicity studies of NS2, which appears to be generally well tolerated and safe. Based on the evidence collected by us to date, NS2 is an aldehyde trap that has minimal pharmacological activity per se, in that there are no known direct interactions with cellular components that appear to have significant effects in animals. After systemic exposure to high levels of NS2, no signs of retinaldehyde deficiency on retinal function have been observed, nor have we observed any effects in animals that would suggest pyridoxal deficiencies. No significant toxicity has been observed by us in an animal model when NS2 was administered as a 0.5% eye drop four times per day for up to nine months. No consistent toxicity was observed in animals topically treated once-daily with a 1% NS2 dermatologic formulation for 9 weeks. No NS2-related toxicity has been observed in animals when NS2 was systemically administered in special cardiovascular, neurobehavioral and pulmonary safety studies, or in other studies with NS2, either acutely or chronically, including a study where animals were administered NS2 intravenously for 60 days. In preparation for clinical testing of systemically administered NS2, other intravenous toxicology studies are in progress. 

To our knowledge, levels of aldehydes in tissue generally do not exceed 10&#181;M for sustained durations, since, based on cell toxicity studies after exposure to aldehydes, 10&#181;M concentrations can lead to significant cell death. In skin cell culture from patients with SLS, over 80% cell death has been observed at 60&#181;M concentrations of aldehydes; however, biopsies of SLS patients do not indicate cell death, suggesting that the actual aldehyde concentrations in the skin of SLS patients is far lower than 60&#181;M. In the tears of patients with dry eye, aldehyde concentrations are estimated at 1&#181;M. Based on the totality of these results, we believe that the levels of aldehydes in SLS or other human diseases are likely significantly lower than 10&#181;M on a sustained basis. Relative to aldehyde levels, concentrations of NS2 are generally higher in our pharmaceutical preparations and in the tissue of animals after NS2 administration. Eye drops containing 0.5% NS2 are greater than 20mM (20,000-fold greater than reported aldehyde load in tears of dry eye patients), and a single drop results in maximum anterior ocular tissue concentrations of greater than 15&#181;M in non-human primates. Likewise, maximum NS2 concentrations in 1% dermatologic topical preparations are greater than 40mM, and following 21 days of once-daily exposure to topical 1% NS2 in animals, dermal tissue levels of NS2 ranged from 10 to 30 &#181;M, with systemic levels of NS2 estimated to be less than 1 &#181;M. Given the potential to be able to administer NS2 topically in concentrations that far exceed predicted aldehyde concentrations, we believe that NS2 has the potential to significantly lower aldehyde loads in diseases where topical administration of NS2 is applicable. However, it is likely that there are &#147;sinks&#148; or stores of aldehydes that are temporarily bound to proteins and other cellular and non-cellular constituents. Temporarily bound aldehydes are likely not immediately accessible to aldehyde traps. Over time, as accessible aldehydes are trapped, aldehyde sinks may release free aldehyde, requiring sustained administration of aldehyde traps to lower total aldehyde levels. 

&#160;

Novel Aldehyde Trap Development 

In addition to the development of NS2, we intend to continue the discovery and development of other novel aldehyde traps and we intend to continue to develop intellectual property around such molecules. We have identified, synthesized, and tested in vitro numerous molecules that may be more potent than NS2 in trapping aldehydes. We are currently screening novel traps for product candidates to address diseases where topical and systemic administration are applicable to reduce aldehyde-mediated pathology. We expect to nominate new aldehyde traps for further development in 2016; however, given the unpredictable nature of medicinal chemistry and the early stage molecular screening, the timing of product candidate selection is difficult to ascertain. 

Intellectual Property and Proprietary Rights 

Overview 

We are building an intellectual property portfolio for NS2 and other aldehyde traps in the United States and abroad. We currently seek, and intend to continue to seek, patent protection in the United States and internationally for our product candidates, methods of use, and processes for manufacture, and for other technologies, where appropriate. Our current policy is to actively seek to protect our proprietary position by, among other things, filing patent applications in the United States and abroad relating to proprietary technologies that are important to the development of our business. We also rely on, and will continue to rely on, trade secrets, know-how, continuing technological innovation and in-licensing opportunities to develop and maintain our proprietary position. We cannot be sure that patents will be granted with respect to any of our pending patent applications or with respect to any patent applications filed by us in the future, nor can we be sure that any of our existing patents or any patents that may be granted to us in the future will be commercially useful in protecting our technology. 

Our success will depend significantly on our ability to obtain and maintain patent and other proprietary protection for the technologies that we consider important to our business, our ability to defend our patents, and our ability to preserve the confidentiality of our trade secrets and operate our business without infringing the patents and proprietary rights of third parties. 

Patent Portfolio 

Our patent portfolio currently includes patents and patent applications covering the composition, formulation, and uses of NS2, and the compositions and uses of other novel aldehyde trapping compounds. As of December 31, 2015, we owned three United States patents and six pending United States non-provisional patent applications, as well as numerous foreign counterparts to these patents and patent applications. We expect the issued NS2 composition of matter patent in the United States, if the appropriate maintenance, renewal, annuity or other governmental fees are paid, to expire in 2028. It is possible that the term of the composition of matter patent in the United States may be extended up to five additional years under the provisions of the Hatch-Waxman Act. We expect the foreign NS2 composition of matter patents, if the appropriate maintenance, renewal, annuity or other governmental fees are paid, to expire in 2026. We expect other patent applications in the portfolio, if issued, and if the appropriate maintenance, renewal, annuity or other governmental fees are paid, to expire from 2026 to 2034. NS2 composition of matter patents have been issued in Australia, Canada, China, Europe (validated in about 14 member countries), Hong Kong, India, Indonesia, Japan, Mexico, Russia and South Korea. NS2 composition of matter patent claims are pending in Brazil. 

Other Intellectual Property Rights 

Our marks ALDEYRA THERAPEUTICS and our logo are registered with the United States Patent and Trademark Office. 

&#160;

In February 2010, we entered into a License and Supply Agreement with CyDex Pharmaceuticals, Inc., which was subsequently acquired by Ligand Pharmaceuticals Incorporated. The agreement grants us an exclusive license in the field of use of aldehyde traps in ocular disease (with certain exclusions) to certain excipient-related composition of matter and method of use patents to produce, use or sell our products that contain a certain solubilizing excipient, and allows for us to purchase at a defined cost an excipient used in our eye drop formulation of NS2. We will also be obligated to make milestone payments of up to an aggregate of $2.15 million upon reaching certain development and regulatory milestones in the development of our product. In the event of commercialization of a product containing the excipient, the agreement stipulates royalties at a low single digit percentage of applicable net sales, with an annual cap. The agreement continues in effect until the 7th anniversary of the expiration of all patents licensed under the agreement, which we currently estimate to be April 2036 unless earlier terminated by the parties. CyDex has the right to terminate the agreement if we are in default under the agreement and should fail to cure such default within thirty (30) days (or ten (10) days with respect to any payment obligation). Default includes, among other things, the failure to fulfill certain obligations and meet certain deadlines in connection with the commercialization of our product. We have the right to terminate the agreement at any time by 90 days written notice, or 45 days written notice in the event of a material breach by CyDex. 

Confidential Information and Inventions Assignment Agreements 

We currently require and will continue to require each of our employees and consultants to execute confidentiality agreements upon the commencement of such individual&#146;s employment, consulting or collaborative relationships with us. These agreements provide that all confidential information developed or made known during the course of the relationship with us be kept confidential and not disclosed to third parties except in specific circumstances. 

In the case of employees, the agreements provide that all inventions resulting from such individual&#146;s work performed for us, utilizing our property or relating to our business and conceived or completed by the individual during employment shall be our exclusive property to the extent permitted by applicable law. Our consulting agreements also provide for assignment to us of any intellectual property resulting from services performed by a consultant for us. 

Sales and Marketing 

We are currently seeking and will continue to seek to develop and commercialize NS2 for certain diseases in the United States alone, or with partners. Our intended strategy for NS2, if approved, will be to establish NS2 as the prescription product of choice for inflammatory disease and inborn errors of aldehyde metabolism. If approved by regulatory agencies for marketing, our current expectation is that NS2 would initially be sold by us to small groups of physicians that specialize in rare disorders. We may also plan to utilize strategic partners or contract sales forces to assist in the commercialization of NS2 for common diseases, and with such partners, would seek to build awareness in the approved patient populations of the clinical utility of NS2. 

Manufacturing 

We do not own or operate manufacturing facilities for the production of NS2 or our other product candidates, nor do we have plans to develop our own manufacturing operations in the foreseeable future. We currently depend on third-party contract manufacturers for all of our required raw materials, drug substance and finished drug product for our preclinical research and clinical trials. We have no immediate plans to purchase, erect or otherwise create any manufacturing facilities to be owned by us for any of these purposes, and intend to continue to depend on third-party contract manufacturers for the foreseeable future. We do not have any current contractual relationships for the manufacture of commercial supplies of NS2 or our other product candidates. If NS2 or our other product candidates are approved by any regulatory agency, we intend to enter into agreements with third-party contract manufacturers for the commercial production at such time. We may utilize third-party consultants to manage our manufacturing contractors. We believe that NS2 and other materials needed for the 

&#160;

formulation of NS2 are relatively easy to manufacture, and that multiple suppliers and formulators could be employed for this purpose. Further, the raw materials needed for manufacture of NS2 and other ingredients in NS2 formulations are generally readily available from multiple sources. 

Employees 

As of December 31, 2015, we had eight full time employees and had engaged a number of key consultants. We intend to increase our employee base in connection with the continuing clinical development of NS2 and other potential product candidates. We expect that a number of consultants previously engaged in development of NS2 will participate in ongoing clinical and manufacturing activities. None of our employees is represented by a labor union. We have not experienced any work stoppages, and we consider our relations with our employees to be very good. 

Competition 

Aldehyde Modulation 

Various academic groups have published on the idea of reducing aldehyde levels, primarily by using compounds with primary amines (certain nitrogen-containing compounds) that react with aldehydes through a well-known chemical process known as the Schiff base reaction. The Schiff base reaction is reversible, and generally the substrates (precursors) and products of the reaction exist in equilibrium such that at any point in time, the aldehyde substrate may be bound or unbound. In this way, Schiff base reactions alone represent reversible and temporary aldehyde binding. Various aldehyde-binding amines have been described, particularly carnosine (a naturally occurring dipeptide), which has a variety of additional potential mechanisms of action unrelated to aldehydes. At least one group has published on the use of certain nitrogen-containing marketed products to temporarily, in a reversible manner, bind retinaldehyde as a potential therapy for retinal disease. We believe that NS2 and other novel aldehyde traps that we have discovered are differentiated from the above approaches in that the chemical structures are novel and the reaction with aldehydes is essentially irreversible in vivo , which we believe may result in a more effective means of diminishing aldehyde levels. 

At least one company (Aldea Pharmaceuticals) has developed catalysts of aldehyde dehydrogenases in order to facilitate the catabolism of certain aldehydes. Initial applications of this approach appear to include reducing levels of acetaldehyde, a product of ethanol consumption. While we believe that NS2 and other aldehyde traps may also diminish acetaldehyde levels, we do not, in the near future, intend to pursue acetaldehyde reduction following ethanol consumption as a commercial opportunity. We do not believe that catalysis of specific aldehyde dehydrogenases would be likely to benefit disorders where aldehyde dehydrogenase activity is missing due to genetic mutations. Further, we are not aware that any aldehyde dehydrogenase catalyst manifests anti-inflammatory activity. 

Other Pharmacotherapies 

The pharmaceutical industry is characterized by intense competition and rapid innovation. Our potential competitors include large pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, specialty pharmaceutical companies, academic institutions, government agencies and research institutions. We believe that the key competitive factors that will affect the development and lead to the commercial success of our product candidates are efficacy, safety, tolerability, and the ability to reduce the dependence on, or the dose of, more toxic products. 

Many of our potential competitors have substantially greater financial, technical and human resources than we do and significantly greater experience in the discovery and development of product candidates, obtaining FDA and other regulatory approvals of products and the commercialization of those products. Accordingly, our competitors may be more successful than we may be in obtaining FDA approval for products and achieving widespread market acceptance. Our competitors&#146; products may be more effective, or more effectively marketed 

&#160;

and sold, than any product that we may commercialize and may render our product candidates obsolete or non-competitive before we can recover the expenses of developing and commercializing any of our product candidates. We anticipate that we will face intense and increasing competition as new products enter the market and advanced technologies become available. In addition, the development of new treatment methods for the diseases we are targeting could render our products non-competitive or obsolete. 

We expect that, if approved, NS2 will compete with a variety of generic and proprietary pharmaceuticals, depending on the approved indication. Table 2 below summarizes competitive products by indication. 

Table 2. Competitive Pharmaceuticals by Indication 

&#160;

Indication 

&#160; Competitive Products 

Allergic Conjunctivitis &#160; Topical antihistamines and corticosteroids, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), Mast cell stabilizers Noninfectious Anterior Uveitis &#160; Topical corticosteroids Sj&#246;gren-Larsson Syndrome &#160; Retinoids, keratinolytics, and moisturizers Succinic Semi-Aldehyde Dehydrogenase Deficiency &#160; Anti-epileptics We believe that there is significant unmet medical need for the diseases that we intend to study. If NS2 is proven to be safe and effective, we believe that NS2 could be used in place of or in addition to current therapies, especially in instances where current therapies are toxic and reducing exposure to such therapies would be desirable. Topical corticosteroids for ocular inflammatory diseases are often associated with toxicity, including corneal ulceration, cataracts, and glaucoma. There is no approved therapy for SLS. We believe that the current non-specific creams and medications for SLS are poorly effective, if effective at all. There is no approved therapy for SSADH Deficiency. We believe that anti-epileptics and other medications used in SSADH Deficiency are inadequate in controlling the symptoms of the disease. While NS2 and other novel aldehyde traps may manifest efficacy and safety advantages over currently available therapies, many such therapies are generic or may be priced considerably lower than the NS2 pricing that we anticipate. Pricing factors may discourage the initial or prolonged use of NS2. 

Many drugs are in development for allergic conjunctivitis. Novartis/Alcon (ESBA105, LME636) and EyeGate Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (EGP-437) have conducted or are conducting clinical trials in anterior uveitis. For the diseases we intend to study, there may be other developmental therapies of which we are not aware. We believe that there are no drugs in development specifically for SLS. The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke is conducting a clinical trial of a GABA receptor antagonist (SGS-742) for SSADH Deficiency. 

A myriad of new treatments have been or are being developed to treat inflammatory diseases, and in theory could be used for the treatment of the diseases our products are intended to target. Immune-modulating products include cytokine inhibitors, immune cell receptor inhibitors, and Janus kinase inhibitors. Companies that currently market such therapies include Abbvie, Inc., Johnson &#38; Johnson, UCB Inc. and UCB S.A., Amgen, Inc., Bristol-Myers Squibb Co., and Pfizer, Inc. As these products become used more commonly, they may begin to be used in the diseases that we intend to target, and such products may manifest efficacy and safety advantages over NS2 or our other product candidates. 

Government Regulation 

FDA Approval Process 

In the United States, pharmaceutical products are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA. The Food Drug and Cosmetic Act, or FDCA, and other federal and state statutes and regulations, govern, among other 

&#160;

things, the research, development, testing, manufacture, storage, recordkeeping, approval, labeling, promotion and marketing, distribution, post-approval monitoring and reporting, sampling, and import and export of pharmaceutical products. Failure to comply with applicable FDA or other requirements may subject a company to a variety of administrative or judicial sanctions, such as the FDA&#146;s refusal to approve pending applications, a clinical hold, warning letters, recall or seizure of products, partial or total suspension of production, withdrawal of the product from the market, injunctions, fines, civil penalties or criminal prosecution. 

FDA approval is required before any new drug, such as a new chemical entity, or a new dosage form, new use or new route of administration of a previously approved product, can be marketed in the United States. The process required by the FDA before a new drug product may be marketed in the United States generally involves: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; completion of preclinical laboratory and animal testing and formulation studies in compliance with the FDA&#146;s good laboratory practice, or GLP, regulation; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; submission to the FDA of an IND for human clinical testing which must become effective before human clinical trials may begin in the United States; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; approval by an independent institutional review board, or IRB, at each site where a clinical trial will be performed before the trial may be initiated at that site; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; performance of adequate and well-controlled human clinical trials in accordance with good clinical practices, or GCP, to establish the safety and efficacy of the proposed product candidate for each intended use; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; satisfactory completion of an FDA pre-approval inspection of the facility or facilities at which the product is manufactured to assess compliance with the FDA&#146;s cGMP regulations; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; submission to the FDA of a new drug application, or NDA, which must be accepted for filing by the FDA; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; satisfactory completion of an FDA advisory committee review, if applicable; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; payment of user fees, if applicable; and &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; FDA review and approval of the NDA. The preclinical and clinical testing and approval process requires substantial time, effort and financial resources. Preclinical tests include laboratory evaluation of product chemistry, formulation, manufacturing and control procedures and stability, as well as animal studies to assess the toxicity and other safety characteristics of the product. The results of preclinical tests, together with manufacturing information, analytical data and a proposed clinical trial protocol and other information, are submitted as part of an IND to the FDA. Some preclinical testing may continue even after the IND is submitted. The IND automatically becomes effective 30 days after receipt by the FDA, unless the FDA, within the 30-day time period, raises concerns or questions and places the clinical trial on a clinical hold. In such a case, the IND sponsor and the FDA must resolve any outstanding concerns before the clinical trial can begin. As a result, our submission of an IND may not result in FDA authorization to commence a clinical trial. A separate submission to an existing IND must also be made for each successive clinical trial conducted during product development. Even if the IND becomes effective and the trial proceeds without initial FDA objection, the FDA may stop the trial at a later time if it has concerns, such as if unacceptable safety risks arise. 

Further, an independent IRB, covering each site proposing to conduct the clinical trial must review and approve the plan for any clinical trial and informed consent information for subjects before the trial commences at that site and it must monitor the study until completed. The FDA, the IRB, or the sponsor may suspend a clinical trial at any time on various grounds, including a finding that the subjects or patients are being exposed to an unacceptable health risk or for failure to comply with the IRB&#146;s requirements, or may impose other conditions. 

&#160;

If a Phase II clinical trial is the subject of discussion at an end-of-Phase II meeting with the FDA, a sponsor may be able to request a Special Protocol Assessment, or SPA, the purpose of which is to reach agreement with the FDA on the design of the Phase III clinical trial protocol design and analysis that will form the primary basis of an efficacy claim. If such an agreement is reached, it will be documented and made part of the administrative record, and it will be binding on the FDA and may not be changed unless the sponsor fails to follow the agreed-upon protocol, data supporting the request are found to be false or incomplete, or the FDA determines that a substantial scientific issue essential to determining the safety or effectiveness of the drug was identified after the testing began. Even if an SPA is agreed to, approval of the NDA is not guaranteed because a final determination that an agreed-upon protocol satisfies a specific objective, such as the demonstration of efficacy, or supports an approval decision, will be based on a complete review of all the data in the NDA. 

Clinical trials involve the administration of the investigational new product to human subjects under the supervision of qualified investigators in accordance with GCP requirements, which include the requirement that all research subjects provide their informed consent in writing for their participation in any clinical trial. Sponsors of clinical trials generally must register and report, at the NIH-maintained website ClinicalTrials.gov, key parameters of certain clinical trials. For purposes of an NDA submission and approval, human clinical trials are typically conducted in the following sequential phases, which may overlap or be combined: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Phase I: The product is initially introduced into healthy human subjects or patients and tested for safety, dose tolerance, absorption, metabolism, distribution and excretion and, if possible, to gain an early indication of its effectiveness. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Phase II: The product is administered to a limited patient population to identify possible adverse effects and safety risks, to preliminarily evaluate the efficacy of the product for specific targeted indications and to determine dose tolerance and optimal dosage. Multiple Phase II clinical trials may be conducted by the sponsor to obtain information prior to beginning larger and more extensive clinical trials. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Phase III: These are commonly referred to as pivotal studies. When Phase II evaluations demonstrate that a dose range of the product appears to be effective and has an acceptable safety profile, trials are undertaken in large patient populations to further evaluate dosage, to obtain additional evidence of clinical efficacy and safety in an expanded patient population at multiple, geographically-dispersed clinical trial sites, to establish the overall risk-benefit relationship of the product and to provide adequate information for the labeling of the product. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Phase IV: In some cases, the FDA may condition approval of an NDA for a product candidate on the sponsor&#146;s agreement to conduct additional clinical trials to further assess the product&#146;s safety and effectiveness after NDA approval. Such post-approval trials are typically referred to as Phase IV studies. The results of product development, preclinical studies and clinical trials are submitted to the FDA as part of an NDA. NDAs must also contain extensive information relating to the product&#146;s pharmacology, chemistry, manufacturing and controls and proposed labeling, among other things. 

Orphan Drug Designation 

Under the Orphan Drug Act, the FDA may grant orphan drug designation to a drug intended to treat a rare disease or condition which is defined as one affecting fewer than 200,000 individuals in the United States or more than 200,000 individuals where there is no reasonable expectation that the product development cost will be recovered from product sales in the United States. Orphan drug designation must be requested before submitting an NDA and does not convey any advantage in, or shorten the duration of, the regulatory review and approval process. 

&#160;

If an orphan drug-designated product subsequently receives the first FDA approval for the disease for which it was designed, the product will be entitled to seven years of product exclusivity, which means that the FDA may not approve any other applications to market the same drug for the same indication, except in very limited circumstances, for seven years. If a competitor obtains approval of the same drug, as defined by the FDA, or if our product candidate is determined to be contained within the competitor&#146;s product for the same indication or disease, the competitor&#146;s exclusivity could block the approval of our product candidate in the designated orphan indication for seven years. 

For some products, the FDA may require a risk evaluation and mitigation strategy, or REMS, which could include measures imposed by the FDA such as prescribing restrictions, requirements for post-marketing studies or certain restrictions on distribution and use. Under federal law, the submission of most NDAs is additionally subject to a substantial application user fee, and the manufacturer and/or sponsor under an approved NDA are also subject to annual product and establishment user fees. The FDA has 60 days from its receipt of an NDA to determine whether the application will be accepted for filing based on the agency&#146;s threshold determination that it is sufficiently complete to permit substantive review. The FDA may request additional information rather than accept an NDA for filing. In this event, the NDA must be resubmitted with the additional information and is subject to payment of additional user fees. The resubmitted application is also subject to review before the FDA accepts it for filing. 

Once the submission has been accepted for filing, the FDA begins an in-depth substantive review. Under the Prescription Drug User Fee Act, or PDUFA, the FDA agrees to specific performance goals for NDA review time through a two-tiered classification system, Standard Review and Priority Review. Standard Review NDAs have a goal of being completed within a ten-month timeframe. A Priority Review designation is given to products that offer major advances in treatment, or provide a treatment where no adequate therapy exists. The goal for completing a Priority Review is six months. 

It is likely that our product candidates will be granted a Standard Review. The review process may be extended by the FDA for three additional months to consider certain information or obtain clarification regarding information already provided in the submission. The FDA may refer applications for novel products or products which present difficult questions of safety or efficacy to an advisory committee for review, evaluation and recommendation as to whether the application should be approved and under what conditions. The FDA is not bound by the recommendation of an advisory committee, but it considers such recommendations carefully when making decisions. In addition, for combination products, the FDA&#146;s review may include the participation of both the FDA&#146;s Center for Drug Evaluation and Research and the FDA&#146;s Center for Devices and Radiological Health, which may complicate or prolong the review. 

Before approving an NDA, the FDA may inspect the facility or facilities where the product is manufactured. The FDA will not approve an application unless it determines that the manufacturing processes and facilities are in compliance with cGMP 

After the FDA evaluates the NDA and, in some cases, the related manufacturing facilities, it may issue an approval letter or a Complete Response Letter, or CRL, to indicate that the review cycle for an application is complete and that the application is not ready for approval. CRLs generally outline the deficiencies in the submission and may require substantial additional testing or information in order for the FDA to reconsider the application. Even with submission of this additional information, the FDA ultimately may decide that the application does not satisfy the regulatory criteria for approval. If and when the deficiencies have been addressed to the FDA&#146;s satisfaction, the FDA will typically issue an approval letter. An approval letter authorizes commercial marketing of the product with specific prescribing information for specific indications. 

Once issued, the FDA may withdraw product approval if ongoing regulatory requirements are not met or if safety problems are identified after the product reaches the market. In addition, the FDA may require post-approval testing, including Phase IV studies, and surveillance programs to monitor the effect of approved 

&#160;

products which have been commercialized, and the FDA has the power to prevent or limit further marketing of a product based on the results of these post-marketing programs. Products may be marketed only for the approved indications and in accordance with the provisions of the approved label, and, even if the FDA approves a product, it may limit the approved indications for use for the product or impose other conditions, including labeling or distribution restrictions or other risk-management mechanisms, such as a Black Box Warning, which highlights a specific warning (typically life-threatening), or a REMS program. Further, if there are any modifications to the product, including changes in indications, labeling, or manufacturing processes or facilities, a company may be required to submit and obtain FDA approval of a new or supplemental NDA, which may require such company to develop additional data or conduct additional preclinical studies and clinical trials. 

Post-Approval Requirements 

Once an NDA is approved, a product will be subject to pervasive and continuing regulation by the FDA, including, among other things, requirements relating to product/device listing, recordkeeping, periodic reporting, product sampling and distribution, advertising and promotion and reporting of adverse experiences with the product. 

In addition, drug manufacturers and other entities involved in the manufacture and distribution of approved drugs are required to register their establishments with the FDA and state agencies, and are subject to periodic unannounced inspections by the FDA and these state agencies for compliance with cGMP requirements. Changes to the manufacturing process are strictly regulated and generally require prior FDA approval before being implemented. FDA regulations also require investigation and correction of any deviations from cGMP and impose reporting and documentation requirements upon us and any third-party manufacturers that we may decide to use. Accordingly, manufacturers must continue to expend time, money, and effort in the area of production and quality control to maintain cGMP compliance. 

Once an approval is granted, the FDA may withdraw the approval if compliance with regulatory requirements and standards is not maintained or if problems occur after the product reaches the market. Later discovery of previously unknown problems with a product, including adverse events of unanticipated severity or frequency, or with manufacturing processes, or failure to comply with regulatory requirements, may result in, among other things: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; restrictions on the marketing or manufacturing of the product, complete withdrawal of the product from the market or product recalls; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; fines, warning letters or holds on post-approval clinical trials; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; refusal of the FDA to approve pending applications or supplements to approved applications, or suspension or revocation of product license approvals; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; product seizure or detention, or refusal to permit the import or export of products; or &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; injunctions or the imposition of civil or criminal penalties. The FDA strictly regulates marketing, labeling, advertising and promotion of products that are placed on the market. While physicians may prescribe for off label uses, manufacturers may only promote for the approved indications and in accordance with the provisions of the approved label. The FDA and other agencies actively enforce the laws and regulations prohibiting the promotion of off label uses, and a company that is found to have improperly promoted off label uses may be subject to significant liability, both at the federal and state levels. 

The Food and Drug Administration Amendments Act of 2007 gave the FDA the authority to require a Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy, or REMS, from manufacturers to ensure that the benefits of a drug or biological product outweigh its risks. In determining whether a REMS is necessary, FDA must consider the size of the population likely to use the drug, the seriousness of the disease or condition to be treated, the expected 

&#160;

benefit of the drug, the duration of treatment, the seriousness of known or potential adverse events, and whether the drug is a new molecular entity. If the FDA determines a REMS is necessary, the drug sponsor must agree to the REMS plan at the time of approval. A REMS may be required to include various elements, such as a medication guide or patient package insert, a communication plan to educate health care providers of the drug&#146;s risks, limitations on who may prescribe or dispense the drug, or other measures that the FDA deems necessary to assure the safe use of the drug. In addition, the REMS must include a timetable to assess the strategy at 18 months, three years, and seven years after the strategy&#146;s approval. The FDA may also impose a REMS requirement on a drug already on the market if the FDA determines, based on new safety information, that a REMS is necessary to ensure that the drug&#146;s benefits outweigh its risks. 

Patent Term Restoration and Marketing Exclusivity 

Depending upon the timing, duration and specifics of FDA approval of the use of our drug candidates, some of our United States patents may be eligible for limited patent term extension under the Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act of 1984, referred to as the Hatch-Waxman Act. The Hatch-Waxman Act permits a patent restoration term of up to five years as compensation for patent term lost during product development and the FDA regulatory review process. However, patent term restoration cannot extend the remaining term of a patent beyond a total of 14 years from the product&#146;s approval date. The patent term restoration period is generally one-half the time between the effective date of an IND, and the submission date of an NDA, plus the time between the submission date of an NDA and the approval of that application. Only one patent applicable to an approved drug is eligible for the extension and the application for extension must be made prior to expiration of the patent. The United States Patent and Trademark Office, in consultation with the FDA, reviews and approves the application for any patent term extension or restoration. In the future, we intend to apply for restorations of patent term for some of our currently owned or licensed patents to add patent life beyond their current expiration date, depending on the expected length of clinical trials and other factors involved in the submission of the relevant NDA. 

Market exclusivity provisions under the FDCA also can delay the submission or the approval of certain applications. The FDCA provides a five-year period of non-patent marketing exclusivity within the United States to the first applicant to gain approval of an NDA for a new chemical entity. A drug is a new chemical entity if the FDA has not previously approved any other new drug containing the same active moiety, which is the molecule or ion responsible for the action of the drug substance. During the exclusivity period, the FDA may not accept for review an abbreviated new drug application, or ANDA, or a 505(b)(2) NDA submitted by another company for another version of such drug where the applicant does not own or have a legal right of reference to all the data required for approval. However, an application may be submitted after four years if it contains a certification of patent invalidity or non-infringement. The FDCA also provides three years of marketing exclusivity for an NDA, 505(b)(2) NDA or supplement to an approved NDA if new clinical investigations, other than bioavailability studies, that were conducted or sponsored by the applicant are deemed by the FDA to be essential to the approval of the application, for example, for new indications, dosages or strengths of an existing drug. This three-year exclusivity covers only the conditions associated with the new clinical investigations and does not prohibit the FDA from approving ANDAs for drugs containing the original active agent. Five-year and three-year exclusivity will not delay the submission or approval of a full NDA; however, an applicant submitting a full NDA would be required to conduct or obtain a right of reference to all of the preclinical studies and adequate and well-controlled clinical trials necessary to demonstrate safety and effectiveness. 

Manufacturing Requirements 

We and our third-party manufacturers must comply with applicable FDA regulations relating to FDA&#146;s cGMP regulations and, if applicable, quality system regulation requirements for medical devices. The cGMP regulations include requirements relating to, among other things, organization of personnel, buildings and facilities, equipment, control of components and drug product containers and closures, production and process controls, packaging and labeling controls, holding and distribution, laboratory controls, records and reports, and 

&#160;

returned or salvaged products. The manufacturing facilities for our products must meet cGMP requirements to the satisfaction of the FDA pursuant to a pre-approval inspection before we can use them to manufacture our products. We and our third-party manufacturers are also subject to periodic unannounced inspections of facilities by the FDA and other authorities, including procedures and operations used in the testing and manufacture of our products to assess our compliance with applicable regulations. Failure to comply with statutory and regulatory requirements subjects a manufacturer to possible legal or regulatory action, including, among other things, warning letters, voluntary corrective action, the seizure of products, injunctions, consent decrees placing significant restrictions on or suspending manufacturing operations and civil and criminal penalties. 

Other Regulatory Requirements 

We are also subject to various laws and regulations regarding laboratory practices, the experimental use of animals, and the use and disposal of hazardous or potentially hazardous substances in connection with our research. In each of these areas, as above, the FDA has broad regulatory and enforcement powers, including, among other things, the ability to levy fines and civil penalties, suspend or delay issuance of approvals, seize or recall products, and withdraw approvals, any one or more of which could have an adverse effect on our ability to operate our business and generate revenues. Compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations is expensive, and current or future environmental regulations may impair our research, development and production efforts, which could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. 

Research and Development Expenses 

Substantially all of our research and development expenses incurred to date have been related to the development of NS2. Our research and development expenses totaled $7.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2015 and $3.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2014. 

We anticipate that we will incur additional research and development expenses in the future as we evaluate and possibly pursue the development of our product candidates for additional indications, or develop additional product candidates. 

We recognize research and development expenses as they are incurred. Our research and development expenses consist primarily of: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; salaries and related expenses for personnel; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; fees paid to consultants and contract research organizations in conjunction with independently monitoring clinical trials and acquiring and evaluating data in conjunction with clinical trials, including all related fees such as investigator grants, patient screening, lab work and data compilation and statistical analysis; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; costs incurred with third parties related to the establishment of a commercially viable manufacturing process for our product candidates; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; costs related to production of clinical materials, including fees paid to contract manufacturers; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; costs related to upfront and milestone payments under in-licensing agreements; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; costs related to compliance with FDA regulatory requirements; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; consulting fees paid to third-parties involved in research and development activities; and &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; costs related to stock options or other stock-based compensation granted to personnel in development functions. We expense both internal and external development costs as they are incurred. 

&#160;

We expect that a large percentage of our research and development expenses in the future will be incurred in support of our current and future non-clinical, preclinical and clinical development programs. These expenditures are subject to numerous uncertainties in terms of both their timing and total cost to completion. We expect to continue to develop stable formulations of our product candidates, test such formulations in preclinical studies for toxicology, safety and efficacy and to conduct clinical trials for each product candidate. We anticipate funding clinical trials for our product candidates ourselves, but we may engage collaboration partners at certain stages of clinical development. As we obtain results from clinical trials, we may elect to discontinue or delay clinical trials for certain product candidates or programs in order to focus our resources on more promising product candidates or programs. Completion of clinical trials by us or our future collaborators may take several years or more, the length of time generally varying with the type, complexity, novelty and intended use of a product candidate. The costs of clinical trials may vary significantly over the life of a project owing to but not limited to the following: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; the number of sites included in the trials; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; the length of time required to enroll eligible patients; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; the number of patients that participate in the trials; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; the number of doses that patients receive; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; the drop-out or discontinuation rates of patients; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; the duration of patient follow-up; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; the phase of development the product candidate is in; and &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; the efficacy and safety profile of the product candidate. Our expenses related to clinical trials are based on estimates of the services received and efforts expended pursuant to contracts with multiple research institutions and contract research organizations that conduct and manage clinical trials on our behalf. The financial terms of these agreements are subject to negotiation and vary from contract to contract and may result in uneven payment flows. Generally, these agreements set forth the scope of work to be performed at a fixed fee or unit price. Payments under the contracts depend on factors such as the successful enrollment of patients or the completion of clinical trial milestones. Expenses related to clinical trials generally are accrued based on contracted amounts applied to the level of patient enrollment and activity according to the protocol. If timelines or contracts are modified based upon changes in the clinical trial protocol or scope of work to be performed, we modify our estimates of accrued expenses accordingly on a prospective basis. 

None of our product candidates have received FDA or foreign regulatory marketing approval. In order to grant marketing approval, a health authority such as the FDA or foreign regulatory agencies must conclude that clinical and preclinical data establish the safety and efficacy of our product candidates with an appropriate benefit to risk profile relevant to a particular indication, and that the product can be manufactured under cGMP in a reproducible manner to deliver the product&#146;s intended performance in terms of its stability, quality, purity and potency. Until our submission is reviewed by a health authority, there is no way to predict the outcome of their review. Even if the clinical studies meet their predetermined primary endpoints, and a registration dossier is accepted for filing, a health authority could still determine that an appropriate benefit to risk relationship does not exist for the indication that we are seeking. 

We cannot forecast with any degree of certainty which of our product candidates will be subject to future collaborations or how such arrangements would affect our development plan or capital requirements. 

As a result of the uncertainties discussed above, we are unable to determine the duration and completion costs of our development projects or when and to what extent we will receive cash inflows from the commercialization and sale of an approved product candidate. 

&#160;

Corporate Information 

We were incorporated in the state of Delaware on August 13, 2004 as Neuron Systems, Inc. On December 20, 2012, we changed our name to Aldexa Therapeutics, Inc. and on March 17, 2014, we changed our name to Aldeyra Therapeutics, Inc. Our principal executive offices are located at 131 Hartwell Avenue, Suite 320, Lexington, Massachusetts 02421. Our telephone number is (781) 761-4904. Our website address is www.aldeyra.com. Information contained on our website is not incorporated by reference into this annual report on Form 10-K, and you should not consider information contained on our website to be part of this annual report on Form 10-K or in deciding whether to purchase shares of our common stock. Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to reports filed or furnished pursuant to Sections 13(a) and 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, are available free of charge on the Investors portion of our website at http://ir.aldeyra.com/ as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. 

&#160;

