 ITEM 1. BUSINESS.

General

McorpCX, Inc. ("we," "us," "our," the "Company" or "Touchpoint Metrics") was incorporated in the State of California on December 14, 2001. We are a customer experience (CX) management solutions company dedicated to helping organizations improve customer experiences, increase customer loyalty, reduce costs and increase revenue. The Company operated as Innes Group, Inc., dba MCorp Consulting until filing a Certificate of Amendment to its Articles of Incorporation that changed the name of the Company to Touchpoint Metrics, Inc. effective October 18, 2011. During Q1 2015, the Company filed a d/b/a (doing business as) with the State of California Secretary of State to begin doing business as McorpCX. On June 11, 2015, at the Company's Annual General Meeting, shareholders passed a resolution to change the name of the Company to McorpCX, Inc.

We are engaged in the business of developing and delivering technology-enabled products - such as Touchpoint Mapping&#174;, an on-demand ("cloud based") suite of customer experience management software and providing value-added professional services that help large, medium and small organizations improve their customer experience management capabilities by improving their customer listening and customer experience management capabilities. Our technology is intended to enable an organization's personnel to leverage a common application to see where and how to improve their customers' experiences across multiple channels and touchpoints, including web, sales, marketing, contact center, social, mobile, physical locations and others.

Our value-added and professional services are intended to help primarily large and medium organizations plan, design and deliver better customer experiences through the analysis and review of client data gathered by our application. Other services include customer experience training, strategy consulting and business process optimization, and are directed toward increasing our customers' adoption of our products and services, helping maximize their return on investment, and improving our customers' efficiency.

We maintain our primary business address at 201 Spear Street, Suite 1100, San Francisco, CA 94105. Our telephone number is (415) 526-2655. Our registered agent for service of process is Northwest Registered Agents, Inc. Our web address is http://www. mcorp.cx. The inclusion of our internet address in this report does not include or incorporate by reference into this report any information contained on, or accessible through, our website. Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements, amendments to those reports and other Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, filings are available free of charge through our website as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. Additionally, copies of materials filed by us with the SEC may be accessed at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549 or at www.sec.gov. For information about the SEC's Public Reference Room, contact 1-800-SEC-0330.

Our common stock trades on the TSX Venture Exchange in Canada under the symbol "MCX" and on the OTCQB&#174; Venture Marketplace in the United States under the symbol "MCCX".

Products and Services

Customer experience (CX) is defined as the sum of all experiences a customer has with a company, its goods and its services, across various touchpoints and over the duration of their relationship with that company. Customer experience management is a series of disciplines, methodologies and processes used to comprehensively understand, plan, measure and manage a customer's experiences, with the goal of improving customer perceptions. A majority of corporate executives have publicly stated that customer experience management is an important part of their organization's strategic agenda, and that it is critical to their future success. While we believe that there are multiple reasons for this, we believe that one of the most widely recognized is the ability of an improved customer experience to help an organization increase customer loyalty, better compete in otherwise commoditized businesses, and drive greater revenue.

&#160;

- 3 - 

While the customer experience management ecosystem is broad and complex, our software solutions are primarily focused on the needs of large, medium and small organizations interested in voice-of-the-customer insights, and a straightforward way to measure and improve customer experience over time. By gathering and analyzing customer experience data, our solutions help companies better understand both the positive and negative customer perceptions of customer experience and the specific interactions that drive these perceptions. Our services help primarily large and medium organizations interpret and take action on customer data, including the ability to plan, design and deliver better customer experiences.

Touchpoint Mapping&#174; On-Demand

Our current software product is called Touchpoint Mapping&#174; On-Demand which we released in 2013. Pricing of Touchpoint Mapping On-Demand varies based on breadth of insights sought, number of employees, number of customers and customer segments, frequency of insights gathered and other variables.

Touchpoint Mapping On-Demand is a research-based software solution designed to improve customer and employee experience, brand, and loyalty. It is meant to be a comprehensive customer experience solution for customer-centric organizations to measure and gather customer data across all their touchpoints, channels and interactions with their customers. Data is analyzed and can be displayed across multiple axes including customer segments, location, time and many other variables of interest to personnel within an organization.

Our software solution gives companies the ability to pinpoint which specific touchpoints are meeting customer wants and needs and which are not, by measuring the gap between customer expectations and the actual customer experience they receive. In addition to customer data, we can collect data from an organization's employees to identify any gaps between customer and employee perceptions of experience, and can collect data from prospective and competitors' customers to provide insight on the competitive market. Our solution also provides companies with the ability to coordinate disparate resources across the organization to develop, execute and manage their brand and customer experience strategies.

Touchpoint Mapping On-Demand is delivered through a cloud-based platform. The platform, accessible from our client portal, provides access to survey deployment, gives the ability to manage customer data and facilitates access to customer-driven business intelligence (BI) by displaying data in a series of online dashboards. Touchpoint Mapping On-Demand includes and integrates three primary measurement areas, including customer experience, mapping, brand mapping, and loyalty mapping, which are delivered through our cloud platform as illustrated below.

Customer Experience Mapping

Customer Experience Mapping measures customer experience in three areas. The first is the degree to which individual customer interactions or touchpoints meet customer wants. The second is a measure of the overall and most recent customer experiences. And the third is a measure of the customer experience across different stages of the customer relationship lifecycle.

&#160;

- 4 - 

Brand Mapping

Brand Mapping measures brand perceptions in four areas. The first area is the degree to which the brand meets the emotional needs of customers. The second is overall awareness of an organization in its respective market. The third is how an organization is perceived by customers in the context of its competitors. And the fourth is the degree to which brand drives engagement with an organization.

Loyalty Mapping &#174; 

Loyalty Mapping measures customer loyalty in four areas. The first area is through a loyalty-based customer segmentation model, segmenting customers into four groups based on degree of loyalty. The second is through loyalty metrics, such as Customer Satisfaction Score (CSAT) and Net Promoter Score (NPS&#174;), or other loyalty metrics an organization may wish to assess. The third area is the measurement of loyalty drivers, which can include brand, individual touchpoints and other areas such as channel or overall experience. The last area is the measurement of dissatisfiers, which are aspects of the brand and the experience responsible for creating customer dissatisfaction.

Professional Services

MCorpCX, Inc. provides customer experience consulting services including customer experience management consulting in the areas of strategy development, planning, education, training and best practices, and includes the articulation of customer-centric strategies and implementation roadmaps in support of these strategies. Our software-enabled services leverage the analytical frameworks of, and in most cases the data gathered through, Touchpoint Mapping On-Demand&#174;, with a particular focus on analytical solutions in support of customer experience improvement.

We expect that our client services managers will work to drive product adoption and value by working with Touchpoint Mapping On-Demand customers over time to identify key performance indicators as measured by our software, leverage best practices, and improve customer experience, brand and customer loyalty. We offer value-added and professional services that include custom data analysis, roadmap development, implementation planning and customer experience training, among other services.

Our Strategy

Since our founding, we have been focused on customer experience improvement. The methodologies we developed and delivered as a professional services firm since that time form the foundation for our software and software enabled services today, as well as continuing to inform the delivery of our value added and professional services. After making a decision to focus on the development of on-demand and software-enabled solutions which automated significant aspects of our business, we released the initial version of our cloud-based software, Touchpoint Mapping On-Demand, to a broader market in 2013. While professional services continue to represent a majority of our revenue, we anticipate that they will continue to migrate to a secondary &#8211; though strategically critical - focus of the company. Our belief is that a combination of growing market demand for customer experience management solutions and increasing market adoption of on-demand, cloud-based software will help to pave the way for future growth of our company through a distributed, cloud-based technology solution delivered through direct sales as well as indirect sales through a planned global partner and reseller distribution channel.

Our ability to achieve our objectives will stem in large part from our ability to successfully commercialize Touchpoint Mapping&#174; On-Demand, the licensing and adoption of our systems and methodologies, and the development of direct and indirect sales and distribution channels through which we can distribute our products and services.

&#160;

- 5 - 

Competition

The market for customer experience management solutions is highly competitive and increasingly fragmented. It is subject to rapidly changing technology, shifting organizational priorities and requirements, frequent introductions of new products and services, and increased marketing activities of other industry participants.

Multiple competitors exist in the overlapping areas of on-demand and traditional marketing research, customer relationship management (CRM) software, management consulting and customer experience management consulting. For example, many CRM software companies are beginning to include customer experience-specific insights as adjunct capabilities to their existing platforms, and others have rebranded their existing CRM software or customer satisfaction research software as customer experience software, which has the potential to create unforeseen competitive barriers and market confusion.

Many of our current and potential competitors have a larger market presence, greater name recognition, access to more potential customers and substantially greater financial, technical, sales and marketing, management, support and other resources than we have. As a result, many of our competitors are likely able to respond more quickly than we can to new or changing opportunities and technologies, and may devote greater resources to the marketing, promotion and sale of their products than we can.

Given the growth of customer experience management as a business discipline and on-demand software as a way for companies to better understand and manage customer experiences across their business, there are likely many competitors we have not identified. Additionally, we expect that new competitors will continue to enter the customer experience management and on demand customer experience software markets with competing products and services as the market continues to rapidly develop and mature. It is possible if not likely that these new competitors could rapidly acquire significant market share.

There are many potential unforeseen and significant market and competitive risks associated our current products and services. Though we released Touchpoint Mapping &#174; On-Demand in 2013, we cannot predict the timing or probability of generating material sales revenue from it. As of this filing, we have yet to engage the necessary sales and marketing staff or the capabilities required to identify, develop, and close material product sales opportunities, and currently lack sufficient resources to market and sell our products in the manner which we believe is required to achieve our product sales and revenue growth objectives. It is our expectation that numerous unforeseen challenges will be encountered as we continue to develop, market, distribute and sell our products and services. We cannot assure you that that we will be able to compete successfully against current or potential competitors, or that competition will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operations.

Dependence on Major Customers

The Company sells its products and services under various terms to a broad range of companies across multiple industries ranging from start-ups to Fortune 500 companies, with sales concentrated among a few large clients. For the twelve months ended December 31, 2015 and 2014, the percentage of the Company's total sales to its largest costumer was 41.6% and 47.1%, respectively, while sales to the Company's second largest customer accounted for 12.44% and 19.71%, respectively of the Company's total sales over those same time periods. See "Note 6 Concentrations" in the Notes to Financial Statements in this report.

Research and Development

We engage in the development of Software as a Service (SaaS) technology. Research and development costs incurred during the preliminary project stage are expenses as incurred and capitalization of such costs begins when technological feasibility is established. Capitalized software development costs, net of amortization, were $61,224 and $91,378 as of December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively.

&#160;

- 6 - 

Insurance

We maintain health, dental, workmen's compensation, general liability, commercial auto, and professional liability/E&#38;O insurance policies.

Employees

We currently have four full-time employees and thirteen independent contractors. None of our employees are represented by a labor union or covered by a collective bargaining agreement. We have never experienced any employment-related work stoppages and consider relations with our employees to be good. We intend to hire more employees and independent contractors on an as-needed basis.

Offices

We have three business addresses. Our headquarters is located at 201 Spear Street, Suite 1100, San Francisco, CA 94105. We also have a business office in San Anselmo, California located at 251 Sir Francis Drake Boulevard, 94960. We lease the aforementioned pursuant to a 36-month lease entered into on August 15, 2010 and extended on February 26, 2013 through August 31, 2016. Our monthly rental payments were $1,840 until August 31, 2013, $2,044 per month through August 31, 2014, and $2,095 through August 31, 2015 and $2,146 through December 31, 2015.

In 2016 we continue to lease an office at 251 Sir Francis Drake Blvd. in San Anselmo California and our rental payments will be $2,146 until September 2016. On January 1, 2016 we leased another office in San Anselmo located at 255 Sir Francis Drake Blvd., pursuant to a 12-month lease. Our monthly rental payment is $1,339.

Our office in Charlotte, North Carolina is located at 15720 John J. Delaney Dr., Suite 300, 28277. We lease the San Francisco and Charlotte spaces from DaVinci Virtual LLC, pursuant to a commercial lease on a month to month basis. Our monthly rental is $199 per month for our San Francisco location and $95 per month for our Charlotte, North Carolina location.

Costs and Effects of Compliance with Local, State and Federal Environmental Laws

Given the nature of the Company's business operations, local, state and federal environmental laws do not impose any material costs or have any material effect on the Company.

Government Regulation

We are not currently subject to direct federal, state or local regulation other than regulations applicable to businesses.

