 ITEM 1. 

BUSINESS 

The Neighborhood Sandwich Shop

Potbelly is a fast-growing neighborhood sandwich concept offering toasty warm sandwiches, signature salads and other fresh menu items served by engaging people in an environment that reflects the Potbelly brand. Our combination of product, people and place is how we deliver on our passion to be &#8220;The Best Place for Lunch.&#8221; Our sandwiches, salads and hand-dipped milkshakes are all made fresh to order and our cookies are baked fresh each day. Our employees are trained to engage with our customers in a genuine way to provide a personalized experience. Our shops feature vintage design elements and locally-themed d&#233;cor inspired by the neighborhood that we believe create a lively atmosphere. Through this combination, we believe we are creating a devoted base of Potbelly fans that return again and again and that we are expanding one sandwich shop at a time.

We believe that a key to our past and future success is our culture. It is embodied in The Potbelly Advantage , which is an expression of our Vision, Mission, Passion and Values, and the foundation of everything we do. Our Vision is for our customers to feel that we are their &#8220;Neighborhood Sandwich Shop&#8221; and to tell others about their great experience. Our Mission is to make people really happy, to make more money and to improve every day. Our Passion is to be &#8220;The Best Place for Lunch.&#8221; Our Values embody both how we lead and how we behave and form the cornerstone of our culture. We use simple language that resonates from the frontline associate to the most senior levels of the organization, creating shared expectations and accountabilities in how we approach our day-to-day activities. We strive to be a fun, friendly and hardworking group of people who enjoy taking care of our customers, while at the same time taking care of each other.

We believe executing on The Potbelly Advantage at a high level creates a distinct competitive advantage and drives our operating and financial results, as illustrated by the following:

&#160;

&#183; 

As of December 27, 2015, we had a domestic base of 396 shops in 28 states and the District of Columbia. Of these, the company operates 372 shops and franchisees operate 24 shops. In addition, there are 12 international franchised shops, including 11 shops in the Middle East and 1 shop in the United Kingdom. Total shop growth was 12.4% over the prior year; 

&#160;

&#183; 

We achieved positive annual comparable store sales growth for the past five years, with levels of 1.7%, 3.4%, 1.5%, 0.1% and 4.4% in 2011, 2012, 2013, 2014 and 2015, respectively (comparable store sales reflect the change in year-over-year sales of shops open for 15 or more months); 

&#160;

&#183; 

From 2014 to 2015, we increased our total revenue 14.0% to $372.8 million, our adjusted EBITDA 13.0% to $41.6 million and our net income attributable to Potbelly 29.1% to $5.6 million; and 

&#160;

&#183; 

From 2011 to 2015, we generated shop-level profit margin of 21.6%, 20.7%, 20.2%, 19.2% and 19.4% in 2011, 2012, 2013, 2014 and 2015, respectively (shop-level profit margin measures net shop sales less shop operating expenses as a percentage of net shop sales). 

Shop-level profit margin is not required by, or presented in accordance with, U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (&#8220;GAAP&#8221;). See &#8220;Selected Financial Data&#8221; in Item 6 for a discussion of adjusted EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA margin and shop-level profit margin and a reconciliation of the differences between adjusted EBITDA and net income (loss) and shop-level profit and income (loss) from operations, as well as a calculation of shop-level profit margin. See &#8220;Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations&#8221; in Item 7 for a definition of comparable store sales.

Our History

Potbelly started in 1977 as a small antique store on Lincoln Avenue in Chicago. To boost sales, the original owner began offering toasty warm sandwiches to customers. Soon, people who had no interest in antiques were stopping by to enjoy the delicious sandwiches, homemade desserts and live music featured in the shop. As time passed, Potbelly became a well-known neighborhood destination with a loyal following of regulars and frequent lines out the door.

We opened our second shop in 1997 and continued to open shops in more neighborhoods reaching 100 shops in 2005, 200 shops in 2008 and 300 shops in 2013. Throughout our growth, each new shop has maintained a similar look, vibe and experience that defines the Potbelly brand. Though our shops vary in size and shape, we maintain core elements in each new location, such as fast and efficient line flow, vintage d&#233;cor customized with local details and exceptional customer focus.

Just like our first shop on Lincoln Avenue, we are committed to building deep community roots in all the neighborhoods we serve.

&#160;

Our Competitive Strengths 

We believe the following competitive strengths provide a platform for us to achieve continued growth:

Simple, Made-to-Order Food . Our menu features items made from high quality ingredients, such as fresh vegetables, hearth-baked bread and all-natural, white meat chicken. We also use whole muscle turkey, ham and roast beef, rather than chopped and formed deli meats. See &#8220;&#8212;Our Food&#8212;Our Menu&#8221; for more information on our ingredients. Our sandwiches are made fresh to order, and many are based on the original recipes from 1977. They are served toasty warm on our signature multigrain or regular bread or on our multigrain Flats, all of which are delivered to our shops. We slice our meats and cheeses daily in each shop to ensure freshness. Our sandwiches can be customized with a variety of toppings, including our unique Potbelly hot peppers that are made with a combination of spices exclusively for us. We make our sandwiches to have the right balance of ingredients with the last bite tasting as good as the first. Our generously sized cookies are baked fresh daily in each shop, and our hand-dipped shakes, malts and smoothies are made from real ingredients and come with our signature butter cookie on the straw. Our menu regularly evolves based on consumer trends and customer feedback. Among other things, we solicit customer feedback quarterly via in-person &#8220;Customer Advisories&#8221; in our major markets and conduct an annual customer survey to help determine trends. See &#8220;&#8212;Our Food&#8212;Customer Feedback&#8221; for more information about these surveys. We believe our simple menu and freshly-made food offer ease of ordering and broad appeal and help us create loyal Potbelly fans that return again and again. 

Differentiated Customer Experience That Delivers a Neighborhood Feel. We strive to provide a positive customer experience that is driven by both our employees and the atmosphere of our shops. We look to hire employees that are outgoing people and train them to interact with our customers in a genuine way while providing fast service. To support the neighborhood feel of our shops, most of our managers live in the neighborhood where their shop is located. We believe this allows them to get to know their customers, understand the unique character of each neighborhood and form deep roots within the community. Each of our shops features vintage d&#233;cor and shared design elements, such as the use of wood, wallpaper motifs and our signature Potbelly stove. In addition, our shops display locally-themed photos and other decorative items inspired by the neighborhood. We aim to enhance our atmosphere with live, local musicians that perform weekly in the majority of our shops. Every Potbelly location strives to be &#8220;The Neighborhood Sandwich Shop,&#8221; creating devoted fans who tell others about their experience. We believe our shops are strongly integrated into the neighborhood through the use of local managers, musicians and locally-themed d&#233;cor and engage with customers through initiatives such as fundraising for local causes and other promotions that cater to local interests. The unique Potbelly experience encourages repeat customer visits and drives increased sales. 

Attractive Shop Economics . Our shop model is designed to generate, and has generated, strong cash flow, attractive shop-level financial results and high returns on investment. We operate our shops successfully in a wide range of geographic markets, population densities and real estate settings. We aim to generate average shop-level profit margins, a non-GAAP measure, above 20% and target cash-on-cash returns, on new company-operated shops, above 25% after two full years of operation. Our ability to achieve such margins and returns depends on a number of factors. For example, we face increasing labor and commodity costs, which we have partially offset by increasing menu prices. Although there is no guarantee that we will be able to maintain these returns, we believe our attractive shop economics support our ability to profitably grow our brand in new and existing markets. 

Management Team with Substantial Operating Experience. Our senior management team has extensive operating experience across disciplines in the restaurant and retail sectors, including store operations, marketing, human resources, innovation, real estate, supply chain and finance. This team has an average of 15 years of restaurant industry experience, and many of our executives have experience at large public companies. In 2008, we hired our President and CEO, Aylwin Lewis. Aylwin was previously with Yum! Brands, Inc. from 1991 to 2004, most recently as President and Chief Multibranding and Operating Officer, as well as with Sears Holdings from 2004 to 2008, most recently as President and CEO. We believe our experienced leadership team is a key driver of our success and positions us to execute our long-term growth strategy. 

Distinct, Deep-Rooted Culture: The Potbelly Advantage . We believe our culture is a key to our success. It is embodied in The Potbelly Advantage , which is an expression of our Vision, Mission, Passion and Values. The Potbelly Advantage is the written mission statement for our company that is shared with everyone who works at our company, from our top executives to shop associates. We believe such mission statement serves as the foundation of everything we do, including how we plan and manage our business. Our Vision is to create Potbelly fans nationwide. We want our customers to feel we are their &#8220;Neighborhood Sandwich Shop&#8221; and to become Potbelly fans and advocates. Our Mission is to make our customers and employees happy, to make more money and to improve our business every day. Our Passion is to be &#8220;The Best Place for Lunch.&#8221; We strive to emphasize our Values of integrity, teamwork, accountability, positive energy and coaching throughout all levels of our organization including in our hiring process and training programs. We also place importance on values for our leaders, such as delivering results through execution and building and inspiring teams. The Potbelly Values form a common language across our organization that we believe makes Potbelly a place our employees love to work. Through our Ethics Code of Conduct, ongoing training and evaluations, we encourage our employees to perform at their personal best and help them to work together as a team to make sure we deliver a positive experience to everyone who 

&#160;

works here. See &#8220;&#8212;Shop Operations and Management&#8212;Our People.&#8221; Our culture helps us attra ct and retain employees and has contributed to our hourly employee turnover rate of 83 % for the year ended December 27, 2015 . We believe The Potbelly Advantage allows us to deliver operational excellence and grow our business and our base of devoted Potbel ly fans. 

Our Growth Strategy

We strive to grow profitability and create value for our stockholders by working to achieve the goals listed below. While we cannot provide assurances that we will achieve and maintain these objectives, we consider each of them to be a core strategy of our business.

Run Great Shops . We believe that continued excellence in shop-level execution is fundamental to our growth strategy. To maintain our operational standards we use a Balanced Scorecard approach to measure People, Customers, Sales and Profits at each of our shops. Hiring the right people and maintaining optimal staffing levels enable us to run efficient operations. We track metrics such as peak hour throughput, mystery shopper scores and neighborhood engagement activities, such as fundraisers for local causes, to improve the customer experience. Shop sales and profitability are benchmarked against prior year periods and budget, and we focus on achieving targets on a shop-by-shop basis. To support our shop operators, we invest in systems and technology that can meaningfully improve shop-level execution. For example, we have enhanced capabilities around in-line order-taking by using a proprietary tablet system in approximately 57% of our shops as of December 27, 2015 to further increase throughput by increasing accuracy and speed of order taking. In addition, we are expanding our backline businesses, including catering, delivery and online ordering, which we view as additional growth drivers. 

Find and Build Great Shops. Our shops are successful in diverse markets in 22 states and the District of Columbia, and we intend to continue to build company-operated shops in both new and existing markets utilizing our thoughtful site selection process. We evaluate a number of metrics to assess the optimal sites for our new shops, including neighborhood daytime population, site visibility, traffic and accessibility, along with an on-the-ground qualitative assessment of the characteristics of each unique trade area. This location-specific approach to development allows us to leverage our versatile shop format, which does not have standardized requirements with respect to size, shape or location, to achieve strong returns across a wide range of real estate settings. See &#8220;&#8212;Site Selection and Expansion&#8212;Shop Design&#8221; for more information about our shop requirements. In 2013, 2014 and 2015, we opened 34, 39 and 43 new company-operated shops, respectively, and expanded into Kansas City, Denver and Salt Lake City. In those same time periods, we closed two shops, one shop and six shops, respectively, due to under-performance or lease expirations. Additionally, during July 2015, the Company purchased a franchise shop, converting it into a company-operated shop. We expect to open 45 to 50 new company-operated shops in 2016. Over the long term, we plan to grow the number of Potbelly shops at least 10% annually. We cannot provide assurance that we will be able to grow the number of Potbelly shops by 10% in any year or over any period of time or that we will be able to open any specific number of shops in any year. 

Achieve High Margins and Returns. Our approach to margin enhancement begins with continuous efforts to improve the financial results of our shops. We focus on cash-on-cash returns to the company and look to grow shop-level profitability each year through sales growth and productivity improvements. From 2011 to 2015, we generated shop-level profit margin, a non-GAAP measure, of 21.6%, 20.7%, 20.2%, 19.2% and 19.4% in 2011, 2012, 2013, 2014 and 2015, respectively. We also focus on cash flow generation, which supports our self-funded development model of sourcing our liquidity and capital resource needs primarily from operating activities and cash and cash equivalents. We also have a credit facility to provide another source of liquidity and to manage cash flow timing. Currently, we have no amounts outstanding under the credit facility. We believe we exercise strong financial discipline in managing expenses and by encouraging employee efficiency with the goal of achieving and maintaining general and administrative expenses under 10% of revenue. In addition, we expect our sales and shop-level profit margin to grow faster than general and administrative expenses. For fiscal 2015, our general and administrative expenses as a percentage of total revenues were 10.0%. Our intention is to maintain average shop-level profit margins over 20% as we continue to grow. However, we cannot provide assurances that we will be able to maintain our shop-level profit margin levels or that we will be able to achieve or maintain low levels of expenses. 

Become a Global Iconic Brand. We believe that our premise of a &#8220;Neighborhood Sandwich Shop&#8221; has broad appeal across a wide range of market types and geographies. We believe that Potbelly is a recognized brand beyond the neighborhoods in which we currently operate. Based on our management&#8217;s experience, we believe a significant contributor to this success is word-of-mouth publicity by our customers who enjoy their Potbelly experience and tell others about it. We learn from the formal customer feedback we solicit (See &#8220;&#8212;Our Food&#8212;Customer Feedback&#8221;), and from managers and employees who interact with customers in our shops, that many customers in new markets report positive recommendations from friends and family members who live in regions with established Potbelly shops. We believe that our positive brand perception helps drive interest in our shops in both existing and new markets. 

&#160;

Be a Great Franchisor. In 2010, we init iated a program to franchise shops in selected markets in the U.S. As of December 27, 2015 , we had domestic franchise shops in Arkansas, Illinois, Indiana, Kentucky, Michigan, Minnesota, Missouri, Nebraska, North Carolina, North Dakota, Ohio, Pennsylvania, South Dakota, Tennessee, Texas and Virginia. As we develop our franchise program, we intend to expand the number of franchise shops on a disciplined basis. We perform a market analysis and focus on markets we believe have appropriate characteristics for o ur franchise shops and on franchisees that are compatible with the Potbelly culture. As of December 27, 2015 , our franchisees operated 24 shops domestically. We expect to open between ten and fifteen new franchisee-operated shops in 2016 . In addition, we have signed international franchise development agreements to open franchises in the Middle East and in Europe. We have a franchise development agreement with the Alshaya Trading Company W.L.L. (&#8220;Alshaya&#8221;), a leading franchisee of retail brands, to develop shops in the Middle East. As of December 27, 2015 , Alshaya operated 1 1 shops in Kuwait, the United Arab Emirates and Bahrain. In 2014, w e entered into a franchise development agreement with Buraq Leisure (La Martina) Limited (&#8220;Buraq&#8221;) , p ursuant to which Buraq has the exclusive right to develop Potbelly shops in London for a period of five years. We expect Buraq to open up to ten Potbelly shops in London during that period. The first Potbelly shop in London opened in July 2015. We also rec ently entered into a franchise development agreement with Halsted Hospitality Ltd., pursuant to which Halsted has the exclusive right to develop Potbelly shops in the province of Ontario, Canada for a period of ten years. We expect Halsted to open up to 15 Potbelly shops in the first five years of the development agreement. See &#8220;&#8212;Franchising&#8221; for more information about our domestic and international franchise programs. Although we do not expect franchise activities to result in significant revenue in the ne ar term, we see the selective expansion of our franchising efforts to be a valuable potential growth opportunity over time. 

Our Food

Our Menu

Each of our shops offers freshly-made food with high quality ingredients from a simple menu with sandwiches at a limited number of price points. The majority of our sales are generated during lunchtime hours, but dinner and breakfast (in locations with high early morning traffic) are also important to our business. Our menu currently includes toasty warm sandwiches, signature salads, soups, chili, sides, desserts and, in our breakfast locations, breakfast sandwiches and steel cut oatmeal.

Every toasty warm sandwich on the Potbelly menu is made-to-order and customizable, with many based on the original recipes from 1977. Sandwiches are made with our signature multigrain or regular bread as &#8220;Originals&#8221; (our &#8220;regular&#8221; size), &#8220;Bigs&#8221; (30% bigger) or &#8220;Skinnys&#8221; (less meat and cheese starting under 400 calories); or on &#8220;Flats&#8221; (thin multigrain bread which is 90 calories less than our Originals). We slice our meats and cheeses daily in each shop to ensure freshness, and each of our sandwiches can be customized with a variety of toppings, including our unique Potbelly hot peppers that are made with a combination of spices exclusively for us. We believe our sandwiches have the right balance of ingredients with the last bite tasting as good as the first.

Our core sandwich offerings include Turkey Breast, Italian, Grilled Chicken and Cheddar, Smoked Ham, A Wreck, Chicken Salad, Meatball, Pizza Sandwich, Mediterranean, Roast Beef and Tuna Salad. Customers can also order off-menu sandwiches and variations on our sandwiches, including the &#8220;Wrecking Ball&#8221; (A Wreck plus meatballs), the &#8220;Lucky Seven&#8221; (which includes all seven of our sliced meat choices) and the &#8220;Cheeseburger&#8221; (the Meatball with cheddar cheese and no marinara). These items are on what our loyal fans call the &#8220;Underground Menu,&#8221; which contributes to the special connection between Potbelly and our customers.

Our shops also offer salads which are made fresh to order with high quality ingredients. Our signature salads include the Uptown Salad, Farmhouse Salad, Chicken Salad Salad, A Wreck Salad, Mediterranean Salad and Chickpea Veggie Salad. Customers may order any of our salads without meat for a vegetarian option and may customize a salad as they desire. Salads come with a choice of dressing, including Potbelly Vinaigrette, Balsamic Vinaigrette, Buttermilk Ranch and Non-Fat Vinaigrette. We believe our signature salads are key to diversifying our menu and help ensure that there is something for everyone at our shops.

We also offer soups, chili and side dishes. Different soups are offered daily, including varieties such as Broccoli Cheddar, Chicken Noodle, Loaded Baked Potato, Chicken Enchilada, Lentil Kale and Turkey Sausage, and Tomato soup. We also have a vegan soup option, our Garden Vegetable. Our chili is available seven days a week and is a hearty recipe of ground beef, kidney beans, onions and bell peppers sweetened with a touch of molasses. Additionally, customers can choose side dishes of coleslaw, macaroni salad, potato salad, potato chips or a whole dill pickle.

Our hand-dipped shakes and smoothies are made with real ingredients and come with our signature butter cookie on the straw. Our classic shake and smoothie flavors are vanilla, chocolate, strawberry, banana, mixed berry, coffee and Oreo &#174; , and include real fruit. Our varieties of cookies are baked fresh in each shop daily and include Oatmeal Chocolate Chip, Sugar and Chocolate Brownie cookies. Customers can also order an ice cream sandwich, with their choice of cookies and ice cream, or our signature chocolate and caramel Dream Bar.

&#160;

Certain of our shops in areas with high early morning traffic also offer breakfast selections. As of December 27, 2015 , approximate ly 27 % of our shops offered breakfast selections. Our breakfast menu includes made-to-order breakfast sandwiches on our Flats or our signature multigrain or regular bread and include Egg &#38; Cheddar Cheese; Bacon, Egg &#38; Cheddar Cheese; Sausage, Egg &#38; Cheddar Cheese; and Ham, Mushroom, Egg &#38; Swiss Cheese. Like our lunch and dinner sandwiches, our breakfast sandwiches are served toasty warm and any of our toppings can be added. We also offer steel cut oatmeal with toppings such as raisins, brown sugar, bananas, walnuts, apples and cranberries, and have other breakfast items available such as yogurt parfaits, bagels and dark roast coffee. 

Our shops use high quality ingredients such as fresh produce which is delivered two to three times per week, hearth-baked bread, and whole-block cheeses sliced daily in our shops. We use all-natural white meat chicken in our sandwiches and salads. Our turkey, hickory-smoked ham and black angus roast beef are all whole-muscle meats sliced daily in our shops. Our dry-cured salami is made with fresh garlic and real red wine and we use white albacore tuna in our home-made tuna salad.

Overall, we believe our menu of high quality food at reasonable prices offers considerable value to our customers. In fiscal 2015, our system-wide average check was approximately $7.62. We generally do not discount our menu items in order to help ensure that we are able to maintain our high standards, as opposed to the discounting programs implemented by some other restaurant operators aimed at increasing traffic and revenue but that may impact profitability and quality.

Customer Feedback

We seek customer feedback on our food and operations in various ways. For example, we conduct an annual customer survey via email to learn what our customers think about us. We circulate a voluntary online survey to each customer listed in our company-wide email database, which includes email addresses obtained through our website, customer complaints and compliments, our in-shop business card drop, our Facebook page and other methods. In 2015, we sent the online survey to over 340,000 customers, with over 28,000 customers electing to participate. Customers who take the annual survey were entered into a drawing for a nominal Potbelly gift card.

We also solicit feedback via quarterly in-person &#8220;Customer Advisories&#8221; in each of our major markets of Chicago, Washington, D.C. and Dallas. At each &#8220;Customer Advisory,&#8221; certain executives and local managers meet with approximately ten customers to get feedback on our products and initiatives. The customers who participate are selected from those listed in our company-wide email database as having recently dined at Potbelly. Our marketing team strives to have participants who are representative of the diverse customers who patronize the specific shop. Customer participants in each &#8220;Customer Advisory&#8221; receive a nominal Potbelly gift card as a thank you for their participation.

Evolution of Our Menu

We have selectively expanded our menu offerings in response to shifts in customer tastes and demand. For example, we began offering breakfast items in 2001, Bigs and Skinnys in 2008 and Flats in 2014. We also introduced the all-veggie Mediterranean sandwich in 2012 and the Mediterranean salad in 2014. We will continue to respond to consumer trends and customer feedback as we believe menu innovations are a way for us to continue to grow our business.

When we enter new markets, we employ a &#8220;lifecycle&#8221; approach to introducing our menu. Shops opened in new markets initially offer only our Original sandwiches to introduce new customers to our core menu items. Additionally, this approach simplifies our line operations and allows our new shops to focus on execution and speed of service. We gradually increase our menu offerings at these shops until the full range of Potbelly offerings are available.

Food Preparation and Safety

Food safety is a top priority, and we dedicate substantial resources, including our supply chain team and quality assurance teams, to help ensure that our customers enjoy safe, quality food products. We have taken various steps to mitigate food quality and safety risks, including having personnel focused on this goal together with our supply chain team. Our shops undergo third-party food safety reviews, internal safety audits and routine health inspections. We also consider food safety and quality assurance when selecting our distributors and suppliers.

Shop Operations and Management

We believe having an excellent manager in each shop is a critical factor in achieving continuous excellence in operations. Managers hire our employees, help ensure consistent execution of our menu items and strive to achieve specific targets that are evaluated on a quarterly basis. We devote significant time and resources to identifying, selecting and training our managers who plan, 

&#160;

manage and operate their shops and who, along with our employees, provide a positive customer experience to our Potbelly fans. We believe our comprehensive processes for developing business leaders, such as our shop managers, are a key factor in driving our success. 

Potbelly Operations

Our operations are structured around the elements of People, Customers, Sales and Profits. During our peak hours of 11:30 a.m. to 1:30 p.m., our employees greet our customers and take their orders while they wait in line using a proprietary tablet system in some shops to communicate with our food preparation employees. We focus on effective communication, technology and management to provide a quick and seamless experience for our customers. In addition, each shop completes quarterly tactical plans designed to help the shop achieve its targets relative to each element. In order to better assess and improve the Potbelly experience, we use a Balanced Scorecard that tracks elements such as sales and profitability metrics, employee turnover and a &#8220;mystery shopper&#8221; score, which essentially is a survey of customer satisfaction with the Potbelly experience. We review overall scores locally, regionally and nationally in order to assess our operational progress and identify areas of operational focus. Attaining certain ratings on the Balanced Scorecard allows a shop to be eligible for incentive targets paid quarterly and annual merit awards.

Our People

We look to attract, hire and retain smart, talented and outgoing people who share and demonstrate our values. We value friendly employees who engage with our customers in a genuine way to provide a personalized experience. We select employees using interview questions based on our values to determine the extent of candidate fit. All employees attend culture training classes that include team exercises and scenarios to practice utilizing the tools relative to our values of integrity, teamwork, accountability, positive energy and coaching. We strive to empower our employees to do what is right and encourage them to perform at their personal best. We believe we make expectations and accountabilities clear through our culture training and our Ethics Code of Conduct, which summarizes employee conduct guidelines and is required to be reviewed and signed by every employee biennially. We believe we encourage each employee to perform at their personal best by establishing personal and professional goals through an ongoing continuous development plan. We believe the success of these programs is evident in our turnover rates and our internal promotion rates. For example, our associate, shift leader, assistant manager and general manager turnover rates have experienced significant reductions in the last seven years since the inception of these programs. Employees are further encouraged to perform at their personal best through an ongoing scorecard measuring system that is tied directly to a pay for performance compensation program. We believe our sustainable process to hire, train and develop our people enables us to deliver a positive customer experience. A typical Potbelly shop consists of one manager, one assistant manager and as many as 12 to 16 employees during our peak hours.

Most of our managers live in the neighborhood in which their shop is located. We believe this allows them to get to know their customers, understand the unique character of each neighborhood and form deep roots within the community. The shop manager has primary responsibility for the day-to-day operation of the shop and is required to abide by Potbelly&#8217;s operating standards. Our Management Training Program provides new managers with six to eight weeks of training that emphasizes culture, standards, strategy and procedures to prepare them for success, and is followed by on-going, in-shop coaching with their District or Market manager. Our shop managers report to District or Market Managers who typically report to a Zone Manager, and ultimately to our Senior Vice President of Operations. In addition, members of senior management visit shops regularly to help ensure that our culture, strategy and quality standards are being adhered to in all aspects of our operations.

Shop managers are responsible for selecting and training the employees for each new shop. The training period for new non-management employees lasts approximately eight weeks and is characterized by on-the-job supervision by an experienced employee. Ongoing employee training remains the responsibility of the shop manager, but, as noted above, we provide specific training for our employees around The Potbelly Advantage several times a year. Special emphasis is placed on the consistency and quality of food preparation and service, which is monitored through ongoing meetings with managers. In addition, we have other continuing communications with all of our employees.

The Potbelly Experience

We seek to deliver a positive experience for every customer at every opportunity through our tasty food, unique atmosphere and outgoing and engaging employees. We seek to staff each shop with experienced teams to ensure consistent and attentive customer service. We look to hire employees who are friendly and responsive to the needs of our customers as they assist them in selecting menu items complementing individual preferences. We strive to staff at 110% during peak hours to ensure a fast yet personal Potbelly experience for each customer, with face-to-face interaction from start to finish. We also provide backline services, including catering, delivery and online ordering to serve our Potbelly fans.

&#160;

In addition, music has been integral to the Potbelly culture since our first shop opened in 1977 and adds a neighborhood vibe. Local musicians freque ntly perform live at Potbelly shops creating a distinctive dining experience. Some of our shops also host special events . For example, Open Mic Night in New York City features up-and-coming local musicians. 

We believe the combination of our great food, people and atmosphere makes Potbelly &#8220;The Best Place for Lunch.&#8221;

Site Selection and Expansion

We believe we are well positioned to continue growth in our existing markets and have significant expansion potential in new geographic areas throughout the United States. As of December 27, 2015, we had a domestic base of 396 shops in 28 states and the District of Columbia. Of these, the company operates 372 shops and franchisees operate 24 shops. In addition, there are 12 international franchised shops, including 11 shops in the Middle East and 1 shop in the United Kingdom. 

Over the long-term, we plan to grow the number of Potbelly shops by at least 10% annually. In 2013, 2014 and 2015, we opened 34, 39 and 43 new company-operated shops, respectively, and expanded into Kansas City, Denver and Salt Lake City. Additionally, during July 2015, the Company purchased a franchise shop, converting it into a company-operated shop. In 2016, we expect to open 45 to 50 company-operated shops in total. We cannot provide assurance that we will be able to grow the number of Potbelly shops by 10% in any year or over any period of time or that we will be able to open any specific number of shops in any year.

Our proven shop model is designed to generate strong cash flow, attractive shop-level financial results and high returns on investment. With an average new shop investment of approximately $600,000 and average unit volumes in excess of $1 million, which represent the average net sandwich shop sales for all shops on an annual basis, we strive to generate average shop-level profit margins, a non-GAAP measure, above 20% and cash-on-cash returns, on new company-operated shops, above 25% after two full years of operation. However, we cannot provide any assurances that we will achieve and maintain similar profit margins or cash returns in the future.

Site Selection Process

We consider the location of a shop to be a critical variable in its long-term success and as such, we devote significant effort to the investigation and evaluation of potential locations. We actively develop shops in both new and existing markets and plan to continue to expand in selected regions throughout the United States. Our Real Estate Committee, which includes most of our senior management team, meets weekly to discuss all aspects of our development program. The process for selecting locations incorporates management&#8217;s experience and expertise and includes extensive data collection and analysis. We proactively seek new shop locations based on specific criteria, such as demographic characteristics, daytime population thresholds and traffic patterns, along with the potential visibility of, and accessibility to, the shop. Additionally, we use information and intelligence gathered from managers and other shop personnel that live in or near the neighborhoods we are considering. New shops are built with only one purpose in mind: to generate cash flow that meets or exceeds those modeled in our return targets. We are disciplined in our development, and we routinely forego sites that have many positive attributes, including strong visibility and street presence, but have challenging economics, such as high occupancy costs.

Since we do not have standardized requirements with respect to size, shape or location, we are flexible in our site selection process. This allows us to choose and open shops with a wide variety of shapes in a wide variety of areas, including in urban central business districts and suburban areas near shopping malls or other high-traffic locations. Proposed locations are visited, reviewed and approved by key members of our Real Estate Committee.

Shop Design

We strive to create a unique customer experience that delivers a neighborhood feel for each shop. We typically design the interior of our shops in-house, utilizing outside architects when necessary. Our design team sources most furnishings and decorations for our shops. Each of our shops features vintage d&#233;cor and shared design elements, such as the use of wood, wallpaper motifs and our signature Potbelly stove. Consistent with The Potbelly Advantage , our shops display locally-themed photos and other decorative items inspired by the neighborhood. Most of our shops also feature a space for musicians to perform. Our shop size averages approximately 2,300 square feet; however, we currently target shop sizes between 1,800 and 2,500 square feet for new openings. The dining area of a typical shop can seat anywhere from 40 to 60 people. Some of our shops incorporate larger dining areas and outdoor patios. We believe the unique atmosphere and local music creates a lively place where friends and family can get together, encourages repeat visits by our customers and drives increased sales.

&#160;

Construction 

Construction of a new shop generally takes approximately 50 to 70 days from the date the location is leased or under contract and fully permitted. Each new shop requires a total cash investment of approximately $600,000, but this figure could be materially higher or lower depending on the market, shop size and condition of the premises upon landlord delivery. We generally construct shops in third-party leased retail space but also construct free-standing buildings on leased properties. In the future, we intend to continue converting existing third-party leased retail space or constructing new shops in the majority of circumstances. For additional information regarding our leases, see &#8220;&#8212;Properties&#8221; in Item 2.

Franchising

In 2010, we initiated a program to selectively franchise our shops to take advantage of incremental growth opportunities. We intend to expand the number of franchise shops on a disciplined basis as we develop our franchise program. As of December 27, 2015, we had 24 domestic franchised shops in 16 states. In 2011, our first international franchise shop opened with Alshaya, our first international franchise partner. As of December 27, 2015, Alshaya operated 11 franchised shops in Kuwait, the United Arab Emirates and Bahrain and has exclusive franchising rights in the Middle East. Our agreement with Alshaya provides that Alshaya may also open shops in Egypt, Jordan, Lebanon, Oman, Qatar and Saudi Arabia. In 2014, we entered into a franchise development agreement with Buraq, pursuant to which Buraq has the exclusive right to develop Potbelly shops in London for a period of five years. We expect Buraq to open up to ten Potbelly shops in London during that period. The first Potbelly shop in London opened in July 2015. We also recently entered into a franchise development agreement with Halsted Hospitality Ltd., pursuant to which Halsted has the exclusive right to develop Potbelly shops in the province of Ontario, Canada for a period of ten years. We expect Halsted to open up to 15 Potbelly shops in the first five years of the development agreement.

We look for franchisees who love working with a team and have solid business experience, financial qualifications and personal motivation. Our franchise arrangements grant third parties a license to establish and operate a shop using our systems and our trademarks. The franchisee pays us for the ideas, strategy, marketing, operating system, training, purchasing power and brand recognition. All new franchisees participate in an eight to twelve week training program consisting of real life experience in our company-operated shops, as well as training at our Potbelly Support Center in Chicago. Franchised shops must be operated in compliance with our methods, standards and specifications, regarding menu items, ingredients, materials, supplies, services, fixtures, furnishings, d&#233;cor and signs. Although we do not expect franchise activities to result in significant revenue in the near term, we see the selective expansion of our franchising efforts to be a valuable potential growth opportunity over time.

Advertising and Marketing

We believe our shops appeal to a broad base of loyal customers who return again and again for our great food and fun environment staffed by friendly people. Historically, one to two percent of our annual revenue has been spent on marketing efforts. A portion of our marketing budget is spent at the shop level, with the goal of building relationships within our neighborhoods to increase the frequency of return visits and attract new customers. Our methods of marketing and advertising promote and maintain the Potbelly brand image and, among other things, generate awareness of shop locations and new menu offerings.

Neighborhood Shop Marketing

Consistent with our neighborhood approach, a portion of our marketing investments are made at the shop level. Neighborhood shops frequently hire local musicians and hold a variety of community events, including fundraisers. For example, during a &#8220;Shake Fundraiser&#8221; for smaller community organizations, Potbelly donates a portion of sales for each customized milkshake sold. For larger organizations, Potbelly sponsors local cause fundraisers, where 25% of sales gathered at the event are donated to the organization&#8217;s cause. Our shops promote these events and other events through social media, public relations, in-shop materials and local support, which results in increased traffic. Additionally, we engage in a variety of promotional activities, such as contributing food, time and money to charitable, civic and cultural programs, in order to give back to the communities we serve and increase public awareness and appreciation of our shops and our employees.

Advertising

We also promote our shops through local media in markets in which we have scale. The uses of digital and outdoor media are the most common advertising vehicles used in these markets. Additionally, we rely on in-shop materials to communicate and market to our customers. Our internal corporate production staff is responsible for the creative work around our advertising and other forms of communication. In the end, our best advertising comes from our customers. We believe the Potbelly experience fosters strong customer loyalty and encourages our fans to promote the brand through word-of-mouth marketing.

&#160;

E-Marketing and Social Media 

We have increased our use of e-marketing tools, which enable us to reach a significant number of people in a timely and targeted fashion at a fraction of the cost of traditional media. We believe that our customers are frequent internet users and will use social media to make dining decisions or to share dining experiences. We have a Facebook page, Instagram and Twitter feed and advertise on various social media and other websites.

Sourcing and Supply Chain

Our supply chain team sources, negotiates and purchases food supplies for our shops. We believe in using high quality ingredients while maintaining our value position in the marketplace. We benchmark our products against the competition using consumer panels. We contract with Distribution Market Advantage, Inc., or DMA, a cooperative of multiple food distributors located throughout the nation. DMA is a broker with whom we negotiate and gain access to third-party food distributors and suppliers. For fiscal year 2015, distributors through our DMA arrangement supplied us with approximately 90%-96% of our food supplies through five primary distributors: Reinhart FoodService, L.L.C., Ben E. Keith Company, Food Services of America, Shamrock Foods and Nicholas &#38; Co. Our remaining food supplies are distributed by other distributors under separate contracts. Our distributors deliver supplies to our shops approximately two to three times per week.

We negotiate pricing and volume terms directly with certain of our suppliers and distributors or through DMA. Our supply chain team utilizes a mix of forward pricing protocols for certain items under which we agree with our supplier on fixed prices for deliveries at some time in the future, fixed pricing protocols under which we agree on a fixed price with our supplier for the duration of that protocol, and formula pricing protocols under which the prices we pay are based on a specified formula related to the prices of the goods, such as spot prices. Our use of any forward pricing arrangements varies substantially from time to time and these arrangements tend to cover relatively short periods (i.e., typically 12 months or less).

Currently we have pricing arrangements of varying lengths with our distributors and suppliers, including distributors and suppliers of meats, dairy, bread, cookie dough and other products. Meats represent about 30% of our product purchasing composition. In fiscal year 2015, more than 99% of our meat products were sourced from 10 suppliers under non-exclusive contracts. We have a non-exclusive contract with Campagna-Turano Bakery, Inc. for our signature multigrain bread. Campagna-Turano Bakery, Inc. produces bread items in a primary and secondary production facility. We have secondary suppliers in place for many of our significant meats, and we believe we would be able to source our meat and bread requirements from different suppliers if doing so became necessary. However, changes in the price or availability of certain products may affect the profitability of certain items, our ability to maintain existing prices and our ability to purchase sufficient amounts of items to satisfy our customers&#8217; demands.

Many of our products, ingredients and supplies are currently sourced from multiple suppliers. Additionally, our supply chain team has established contingency plans for many key products. For example, manufacturers of certain products maintain alternative production facilities capable of satisfying our requirements should the primary facility experience interruptions. For other products, we believe we have identified alternate suppliers that could meet our requirements at competitive prices or, in some cases, have identified a product match that could be used in our shops. Our supply chain team regularly updates our procurement strategies to include contingency plans for new products and ingredients, as well as additional secondary and alternate suppliers. We believe these strategies would collectively enable us to obtain sufficient product quantities from other sources at competitive prices without material disruption should a current supplier be unable to fulfill its commitment to us.

Management Information Systems

Shop-level financial and accounting controls are handled through a point-of-sale computer system and network in each shop that communicates with our corporate headquarters. The POS system is also used to authorize and transmit credit card sales transactions and to manage the business and control costs, such as labor. Our company-operated shops are connected through data centers and a portal to provide our corporate employees with access to business information and tools that allow them to collaborate, communicate, train and share information between shops and the corporate office. We believe our systems currently comply with all credit card industry security standards for processing of credit and gift cards.

Competition

We compete in the restaurant industry, primarily in the limited-service restaurant segment but also with restaurants in the full-service restaurant segment, and face significant competition from a wide variety of restaurants, convenience stores and other outlets on a national, regional and local level. We believe that we compete primarily based on product quality, restaurant concept, service, convenience, value perception and price. Our competition continues to intensify as competitors increase the breadth and depth of their product offerings and open new units. Although new competitors may emerge at any time due to the low barriers to entry, our 

&#160;

competitors include: Chipotle, Jimmy John&#8217;s, Panera Bread and Subway, among others. Additionally, we compete with limited-service restaurants, specialty restaurants and other retail concepts for prime shop locations. 

Government Regulation

We and our franchisees are subject to various federal, state, local and international laws affecting our business. Each of our shops is subject to licensing and regulation by a number of governmental authorities, which may include, among others, health and safety, nutritional menu labeling, health care, environmental and fire agencies in the state, municipality or country in which the shop is located. Difficulty in obtaining or failing to obtain the required licenses or approvals could delay or prevent the development of a new shop in a particular area. Additionally, difficulties or inabilities to retain or renew licenses, or increased compliance costs due to changed regulations, could adversely affect operations at existing shops.

Our shop operations are also subject to federal and state labor laws, including the Fair Labor Standards Act, governing such matters as minimum wages, overtime and worker conditions. Significant numbers of our food service and preparation personnel are paid at rates related to the applicable minimum wage, and further increases in the minimum wage or other changes in these laws could increase our labor costs. Our ability to respond to minimum wage increases by increasing menu prices will depend on the responses of our competitors and customers. Our distributors and suppliers also may be affected by higher minimum wage and benefit standards, which could result in higher costs for goods and services supplied to us.

We and our franchisees may also be subject to lawsuits from our employees, the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission or others alleging violations of federal and state laws regarding workplace and employment matters, discrimination and similar matters.

The Patient Protection and Affordability Act of 2010 (the &#8220;PPACA&#8221;) enacted in March 2010 requires chain restaurants with 20 or more locations in the United States to comply with federal nutritional disclosure requirements. The FDA issued final regulations with regard to restaurant menu labeling that is expected to become effective December 1, 2016. A number of states, counties and cities have also enacted menu labeling laws requiring multi-unit restaurant operators to disclose certain nutritional information to customers, or have enacted legislation restricting the use of certain types of ingredients in restaurants. Although the federal legislation is intended to preempt conflicting state or local laws on nutrition labeling, until we are required to comply with the federal law we will be subject to a patchwork of state and local laws and regulations regarding nutritional content disclosure requirements. Many of these requirements are inconsistent or are interpreted differently from one jurisdiction to another. While our ability to adapt to consumer preferences is a strength of our concepts, the effect of such labeling requirements on consumer choices, if any, is unclear at this time.

There is also a potential for increased regulation of certain food establishments in the United States, where compliance with a Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Points (&#8220;HACCP&#8221;) approach may now be required. HACCP refers to a management system in which food safety is addressed through the analysis and control of potential hazards from production, procurement and handling, to manufacturing, distribution and consumption of the finished product. Many states have required restaurants to develop and implement HACCP Systems and the United States government continues to expand the sectors of the food industry that must adopt and implement HACCP programs. For example, the Food Safety Modernization Act (&#8220;FSMA&#8221;), signed into law in January 2011, granted the United States Food and Drug Administration (the &#8220;FDA&#8221;) new authority regarding the safety of the entire food system, including through increased inspections and mandatory food recalls. Although restaurants are specifically exempted from or not directly implicated by some of these new requirements, we anticipate that the new requirements may impact our industry. Additionally, our suppliers may initiate or otherwise be subject to food recalls that may impact the availability of certain products, result in adverse publicity or require us to take actions that could be costly for us or otherwise harm our business.

We and our franchisees are subject to the Americans with Disabilities Act (the &#8220;ADA&#8221;), which, among other things, requires our shops to meet federally mandated requirements for the disabled. The ADA prohibits discrimination in employment and public accommodations on the basis of disability. Under the ADA, we and our franchisees could be required to expend funds to modify our shops to provide service to, or make reasonable accommodations for the employment of, disabled persons. In addition, our employment practices are subject to the requirements of the Immigration and Naturalization Service relating to citizenship and residency. Government regulations could affect and change the items we procure for resale. We and our franchisees may also become subject to legislation or regulation seeking to tax and/or regulate high-fat and high-sodium foods, particularly in the United States, which could be costly to comply with. Our results can be impacted by tax legislation and regulation in the jurisdictions in which we operate and by accounting standards or pronouncements.

We and our franchisees are also subject to laws and regulations relating to information security, privacy, cashless payments, gift cards and consumer credit, protection and fraud, and any failure or perceived failure to comply with these laws and regulations could harm our reputation or lead to litigation, which could adversely affect our financial condition.

&#160;

Our franchising activities are subject to the rules and regulations of the Federal Trade Commission (&#8220;FTC&#8221;) and various state laws regulating the offer and sale of franchises. The FTC&#8217;s franchise rule and various state laws require that we furnish a franchise disclosure document (&#8220;FDD&#8221;) containing certain information to prospective franchisees and a number of states require registration of the FDD with st ate authorities. Substantive state laws that regulate the franchisor-franchisee relationship exist in a substantial number of states, and bills have been introduced in Congress from time to time that would provide for federal regulation of the franchisor-f ranchisee relationship. The state laws often limit, among other things, the duration and scope of non-competition provisions, the ability of a franchisor to terminate or refuse to renew a franchise and the ability of a franchisor to designate sources of su pply. We believe that our FDDs, together with any applicable state versions or supplements, and franchising procedures comply in all material respects with both the FTC franchise rule and all applicable state laws regulating franchising in those states in which we have offered franchises. 

See &#8220;Risk Factors&#8221; in Item 1A for a discussion of risks relating to federal, state, local and international regulation of our business.

Seasonality

Our business is subject to seasonal fluctuations. Historically, customer spending patterns for our established shops are lowest in the first quarter of the year. Our quarterly results have been and will continue to be affected by the timing of new shop openings and their associated pre-opening costs. As a result of these and other factors, our financial results for any quarter may not be indicative of the results that may be achieved for a full fiscal year.

Employees

As of December 27, 2015, we employed approximately 7,000 persons, of which approximately 190 are corporate personnel, 640 are shop management personnel and the remainder are hourly shop personnel.

Intellectual Property and Trademarks

We regard our &#8220;Potbelly&#8221; and &#8220;Potbelly Sandwich Works&#8221; trademarks as having significant value and as being important factors in the marketing of our shops. We have also obtained trademarks for several of our other menu items, such as &#8220;A Wreck,&#8221; and for various advertising slogans, including &#8220;Good Vibes, Great Sandwiches&#8221; and &#8220;A First Class Dive.&#8221; We are aware of names and marks similar to the trademarks of ours used by other persons in certain geographic areas in which we have shops. However, we believe such uses will not adversely affect us. Our policy is to pursue registration of our intellectual property whenever possible and to oppose vigorously any infringement thereof.

We license the use of our registered trademarks to franchisees through franchise arrangements. The franchise arrangements restrict franchisees&#8217; activities with respect to the use of our trademarks and impose quality control standards in connection with goods and services offered in connection with the trademarks.

Available Information

We were incorporated in Delaware in June 2001 as Potbelly Sandwich Works, Inc. and changed our name to Potbelly Corporation in 2002. Our principal offices are located at 111 North Canal Street, Suite 850, Chicago, Illinois 60606 and our telephone number is (312) 951-0600. We maintain a website with the address www.potbelly.com. On our website, we make available at no charge our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, all amendments to those reports, and our proxy statement, as soon as reasonably practicable after these materials are filed with or furnished to the SEC. Our filings are also available on the SEC&#8217;s website at www.sec.gov. The public may read and copy any materials that we file with the SEC at the SEC&#8217;s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549. The public may also obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The contents of our website are not incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K.

&#160;

&#160;

