 Item 1. Business &#160; 

Overview 

We are a leading provider of trading, clearing, exchange technology, regulatory, securities listing, information and public company services across six continents. Our global offerings are diverse and include trading and clearing across multiple asset classes, access services, data products, financial indexes, capital formation solutions, corporate solutions and market technology products and services. Our technology powers markets across the globe, supporting equity derivatives trading, clearing and settlement, cash equity trading, fixed income trading and many other functions. 

History 

Nasdaq was founded in 1971 as a wholly-owned subsidiary of FINRA. Beginning in 2000, FINRA restructured and broadened ownership in Nasdaq by selling shares to FINRA members, investment companies and issuers listed on The NASDAQ Stock Market. 

In connection with this restructuring, Nasdaq applied to the SEC to register The NASDAQ Stock Market as a national securities exchange. FINRA fully divested its ownership of Nasdaq in 2006, and The NASDAQ Stock Market became fully operational as an independent registered national securities exchange in 2007. In 2006, Nasdaq also reorganized its operations into a holding company structure. As a result, most of our businesses are operated by our subsidiaries. 

On February 27, 2008, Nasdaq and OMX AB combined their businesses. This transformational combination resulted in the expansion of our business from a U.S.-based exchange operator to a global exchange company offering technology that powers our own exchanges and markets as well as many other marketplaces around the world. 

Also in 2008, we expanded our business through the acquisitions of the Philadelphia Stock Exchange, Inc. and the Boston Stock Exchange, Incorporated. These acquisitions allowed us to extend our presence in the U.S. derivatives markets and we currently operate three separate U.S. options markets. In addition, we have used the licenses acquired in these acquisitions to launch two additional U.S. cash equity markets. Most recently, in February 2016, we acquired Chi-X Canada ATS Limited, a leading alternative market in Canada for the trading of Canadian-listed securities. 

We also have expanded into the business of trading and clearing commodities products in recent years. In 2008, we acquired the clearing, international derivatives and consulting subsidiaries of Nord Pool ASA. As a result of this acquisition, we launched Nasdaq Commodities, which offers energy and emission allowance derivatives products. In July 2012, we acquired NOS Clearing ASA, a leading Norway-based clearinghouse primarily for over-the-counter, or OTC, traded derivatives for the freight and fuel oil market, iron ore and seafood derivatives market. 

In August 2010, we acquired SMARTS Group Holdings Pty Ltd, or SMARTS, a leading technology provider of surveillance solutions to exchanges, regulators and brokers. In two separate transactions in 2012 and 2014, we acquired a 100.0% ownership interest in BWise Beheer B.V. and its subsidiaries, or BWise, a Netherlands-based service provider that offers enterprise governance, risk management and compliance software and services to help companies track, measure and manage key organizational risks. These acquisitions have expanded our Market Technology business. 

In recent years, we have significantly grown our Corporate Solutions business, which provides customer support services, products and programs to companies including companies listed on our exchanges, through organic growth and numerous acquisitions. Most recently, in 2013, we acquired the Investor Relations, Public Relations and Multimedia Solutions businesses of Thomson Reuters, or the TR Corporate businesses. 

In 2013, we further expanded our Market Services and Information Services businesses by acquiring from BGC Partners, Inc. and certain of its affiliates, or BGC, certain assets and assumed certain liabilities of the eSpeed business, or eSpeed, including the eSpeed brand name and various assets comprising the fully electronic portion of BGC&#8217;s benchmark U.S. Treasury brokerage, data and co-location service businesses. 

In 2015, we completed the acquisition of Dorsey, Wright &#38; Associates, LLC, or DWA, a market leader in data analytics, passive indexing and smart beta strategies. DWA is part of our Information Services segment. 

In 2015, we also acquired full ownership of The NASDAQ Private Market, LLC, or NPM, following the acquisition of the minority stake that was previously held by a third party. In addition, through NPM, we acquired SecondMarket Solutions, Inc., or SecondMarket, a recognized innovator in facilitating liquidity for private company securities . NPM and SecondMarket are part of our Listing Services segment. 

In September 2015, we changed the name of our holding company from The NASDAQ OMX Group, Inc. to Nasdaq, Inc. 

&#160;

Products and Services 

We manage, operate and provide our products and services in four business segments: Market Services, Listing Services, Information Services and Technology Solutions. 

Of our 2015 total revenues less transaction-based expenses of $2,090 million, 36.9% was from our Market Services segment, 12.6% was from our Listing Services segment, 24.5% was from our Information Services segment and 26.0% was from our Technology Solutions segment. Of our 2014 total revenues less transaction-based expenses of $2,067 million, 38.5% was from our Market Services segment, 11.5% was from our Listing Services segment, 22.9% was from our Information Services segment and 27.1% was from our Technology Solutions segment. Of our 2013 total revenues less transaction-based expenses of $1,895 million, 39.9% was from our Market Services segment, 12.0% was from our Listing Services segment, 23.0% was from our Information Services segment and 25.1% was from our Technology Solutions segment. 

See Note 1, &#8220; Organization and Nature of Operations ,&#8221; and Note 19, &#8220;Business Segments,&#8221; to the consolidated financial statements for additional financial information about our reportable segments and geographic data. 

Market Services 

Our Market Services segment includes our equity derivative trading and clearing, cash equity trading, fixed income, currency and commodities trading and clearing, or FICC, and access and broker services businesses. We operate multiple exchanges and other marketplace facilities across several asset classes, including derivatives, commodities, cash equity, debt, structured products and ETPs. In addition, in some countries where we operate exchanges, we also provide broker services, clearing, settlement and central depository services. Our transaction-based platforms provide market participants with the ability to access, process, display and integrate orders and quotes. The platforms allow the routing and execution of buy and sell orders as well as the reporting of transactions, providing fee-based revenues. 

Equity Derivative Trading and Clearing 

In the U.S., we operate three options exchanges, The NASDAQ Options Market, Nasdaq PHLX and Nasdaq BX Options, for the trading of equity options, exchange traded fund, or ETF, options, index options and foreign currency options. During the year ended December 31, 2015, our options markets had an average combined market share of approximately 25.2% in the U.S. equity options market, consisting of approximately 16.7 % at Nasdaq PHLX, 7.7% at The NASDAQ Options Market and 0.8% at Nasdaq BX Options. Together, our combined market share represented the largest share of the U.S. equity and ETF options market. Our options trading platforms provide trading opportunities to both retail investors, algorithmic trading firms and market makers, who tend to prefer electronic trading, and institutional investors, who typically pursue more complex trading strategies and often trade on the floor. 

In Europe, Nasdaq offers trading in derivatives, such as stock options and futures, index options and futures and fixed-income options and futures. Nasdaq Clearing offers clearing services for fixed-income options and futures, stock options and futures, index options and futures, and interest rate swaps by serving as the central counterparty, or CCP. Nasdaq Clearing also operates a clearing service for the resale and repurchase agreement market. 

Cash Equity Trading 

In the U.S., we operate three cash equity exchanges, The NASDAQ Stock Market, Nasdaq BX and Nasdaq PSX. The NASDAQ Stock Market is the largest single venue of liquidity for trading U.S.-listed cash equities, matching an average of approximately 15.8% of all U.S. cash equity volume for 2015. In 2015, Nasdaq BX matched an average of approximately 2.0% and Nasdaq PSX matched an average of approximately 1.0% of all U.S. cash equity volume. 

Our U.S. cash equity exchanges offer trading of both NASDAQ-listed and non-NASDAQ-listed securities. Market participants include market makers, broker-dealers, alternative trading systems, or ATSs, and registered securities exchanges. 

In Europe, Nasdaq operates exchanges in Stockholm (Sweden), Copenhagen (Denmark), Helsinki (Finland), and Iceland. The Nasdaq Nordic exchanges offer trading in Nordic securities such as cash equities and depository receipts, warrants, convertibles, rights, fund units and ETFs. Our platform allows the exchanges to share the same trading system, which enables efficient cross-border trading and settlement, cross membership and a single source for Nordic data products. Settlement and registration of cash equity trading takes place in Sweden, Finland, Denmark and Iceland via the local central securities depositories. 

Nasdaq Baltic operates exchanges in Tallinn (Estonia), Riga (Latvia) and Vilnius (Lithuania). Nasdaq owns Nasdaq Tallinn and has a majority ownership in Nasdaq Vilnius and Nasdaq Riga. In addition, Nasdaq Tallinn owns the central securities depository in Estonia, Nasdaq Riga owns the central securities depository in Latvia, and Nasdaq Helsinki and Nasdaq Vilnius jointly own the central securities depository in Lithuania. 

Fixed Income, Currency and Commodities Trading and Clearing 

Our FICC business includes fixed income activities in the Nordic region, our eSpeed business, Nasdaq NLX, Nasdaq Futures, 

&#160;

Inc., or NFX, and Nasdaq Commodities. 

Nasdaq Nordic provides a wide range of products and services, such as listing, trading, and clearing, for fixed income products in Sweden, Denmark, Finland and Iceland. Nasdaq Stockholm is the largest bond listing venue in the Nordics, with more than 5,000 listed retail and institutional bonds. In addition, Nasdaq Nordic facilitates the trading and clearing of Nordic fixed income derivatives in a unique market structure. Buyers and sellers agree to trades in fixed income derivatives through bilateral negotiations and then report those trades to Nasdaq Clearing markets for CCP clearing. Nasdaq Clearing acts as the counterparty to both the buyer and seller. 

In June 2013, we acquired eSpeed, an electronic platform for trading U.S. Treasuries. The electronic trading platform provides real-time institutional trading of benchmark U.S. Treasury securities. Through eSpeed, we provide trading access to the U.S. Treasury securities market with an array of trading instruments to meet various investment goals across the fixed income spectrum. 

Nasdaq NLX is a London-based multilateral trading venue that launched in 2013. Nasdaq NLX offers a range of both short-term interest rate and long-term interest rate euro-and sterling-based listed derivative products. 

In the third quarter of 2015, we launched NFX, which is our U.S. based energy derivatives market. NFX offers cash settled energy derivatives based on key energy benchmarks including oil, natural gas and U.S. power. 

Nasdaq Commodities is the brand name for Nasdaq&#8217;s worldwide suite of commodity-related products and services. Nasdaq Commodities&#8217; offerings include power, natural gas and carbon emission markets, tanker and dry cargo freight, fuel oil, seafood derivatives, iron ore, electricity certificates and clearing services. Nasdaq Oslo ASA, which is authorized by the Norwegian Ministry of Finance and supervised by the Norwegian Financial Supervisory Authority, is the commodity derivatives exchange for Nasdaq Commodities. In addition, all trades with Nasdaq Commodities are subject to clearing with Nasdaq Clearing, which is a CCP authorized under the European Market Infrastructure Regulation, or EMIR, by the &#160; Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority, or SFSA, to conduct clearing operations. Nasdaq Commodities has approximately 400 members across a wide range of energy producers and consumers, as well as financial institutions. 

Access and Broker Services 

Access Services. We provide market participants with a wide variety of alternatives for connecting to and accessing our markets for a fee. Shifting connectivity from proprietary networks to third-party networks has significantly reduced technology and network costs and increased our systems&#8217; scalability while maintaining performance and reliability. 

Our marketplaces may be accessed via a number of different protocols used for quoting, order entry, trade reporting, DROP functionality and connectivity to various data feeds. We also offer the NASDAQ Workstation, a browser-based, front-end interface that allows market participants to view data and enter orders, quotes and trade reports. In addition, we offer a variety of add-on compliance tools to help firms comply with regulatory requirements. 

We provide co-location services to market participants, whereby firms may lease cabinet space and power to house their own equipment and servers within our data center. These participants are charged monthly fees for cabinet space, connectivity and support. Additionally, we offer a number of wireless connectivity routes between select data centers using millimeter wave and microwave technology. We also earn revenues from annual and monthly exchange membership and registration fees. 

Broker Services. Our broker services operations offer technology and customized securities administration solutions to financial participants in the Nordic market. Broker services provides services through a registered securities company that is regulated by the SFSA. Services primarily consist of flexible back-office systems, which allow customers to entirely or partly outsource their company&#8217;s back-office functions. 

We offer customer and account registration, business registration, clearing and settlement, corporate action handling for reconciliations and reporting to authorities. Available services also include direct settlement with the Nordic central securities depositories, real-time updating and communication via the Society for Worldwide Interbank Financial Telecommunication to deposit banks. 

Listing Services 

We operate a variety of listing platforms around the world to provide multiple global capital raising solutions for private and public companies. Companies listed on our markets represent a diverse array of industries including, among others, health care, consumer products, telecommunication services, information technology, financial services, industrials and energy. Our main listing markets are The NASDAQ Stock Market and the Nasdaq Nordic and Nasdaq Baltic exchanges. 

&#160;

Companies seeking to list securities on The NASDAQ Stock Market must meet minimum listing requirements, including specified financial and corporate governance criteria. Once listed, companies must meet continued listing standards. The NASDAQ Stock Market currently has three listing tiers: The NASDAQ Global Select Market, The NASDAQ Global Market and The NASDAQ Capital Market. All three market tiers maintain rigorous listing and corporate governance standards (both initial and ongoing). 

As of December 31, 2015, a total of 2,859 companies listed securities on The NASDAQ Stock Market, with 1,526 listings on The NASDAQ Global Select Market, 674 on The NASDAQ Global Market and 659 on The NASDAQ Capital Market. 

We aggressively pursue new listings from companies, including those undergoing IPOs as well as companies seeking to switch from alternative exchanges. In 2015, The NASDAQ Stock Market attracted 274 new listings. Included in these listings were 143 IPOs, 73% of U.S. IPOs in 2015. The new listings were comprised of the following: 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Switches from the New York Stock Exchange, or NYSE, and NYSE MKT . 

27 IPOs ................................................................................................. 

143 Upgrades from OTC ........................................................................... 

48 ETPs and Other Listings ..................................................................... 

56 ....................................................................................... Total 

&#160; 

In 2015, a total of 27 NYSE- or NYSE MKT-listed companies switched to The NASDAQ Stock Market, representing approximately $83.5 billion in market capitalization. Notable switches included T &#8208; Mobile US, Inc., CSX Corporation, Pinnacle Entertainment, Inc. and TD Ameritrade Holding Corporation. 

We also offer listings on the exchanges that comprise Nasdaq Nordic and Nasdaq Baltic. For smaller companies and growth companies, we offer access to the financial markets through the Nasdaq First North alternative marketplaces. As of December 31, 2015, a total of 852 companies listed securities on our Nordic and Baltic exchanges and Nasdaq First North. 

Our European listing customers include companies, funds and governments. Customers issue securities in the form of cash equities, depository receipts, warrants, ETFs, convertibles, rights, options, bonds or fixed-income related products. In 2015, a total of 91 new companies listed on our Nordic and Baltic exchanges and Nasdaq First North. 

Our Listing Services segment also includes NPM and SecondMarket, which are marketplaces for private growth companies. 

Information Services 

Our Information Services segment includes our Data Products and our Index Licensing and Services businesses. 

Data Products 

Our data products enhance transparency and provide critical information to professional and non-professional investors. We collect, process and create information and earn revenues as a distributor of our own, as well as select, third-party content. We provide varying levels of quote and trade information to market participants and to data distributors, who in turn provide subscriptions for this information. Our systems enable distributors to gain direct access to our market depth, index values, mutual fund valuation, order imbalances, market sentiment and other analytical data. Revenues from data products are subscription-based and are generated primarily based on the number of data subscribers and distributors of our data. 

We distribute this proprietary market information to both market participants and non-participants through a number of proprietary products, including NASDAQ TotalView, our flagship market depth quote product. TotalView shows subscribers quotes, orders and total anonymous interest at every price level in The NASDAQ Stock Market for NASDAQ-listed securities and critical data for the opening, closing, halt and IPO crosses. We also offer TotalView products for our Nasdaq BX and Nasdaq PSX markets. 

We operate several other proprietary services and data products to provide market information, including Nasdaq Basic, a low cost Level 1 feed and Ultrafeed, a normalized high speed feed of North American equity, DWA&#8217;s web-based advisor tools, options, futures, indexes and mutual fund data. In addition, eSpeed delivers U.S. Treasury data. 

Our Data Products business also includes revenues from U.S. tape plans. The NASDAQ Stock Market acts as the administrator for the Joint Self-Regulatory Organization Plan Governing the Collection, Consolidation, and Dissemination of Quotation and Transaction Information for NASDAQ-Listed Securities Traded on Exchanges on an Unlisted Trading Privileges Basis, or the UTP 

&#160;

Plan. In this role, NASDAQ sells quotation and last sale information for all transactions in NASDAQ-listed securities, whether traded on The NASDAQ Stock Market or other exchanges, to market participants and to data distributors, who then provide the information to subscribers. After deducting costs, as permitted under the revenue sharing provision of the UTP Plan, we distribute the tape revenues to the respective UTP Plan participants, including The NASDAQ Stock Market, Nasdaq BX and Nasdaq PSX, based on a formula required by Regulation National Market System, or Regulation NMS, that takes into account both trading and quoting activity. In addition, all quotes and trades in NYSE- and NYSE MKT-listed securities are reported and disseminated in real-time, and as such, we share in the tape revenues for information on NYSE- and NYSE MKT-listed securities. 

The Nasdaq Nordic and Nasdaq Baltic exchanges, as well as Nasdaq Commodities, also offer data products and services. These data products and services provide critical market transparency to professional and non-professional investors who participate in European marketplaces and, at the same time, give investors greater insight into these markets. 

European data products and services are based on trading information from the Nasdaq Nordic and Nasdaq Baltic exchanges, as well as Nasdaq Commodities, for the following classes of assets: cash equities, bonds, derivatives and commodities. We provide varying levels of quote and trade information to market participants and to data distributors, who in turn provide subscriptions for this information. 

Significant European data products include Nordic Equity TotalView, Nordic Derivative TotalView, and Nordic Fixed Income TotalView, Level 2, Analytics and Fixings. 

Finally, we provide index data products based on Nasdaq indexes. Index data products include our Global Index Data Service, which delivers real-time index values throughout the trading day, and Global Index Watch/Global Index File Delivery Service, which delivers weightings and components data, corporate actions and a breadth of additional data. 

Index Licensing and Services 

Our Index Licensing and Services business is a leading index provider that develops and licenses Nasdaq branded indexes, associated derivatives and financial products. We also provide custom calculation services for third-party clients. License fees for our trademark licenses vary by product based on a percentage of underlying assets, dollar value of a product issuance, number of products or number of contracts traded. We also license cash-settled options, futures and options on futures on our indexes. 

Nasdaq indexes are now the basis for 222 ETPs with $114 billion in assets under management. Our flagship index, the NASDAQ-100 Index, includes the top 100 non-financial securities listed on The NASDAQ Stock Market. 

We also operate the NASDAQ Global Index Family, which includes more than 40,000 indexes. The NASDAQ Global Index Family represents more than 98% of the global equity investable marketplace. The family consists of global securities broken down by market segment, region, country, size and sector. The NASDAQ Global Index Family covers 45 countries and approximately 9,000 securities. 

In 2015, we completed the acquisition of DWA, a market leader in data analytics, passive indexing and smart beta strategies. DWA added to Nasdaq&#8217;s robust index portfolio, bringing model-based strategies and analysis to support the financial advisor community, and further strengthened Nasdaq&#8217;s position as a leading smart beta index provider in the U.S. 

Technology Solutions 

Our Technology Solutions segment includes our Corporate Solutions and Market Technology businesses. 

Corporate Solutions 

Our Corporate Solutions business serves corporate clients, including companies listed on our exchanges. We help organizations manage the two-way flow of information with their key constituents, including their board members and investors, and with clients and the public through our suite of advanced technology, analytics, and consultative services. 

In 2013, we acquired the TR Corporate businesses which were integrated into our Corporate Solutions business. 

We provide Corporate Solutions products and services in the following key areas: 

&#8226; Investor Relations . We offer investor relations content, analytics, advisory services and communications tools, including investor relations webcasting and websites. Our solutions make it easier for companies to interact and communicate with analysts and investors while meeting corporate governance and disclosure requirements. In early 2016, we launched Nasdaq IR Insight, our new investor relations platform. 

&#8226; Public Relations. We offer solutions to help clients identify, reach, monitor and measure their public relations program. We provide traditional and social media contacts databases, backed by over 100 research analysts. Our press release distribution network allows clients to reach global audiences cost-effectively. Our suite of technology solutions and expert 

&#160;

analysts help clients monitor key news media for their brand, reputation, products, as well as industry competitors, and measure the success of their communications programs. 

&#8226; Multimedia Solutions. &#160; We offer a platform and services which enable our customers to produce webcasts for a wide range of applications, including investor relations, public relations, marketing and internal communications. Our differentiators include global scale, application expertise, actionable analytics and content distribution. &#160; 

&#8226; Governance. We offer a secure collaboration platform for boards of directors or any team collaborating on confidential initiatives. Our solutions protect sensitive data and facilitate productive collaboration, so board members and teams can work faster and more effectively. 

We currently have over 9,500 Corporate Solutions clients. 

Market Technology 

Powering more than 70 marketplaces in 50 countries, our Market Technology business is a leading global technology solutions provider and partner to exchanges, clearing organizations, central securities depositories, regulators, banks, brokers and corporate businesses. Our Market Technology business is the sales channel for our complete global offering to other marketplaces. 

Market Technology provides technology solutions for trading, clearing, settlement, surveillance and information dissemination to markets with wide-ranging requirements, from the leading markets in the U.S., Europe and Asia to emerging markets in the Middle East, Latin America and Africa. Our marketplace solutions can handle a wide array of assets, including cash equities, equity derivatives, currencies, various interest-bearing securities, commodities and energy products. 

Our trading and data solutions are utilized by exchanges, alternative-trading venues, banks and securities brokers with marketplace offerings of their own. In the post-trade stage, we offer integrated systems solutions for clearing (risk management) and settlement (settlement and delivery) of both cash equities and derivatives to clearing organizations around the world. 

Nasdaq&#8217;s market technology is utilized by, among others, the Australian Securities Exchange, or ASX Limited, ICAP, Bolsa de Valores de Colombia, Borsa Istanbul, Egyptian Exchange, Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing Limited, SIX Swiss Exchange, Singapore Exchange, Tokyo Commodity Exchange, Japan Exchange Group, Bursa Malaysia and SBI Japannext. 

A central part of many projects is facility management and systems integration. Through our integration services, we can assume responsibility for projects involving migration to a new system and the establishment of entirely new marketplaces. We also offer operation and support for the applications, systems platforms, networks and other components included in a turn-key information technology solution, as well as advisory services. 

We also offer broker services through SMARTS. SMARTS is a managed service designed for brokers and other market participants to assist them in complying with market rules, regulations and internal market surveillance policies. 

Finally, through BWise, we offer enterprise governance, risk management and compliance software and services to help companies track, measure and manage key organizational risks. 

In addition to the four business segments described above, the areas described below are significant to an understanding of our business. 

Technology 

Technology plays a key role in ensuring the growth, reliability and regulation of financial markets. In 2014, we established a technology risk program to consider the resiliency of critical systems. This program is focused on identifying areas for improvement in systems and implementing changes and upgrades to technology and processes to minimize future risk. During 2015, we established additional programs focused on improving the security of our technology with an emphasis on employee awareness through training, targeted phishing campaigns, and new tool deployment for our securities operations team. 

Core Technology. The foundation for Nasdaq&#8217;s core technology is INET. The INET technology is used across our U.S. and European markets. INET is also a key building block of our Market Technology offerings, Genium INET and X-stream INET. Genium INET and X-stream INET both combine innovative functionality with a modular approach to manage change and create new advantages for existing and new customers. 

We continuously improve our core technology with a focus on improving capacity, reliability, resiliency and market integrity . 

Data Centers . Nasdaq utilizes data center facilities in key global regions to support our markets, technology services, disaster recovery capabilities and operations centers. In 2015, we expanded our facilities to include Chicago and we will continue to add new locations to support our growth and new services. 

&#160;

Blockchain Initiatives . In May 2015, we announced plans to leverage blockchain technology as part of an enterprise-wide initiative. As an initial application, we have been developing Nasdaq Linq, an NPM solution based on blockchain-enabled technology, that may be used to expand and enhance issuers&#8217; and investors&#8217; equity management capabilities. In November 2015, we also announced a project to explore the application of blockchain technology to proxy voting in Estonia. 

Intellectual Property 

We own or have licensed rights to trade names, trademarks, domain names and service marks that we use in conjunction with our operations and services. We have registered many of our most important trademarks in the U.S. and in foreign countries. For example, our primary &#8220;NASDAQ&#8221; mark is a registered trademark in the U.S. and in over 50 other countries worldwide. 

To support our business objectives and benefit from our investments in research and development, we actively seek protection for our innovations by filing patent applications to protect inventions arising from investments in products, systems, software and services. We believe that our patents and patent applications are important for maintaining the competitive differentiation of our products, systems, software and services, enhancing our ability to access technology of third parties and maximizing our return on research and development investments. 

Over time, we have accumulated a robust portfolio of issued patents in the U.S., Europe and in other parts of the world. We currently hold rights to patents relating to certain aspects of products, systems, software and services, but we primarily rely on the innovative skills, technical competence and marketing abilities of our personnel. Hence, no single patent is in itself essential to us as a whole or any of our principal business areas. 

We also maintain copyright protection in our Nasdaq-branded materials. 

Competition 

Market Services &#160; 

Equity Derivative Trading and Clearing. In derivatives trading and clearing, competition comes in the form of trading and clearing that takes place OTC, usually through banks and brokerage firms, or through trading and clearing competition with other exchanges. 

Our principal competitors for trading options in the U.S. include the Chicago Board Options Exchange, Inc., or CBOE, the International Securities Exchange Holdings, Inc., or ISE, NYSE ARCA, NYSE Amex, BATS Options, EDGE Options, The MIAX Options Exchange, C2 Options Exchange, the BOX Options Exchange Group, LLC and ISE Gemini. ISE and Miami International Holdings, Inc. each announced the launch of new options exchanges expected in 2016. Competition is focused on providing market participants with greater functionality, trading system stability, customer service, efficient pricing and speed of execution. The intense competition for exchange traded options results in the need to continuously review our technology offerings and pricing. 

Exchange based competition for trading in European derivatives continues to occur mainly where there is competition in trading for the underlying equities and our primary competitors for options on European equities are EUREX Group ICE Futures Europe, Turquoise and, to a limited extent, the U.S. options exchanges. Such competition is limited to options on a small number of equity securities although these securities tend to be among the most active. In addition to exchange-based competition in derivatives, we continue to face competition from OTC derivative markets. 

The competitive significance in Europe of varied alternative trading venues is likely to increase in the future, with the regulatory environment in Europe becoming more favorable to alternative trading venues as a result of the reforms required by the update to Markets in Financial Instruments Directive, or MiFID II, and a broader effort to increase competition in financial services. As trading in Europe evolves, competition for trading volumes in derivatives will likely increase. Both current and potential competition require us to constantly reassess our pricing and product offerings in order to remain competitive. 

Regulations such as MiFID II, the Markets in Financial Instruments Regulation, or MiFIR, and the EMIR are altering competition in the clearing business in Europe. MiFID II and MiFIR will both affect our trading business as they are implemented over the next several years. The EMIR requirements are changing the way we structure and operate our clearing business today as implementation is ongoing and will continue into 2015. 

Cash Equity Trading. The cash equity securities markets are intensely competitive. As a result of the conditions in the U.S. and Europe, we experience competition in our core trading activities such as execution services, quoting and trading capabilities, and reporting services. We compete in the U.S. against ICE, BATS Global Markets, Inc., regional exchanges and ATSs. In addition, other competitors have recently applied to register as a national securities exchange or resumed trading. Competition also comes from broker-dealers and from OTC trading in the U.S. and elsewhere. The U.S. marketplace continues to evolve as less heavily regulated broker-owned trading systems and ATSs, known collectively as dark pools, expand in number and activity. While many of the new entrants may have limited liquidity, some may attract significant levels of cash equity order volume through aggressive pricing, interconnections with other systems, and volume originating with broker-dealer owners and investors. 

&#160;

In Europe, our major competitors include BATS Chi-X Europe, Euronext, Deutsche B&#246;rse AG, the London Stock Exchange Group plc, or LSE, and multilateral trading facilities, or MTFs, such as Turquoise. The European landscape is continuing to adapt to the proposals in MiFID II. Throughout Europe, new MTFs have been created with the most prominent MTFs based in the United Kingdom and attracting a significant share of electronically matched volume. MTFs continue to grow their business in shares listed on our Nordic exchanges. Electronic trading systems interested in pursuing block business also remain active in Europe. While the state of competition in Europe remains evolutionary, the level of competition faced by incumbent national exchanges remains intense. 

Fixed Income, Currency and Commodities Trading and Clearing. Today, many U.S. fixed-income instruments enjoy some form of electronic trading, but the move to electronify the fixed income space is still developing with some products still trading almost exclusively among voice brokers. Competition in the fixed income space includes the voice broker community and other new electronic platform operators. Currently, other competitors in electronic U.S. Treasury benchmark trading are ICAP&#8217;s BrokerTec platform and Dealerweb. For new entrants into the market, building a U.S. Treasury benchmark trading business is complex, time-consuming and expensive. However, the current level of competition is significant and the operating environment remains challenging. &#160; 

Listing Services 

Our primary competitor for larger company listings in the U.S. is NYSE. The NASDAQ Stock Market also competes with NYSE MKT for listing of smaller companies. In addition, BATS competes for ETP listings and has announced an intention to list corporate equities, and currently another potential competitor has an exchange license application pending with the SEC. The NASDAQ Stock Market also competes with local and international markets for listings by both U.S. and foreign companies that choose to list outside of their home country. For example, we compete for listings with exchanges in Europe and Asia, such as LSE and the Hong Kong Stock Exchange. 

The listings business in Europe is characterized by the large number of exchanges competing for new or secondary listings. Each country has one or more national exchanges which are often the first choice of companies in each respective country. For those considering an alternative, the European exchanges that attract the most overseas listings are LSE, Euronext, Deutsche B&#246;rse and the Nasdaq Nordic exchanges. In addition to the larger exchanges, companies are able to consider smaller markets and quoting facilities. 

Information Services 

Data Products. Our Data Products business in the U.S. includes both proprietary and consolidated data products. Proprietary data products are made up exclusively of data derived from each exchange&#8217;s systems. Consolidated data products are distributed by SEC-mandated consolidators (one for NASDAQ-listed stocks and another for NYSE and other-listed stocks) that share the revenue among the exchanges that contribute data. In Europe, all data products are proprietary as there is no official data consolidator. Competition in the data business is intense and is influenced by rapidly changing technology and the creation of new product and service offerings. 

The sale of our proprietary data products in both the U.S. and Europe is under competitive threat from alternative exchanges and trading venues that offer similar products. Our data business competes with other exchanges and third party vendors in providing information to market participants. Some of our major competitors for proprietary data products are ICE, BATS, ICAP, Standard &#38; Poor&#8217;s, or S&#38;P, and Dow Jones. 

The consolidated data business is under competitive pressure from other securities exchanges that trade NASDAQ-listed securities. Current SEC regulations permit these regional exchanges and FINRA&#8217;s Alternative Display Facility to quote and trade NASDAQ-listed securities. The UTP Plan entitles these exchanges, FINRA&#8217;s Alternative Display Facility, and the trade reporting facilities to a share of UTP Plan tape fees, based on the formula required by Regulation NMS that takes into account both trading and quoting activity. In addition, The NASDAQ Stock Market similarly competes for the tape fees from the sale of information on NYSE, NYSE MKT, and BATS-listed securities for those respective tape plans. In recent years, the operations of the consolidated tape plans have received heightened scrutiny from the industry, regulators and policy makers, including calls for competing tape plans. 

Index Licensing and Services. Our Index Licensing and Services business faces competition from indexes created by a large number of providers. For example, there are a number of indexes that aim to track the technology sector and thereby compete with the NASDAQ-100 Index and the NASDAQ Composite Index. We face competition from investment banks, dedicated index providers, markets and other product developers in designing products that meet investor needs. 

Technology Solutions 

Corporate Solutions. The landscape of corporate solutions competitors is varied and highly fragmented. In the investor relations sector, there are many regional competitors with few global providers. However, other exchanges have recently begun to partner or buy assets in order to provide investor relations services to customers alongside their core listing services. The competitive landscape for public relations services includes large providers of traditional wire services, full-service providers that span distribution and targeting, monitoring and analytics, and a large number of regional or niche providers. In multimedia solutions, competition is highly fragmented and served by a number of firms who address various needs for enterprise buyers and typically offer managed or self-service capabilities. In governance, the competitive landscape is bifurcated with few competitors who serve corporate boards and deal 

&#160;

teams. We believe customers are increasingly looking for single source providers who can address a broad range of needs within a single platform. 

Market Technology. The traditional model, where each exchange or exchange-related business developed its own technology internally sometimes aided by consultants, is evolving as many operators recognize the cost savings made possible by buying technology. Two types of competitors are emerging: other exchanges providing solutions, including ICE and LSE, and pure technology providers focused on the exchange industry. These organizations offer a range of off-the-shelf technology including trading, clearing, market surveillance, settlement, depository and information dissemination. They also offer customization and operation expertise. In the market for governance, risk and compliance solutions, there is a wide range of providers addressing the market. Often, solutions are part of larger suites, such as those related to information technology management or general business management. The market needs are evolving rapidly, which makes continuous investment a necessity to stay relevant. 

Regulation 

We are subject to extensive regulation in the U.S. and Europe. 

U.S. Regulation 

U.S. federal securities laws establish a system of cooperative regulation of securities markets, market participants and listed companies. Self-regulatory organizations, or SROs, conduct the day-to-day administration and regulation of the nation&#8217;s securities markets under the close supervision of, and subject to extensive regulation, oversight and enforcement by, the SEC. SROs, such as national securities exchanges, are registered with the SEC. 

This regulatory framework applies to our U.S. business in the following ways: 

&#8226; regulation of our registered national securities exchanges; and 

&#8226; regulation of our U.S. broker-dealer subsidiaries. 

The rules and regulations that apply to our business are focused primarily on safeguarding the integrity of the securities markets and of market participants and investors generally. Accordingly, our board of directors, officers, and employees must give due regard to the preservation of the independence of the self-regulatory function of each of our SROs and to their obligations to investors and the general public, and may not take any actions that would interfere with the effectuation of decisions by the boards of directors of any of our SROs relating to their regulatory functions, or that would interfere with the ability of any of our SROs to carry out their responsibilities under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or Exchange Act. Although the rules and regulations that apply to our business are not focused on the protection of our stockholders, we believe that regulation improves the quality of exchanges and, therefore, our company. U.S. federal securities laws and the rules that govern our operations are subject to frequent change. 

National Securities Exchanges. SROs in the securities industry are an essential component of the regulatory scheme of the Exchange Act for providing fair and orderly markets and protecting investors. The Exchange Act and the rules thereunder, as well as each SRO&#8217;s own rules, impose on the SROs many regulatory and operational responsibilities, including the day-to-day responsibilities for market and broker-dealer oversight. Before it may permit the registration of a national securities exchange as an SRO, the SEC must determine, among other things, that the exchange has a set of rules that is consistent with the requirements of the Exchange Act. Moreover , an SRO is responsible for enforcing compliance by its members, and persons associated with its members, with the provisions of the Exchange Act, the rules and regulations thereunder, and the rules of the SRO, including rules and regulations governing the business conduct of its members. 

Nasdaq currently operates three cash equity and three options markets in the U.S. We operate The NASDAQ Stock Market and The NASDAQ Options Market pursuant to The NASDAQ Stock Market&#8217;s SRO license; Nasdaq BX and Nasdaq BX Options pursuant to Nasdaq BX&#8217;s SRO license; and Nasdaq PSX and the Nasdaq PHLX options market pursuant to Nasdaq PHLX&#8217;s SRO license. As SROs, each entity has separate rules pertaining to its broker-dealer members and listed companies. Broker-dealers that choose to become members of The NASDAQ Stock Market, Nasdaq PHLX, and/or Nasdaq BX are subject to the rules of those exchanges. 

&#160; 

All of our U.S. national securities exchanges are subject to SEC oversight, as prescribed by the Exchange Act, including periodic and special examinations by the SEC. Our exchanges also are potentially subject to regulatory or legal action by the SEC or other interested parties at any time in connection with alleged regulatory violations. We also are subject to Section 17 of the Exchange Act, which imposes record-keeping requirements, including the requirement to make records available to the SEC for examination. We have been subject to a number of routine reviews and inspections by the SEC or external auditors in the ordinary course, and we have been and may in the future be subject to SEC enforcement proceedings. To the extent such actions or reviews and inspections result in regulatory or other changes, we may be required to modify the manner in which we conduct our business, which may adversely affect our business. 

&#160; 

&#160;

Section 19 of the Exchange Act provides that our exchanges must submit to the SEC proposed changes to any of the SROs&#8217; rules, practices and procedures, including revisions to provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws that constitute SRO rules. The SEC will typically publish such proposed changes for public comment, following which the SEC may approve or disapprove the proposal, as it deems appropriate. SEC approval requires a finding by the SEC that the proposal is consistent with the requirements of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations thereunder. Pursuant to the requirements of the Exchange Act, our exchanges must file with the SEC, among other things, all proposals to change their pricing structure. 

&#160; 

Pursuant to regulatory services agreements between FINRA and our SROs, FINRA provides certain regulatory services to the markets operated or regulated by The NASDAQ Stock Market, Nasdaq PHLX and Nasdaq BX, including the regulation of trading activity and surveillance and investigative functions. Nevertheless, we have a direct regulatory role in conducting certain real-time market monitoring, certain equity surveillance not involving cross-market activity, most options surveillance, most rulemaking and some membership functions through our MarketWatch department. We refer suspicious trading behavior discovered by our regulatory staff to FINRA for further investigation. Our SROs retain ultimate regulatory responsibility for all regulatory activities performed under regulatory agreements by FINRA, and for fulfilling all regulatory obligations for which FINRA does not have responsibility under the regulatory services agreements. 

&#160; 

In addition to its other SRO responsibilities, The NASDAQ Stock Market, as a listing market, also is responsible for overseeing each listed company&#8217;s compliance with NASDAQ&#8217;s financial and corporate governance standards. Our Listing Qualifications department evaluates applications submitted by issuers interested in listing their securities on NASDAQ to determine whether the quantitative and qualitative listing standards have been satisfied. Once securities are listed, the Listing Qualifications department monitors each issuer&#8217;s on-going compliance with NASDAQ&#8217;s continued listing standards. 

&#160; 

Regulatory Audit. Prior to our acquisition of Boston Stock Exchange, or BSE, BSE was issued an administrative order by the SEC in September 2007. Pursuant to the order, BSE agreed to comply with certain undertakings, one of which was to retain a third-party auditor to conduct a comprehensive audit of BSE&#8217;s surveillance, examination, investigation and disciplinary programs. BSE also undertook to include the audit opinion in its annual report. Since neither BSE nor its successor entity NASDAQ BX prepares an annual report, the report of the regulatory auditor, &#160; Crowley Labovitz Consulting LLC, which was dated March 24, 2015, is included below. 

&#8220;NASDAQ OMX the Exchange, Inc. (the &#8220;Exchange&#8221;) retained Crowley Labovitz Consulting LLC (&#8220;CLC&#8221;) as a third &#8208; party auditor to fulfill an undertaking with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the &#8220;Commission&#8221;), pursuant to an administrative order (the &#8220;Order&#8221;) originally issued against the Boston Stock Exchange (&#8220;BSE&#8221;) in September 2007. The Order requires the third &#8208; party auditor to provide an assessment of the Exchange&#8217;s surveillance, examination, investigation and disciplinary programs. We are writing at this time to provide our audit opinion as required by the Order. 

As noted above, the Order was originally issued against the BSE. The Order describes violations of customer priority rules by specialist participant firms on the BSE trading floor between 1999 and 2004 on the now- &#8208; defunct BEACON trading system prior to The NASDAQ OMX Group, Inc.&#8217;s 2008 acquisition of the Exchange. 

CLC conducted the second of two third &#8208; party comprehensive audits of the surveillance, investigation, examination and disciplinary programs of the Exchange, as required by the Order. The third &#8208; party auditor is also required to evaluate: the adequacy of resources (including staffing and compensation) that the Exchange has devoted to its surveillance, investigation, examination and disciplinary programs; the adequacy of the Exchange&#8217;s rules in place to prevent and deter unlawful trading practices; whether the Exchange&#8217;s practices are in compliance with (i) its policies and procedures, (ii) any outstanding commitments made by the Exchange in relation to written recommendations made by the Commission&#8217;s Office of Compliance Inspections and Examinations (&#8220;OCIE&#8221;) or Division of Trading and Markets (&#8220;Trading and Markets&#8221;) concerning trading surveillance, and (iii) any undertakings contained in the Order; and the Exchange&#8217;s live testing processes of its automated surveillance systems to analyze the effectiveness of such surveillance systems. 

We conducted fieldwork for the audit between July 2014 and February 2015 and today issued our confidential report on the audit to the Exchange&#8217;s Board of Directors and to the Directors of OCIE and Trading and Markets, and to the Director of the Commission&#8217;s Boston Regional Office (collectively, the &#8220;Commission Officials&#8221;). This audit opinion is also being provided to the Commission Officials today. 

Based on the scope of our audit and considerations of the assessments set forth in this Report, and such other matters as we have deemed appropriate, we have concluded that during the audit period, notwithstanding certain observations and recommendations for improvement that we have identified, including those set forth in this Report, (a) the Exchange&#8217;s policies and procedures were reasonably designed and effective to ensure compliance with, and to detect and deter violations of the 

&#160;

applicable federal securities laws and Exchange rules relating to trading on the Exchange; and (b) the Exchange was in compliance with (i) its policies and procedures in these areas, (ii) any outstanding commitments by the Exchange in connection with written recommendations made by OCIE or Trading and Markets concerning trading surveillance, and (iii) any undertakings contained in the Order. In addition, we concluded that, during the audit period, (a) the Exchange devoted adequate resources (including staffing and compensation) to its surveillance, investigation, examination and disciplinary programs; (b) the Exchange&#8217;s rules in place were adequate to prevent and deter unlawful trading practices; (c) the Exchange&#8217;s practices were in compliance with (i) its policies and procedures in these areas, (ii) any outstanding commitments by the Exchange in connection with written recommendations made by OCIE or Trading and Markets concerning trading surveillance, and (iii) any undertakings contained in the Order; and (d) the Exchange&#8217;s live testing processes of its automated surveillance systems to analyze the effectiveness of such surveillance systems. 

We note that the continued reasonableness of design and effectiveness of the Exchange&#8217;s policies and procedures in future periods is subject to the risk that such policies and procedures may become inadequate or ineffective because of changes in business or regulatory conditions or that the degree of compliance with such policies and procedures may deteriorate. That said, we also note that, because of its inherent limitations, no regulatory program or audit can provide absolute assurance that violations of federal securities laws and Exchange rules relating to trading will not occur or go undetected. 

The conclusions expressed in this letter are as of the date hereof. We assume no obligation to update, revise, or supplement this letter, nor to communicate further with or advise you with respect to a matter covered herein or any change, development, occurrence, circumstance, or condition with respect of any matter. This letter is furnished solely to you in connection with the matters covered herein. This letter may not be used, relied upon, disclosed , circulated, published, communicated, made available, quoted or referred to, by or to any other person, for any other purpose, or in connection with any other agreement, document, transaction or matter without the prior written consent of the undersigned.&#8221; 

Broker-dealer regulation. Nasdaq&#8217;s broker-dealer subsidiaries are subject to regulation by the SEC, the SROs and the various state securities regulators. Nasdaq Execution Services, LLC currently operates as our routing broker for sending orders from Nasdaq&#8217;s U.S. cash equity and options exchanges to other venues for execution. Execution Access LLC operates as the broker-dealer for our fixed income business, including eSpeed&#8217;s electronic trading platform for U.S. Treasuries. NPM Securities, LLC operates an ATS involving primary and secondary transactions in unregistered securities (i.e., securities not listed on a registered securities exchange and not registered under Section 12 of the Exchange Act), including acting as the buyer&#8217;s and seller&#8217;s agent to facilitate private placement transactions on the ATS. SMTX, LLC operates as the broker-dealer for SecondMarket. Finally, NASDAQ Options Services, LLC, which previously served as the routing broker for our U.S. options exchanges, became non-operational and terminated its exchange and clearinghouse memberships in March 2014, although it is still subject to certain regulatory requirements. 

Nasdaq Execution Services is registered as a broker-dealer with the SEC and in all 50 states, the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico. It is also a member of The NASDAQ Stock Market, Nasdaq BX, Nasdaq PHLX, BATS-Y Exchange, BATS-Z Exchange, Chicago Stock Exchange, EDGA Exchange, EDGX Exchange, FINRA, National Stock Exchange, NYSE, NYSE MKT and NYSE Arca. &#160; 

Execution Access is registered as a broker-dealer with the SEC and in 22 states and the U.S. Virgin Islands based on business requirements. Additionally, Execution Access is a FINRA member organization. Execution Access operates a transparent central limit order book known as eSpeed to trade in U.S. Treasury securities. Execution Access is an introducing broker for trades matched on the eSpeed trading platform. The trades, once matched, are submitted to our fully disclosed clearing broker for clearance and settlement. 

NPM Securities is registered as a broker-dealer with the SEC and in all 50 states, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands. Additionally, NPM Securities is a FINRA member organization. NPM Securities does not hold funds or securities. Funds may be delivered by the buyer to the issuer directly or wired into an escrow account, depending on the requirements of the offering. The issuer or its transfer agent (or other corporate recordkeeper) will provide the buyer with a stock certificate in either physical or book entry form. 

SMTX is registered as a broker-dealer with the SEC and in 48 states and the District of Columbia based on business requirements. Additionally, SMTX is a FINRA member organization. SecondMarket provides the technological tools and website hosting on the SecondMarket platform that issuers may use for administrative purposes, document execution, handling and storage, and to facilitate communications with participants of tender offers and merger and acquisition transactions. SMTX&#8217;s role is to act as information agent with regard to onboarding potential participants, a depositary agent to receive tender of securities and transaction closing funds, and a paying agent to wire funds to participants at the closing. &#160; 

The SEC, FINRA and the exchanges adopt rules and examine broker-dealers and require strict compliance with their rules and regulations. The SEC, SROs and state securities commissions may conduct administrative proceedings which can result in censures, fines, the issuance of cease-and-desist orders or the suspension or expulsion of a broker-dealer, its officers or employees. The SEC and state regulators may also institute proceedings against broker-dealers seeking an injunction or other sanction. The SEC and SRO rules 

&#160;

cover many aspects of a broker-dealer&#8217;s business, including capital structure and withdrawals, sales methods, trade practices among broker-dealers, use and safekeeping of customers&#8217; funds and securities, record-keeping, the financing of customers&#8217; purchases, broker-dealer and employee registration and the conduct of directors, officers and employees. All broker-dealers have an SRO that is assigned by the SEC as the broker-dealer&#8217;s designated examining authority, or DEA. The DEA is responsible for examining a broker-dealer for compliance with the SEC&#8217;s financial responsibility rules. FINRA is the current DEA for Nasdaq Execution Services , Execution Access, NPM Securities and SMTX. &#160; 

As registered broker-dealer subsidiaries, Nasdaq Execution Services, Execution Access, NPM Securities and SMTX are subject to regulatory requirements intended to ensure their general financial soundness and liquidity, which require that they comply with certain minimum capital requirements. The SEC and FINRA impose rules that require notification when net capital falls below certain predefined criteria, dictate the ratio of debt to equity in the regulatory capital composition of a broker-dealer and constrain the ability of a broker-dealer to expand its business under certain circumstances. Additionally, the SEC&#8217;s Uniform Net Capital Rule and FINRA rules impose certain requirements that may have the effect of prohibiting a broker-dealer from distributing or withdrawing capital and requiring prior notice to the SEC and FINRA for certain withdrawals of capital. 

As of December 31, 2015, Nasdaq Execution Services, Execution Access, NPM Securities and SMTX were in compliance with all of the applicable capital requirements. &#160; 

Regulatory contractual relationships with FINRA . &#160; The NASDAQ Stock Market, Nasdaq PHLX and Nasdaq BX have signed a series of regulatory service agreements covering the services FINRA provides to the respective SROs. Under these agreements, FINRA personnel act as our agents in performing the regulatory functions outlined above, and FINRA bills us a fee for these services. These agreements have enabled us to reduce our headcount while ensuring that the markets for which we are responsible are properly regulated. However, our SROs retain ultimate regulatory responsibility for all regulatory activities performed under these agreements by FINRA. 

Exchange Act Rule 17d-2 permits SROs to enter into agreements, commonly called Rule 17d-2 agreements, approved by the SEC with respect to enforcement of common rules relating to common members. Our SROs have entered into several such agreements under which FINRA assumes regulatory responsibility for specifics covered by the agreement, including: 

&#8226; agreements with FINRA covering the enforcement of common rules, the majority of which relate to the regulation of The NASDAQ Stock Market, Nasdaq BX and the members of these exchanges; 

&#8226; joint industry agreements with FINRA covering responsibility for enforcement of insider trading rules; 

&#8226; joint industry agreement with FINRA covering enforcement of rules related to cash equity sales practices and certain other non-market related rules; and 

&#8226; joint industry agreement covering enforcement of rules related to options sales practices. 

Regulation NMS and Options Intermarket Linkage Plan. We are subject to Regulation NMS for our cash equity markets, and our options markets have joined the Options Intermarket Linkage Plan. These are designed to facilitate the routing of orders among exchanges to create a national market system as mandated by the Exchange Act. One of the principal purposes of a national market system is to assure that brokers may execute investors&#8217; orders at the best market price. Both Regulation NMS and the Options Intermarket Linkage Plan require that exchanges avoid trade-throughs, locking or crossing of markets and provide market participants with electronic access to the best prices among the markets for the applicable cash equity or options order. 

In addition, Regulation NMS requires that every national securities exchange on which an NMS stock is traded and every national securities association act jointly pursuant to one or more national market system plans to disseminate consolidated information, including a national best bid and national best offer, on quotations for transactions in NMS stocks, and that such plan or plans provide for the dissemination of all consolidated information for an individual NMS stock through a single plan processor. 

The UTP Plan was filed with and approved by the SEC as a national market system plan in accordance with the Exchange Act and Regulation NMS to provide for the collection, consolidation and dissemination of such information for NASDAQ-listed securities. NASDAQ serves as the processor for the UTP Plan pursuant to a contract that was extended for a five-year term beginning in October 2015. NASDAQ also serves as the administrator for the UTP Plan . As the processor , NASDAQ performs and discharges regulatory functions and responsibilities that are necessary for the members of the UTP Plan to discharge the regulatory functions related to the operation of a national market system that have been delegated to them under the Exchange Act and Regulation NMS. To fulfill its obligations as the processor, NASDAQ has designed, implemented, maintained, and operated a data processing and communications system, hardware, and software and communications infrastructure to provide processing for the UTP Plan. As the administrator, NASDAQ manages the distribution of market data, the collection of the resulting market data revenue, and the dissemination of that revenue to plan members. 

Regulation SCI. Effective as of November 20 15 , Regulation Systems Compliance and Integrity, or Regulation SCI, is a set of rules designed to strengthen the technology infrastructure of the U.S. securities markets. Regulation SCI applies to national securities 

&#160;

exchanges, operators of certain ATSs, market data information providers and clearing agencies, subjecting these entities to extensive new compliance obligations, with the goals of reducing the occurrence of technical issues that disrupt the securities markets and improving recovery time when disruptions occur. &#160; We implemented an inter-disciplinary program to ensure compliance with Regulation SCI. New Regulation SCI policies and procedures were created, internal policies and procedures were updated, and an information technology governance program was rolled out to ensure compliance. 

CFTC Regulation. &#160; We also operate &#160; NFX , a designated contract market under the Commodity Exchange Act that is subject to regulatory oversight by the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission, or CFTC, an independent agency with the mandate to regulate commodity futures and options markets in the U.S. 

The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, or Dodd-Frank Act, also resulted in increased CFTC regulation of our use of certain regulated derivatives products, as well as the operations of some of our subsidiaries outside the U.S. and their customers. 

European Regulation 

Regulation of our markets in the European Union and European Economic Area focuses on issues relating to financial services, listing and trading of securities, clearing and market abuse. In mid-2012, EMIR, a regulation relating to CCP services and OTC derivatives transactions, was adopted. As a consequence of EMIR, Nasdaq Clearing, like other European CCPs, applied to reauthorize its CCP operations. Nasdaq Clearing was the first European CCP to be authorized as EMIR-compliant when the SFSA approved its application as a CCP under EMIR in 2014. 

MiFID II and MiFIR were adopted in 2014. These regulations will primarily affect our European trading businesses as they are implemented over the next few years. Many of the provisions of MiFID II and MiFIR will be implemented through technical standards to be drafted by the European Securities and Markets Authority and approved by the European Commission. Implementation is ongoing and both MiFID II and MiFIR will apply to the European Union member states by early 2018. As the regulatory environment continues to change and related opportunities arise, we intend to continue product development, and ensure that the exchanges and clearinghouses that comprise Nasdaq Nordic and Nasdaq Baltic maintain favorable liquidity and offer efficient trading. 

The entities that operate trading venues in the Nordic and Baltic countries are each subject to local regulations. In Sweden, general supervision of the Nasdaq Stockholm exchange is carried out by the SFSA, while Nasdaq Clearing&#8217;s role as CCP in the clearing of derivatives is overseen by the SFSA and the Swedish central bank (Riksbanken). Additionally, as a function of the Swedish two-tier supervisory model, certain surveillance in relation to the exchange market is carried out by us, acting through our surveillance division. 

Nasdaq Stockholm&#8217;s exchange activities are regulated primarily by the Swedish Securities Markets Act 2007:528, or SSMA, which sets up basic requirements regarding the board of the exchange and its share capital, and which also outlines the conditions on which exchange licenses are issued. The SSMA also provides that any changes to the exchange&#8217;s articles of association following initial registration must be approved by the SFSA. Nasdaq Clearing holds the license as a CCP under EMIR. 

With respect to ongoing operations, the SSMA requires exchanges to conduct their activities in an honest, fair and professional manner, and in such a way as to maintain public confidence in the securities markets. When operating a regulated market, an exchange must apply the principles of free access (i.e., that each person which meets the requirements established by law and by the exchange may participate in trading), neutrality (i.e., that the exchange&#8217;s rules for the regulated market are applied in a consistent manner to all those who participate in trading) and transparency (i.e., that the participants must be given speedy, simultaneous and correct information concerning trading and that the general public must be given the opportunity to access this information). Additionally, the exchange operator must identify and manage the risks that may arise in its operations, use secure technical systems and identify and handle the conflicts of interest that may arise between the exchange or its owners&#8217; interests and the interest in safeguarding effective risk management and secure technical systems. Similar requirements are set up by EMIR in relation to clearing operations. 

The SSMA also contains the framework for both the SFSA&#8217;s supervisory work in relation to exchanges and clearinghouses and the surveillance to be carried out by the exchanges themselves. The latter includes the requirement that an exchange should have &#8220;an independent surveillance function with sufficient resources and powers to meet the exchange&#8217;s obligations.&#8221; That requires the exchange to, among other things, supervise trading and price information, compliance with laws, regulations and good market practice, participant compliance with trading participation rules, financial instrument compliance with relevant listing rules and the extent to which issuers meet their obligation to submit regular financial information to relevant authorities. 

The regulatory environment in the other Nordic and Baltic countries in which a Nasdaq entity has a trading venue is broadly similar to the regulatory environment in Sweden. Since 2005, there has been cooperation between the SFSA and the main supervisory authorities in Iceland, Norway, Denmark and Finland, which looks to safeguard effective and comprehensive supervision of the exchanges comprising Nasdaq Nordic and the systems operated by it, and to ensure a common supervisory approach. 

&#160;

Confidence in capital markets is paramount for trading to function properly. Nasdaq Nordic carries out market surveillance through an independent unit that is separate from the business operations. The surveillance work is organized into two functions: one for the listing of instruments and surveillance of companies (issuer surveillance) and one for surveillance of trading (trading surveillance). The real-time trading surveillance for the Finnish, Icelandic, Danish and Swedish markets has been centralized to Stockholm. In addition, there are special personnel who carry out surveillance activities at each of the three Baltic exchanges. In Denmark and Finland, decisions to list new companies are made by the president of the exchange, a duty delegated by the board of each exchange. 

If there is suspicion that a listed company or member has acted in breach of exchange regulations, the matter is dealt with by the market regulation division. Serious breaches are considered by the respective disciplinary committee in Sweden and Finland. In Denmark, all matters are dealt with by the surveillance department. In Iceland, enforcement committees handle all breaches of exchange regulations, while disciplinary committees handle the determination of fines. Suspected insider trading is reported to the appropriate authorities in the respective country or countries. 

Employees 

As of December 31, 2015, Nasdaq had 3,824 employees, including staff employed at consolidated entities where we have a controlling financial interest. 

Nasdaq Website and Availability of SEC Filings 

We file periodic reports, proxy statements and other information with the SEC. The public may read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC&#8217;s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC (such as us). The address of that site is http://www.sec.gov. 

Our website is www.business.nasdaq.com . Information on our website is not a part of this Form 10-K. We make available free of charge on our website, or provide a link to, our Forms 10-K, Forms 10-Q and Forms 8-K and any amendments to these documents, that are filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. To access these filings, go to Nasdaq&#8217;s website and click on &#8220;Investor Relations,&#8221; then under &#8220;Financial Information&#8221; click on &#8220;SEC Filings.&#8221; 

We use our website, www.business.nasdaq.com, as a means of disclosing material non-public information and for complying with disclosure obligations under Regulation FD. &#160; 

