 Item 1. 

Business. 

Overview 

We are an emerging leader in the field of personalized medicine, enabling precision medicine in the field of oncology through our diagnostic products and services and molecular markers. We develop, commercialize and provide molecular- and biomarker-based tests and services that enable physicians to personalize the clinical management of each individual patient by providing genomic information to better diagnose, monitor and inform cancer treatment and that enable biopharmaceutical companies engaged in oncology trials to better select candidate populations and reduce adverse drug reactions by providing information regarding genomic factors influencing subject responses to therapeutics. We have a comprehensive, disease-focused oncology testing portfolio. Our tests and techniques target a wide range of cancers, covering eight of the top ten cancers in prevalence in the United States, with additional unique capabilities offered by our Tissue of Origin&#174; test for identifying difficult to diagnose tumor types or poorly differentiated metastatic disease. 

Our vision is to become the oncology diagnostics partner for biopharmaceutical companies and clinicians by participating in the entire care continuum from bench to bedside. We believe the diagnostics industry is undergoing a rapid evolution in its approach to oncology testing, embracing precision medicine and individualized testing as a means to drive higher standards of patient treatment and disease management. Similarly, biopharmaceutical companies are increasingly engaging companies such as ours to provide information on clinical trial participants' molecular profiles in order to identify biomarker and genomic variations that may be responsible for differing responses to pharmaceuticals, and particularly to oncology drugs, thereby increasing the efficiency of trials while lowering related costs. We believe tailored therapeutics can revolutionize oncology medicine through molecular- and biomarker-based testing services, enabling physicians and researchers to target the factors that make each patient and disease unique. We have created a unique position in the industry by providing targeted somatic analysis of tumor sample cells alongside germline analysis of an individual's non-cancerous cells' molecular profile as we attempt to reach the next milestone in personalized medicine. Individuals are born with germline mutations, and somatic mutations arise in tissues over the course of a lifetime. 

Cancer is genetically-driven and constitutes a heterogeneous class of diseases characterized by uncontrollable cell growth. Many cancers are becoming increasingly understood at a molecular level and it is possible to attribute specific cancers to identifiable genetic changes in unhealthy cells. Cancer cells contain modified genetic material compared to normal human cells. Common genetic abnormalities correlated to cancer include gains or losses of genetic material on specific chromosomal regions (loci) or changes in specific genes (mutations) that ultimately result in detrimental cellular changes followed by cancerous or pre-cancerous conditions. Understanding the differences in these molecular changes helps clinicians to identify and stratify different forms of cancer in order to optimize patient treatment and patient management. Therefore, understanding and analysis of cancer at the molecular level is not only useful for diagnostic purposes, but we also believe it can play an important role in prognosis and disease management. We believe technology that can apply predictive information has the potential to dramatically improve treatment outcomes for patients living with cancer. Our molecular- and biomarker-based tests for cancer aim to remove subjectivity from the diagnostic phase, and add prognostic information, thus enabling personalized treatments based on cancer analysis at its most basic level. 

Our business is based on demand for molecular- and biomarker-based diagnostic services from three main sectors, including cancer centers and hospitals, biotechnology and biopharmaceutical companies, and the research community. Clinicians and oncologists in cancer centers and hospitals seek testing since these methods often produce higher value and more accurate cancer diagnostic information than traditional analytical methods. Our proprietary and disease-focused tests aim to provide actionable information that can guide patient management decisions, potentially resulting in decreased costs for care providers and patients while streamlining therapy selection. Our services are also sought by biotechnology and biopharmaceutical companies engaged in designing and running clinical trials to determine the value and efficacy of oncology treatments and therapeutics. We believe trial participants' likelihood of experiencing either favorable or adverse responses to the trial treatment may be influenced or dependent on genomic factors. Our testing services may increase trial efficiency, subject safety and trial success rates. Our services are also sought by researchers and research groups seeking to identify biomarkers and develop methods for diagnostic technologies and tests for disease. We aggressively pursue the strategy of trying to demonstrate increased value and efficacy with payors who are trying to contain costs and academic collaborators seeking to develop new insights and cures. 

Our market strategy is organized to align with the three aforementioned industry segments. We utilize relatively the same technologies across each of these businesses to deliver results-oriented information which we believe is or will become important to cancer treatment and patient management. Our tests address the limitations of traditional cancer diagnostic approaches, including reliance on human inspection of specimens and interpretation of clinical measurements, and inter- 

institutional variability. Our suite of clinical and biopharma services aim to remove subjectivity from diagnoses and additionally provide information that may influence treatment selection that cannot be obtained from anatomic pathology and staining techniques alone. We believe the level of personalized treatment required to optimize a patient's treatment regimen and to maximize clinical trial success rates may be significantly improved through the use of molecular- and biomarker-based cancer characterization. 

The following table lists our market strategy by customer category: 

Customer Category 

Types of Customers 

Nature of Services 

Clinical Services 

&#8226; Hospitals 

&#8226; Cancer Centers 

&#8226; Clinics 

Clinical services provide information on diagnosis, prognosis and predicting treatment outcomes (theranosis) of cancers to guide patient management. 

Biopharma Services 

&#8226; Biopharma and Biotech companies performing clinical trials 

Biopharma services provide companies with customized solutions for patient stratification and treatment selection through an extensive suite of molecular- and biomarker-based testing services, customized assay development and trial design consultation. 

Discovery Services 

&#8226; Biopharma and Biotech companies 

&#8226; Researchers and Academic Institutions 

Discovery services provide the tools and testing methods for companies and researchers seeking to identify new molecular-based biomarkers for disease. 

In 2015, we generated approximately 64% &#32;of our revenue from Biopharma Services, approximately 31% &#32;from Clinical Services and approximately 5% &#32;from Discovery Services. In 2014, we generated approximately 43% &#32;of our revenue from Clinical Services, approximately 55% &#32;from Biopharma Services and approximately 2% &#32;from Discovery Services, a new line of service launched in 2014. 

We utilize relatively the same proprietary and nonproprietary molecular diagnostic tests and technologies across all of our service offerings to deliver results-oriented information important to cancer treatment and patient management. Our portfolio primarily includes comparative genomic hybridization (CGH) microarrays, gene expression tests, next generation sequencing (NGS) panels, and DNA fluorescent in situ hybridization (FISH) probes. We provide our testing services from our CLIA-certified and CAP-accredited laboratories in Rutherford, NJ, Los Angeles, CA, and Raleigh, NC, as well as our laboratories in Hyderabad, India and Shanghai, China. 

Market Overview 

United States Clinical Oncology Market Overview 

Despite many advances in the treatment of cancer, it remains one of the greatest areas of unmet medical need. In 2012, the World Health Organization attributed 8.2 million deaths worldwide to cancer-related causes. In 2014, the World Health Organization projected that over the next two decades this number will rise to 13 million deaths per year. Within the United States, cancer is the second most common cause of death, exceeded only by heart disease, accounting for nearly one out of every four deaths. The incidence and deaths caused by the major cancer categories are staggering. The following table published by The American Cancer Society shows estimated new cases and deaths in 2015 in the United States for the major cancers: 

Cancer Type 

&#160; 

Estimated New Cases For 2015 

&#160; 

Estimated Deaths For 2015 

Breast............................ 

&#160; 

234,190 

&#160; 

40,290 

Cervical......................... 

&#160; 

12,900 

&#160; 

4,100 

Colorectal...................... 

&#160; 

132,700 

&#160; 

59,700 

Endometrial................... 

&#160; 

54,870 

&#160; 

10,170 

Kidney........................... 

&#160; 

61,560 

&#160; 

14,080 

Leukemia....................... 

&#160; 

54,270 

&#160; 

24,450 

Lung............................... 

&#160; 

221,200 

&#160; 

158,040 

Melanoma..................... 

&#160; 

73,870 

&#160; 

9,940 

Multiple Myeloma........ 

&#160; 

26,850 

&#160; 

11,240 

Non-Hodgkin's Lymphomas................... 

&#160; 

71,850 

&#160; 

19,790 

Ovarian......................... 

&#160; 

21,290 

&#160; 

14,180 

Pancreatic...................... 

&#160; 

48,960 

&#160; 

40,560 

Prostate......................... 

&#160; 

220,800 

&#160; 

27,540 

United States Clinical Trials Market Overview 

The United States is currently the world leader in biopharmaceutical research and development and manufacturing. In 2013 it is estimated that over $50 billion dollars was spent in pharmaceutical research and development, increasing 20% from spending in 2005. The average cost to develop a drug can be as high as $1.2 billion and the approval process from development to market may be as long as 15 years. Since 1980, approximately 83% of life expectancy increases in cancer patients are due to new treatments and oncology medications. 

While oncology drugs have the potential to be among the most personalized therapeutics, oncology clinical trials continue to have some of the poorest approval rates. The application of pharmacogenomics to oncology clinical trials enables researchers to better predict differences in drug response, efficacy and toxicity among trial participants, as well as to optimize treatment regimens based on these differences. According to IMS Health, it is estimated that by 2020, half of all pharmaceutical sales in the United States will be from specialty drugs, a category of drugs including oncology treatments tailored to patients&#8217; genomic profiles. A study by Grand Market Research places the oncology market at 34% of revenue for molecular diagnostics services in 2013, with the pharmacogenomics market following closely at 26.3%. Pharmacogenomics is the study of genetic analysis based on a patient's response to a particular therapy or drug. We believe a growing demand for personalized medicine as a diagnostic tool is a growth driver of this market. 

India Clinical Oncology and Biopharma Market Overview 

India has a growing market for molecular diagnostics and oncology services. According to a 2010 study published in the Asian Pacific Journal of Cancer Prevention, each year, approximately 1 million new cases of cancer are diagnosed in India. In those cancer types for which we provide diagnostic and prognostic proprietary tests and services, incidences are also predicted to rise steadily over the next decade even while the population is expected to experience a decrease in population growth rate. Gynecological cancers account for approximately 30% of the total cancer incidence among women in India. Furthermore, over 80% of cancers in India are first detected in advanced or terminal stages, indicating an important opportunity in this market for DNA-based oncology diagnostic tools that can provide early-stage information to guide treatment resulting in greater survival rates. 

It is estimated by the India Brand Equity Foundation that the Indian biopharma and biotech markets are expected to experience over a 20% increase in compound annual growth rate by 2017 due to favorable business conditions and increasing government expenditures in these sectors. The biopharmaceutical services segment accounted for the largest share of sector growth in 2013 and 2014, accounting for approximately 64% of total revenues, and experienced the highest growth rate in this period, with an approximately 17% compound annual growth rate. Over the next decade, growth in this industry is anticipated to come largely from India&#8217;s strong position in biosimilars and molecular diagnostics, as well as from personalized medicine. The Indian government has been increasing spending on the biotech and biopharma sectors through 5-year budget allocation plans aimed at research and development as well as health care. 

In the fourth quarter of 2015 we entered into an agreement with a hospital network in India to validate FHACT&#174; in the Indian 

rural population, enabling our proprietary test to be used as an accurate screening tool for cervical cancer and HPV-associated cancer risk in the Indian population. In the first quarter of 2014 we launched FHACT&#174; in collaboration with Kamineni Hospitals in Hyderabad, India for the detection and management of cervical cancer. This was the first broad-scale adoption of FHACT&#174; in India. The launch culminates a collaboration that was begun in July 2013 to assess the value and clinical utility of FHACT&#174; in India. 

China Clinical Oncology and Biopharma Market Overview 

Cancer is one of the leading public health problems in both urban and rural China. The disease is among the leading causes of death in the Chinese population, representing approximately 25% of all deaths in urban areas and 21% in rural areas. Over the past 30 years, the risk factors for cancer in China have been increasing, including an aging population, decreased environmental conditions and westernization of diet and lifestyle. The Chinese biopharma is currently the third largest pharma market globally, after the United States and Japan. With more than one fifth of the world&#8217;s population, China is an important market for biopharma and biotech products and China&#8217;s minister of health has pledged that the country will spend an additional $11.8 billion to advance biotech innovation from 2015 to 2020 in its 13 th five-year plan. Our Shanghai laboratory performs clinical trials services for biopharma companies in China, where governmental regulations prevent human samples from being exported from the country. 

Our Strategy 

Our strategy is to serve a diverse group of market participants - biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies, cancer centers and community hospitals, and research centers both public and private - that all require biomarker-based assessment of cancer and biomarker-based information to understand and manage the patient, their cancer and customized therapy choices. We believe that our integrated approach to testing combined with our ability to rapidly translate research insights about the genetics and molecular mechanisms of cancer into the clinical setting will improve patient treatment decision-making, and will become a key component in the standard of care for personalized cancer treatment. Our approach is to develop and commercialize proprietary genomic tests and services to enable us to provide a full service solution to improve the diagnosis, prognosis and treatment of targeted cancers and to better predict differences in drug response, efficacy and toxicity among clinical trial participants, as well as to optimize treatment regimens based on these differences. To achieve this, we intend to : 

&#8226; 

Leverage our specialized, disease-focused genomic knowledge, insights and proprietary portfolio to secure additional collaborations or partnerships with leading biopharmaceutical companies and clinical research organizations. Oncology drugs have the potential to be among the most personalized of therapeutics, and yet oncology trials have one of the worst approval success rates. In an effort to improve the outcome of these trials, and more rapidly advance targeted therapeutics, the biotechnology and pharmaceutical community is increasingly looking to companies like us that have both proprietary disease insights and comprehensive testing services as they move toward biomarker-based therapeutics. We believe our comprehensive, disease-focused testing portfolio, which covers 8 of the 10 most prevalent solid and hematological cancers positions us to help the biopharmaceutical community with clinical trials and companion diagnostic development in areas of our core expertise. 

&#8226; 

Leverage our expanded clinical sales force and our relationship with ICON to expand our customer base. Through our acquisition of Response Genetics in the fourth quarter of 2015, we increased the size of our sales force and our geographic presence, particularly in the Western and Southeastern United States. We believe that our joint clinical sales force is among the largest oncology-focused clinical sales groups in the molecular diagnostics field. &#32; Leveraging our expanded clinical sales group, we plan to continue to focus on partnering with community hospitals, where according to the National Cancer Database approximately 85% of cancer patients in the United States are initially diagnosed, by targeting our sales and marketing efforts on this important customer segment though our branded Expand Dx&#8482; program. Furthermore in mid-2015, we entered into a strategic alliance with the laboratory services group of ICON plc, a global CRO, which we plan to leverage to expand our biopharma customer base. 

&#8226; 

C ontinue our focus on translational oncology and drive innovation and cost efficiency in diagnostics by continuing to develop next generation sequencing offerings independently and through our joint venture with Mayo Clinic. Translational oncology refers to our focus on bringing novel research insights that characterize cancer at the genomic level directly and rapidly into the clinical setting with the overall goal of improving value to patients and providers in the treatment and management of disease. We believe that continuing to develop our existing platforms and next generation sequencing panels will enable significant growth and efficiencies within our business. We will continue to develop next generation sequencing panels independently as well as leverage our joint venture with Mayo to advance this diagnostic technology. 

&#8226; 

Continue to aggressively manage our cost structure. We are focused on aggressively managing our operating costs while continuing to seek additional revenue growth opportunities. We are implementing measures to streamline costs across our laboratory facilities. We also continue to seek to identify cost efficiencies as we integrate our operations with those of Gentris and Response Genetics. 

&#8226; 

Work with health care providers and payors to demonstrate the value of our testing in providing cost efficient and accountable care. We seek to increase market access by entering into contracts with key payors, cost management organizations and insurance providers and to secure additional coverage for FHACT, TOO and Focus::NGS panels. 

Our Service Offerings 

Our business is based on demand for molecular- and biomarker-based characterization of cancers from three main sectors: cancer centers and hospitals, biotechnology and biopharmaceutical companies, and the research community. Clinicians and oncologists in cancer centers and hospitals seek molecular-based testing since these methods often produce higher value and more accurate cancer diagnostic information than traditional analytical methods. Our proprietary and disease-focused tests aim to provide actionable information that can guide patient management decisions, potentially resulting in decreased costs for care providers and patients while streamlining therapy selection. Our services are also sought by biotechnology and biopharmaceutical companies engaged in designing and running clinical trials for their value and efficacy in oncology treatments and therapeutics. We believe trial participants' likelihood of experiencing either favorable or adverse responses to the trial treatment can be determined by biomarker testing, increasing trial efficiency, participant safety and trial success rates. Our services are also sought by researchers and research groups seeking to identify biomarkers and panels and develop methods for diagnostic technologies and tests for disease. We aggressively pursue the strategy of trying to demonstrate increased value and efficacy with payors who are trying to contain costs and academic collaborators seeking to develop new insights and cures. 

Our market strategy is organized to align with the three aforementioned industry segments. We utilize relatively the same proprietary tests, non-proprietary test and technologies across each of these businesses to deliver results-oriented information important to cancer treatment and patient management. 

Clinical Services 

We provide our proprietary tests and services, along with a comprehensive range of non-proprietary oncology-focused tests and laboratory services, to oncologists and pathologists at hospitals, cancer centers, and physician offices. Our proprietary tests target cancers that are difficult to prognose and predict treatment outcomes through currently available mainstream techniques. We utilize an expansive range of non-proprietary test and technologies to provide a comprehensive profile for each patient we serve. Clinical testing is available through anatomic pathology, flow cytometry, karotype, FISH and molecular diagnostics (including next generation sequencing and gene expression panels). 

Our comprehensive oncology-focused testing services for cancer are utilized in the diagnosis, prognosis and prediction of treatment outcomes (theranosis) of cancer patients and are growing rapidly as clinicians demand more precise and more comprehensive diagnostic evaluation of their patients. We believe our ability to rapidly translate research insights about the genetics and molecular mechanisms of cancer into the clinical setting will improve patient treatment and management and that this approach can become a key component in the standard of care for personalized cancer treatment. We utilize highly skilled scientists, pathologists and hematologists in our laboratories, with 32% of individuals holding advanced degrees. These individuals assist our customers in integrating and technically assessing the testing results for their patients. 

We believe that our proprietary tests provide superior diagnostic and prognostic values than other currently available tests and services. For example, prior to the introduction of MatBA&#174;, the assessment of the gain or loss on only four chromosomal regions and potentially one gene mutation was available to clinicians when testing for and stratifying a CLL patient. MatBA&#174; improves on this by identifying information on five additional chromosomal regions, providing more valuable diagnostic data and critical information about the risk of progression and overall prognosis of the patient. For particular cases, patient results indicating a &#8220;favorable outcome&#8221; that would have been reported to the clinician was determined by MatBA&#174; to be inaccurate, leading to a change in the prognosis and consequently decision-making by the clinician regarding the management of these patients. 

Our clinical services strategy is focused on direct sales to oncologists and pathologists at hospitals, cancer centers, and physician offices in the United States, and expanding our relationships with leading distributors and medical facilities in emerging markets. As part of our market strategy for our clinical services, we offer the branded testing programs described below. 

Complete TM &#32;Program. &#32;&#32; Our Complete TM &#32;program is our branded program offering a unique suite of common and proprietary tests that assist clinicians in determining the best treatment options to improve patient outcomes. Each Complete TM &#32;program integrates the latest diagnostic and prognostic biomarkers across multiple testing methodologies. We offer Complete testing for a number of hematological cancers and solid tumors, including AML, CLL/SLL, DLBCL, MCL, MDS, myeloproliferative neoplasms (MPN), colorectal, lung and breast cancers. 

Expand DX &#174; /Technical-Only Testing. &#32;&#32; According to the American Hospital Association, there are nearly 5,000 community hospitals in the United States. Community hospitals represent a large target market for our genomic &#32; tests and services because approximately 85% of cancer patients in the United States are initially diagnosed in such hospitals as reported to the National Cancer Database. Our Expand DX&#174;/Technical-Only Testing program is a partnership initiative offered by us to help community-based hospitals expand their clinical services. By partnering with us community-based hospitals and pathology labs have cost-effective access to advanced testing technologies and specialized testing capabilities and deep experience in hematological and solid-tumor oncology diagnostics &#32;of our clinical reference laboratories in New Jersey and California . Through this program, clinicians can send patient specimens to our laboratories, where the technical component of the testing is performed, and then access the test results through an online portal in order to perform the professional component and provide a diagnosis. We believe our Expand DX&#174;/Technical-Only Testing program will enable community hospitals and pathology laboratories to optimize and expand their oncology services to better serve their cancer patients and reduce costs associated with cancer care. 

Tissue of Origin&#174; Test. &#32;&#32;Our Tissue of Origin&#174; test, or TOO&#174;, is a gene expression test that is indicated when there is clinical uncertainty about a poorly differentiated or undifferentiated, or a metastatic tumor where the primary tissue of cancer development is unknown. The Tissue of Origin&#174; test we believe is the only FDA-cleared test of its kind, and can determine the most likely tissue of origin of a patient tumor sample from the fifteen most common tumor types - including thyroid, breast, pancreas, colon, ovarian and prostate - which account for ninety percent of all incidences of solid tissue tumors, by measuring the expression levels of 2,000 individual genes. TOO&#174; is supported by extensive analytical and clinical validation data from robust, multi-center clinical studies. We believe TOO&#174; can reduce the need for repeated testing, examinations, imaging and biopsy procedures by providing clinicians with the primary tissue type with greater certainty than traditional diagnostic techniques. This in turn empowers physicians to select the correct type of treatment earlier in the course of the patient&#8217;s therapy. 

In addition, we have developed the Summation Report which, we believe, provides an integrated view of a patient's test results and diagnosis in a user-friendly, visually appealing format for clinicians. Our pathologists and laboratory directors prepare these Summation Reports based on the clinical information and diagnosis provided by our laboratory professionals. All of our testing technologies are integrated into a Summation Report to allow oncologists to efficiently arrive at a definitive diagnosis and drive complete and effective decisions. 

Biopharma Services 

Biopharma services include laboratory and testing services performed for biopharmaceutical companies engaged in clinical trials. Our biopharma services focus on providing pharmaceutical companies with oncology specific and non-oncology genetic testing services for phase I-III trials along with ancillary services including biorepository and trials logistics, design and customized assay development support. These services include DNA and RNA extraction and purification, genotyping, gene expression and biomarker analyses, custom assay design and biorepository sample storage solutions. We also seek to apply our expertise in LDTs to assist in developing and commercializing drug-specific companion diagnostics. 

Industry research has shown many promising drugs have produced disappointing results in clinical trials. For example, a study by Princess Margaret Hospital in Toronto estimated that 85% of the phase III trials testing new therapies for solid tumors studied over a five-year period failed to meet their primary endpoint. Given such a high failure rate of oncology drugs, combined with constrained budgets for biopharmaceutical companies, there is a significant need for drug developers to utilize molecular diagnostics to decrease these failure rates. For specific molecular-targeted therapeutics, the identification of appropriate biomarkers indicative of disease type or prognosis may help to optimize clinical trial patient selection and increase trial success rates by helping clinicians identify patients that are most likely to benefit from a therapy based on their individual genomic profile. 

Our Select One&#174; offering was created specifically to help the biopharmaceutical community with clinical trials and companion diagnostic development in areas of our core expertise. We believe that oncology drugs have the potential to be among the most personalized of therapeutics, and yet oncology clinical trials continue to have some of the poorest approval rates. In an effort to improve the outcome of these trials, and more rapidly advanced targeted therapeutics, the biotechnology and pharmaceutical 

community is increasingly looking to companies that have both proprietary disease insights and comprehensive testing services as they move toward biomarker-based therapeutics. 

In June 2015, the United States National Institutes of Health reported over 74,000 clinical trials were currently being conducted in the United States, and over 14,000 of these trials were actively recruiting participants for studies with oncology pharmaceuticals or biologics. Molecular- and biomarker-based testing services have been altering the clinical trials landscape by providing biopharmaceutical companies with information about trial subjects' genetic profiles that may be able to inform researchers whether or not a subject will benefit from the trial drug or will experience adverse effects. Streamlined subject selection and stratification, and tailored therapies selected to maximally benefit each group of subjects may increase the number of trials that result in approved therapies and make conducting clinical trials more efficient and less costly for biopharmaceutical companies. In 2015, 51 new drugs were approved by the FDA. This is the highest number of FDA approvals since 1950, and nearly a third of these drugs were oncology-focused, highlighting the potential value of incorporating genomic information into oncology clinical trial design. 

In addition to the tests and services provided to biopharmaceutical companies, we are developing NGS panels focused on pharmacogenomics and oncology that will inform researchers of trial subjects' drug sensitivities. 

We provide the following services to biopharmaceutical companies and researchers conducting clinical trials: 

Genotyping and Pharmacogenomics Testing Services 

&#8226; 

Over 400 genotyping assays including drug metabolizing enzymes, transporters and receptors. 

&#8226; 

Over 19 validated gene expression assays. 

&#8226; 

Testing for the FDA's Pharmacogenomic (PGx) Biomarkers in Drug Labels recommended panel. 

&#8226; 

Loss of heterozygosity and copy number detection assays. 

We also utilize our laboratories to provide clinical trial services to biopharmaceutical companies and clinical research organizations to improve the efficiency and economic viability of clinical trials. Our clinical trials services leverage our knowledge of clinical oncology and molecular diagnostics and our laboratories&#8217; fully integrated capabilities. Our Select One&#174; program integrates clinical information into the drug discovery process in order to provide customized solutions for patient stratification and treatment. By utilizing biomarkers, we intend to optimize the clinical trial patient selection. This may result in an improved success rate of the clinical trial and may eventually help biopharmaceutical companies to select patients that are most likely to benefit from a therapy based on their genetic profile. We believe we are one of only a few laboratories with the capability to combine somatic and germline mutational analyses in clinical trials. 

Our Select One&#174; clinical trial services are aimed at developing customizable tests and techniques utilizing our proprietary tests and laboratory services to provide enhanced genetic signature analysis and more comprehensive understanding of complex diseases at earlier stages. We leverage our knowledge of clinical oncology and molecular diagnostics and provide access to our genomic database and assay development capabilities for the development and validation of companion diagnostics. This potentially enables companies to reduce the costs associated with development by determining earlier in the development process if they should proceed with additional clinical studies. We have been chosen by Gilead Sciences Inc. to provide clinical trial services and molecular profiling of CLL patients, and we performed the biomarker-based testing for Gilead&#8217;s FDA-approved Zydelig&#174; (idelalisib) for relapsed CLL, FL and SLL. We believe our clinical trial services may allow Gilead and others to improve patient responder selection, thereby potentially increasing the likelihood our customer's product is approved by FDA. Additionally, through our services we gain further insights into disease progression and the latest drug development that we can incorporate into our proprietary tests and services. 

We also provide genetic testing for drug metabolism to aid biopharmaceutical companies identify subjects' likely responses to treatment, allowing these companies to conduct more efficient and safer clinical trials. We believe pharmacogenomics drug metabolism testing helps deliver the promise of personalized medicine by enabling researchers to tailor therapies in development to differences in patients' genomic profiles. 

Discovery Services 

Our discovery services provide the tools and testing methods for companies and researchers seeking to identify new molecular- and biomarker-based indicators for disease. Discovery services we offer include validation of biomarkers for diseases including 

cancers, from which tests for diagnosis or prognosis may be established. We also provide consulting, guidance and preparation of samples and clinical trial design. We believe the ability to analyze variations in biomarkers and interpret these changes into meaningful predictors of disease or indicators of diagnosis is essential to discovering new molecular markers for cancer and targets for therapies. 

Our Disease-Focused Testing Portfolio 

Our disease-focused testing portfolio includes our portfolio of proprietary tests, along with a comprehensive range of non-proprietary oncology-focused tests and laboratory services. We have a comprehensive oncology testing portfolio, spanning eight of the ten most prevalent solid and hematological cancers, including the FDA-cleared test for tumors of unknown origin, our Tissue of Origin&#174;, or TOO&#174; test. &#32;&#32;With the exception of the TOO&#174; test, we offer our proprietary tests in the United States as laboratory-developed tests, or LDTs, and internationally as CE-marked in vitro diagnostic medical devices. The non-proprietary testing services we offer are focused in part on the specific oncology categories where we are developing our proprietary tests. We believe that there is significant synergy in developing and marketing a complete set of tests and services that are disease-focused and delivering those tests and services in a comprehensive manner to help guide and inform treatment decisions. The insights that we develop in delivering non-proprietary services are often leveraged in the development of our proprietary programs and in the validation of our proprietary programs. 

Our proprietary tests are molecular- and biomarker-based genomic tests: microarrays, probes, gene expression panels and next generation sequencing. Each is directed at identifying specific genetic aberrations in cancer cells that serve as markers for diagnosis, prognosis and theranosis. We offer microarrays, next generation sequencing, gene expression and FISH probes because each serves a unique diagnostic or prognostic function. FISH- based tests, or probes, offer great sensitivity while microarrays provide a more comprehensive analysis of the cancer genome, and NGS panels offer a method of detecting mutations or chromosomal aberrations of lesser frequency while gene expression can identify which genes are affected when the cancer type is unknown. 

Hematological Cancers 

As a group, hematologic cancers (cancers of the blood, bone marrow or lymph nodes) display significant clinical, pathologic and genetic complexity. Traditionally, diagnosis relies mostly on pathologic examination, flow cytometry and detection of only a few genetic markers. Importantly, the clinical course of the six main subtypes of these neoplasms ranges from indolent (follicular lymphoma) to aggressive (diffuse large B-cell lymphoma, mantle cell lymphoma and multiple myeloma), or mixed (chronic lymphocytic leukemia/small lymphocytic lymphoma, or CLL/SLL). Most risk-stratification for treatment decisions were traditionally based on clinical features of the disease. Few molecular prognostic biomarkers were utilized in a clinical setting. There remains an unmet medical need for robust biomarkers for the diagnosis, prognosis, theranosis and overall patient management in B-cell cancers. Given the higher frequency of these malignancies in the United States than in other countries due to relatively &#32; long lifespans and an aging population, we expect significant clinical demand for our tests and services that are focused on hematological cancers. 

Mature B-cell Neoplasm Array - MatBA&#174; 

MatBA&#174; is the first targeted oligonucleotide-based microarray we developed for the analysis of genomic alterations to determine prognosis and theranosis in mature B-cell neoplasms. MatBA&#174; incorporates a common architecture of specific genomic regions that can be applied across the seven major mature B-cell neoplasms. We currently offer the following applications of MatBA&#174;: Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia/Small Lymphocytic Lymphoma (CLL/SLL), Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma (DLBCL), Mantle Cell Lymphoma (MCL) and Follicular Lymphoma (FL). 

MatBA&#174; is designed to detect genomic copy number changes in mature B-cell neoplasms either solely or in a unique combination, thus assisting the clinician in the management of a patient&#8217;s disease. The test relies on the comparative genomic hybridization of fluorescently differentially-labeled normal DNA and DNA extracted from the cancer specimen (array-CGH). We have optimized the utility of the MatBA&#174; array-CGH so that it can be routinely applied to the study of a range of specimen types including blood and bone marrow and FFPE biopsy specimens, which are often the only specimen available for analysis of FL, DLBCL and MCL. MatBA&#174; was custom-designed to represent 80 regions of the human genome which have diagnostic and/or prognostic value in one or more of the mature B-cell neoplasm subtypes as identified through our research and analysis efforts. Unlike other technologies such as FISH, array-CGH using MatBA&#174; simultaneously permits the detection of genomic gains and losses at multiple locations on a chromosome (loci) that characterize the mature B-cell neoplasm subtypes. MatBA&#174; is designed to improve prognostication by determining each patient&#8217;s unique genetic profile, allowing doctors to more accurately select the best treatment options. 

Focus::NGS TM &#160; 

Focus::NGS TM is our family of next generation sequencing tests developed for the analysis of genomic alterations to determine, guide and inform diagnosis, prognosis and theranosis of particular hematological cancers and solid tumors. Next generation sequencing performs massively parallel sequencing, which is able to detect biomarker mutations and aberrations that are present at very low levels and which may be missed by other, less sensitive methodologies. We currently offer Focus::CLL&#8482; and Focus::Myeloid&#8482; in the United States for the characterization of hematological cancers. 

Our proprietary Focus::CLL&#8482; panel is the only test that assesses 7 genes in a single test, providing clinically relevant data for prognosis, disease management and treatment selection. The panel is available both for routine clinical patient diagnosis and management, as well as for patient stratification in clinical trials for CLL or SLL. CLL is often a slow-moving cancer, and many patients can survive for years after a diagnosis; however, chronic leukemias are difficult to treat and some forms of CLL grow faster, requiring that the patient undergo treatment fairly immediately. The American Cancer Society predicts that in 2016 there will be nearly 19,000 new cases of CLL and approximately 4,600 deaths, mostly among individuals over 40 years of age. 

Our proprietary Focus::Myeloid&#8482; panel is designed to target 54 genes, and we believe it will provide important prognostic information for myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) and acute myeloid leukemia (AML), as well as diagnostic and prognostic information for myeloproliferative neoplasms (MPN). MDS are a group of bone marrow disorders in which the bone marrow does not produce enough healthy blood cells. Approximately 30% of patients diagnosed with MDS will progress to AML, which is a cancer of the myeloid line of blood cells characterized by rapid growth of abnormal white blood cells which interferes with the normal production of other blood cells. MPNs consist of a group of diseases where there is an overproduction of different types of blood cells. The form of MPN is defined by the type of cell that is overproduced. MPNs also have a high possibility of progressing to AML depending on the mutations responsible for the MPN. AML is the most common acute leukemia in adults and its incidence increases with age. AML is expected to account for approximately 20,800 new leukemia cases in 2015, and its prevalence is expected to increase as the population ages. 

Solid Tissue Cancers 

Tissue of Origin&#174; (TOO&#174;) 

Through our acquisition of substantially all the assets of Response Genetics, Inc. in the fourth quarter of 2015, we acquired the FDA-cleared and Medicare-approved Tissue of Origin&#174; (TOO&#174;) test. TOO&#174; is a gene expression test that is used to identify the origin in cancer cases that are metastatic and/or poorly differentiated and unable to be typed by traditional testing methods. Metastatic tumors with an uncertain primary site can be a difficult clinical problem. In tens of thousands of oncology patients every year, no confident diagnosis is ever issued, making standard-of-care treatment impossible. TOO&#174; assesses 2,000 genes, covering 15 of the most common tumor types and 90% of all solid tumors. These tumors include thyroid, breast, non-small cell lung, pancreas, gastric, colorectal, liver, bladder, kidney, non-Hodgkin&#8217;s lymphoma, melanoma, ovarian, sarcoma, testicular germ cell and prostate. TOO&#174; is FDA-cleared, Medicare-approved, and provides extensive analytical and clinical validation for statistically significant improvement in accuracy over other methods. Our TOO&#174; test increases diagnostic accuracy and confidence in site-specific treatment decisions. Our TOO&#174; test leads to a change in patient treatment based on results 65% of the time it is used. 

Other 

Through our acquisition of substantially all the assets of Response Genetics, Inc. in the fourth quarter of 2015, we also acquired a clinically actionable and validated portfolio of tests for solid tumors. The tests include a variety of methodologies--from IHC and FISH to gene-expression, microarrays as well as next-generation sequencing (NGS). This portfolio includes proprietary tests for non-small cell lung cancer, colorectal cancer, gastric and gastroesophageal cancer, melanoma, thyroid cancer, breast cancer and glioma. 

HPV-Associated Cancers 

FHACT &#174; HPV-Associated Cancer Test 

We have developed a proprietary, 4-color FISH-based DNA probe designed to identify aberrations in four important chromosomal regions that have been implicated in cancers associated with infection by the human papilloma virus (HPV): cervical, anal and oropharyngeal. We have obtained CE marking for FHACT&#174;, which allows us to market the test in the European Economic Area (which includes the 27 Member States of the EU plus Norway, Liechtenstein and Iceland). We anticipate that we will need to conduct additional developmental activities for this test and to submit it for regulatory clearance or approval by FDA or other 

regulatory agencies prior to commercialization outside of our reference laboratories in each of the markets where we plan to introduce it. 

We currently offer an application of FHACT&#174; as an LDT for cervical cancer. According to the National Cancer Institute, about 50 million PAP smear tests to detect HPV are performed in the United States each year. It is estimated that approximately 2 million patients have abnormal PAP smear test results and are referred for biopsy/colposcopy as a result of such tests. However, only approximately 12,000 of these patients will develop cervical cancer. It is believed that early detection of HPV-associated cancers and lesions most likely to progress to cancer could eliminate unnecessary biopsies/colposcopies and thereby reduce health care costs. 

FHACT &#174; is designed to determine copy number changes of four particular genomic regions by FISH. These regions of DNA give specific information about the progression from HPV infection to cervical cancer, in particular the stage and subtype of disease. FHACT &#174; is designed to enable earlier detection of abnormal cells and can identify the additional genomic &#32; biomarkers that allow for the prediction of cancer progression. FHACT &#174; is designed to leverage the same PAP smear sample taken from the patient during routine screening, thus reducing the burden on the patient while delivering greater information to the clinician. 

Sales and Marketing 

Our sales and marketing efforts consist of both direct and indirect efforts, with the majority of efforts focused on direct sales in both the United States and India. The table below summarizes our sales approach by geography and customer segment: 

United States 

Clinical Sales 

- 

- 

- 

Collaborate with leading research universities and institutions that enable the validation of our new tests. 

Work with community-based cancer centers that need a reliable and collaborative partner for cancer testing. 

Build relationships with individual thought leaders in oncology, hematology and pathology to deliver services that provide value to their patients. 

Biopharma Sales 

- 

- 

Collaborate with scientific development teams at pharmaceutical companies on studies involving translational medicine and genotyping. 

Build relationships in the research and development segment to identify partners with a need for biomarker discovery studies. 

India 

Clinical Sales 

- 

- 

Develop relationships with oncologists, corporate hospitals and reference labs, as well as with physicians in local clinics. 

Engage the population of oncology patients in India, where a majority of oncology drugs are paid for out-of-pocket. 

Biopharma &#38; Discovery Sales 

- 

- 

Work with academic and research institutions for validation of our tests in the Indian population. 

Collaborate with scientific development teams at biopharma companies and government agencies on studies involving tests and services. 

China 

Biopharma Sales 

- 

Leverage US-based companies conducting clinical trials with a component of those trials occurring in China. 

Our sales force professionals have backgrounds in hematology, pathology, and laboratory services, and many years of experience in clinical oncology sales, esoteric laboratory sales from leading biopharmaceutical, pharmaceutical or specialty reference laboratory companies. We currently have a team of 12 sales professionals in the United States and 6 in India. We support our sales force with clinical specialists who bring deep domain knowledge in the design and use of our tests and services. 

In addition to our direct sales force, we entered into an agreement with the Laboratory Services group of ICON plc, the global CRO (Nasdaq:ICLR) to work together to offer biotech and pharmaceutical customers a comprehensive, integrated and efficient solution for laboratory testing for global oncology trials from Phase I through Phase IV. Through our joint service offering, we and ICON can provide biotech and pharmaceutical customers access to combined expertise ranging from complex, oncology-focused molecular and biomarker-based testing to core central laboratory analysis, project and data management and sample logistics on a global basis. 

We also promote our tests and services through marketing channels commonly used by the biopharma and pharmaceutical industries, such as internet, medical meetings and broad-based publication of our scientific and economic data. In addition, we provide easy-to-access information to our customers over the internet through dedicated websites. Our customers value easily accessible information in order to quickly review patient or study information. 

Our Laboratory Facilities 

Rutherford, New Jersey, United States 

Our Rutherford location is a 17,900 square foot facility and also serves as our corporate headquarters. We offer our clinical services, biopharma services and discovery services out of our Rutherford location. This location has been accredited by the College of American Pathologists, or CAP, which is an approved accreditation entity under CLIA, to perform high complexity testing. CLIA certification and accreditation are required before any laboratory may perform clinical testing on human samples for the purpose of diagnosis, prevention, treatment of disease or assessment of health. 

Our Rutherford location is licensed by the appropriate state departments of health and able to receive and test patient samples from all 50 states, as well as from oversees locations. Additionally, our Rutherford laboratory is self-certified under the US-EU and US-Swiss Safe Harbor Frameworks governing use of personal information received on patients or clinical trial participants from the European Union. Our Rutherford laboratory also holds the requisite licenses from the New Jersey State Department of Health to operate and perform clinical testing on patient samples. In addition, certain states, such as New York, require out-of-state laboratories to obtain licenses in order to accept patient specimens from such states. Our Rutherford location holds clinical laboratory licenses from the New York Department of Health, Florida Department of Health, Maryland Department of Health, Pennsylvania Department of Health, and California Department of Health for all of our clinical departments. 

Los Angeles, California, United States 

Our Los Angeles location is an approximately 27,000 square foot facility. We offer clinical services and biopharma services out of our Los Angeles location. We provide proprietary tests and panels for lung, colon, gastric, and melanoma cancers, as well as our FDA-cleared Tissue of Origin&#174; Test, or TOO&#174;, from our Los Angeles location. This location is CLIA-certified, GLP-compliant and CAP accredited. Our Los Angeles laboratory also holds the requisite licenses from the California State Department of Health to operate and perform clinical testing on patient samples. Our Los Angeles location holds clinical laboratory licenses from the New York Department of Health, Florida Department of Health, Maryland Department of Health, Pennsylvania Department of Health, and Rhode Island Department of Health for all of our clinical departments. 

Morrisville, North Carolina, United States 

We offer our biopharma services, including biopharmaceutical trials testing services, pharmacogenomics testing, and sample storage and biorepository services from our 25,000 square foot facility located in Research Triangle Park, Morrisville, North Carolina. Our facility in Morrisville is CLIA-certified and subject to Good Laboratory Practices ("GLP") requirements, and has received accreditation by CAP for its industry-leading biorepository capabilities. We do not believe that our Morrisville laboratory requires individual state licensure since it is not performing clinical testing on patient samples and is only involved in clinical trials testing. Our Morrisville laboratory is also self-certified under US-European and US-Swiss Safe Harbor frameworks. 

Hyderabad, India and Shanghai, China 

We also have two laboratories operating outside of the United States: one in Hyderabad, India and one in Shanghai, China. Our 10,000 square foot Hyderabad facility services government entities, academic institutions, and health and cancer centers. It is a Department of Scientific and Industrial Research ("DSIR") recognized laboratory and is ISO9001-2008 and National Accreditation Board for Testing and Calibration Laboratories ("NABL") certified. Our 2,700 square foot Shanghai facility is both CLIA-certified and subject to GLPs, and provides biopharma services to companies performing clinical trials in China. 

Research and Development Expenses 

We incurred research and development expenses of $5.5 million , which represented 30% of our net revenue, for the year ended December 31, 2015; $4.6 million, which represented 45% of our net revenue for the year ended December 31, 2014; and $2.2 million, which represented 33% of our net revenue, for the year ended December 31, 2013. Research and development expenses represented 22% of our total operating expenses for the year ended December 31, 2015, 22% of our total operating expenses for the year ended December 31, 2014, and 22% of our total operating expenses for the year ended December 31, 2013. Major components of the research and development expenses included direct personnel costs, laboratory equipment and consumables and overhead expenses. 

Research and Development Collaborations 

We formally and informally collaborate with leading oncology centers and community-based hospitals to develop our proprietary diagnostic tests, and we work closely with leading cancer researchers at these institutions to develop proprietary tests tailored to their needs and specifications. Additionally, many of these centers have obtained Specialized Programs of Research Excellence status, as designated by the National Cancer Institute. Our collaborations with these centers give us access to large datasets of information that we use to develop our proprietary tests. 

Below is a summary of our active key collaborations. In certain cases we have formal written agreements with collaborators and in other cases we have no written agreement with our collaborators or only informal written arrangements. 

Collaborating Institution 

Principle Investigator(s) 

Focus of Collaboration 

North Shore-Long Island Jewish Health System, New York 

Dr. Kanti Rai 

Dr. Nicholas Chiorazzi 

Clinical validation of MatBA&#174;-CLL and search for additional DNA-based biomarkers of CLL 

Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, New York 

Dr. Julie Teruya-Feldstein 

Clinical validation of MatBA&#174; 

Dr. Raju S.K. Chaganti 

Validation of a CGH microarray-based assay 

Dr. Jonathan Coleman 

Evaluation of FISH-based CGH-array tests 

Dr. Jeremy Durack 

Evaluation of FISH-based and CHG-array tests 

National Cancer Institute, Maryland 

Dr. Nicolas Wentzensen 

Evaluation of FISH-based tests 

Kamineni Hospital, Hyderabad, India 

Dr. Annie Hassan 

Evaluation of FHACT&#174; 

University of Iowa Cancer Center, Iowa 

Dr. Sergei Syrbu 

Evaluation methods to improve the diagnosis, prognosis and management of DLBCL 

Columbia University, New York 

Dr. Azra Raza 

Dr. Siddhartha Mukherjee 

Identification of genomic biomarkers 

Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, New York 

Dr. Rajan Dewar 

Analysis of genomic biomarkers 

Keck Medicine of University of Southern California, California 

Dr. Imran Siddiqi 

Identification and evaluation of genomic biomarkers 

University of Southern California, California , &#38; HTG Molecular, Arizona 

Dr. Pamela Ward 

MicroRNA whole transcription assay validation 

University of Southern California, California , &#38; HTG Molecular, Arizona 

Dr. Heinz-Josef Lenz and Dr. Yu Sunakawa 

Gene expression analysis for immuno-oncology panel 

Groupe Hospitalier Piti&#233; Salp&#233;triere, Paris 

&#160; 

Analyze the variability of genomic alterations 

Huntsman Cancer Center Institute, University of Utah, Utah 

&#160; 

Examine and validate genomic biomarkers 

Moffitt Cancer Center, Florida 

&#160; 

Examine a number of genetic variants 

University of Alabama, Alabama 

&#160; 

Investigate biomarkers 

University of Virginia School of Medicine, Virginia, &#38; HTG Molecular, Arizona 

&#160; 

Evaluation of genomic signatures of immuno-oncology biomarkers 

Scientific and Clinical Advisory Boards 

We have two advisory boards to counsel our scientific and clinical direction. Our Scientific Advisory Board is comprised of preeminent scientists and physicians from the fields of cancer biology, cancer pathology, cancer medicine and molecular genetics. We have scientists and clinicians from leading cancer centers, including Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, Mt. Sinai and the Institute for Cancer Genetics at Columbia University. These distinguished scientists and clinicians help oversee and review the scientific innovation, integrity and clinical relevancy of our program. The board of directors appoints members to the Scientific Advisory Board. Our Clinical Advisory Board is comprised of preeminent clinicians and scientists focused on clinical implementation of our proprietary tests and services and mapping those tests and services to patient needs. 

Competition 

With respect to our clinical services, our principal competition comes from existing mainstream diagnostic methods and laboratories that pathologists and oncologists use and have used for many years or decades. It may be difficult to change the methods or behavior of the referring pathologists and oncologists to incorporate our molecular diagnostic testing in their practices. In addition, companies offering capital equipment and kits or reagents to local pathology laboratories represent another source of potential competition. These kits are used directly by the pathologist, which can facilitate adoption. 

With respect to our clinical services and our biopharma services, we also face competition from companies that offer products or have conducted research to profile genes, gene expression or protein biomarkers in various cancers. In particular, Quest Diagnostics market arrays which are competitive to our MatBA&#174;-CLL and MatBA&#174;-SLL arrays, and both Foundation Medicine and LabCorp offer NGS based tests and panels for oncology. Personalized genetic diagnostics is a new area of science, and we cannot predict what tests others will develop that may compete with or provide results superior to the results we are able to achieve with the tests we develop. Our competitors include public companies such as: NeoGenomics, Inc., Quest Diagnostics, Abbott Laboratories, Inc., Johnson &#38; Johnson, Roche Molecular Systems, Inc., bioTheranostics, Inc. (part of the bioM&#233;rieux S.A.), Genomic Health, Inc., LabCorp, Inc., Clarient, Inc. (acquired by GE), Myriad Genetics, Inc., Qiagen N.V., Genoptics Inc. (acquired by Novartis Pharmaceuticals), Caris Life Sciences (acquired by Miraca), Rosetta Genomics Ltd., and Foundation Medicine, Inc., and many private companies. We expect that pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical companies will increasingly focus attention and resources on the personalized diagnostic sector as the potential and prevalence increases of molecularly targeted oncology therapies approved by FDA along with companion diagnostics. For example, FDA has recently approved two such agents- Xalkori crizotinib from Pfizer Inc. along with its companion anaplastic lymphoma kinase FISH test from Abbott Laboratories, Inc. and Zelboraf vemurafenib from Genentech USA Incorporated and Daiichi-Sankyo Inc. along with its companion B-RAF kinase V600 mutation test from Roche Molecular Systems, Inc. These two recent FDA approvals are only the second and third instances ever of simultaneous approvals of a drug and companion diagnostic, the first being the 1998 approval of Genentech, Inc.&#8217;s Herceptin trastuzumab for HER2 positive breast cancer along with the HercepTest from partner Dako A/S. Our competitors may invent and commercialize technology platforms or tests that compete with ours. 

Additionally, projects related to the molecular mechanisms driving cancer development have received increased government funding, both in the United States and internationally. As more information regarding cancer genomics and biomarkers becomes available to the public, we anticipate that more products aimed at identifying targeted treatment options will be developed and that these products may compete with ours. In addition, competitors may develop their own versions of our tests in countries where we did not apply for patents or where our patents have not issued and compete with us in those countries, including encouraging the use of their test by physicians or patients in other countries. 

Third-Party Suppliers and Manufacturers 

We maintain control, validation and quality assurance over our NGS panels, DNA microarrays and probes. Our microarrays are designed in our facility by our scientists and technicians using state of the art genomic mapping and analysis software. The specifications are sent to Agilent for final manufacturing. Agilent manufactures our microarrays under strict quality control and compliance with ISO 9001 and ISO 13485 at its Santa Clara, California facility. Agilent also has another manufacturing facility in Europe that can be made available for microarray printing. Upon manufacturing our custom, proprietary microarrays, Agilent ships them back to our Rutherford facility for testing and acceptance. 

The DNA component of our DNA FISH probes is produced under strict adherence to regulatory procedures in our Rutherford facility and also at a third party facility depending on demand and workflow. The DNA is shipped for final manufacture to our partner in India. In February 2012 we entered in to an agreement with Kamineni Life Sciences to supply outsourced manufacturing for the production of our DNA FISH probes. The manufacturing operations became fully operational in India in the fourth quarter of 2012 and several batches of DNA FISH probes have been successfully manufactured. We control overall quality and process management and the final quality assurance in a manner that is CE compliant and adheres to our Quality Management System. 

We also currently rely on contracted manufacturers and collaborative partners to produce materials necessary for our Tissue of Origin&#174; test. We plan to continue to rely on these manufacturers and collaborative partners to manufacture these materials, including those materials required for use in our FDA-cleared TOO&#174; test. 

Patents and Proprietary Technology 

Our business develops proprietary tests that enable oncologists and pathologists at hospitals, cancer centers, and physician offices to properly diagnose and inform cancer treatment. We rely on a combination of patents, patent applications, trademarks, trademark applications, trade secrets, industry know-how, as well as various contractual arrangements, in order to protect the proprietary aspects of our technology. 

Our patent portfolio consists of 49 issued U.S. patents, several pending U.S. applications, and 175 foreign patents. We have a disease-focused portfolio of patents. Our key patents include: 

&#8226; 

Hematological cancers. We have two U.S. patents (U.S. Patent Nos. 8,580,713 and 8,557,747), as well as patents in the EU, India and Canada directed to MatBA&#174;, a microarray for detecting (and distinguishing) particular types of mature B cell neoplasms present in typical non-Hodgkin&#8217;s lymphoma, Hodgkin&#8217;s lymphoma and chronic lymphocytic leukemia. These patents and foreign application cover our trademarked MatBA&#174; microarray and are directed to both the microarray itself as well as associated methodologies designed to detect the particular type of mature B cell neoplasm present in a patient. These patents and foreign application also cover the use of computer-assisted means to facilitate and expedite that detection process. The MatBA&#174; microarray patents issued from the first of our family of applications in the microarray space. The term of these patents runs through 2030. 

&#8226; 

Solid Tumors. We have 13 U.S. patents, including (U.S. Patent Nos. 7,049,059, 7,560,543, 7,732,144, 8,586,311, 8,026,062, 6,956,111, 6,905,821, 7,005,278, 6,686,155, 7,138,507, as well as numerous foreign patents, including patents in Australia, Canada, China and Japan. These patents relate to certain aspects of the gene expression technology used in our solid tumor tests. The solid tumor markers covered by these patents include thymidylate synthase (TS), dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase (DPD), excision repair gene CC1 (ERCC1), glutathione-s transferase pi (GST-p), epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) and HER2/neu gene, though our patents are not directed to all aspects of expression of such markers. The term of these patents runs through 2023. 

&#8226; 

We have four U.S. patents (U.S. Patent Nos. 8,977,506, 8,321,137, 7,747,547 and 8,473,217) covering our Tissue of Origin&#174; Test. These patents are directed at systems and methods for detecting biological features in solid tumors. The term of these patents run through 2030. 

&#8226; 

Urogenital cancers. We have two U.S. patents (U.S. Patent Nos. 8,603,948 and 8,716,193) and one EU patent. These patents directed to a novel, highly sensitive and specific probe panel which detects the type of renal cortical neoplasm present in a biopsy sample. These patents cover a probe that permits diagnosis of the predominant subtypes of renal cortical neoplasms without the use of invasive methods and provides a molecular cytogenetic method for detecting and analyzing the type of renal cortical neoplasm present in a renal biopsy sample. The term of these patents runs through 2027. We also have two patent applications for methods and tools for the diagnosis of female gynecological cancers and precancers (US Patent Application No. 61/581,350) and methods and tools for the diagnosis and prognosis of urogenital cancers (US Patent Application No. 61/765,678). 

&#8226; 

HPV-Associated Cancers. We have three U.S. patents (U.S. Patent Nos. 9,157,129, 8,865,882 and 8,883,414) and an EU patent. These patents cover methods for detecting HPV-associated cancers used in our FHACT&#174; test. The term of these patents run through 2031. 

&#8226; 

FISH Probes. We have two patents covering our FISH probes. These patents cover probes and methodologies designed to detect and analyze particular chromosomal translocations (genetic lesions) associated with a wide range of cancers using a technique known as FISH and serve as the backbone for several of our other pending patent applications, which are more specifically geared towards other probes (and methodologies). The term of these patents run through 2022. 

In addition to patents, we hold twenty U.S. registered trademarks, including a federal registration for &#8220;CGI&#8221; as well as four U.S. trademark applications and one foreign trademark registration for certain of our proprietary tests and services. Our strategic use of distinctive trademarks has garnered increased name recognition and brand awareness for our tests and services within the industry. 

Through our clinical laboratories, we provide several clinical services that utilize our proprietary trade secrets. In particular, we maintain trade secrets with respect to specimen accessioning, sample preparation, and certain aspects of cytogenetic analysis. All of our trade secrets are kept under strict confidence, and we take all reasonable steps, including the use of non-disclosure agreements and confidentiality agreements, to ensure that our confidential information is not unlawfully disseminated. We also conduct training sessions on the importance of maintaining and protecting trade secrets with our scientific staff and laboratory directors and supervisors. 

In addition to our proprietary intellectual property, we exclusively license from University of Southern California, or USC, the use of extraction methodologies and related technologies used in our solid tumor tests, which have been patented in the United States and a number of other jurisdictions, including Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada, China, Denmark, France, Germany, 

Hong Kong, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Luxembourg, Mexico, The Netherlands, Norway, Russia, South Korea, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland and the United Kingdom. Currently, this exclusive license includes seven United States patents claiming methods related to this technology. Our USC licensed patents are scheduled to expire between December 2019 and December 2020. 

We also entered into nonexclusive licenses with the National Cancer Institute for the use of its intellectual property relating to a 3q marker and with Stanford University for use and development of a diagnostic assay and predictive model that has been granted two patents for the stratification and risk prediction for DLBCL patients. Under the terms of the license, we are permitted to use the National Cancer Institute&#8217;s proprietary intellectual property for use in our patent pending FHACT&#174; DNA probe, which is directed to the diagnosis and prognosis of certain HPV-associated cancers. 

Operations and Production Facilities 

We work with electronic medical records providers to facilitate seamless communication between our clinical laboratories and the oncologist or pathologist at the test ordering site. Currently, we have the ability to integrate with electronic medical record systems, as we have already done with MDL, an electronic medical record provider. We do this integration through utilizing HL7 interfaces, which are standard in health care information technology systems. We currently employ HL7 for its integration with a revenue cycle management company, XiFin, as well as with its electronic medical records partners such as MDL. The use of the HL7 interface allows systems written in different languages and running on different platforms to be able to talk to each other through the use of an abstracted data layer. This means that we do not have to spend significant extra time designing and developing common communications protocols when integrating with other electronic &#32; health records systems or billing systems providers. 

When a customer obtains a specimen from a patient for oncology testing, he or she will complete a requisition form (either by hand or electronically, or via electronic medical records technology), and package the specimen for shipment to us. Once we receive the specimen at our laboratory and we enter all pertinent information about the specimen into our clinical laboratory information system, one of our laboratory professionals prepares the specimen for diagnosis. The prepared specimen is sent to one of our pathologists or medical directors who is experienced in making the diagnosis requested by the referring oncologist or pathologist. 

After diagnosis, our pathologist uses our laboratory information systems to prepare a comprehensive report, which includes any relevant images associated with the specimen. Our clinical reporting portal, cgireports.com, allows a referring oncologist or pathologist to access his/her test results in real time in a secure HIPAA compliant manner. The reports are generated in industry standard PDF formats which allows for high definition color images to be reproduced clearly. This portal has been fully operational at our facilities since 2011. 

In most cases we provide both the technical analysis and professional diagnosis, although we also fulfill requests from oncologists and pathologists for only one service or the other. If an oncologist or pathologist at the hospital, cancer center, reference laboratory or physician office requires only the analysis, we prepare the data and then return it to the referring oncologist or pathologist for assessment and diagnosis. 

Quality Assurance 

We are committed to providing reliable and accurate diagnostic services to our customers. Accurate specimen identification, timely communication of diagnoses, and prompt correction of errors, is critical. We monitor and improve our performance through a variety of methods, including performance improvement indicators, proficiency testing (CAP and New York State), external audits and satisfaction surveys. All quality concerns and incidents are subject to root cause analysis and our procedures are put through annual evaluation to ensure that we are providing the best services possible to our patients and customers. Protection of patient results from misuse and improper access is imperative and thus electronic and paper results are guarded via password- protection and identification cards. 

We have established a comprehensive Quality Assurance and Management Program for our laboratories designed to drive accurate and timely test results and to ensure the consistent high quality of our testing services. The Quality Assurance and Management Program documents the quality assurance/performance improvement plans and policies and the laboratory quality assurance and quality control procedures that are necessary to ensure that we offer the highest quality of diagnostic testing services. This program is designed to satisfy all the requirements necessary for local and state licensures applicable to our business, including requirements from the New Jersey Health Department, the California Department of Health &#32;and the New York Department of Health Clinical Laboratory Evaluation Program, and accreditation for clinical diagnostic laboratories by CAP. We follow the policies and procedures for patient and employee safety, hazardous waste disposal and fire codes stated in the general laboratory procedure manual. We believe that all pertinent regulations of CLIA, Occupational Safety and Health Administration (&#8220;OSHA&#8221;), Environmental Protection Agency and FDA are satisfied by following the established guidelines 

and procedures of our Quality Assurance and Management Program. 

In addition to the compulsory proficiency programs and external inspections required by CMS and other regulatory agencies, we have developed a variety of internal systems and procedures to emphasize, monitor and continuously improve the quality of our operations. We maintain internal quality controls by routinely processing specimens with known diagnoses in parallel with patient specimens. We also have an extensive, internally administered program of specimen proficiency testing, in which our laboratory staff are blinded to the results. 

We participate in numerous externally administered quality surveillance programs and our laboratories are accredited by CAP. The CAP accreditation program involves both unannounced on-site inspections of our laboratories and our participation in CAP&#8217;s ongoing proficiency testing program. CAP is an independent, non- governmental organization of board-certified pathologists that accredits laboratories nationwide on a voluntary basis and that has been recognized by CMS as an accreditation organization to inspect laboratories to determine adherence to the CLIA standards. Successful participation in CAP&#8217;s proficiency testing program satisfies the CLIA requirement for participation in proficiency testing programs administered by an external source. 

Each of our facilities maintains its own quality assurance processes, which are coordinated across sites to maintain consistency in standard operating procedures, employee training and safety manuals. 

Third-Party Payor Reimbursement 

Depending on the billing arrangement and applicable law, we are reimbursed for clinical services by: third-party payors that provide coverage to the patient, such as an insurance company, managed care organization or a governmental payor program; physicians or other authorized parties (such as hospitals or independent laboratories) that order testing service or otherwise refer the services to us; or the patient. For the year ended December 31, 2015, we derived approximately 12% &#32;of our total revenue from private insurance, including managed care organizations and other health care insurance providers, 10% &#32;from Medicare, and 9% &#32;from other health care facilities, including hospitals. 

Where there is a coverage policy, contract or agreement in place, we bill the third-party payor, the hospital or referring laboratory as well as the patient (for deductibles and coinsurance or copayments, where applicable) in accordance with the policy or contractual terms. Where there is no coverage policy, contract or agreement in place, we pursue reimbursement on behalf of each patient on a case-by-case basis and rely on applicable billing standards to guide our claims. In addition, we have implemented a new patient financial assistance program (CGI MAP Program) that complies with Federal guidelines. 

We are reimbursed for three categories of tests: (1) genetic and molecular testing; (2) anatomic pathology and IHC and (3) general immunology and flow cytometry. Reimbursement under the Medicare program for the diagnostic services that we offer is based on either the Medicare Physician Fee Schedule or Medicare Clinical Laboratory Fee Schedule (CLFS), each of which in turn is subject to geographic adjustments and is updated annually. Medical services provided to Medicare beneficiaries that require a degree of physician supervision or other involvement, such as pathology tests, are generally reimbursed under the Medicare Physician Fee Schedule, whereas clinical diagnostic laboratory tests are generally reimbursed under the Clinical Laboratory Fee Schedule. Most of the services that we provide are for genetic and molecular testing, which are reimbursed as clinical diagnostic laboratory tests. 

Medicare fee schedule amounts for clinical diagnostic laboratory tests are established for each billing code, or CPT code. In addition, for its laboratory fee schedule, Medicare also sets a cap on the amount that it will pay for any individual test. This cap, usually referred to as the National Limitation Amount, is set at a percentage of the median of all the contractor fee schedule amounts for each billing code. In the past, Congress has lowered the percentage of the median used to calculate the National Limitation Amount in order to achieve budget savings. Currently, the National Limitation Amount ceiling is set at 74% of the median for established tests and 100% of the median for certain new tests that were not previously reimbursed. In billing Medicare for clinical laboratory services, we are required to accept, as payment in full, the lowest of our actual charge, the fee schedule amount for the state or local geographical area or the National Limitation Amount. There is currently no copayment or deductible required for tests paid under the CLFS, although Congress periodically has considered implementing such a requirement. 

In addition, Congress routinely lowers or eliminates the update factor that would otherwise apply to the applicable clinical laboratory fee schedule (CLFS) payment. For example, under the health care reform legislation, passed in 2010, payments under the CLFS are reduced by 1.75% through 2015 and, in addition, a productivity adjustment, further reducing payment rates is also imposed. In addition, in February 2012, Congress passed the Middle Class Tax Relief and Job Creation Act of 2012, which required that the CLFS be &#8220;rebased&#8221; by -2%. As a result of these changes, for 2015 the CLFS was reduced by -.25%. 

Further, in 2014, Congress passed the Protecting Access to Medicare Act or PAMA which also makes significant changes in the way the Medicare will pay for laboratory services. Under PAMA, laboratories were required to report the amount that they are paid by third party payors for each test beginning in January 2016. CMS will use this data to calculate a weighted median for each test. That new price is supposed to become effective on January 1, 2017, although any resulting reductions will be phased in over time. This data reporting process will be repeated every three years for most tests, although Advanced Diagnostic Laboratory Tests (ADLTs) will have to be reported every year. It is possible that some of our tests could be considered ADLTs, which will require us to report prices annually. In addition, we may also be required to obtain a code from CMS or an entity that it designates for our tests that have not previously had a code. Although CMS was also required to issue a Final Rule implementing PAMA by June 30, 2015, it failed to do so. It did issue a Proposed &#32;Rule, however, on October 1, 2015. As a result of this delay, many of the statutory deadlines will likely not be met. It is not known at this time how the implementation of PAMA will affect our reimbursement. 

Certain of our tests are paid under the Physician Fee Schedule, rather than the CLFS. Tests paid for under the PFS are based on &#8220;relative value units&#8221; established for each service. These RVUs are then multiplied by a conversion factor to arrive at a monetary amount. Each year, CMS calculates an update to this conversion factor based on a formula included in the Medicare law, referred to as the Sustainable Growth Rate (SGR) Formula. When it is applied, this SGR formula often would require a decrease in reimbursement unless Congress acts to overturn this result. As a result, Congress consistently passes legislation to prevent implementation of significant cuts that would otherwise be effective. For 2014, CMS had projected the reimbursement cut resulting from the SGR formula would be approximately 20 percent, unless Congress acted to prevent the reduction. On December 18, 2013, Congress passed legislation that enacted a 0.5 percent increase in the conversion factor, which was effective until March 31, 2014. On April 1, 2014, President Obama signed the Protecting Access to Medicare Act of 2014, or PAMA. PAMA extended the 0.5 percent increase through March 31, 2015 and made other changes to laboratory reimbursement discussed below. 

On April 16, 2015, President Obama signed the Medicare and CHIP Reauthorization Act (MACRA), which had previously been passed by both houses of Congress. MACRA repealed the provisions related to the Medicare SGR formula and implements a new physician payment system that is designed to reward the quality of care. In addition, it extends the current Medicare Physician Fee Schedule rates through June 2015, and then increases them by 0.5 percent for the remainder of 2015. Beginning on January 1, 2016, the rates will be increased annually by 0.5 percent, through 2019. For 2020 through 2025 payments will be frozen, although payment will be adjusted to account for performance on certain quality metrics under the Merit-Based Incentive Payment Systems (MIPS) or to reflect physician participation in alternative payment models (APMs). For 2026 and subsequent years, qualified APM participants receive an annual 0.75% update on Medicare physician payment rates, while those not participating receive a 0.25% annual payment update, plus any applicable MIPS-based payment adjustments. At this time, it is too early to determine how these changes may impact our business beyond 2015. 

Medicare also has policies that may limit when we can bill directly for our services and when we must instead bill another provider, such as a hospital. When the testing that we perform is done on a specimen that was collected while the patient was in the hospital, as either an inpatient or outpatient, we may be required to bill the hospital for some of our services, rather than the Medicare program, depending on whether or not the service was ordered more than 14 days after the patient&#8217;s discharge from the hospital. These requirements are complex and time- consuming and, depending on what they require, may affect our ability to collect for our services. 

Our reimbursement rates from private third-party payors can vary based on whether we are considered to be an &#8220;in-network&#8221; provider, a participating provider, a covered provider or an &#8220;out-of-network&#8221; provider. These definitions can vary from insurance company to insurance company, but we are generally considered an &#8220;out of network&#8221; or non- participating provider in the vast majority of our cases. It is not unusual for a company that offers highly specialized or unique testing to be an &#8220;out of network&#8221; provider. An &#8220;in-network&#8221; provider usually has a contracted arrangement with the insurance company or benefits provider. This contract governs, among other things, service-level agreements and reimbursement rates. In certain instances an insurance company may negotiate an &#8220;in-network&#8221; rate for our testing rather than pay the typical &#8220;out-of-network&#8221; rate. An &#8220;in-network&#8221; provider usually has rates that are lower per test than those that are &#8220;out-of-network&#8221;, and that rate is based on the laboratory fee schedule. The discount rate varies based on the insurance company, the testing type and the often times the specifics of the patient&#8217;s insurance plan. 

We have contracts with commercial insurance carriers that provide access to certain out our tests to approximately 35 million lives. When a test is covered as part of these contracts it is paid at the rate stated in the contract. The Company also has agreements with preferred provider agreements that cover approximately 130 million lives. When a claim is processed through one of these organizations reimbursement is based on usual and customary fees in the specific geography with a discount applied. 

In addition, as part of the Middle Class Tax Relief and Job Creation Act of 2012 (&#8220;MCTRJCA&#8221;), signed into law by the President on February 22, 2012, Congress eliminated the special billing rule that had allowed laboratories to bill Medicare for the technical component of certain pathology services furnished to patients of qualifying hospitals. Effective July 1, 2012, independent laboratories, like our laboratories, are required to bill the hospital, rather than the Medicare Program, for the technical component of these services in most instances. 

Billing Codes for Third-Party Payor Reimbursement 

CPT codes are the main data code set used by physicians, hospitals, laboratories and other health care professionals to report separately-payable clinical laboratory tests for reimbursement purposes. The CPT coding system is maintained and updated on an annual basis by the American Medical Association. Although there is no specific code to report microarrays for oncology, such as our MatBA&#174;-CLL, there are existing codes that describe all of the steps in our MatBA&#174;-CLL testing process. We currently use a combination of different codes to describe the various steps in our testing process. Many of the CPT codes used to bill for molecular pathology tests such as ours have been significantly revised by the CPT Code Editorial Panel. These new codes replace the more general &#8220;stacking&#8221; codes that were previously used to bill for these services with more test-specific codes, which became effective January 2013. In the Final Physician Fee Schedule Rule, which was issued in November 2012, CMS stated that it had determined it would pay for the new codes as clinical laboratory tests, which are payable on the Clinical Laboratory Fee Schedule (CLFS). CMS also stated that it planned to &#8220;gapfill&#8221; the new codes; that is, it will ask the contractors to determine a reasonable price for the new codes. This process was completed in 2013, and these tests are now paid for under the new "gapfilled" rates. 

Among the new codes that were created by CPT were a specific subset of codes called Multi-analyte Assays with Algorithmic Analysis (MAAAs). These tests typically use an algorithm applied to certain specific components to arrive at a score that is used to predict a particular clinical outcome. CMS recently stated that it will not issue a categorical determination for all MAAA tests, but will consider each individual test that is classified by the CPT as a MAAA on its own merits. On September 25, 2015, CMS released its Preliminary Determinations for new CPT codes effective in 2016, including several new MAAA CPT codes. CMS had proposed "crosswalking" these codes to an unrelated test, resulting in a significant cut in their reimbursement. However, on November 17, 2015, CMS reversed its policy and directed that the tests be gapfilled by the local contractors. It is expected that when PAMA is fully implemented, many of these MAAA codes will be considered and reimbursed as ADLTs. For 2015, less than 5% of our revenue is derived from tests that may be considered MAAAs. 

As of January 1, 2014 we are utilizing the &#8220;Not Otherwise Classified&#8221; (NOC) codes when billing for some of our MAAA &#32; tests. The reimbursement policies for the NOC codes vary from payor to payor with regard to specific tests and many of the payors have followed suit. This extends our revenue cycle for these particular tests, where the normal timeframe for reimbursement of a claim is approximately 45-90 days. These tests can take upwards of a year to be reimbursed. There can be no guarantees that Medicare and other payors will establish positive or adequate coverage policies or reimbursement rates in the future. We are moving forward with plans to obtain billing codes for our tests. A specific code for our tests, however, does not assure an adequate coverage policy or reimbursement rate. Please see the section entitled &#8220;Legislative and Regulatory Changes Impacting Clinical Laboratory Tests&#8221; for further discussion of certain legislative and regulatory changes to these billing codes and the impact on our business. 

On October 30, 2015, CMS issued its Final Physician Fee Schedule Rule for 2016, which set out policies that were effective January 2016. Among those policy changes are reductions in the payments for flow cytometry and immunohistochemistry, two types of tests that we frequently perform. CMS has also stated that certain of these same tests may be considered "misvalued" which means they could be subject to additional scrutiny in the future. At this time, we are still assessing the potential impact of these changes. 

Coverage and Reimbursement for Our Proprietary Tests 

We have been able to receive reimbursement for our tests from some payors based on their established policies, including major commercial third-party payors. 

The current landscape with payors is generally as follows: 

Commercial Third-party Payors and Patient Pay . Where there is a coverage policy in place, we bill the payor and the patient in accordance with the established policy. Where there is no coverage policy in place, we pursue reimbursement on behalf of each patient on a case-by-case basis. Our efforts in obtaining reimbursement based on individual claims, including pursuing appeals or reconsiderations of claims denials, take a substantial amount of time, and bills may not be paid for many months, if at all. Furthermore, if a third-party payor denies coverage after final appeal, payment may not be received at all. We are working to decrease risks of nonpayment by implementing a revenue cycle management system. Third party payors are still establishing payment policies for panel-based tests. 

Medicare and Medicaid . We believe that as much as 30% to 40% of our future market for our tests may be derived from patients covered by Medicare and Medicaid. 

We cannot predict whether, or under what circumstances, payors will reimburse our proprietary tests. Payment amounts can also vary across individual policies. Denial of coverage by payors, or reimbursement at inadequate levels, would have a material adverse impact on market acceptance of our tests. 

Legislative and Regulatory Changes Impacting Clinical Laboratory Tests 

From time to time, Congress has revised the Medicare statute and the formulas it establishes for both the Medicare Clinical Laboratory Fee Schedule and the Physician Fee Schedule. The payment amounts under the Medicare fee schedules are important not only for our reimbursement under Medicare, but also because the schedule often is used as a basis for establishing the payment amounts set by other third party payors. For example, state Medicaid programs are prohibited from paying more than the Medicare fee schedule limit for clinical laboratory services furnished to Medicaid recipients. 

Under the statutory formula for clinical laboratory fee schedule amounts, increases are made annually based on the Consumer Price Index for All Urban Consumers as of June 30 for the previous twelve-month period. From 2004 through 2008, Congress eliminated the Consumer Price Index for All Urban Consumers update in the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003. In addition, for years 2009 through 2013, the Medicare Improvements for Patients and Providers Act of 2008 (&#8220;MIPPA&#8221;) mandated a 0.5% cut to the Consumer Price Index for All Urban Consumers. Accordingly, the update for 2009 was reduced to 4.5% and negative 1.9% for 2010. In March 2010, the President signed into law the Affordable Care Act (ACA), which, among other things, imposed additional cuts to the Medicare reimbursement for clinical laboratories. The ACA replaced the 0.5% cut enacted by MIPPA with a &#8220;productivity adjustment&#8221; that reduced the Consumer Price Index update in payments for clinical laboratory tests. In 2011, the productivity adjustment was -1.2%. In addition, the ACA includes a separate 1.75% reduction in the CPI update for clinical laboratories for the years 2011 through 2015. On February 22, 2012, President Obama signed the MCTRJCA, which mandated an additional change in reimbursement for clinical laboratory services payments. This legislation requires CMS to reduce the Medicare clinical laboratory fee schedule by 2% in 2013, which in turn will serve as a base for 2014 and subsequent years. Based on the changes required by ACA and MCTRJCA, payment for clinical laboratory services will be reduced by approximately 0.25% for 2015. 

With respect to our diagnostic services for which we are reimbursed under the Medicare Physician Fee Schedule, because of the statutory formula, the &#8220;Sustainable Growth Rate&#8221; (SGR), the rates would have decreased for the past several years if Congress failed to intervene. In the past, when the application of the statutory formula resulted in lower payment, Congress has passed interim legislation to prevent the reductions. On November 1, 2012, the Centers for Medicare &#38; Medicaid Services &#32; (CMS) issued its 2013 Physician Fee Schedule Final Rule (the &#8220;Final Rule&#8221;). In the Final Rule, CMS called for a reduction of approximately 26.5% in the 2013 conversion factor that is used to calculate physician reimbursement. However, the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012, which was signed into law on January 2, 2013, prevented this proposed reduction and kept the existing reimbursement rate in effect until December 31, 2013. 

For 2014, CMS projected the cut would be about 24%, unless Congress acted. However, on December 18, 2013, Congress passed legislation that enacted a 0.5% update in the conversion factor, which will be effective until March 31, 2014. On April 1, 2014, President Obama signed the Protecting Access to Medicare Act of 2014, or PAMA. PAMA extended the 0.5 percent increase through March 31, 2015 and made other changes to laboratory reimbursement discussed below. As discussed above, on April 16, 2015, President Obama signed MACRA, which will replace the SGR process with an alternative payment system. 

In addition to the reductions described above, our Medicare payments under both the CLFS and the PFS are also subject to an additional 2% reduction, as a result of &#8220;sequestration.&#8221; This automatic cut results because the Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction, which was created by congress in 2011, was unable to agree on a set of deficit reduction recommendations for Congress to vote on. The reduction is scheduled to continue until 2024. 

For the years ended December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014, approximately 10% &#32;and 11% , respectively, of our total revenues are derived from Medicare generally and any changes to the physician fee schedule that result in a decrease in payment could adversely impact our revenues and results of operations. 

In addition, periodically CMS also changes its payment policies related to laboratory reimbursement in ways that could have an impact on the revenues of the Company. For example, in 2013 Final Rule, CMS included a reduction of certain relative value units and geographic adjustment factors used to determine reimbursement for a number of commonly used pathology codes, including CPTs 88300, 88302, 88304, and 88305. In particular, the 2013 Final Rule implemented a cut of approximately 33% in the global 

billing code for 88305 and a 52% cut in the Technical Component of that code. These codes describe services that we must perform in connection with our tests and we bill for these codes in connection with the services that we provide. In the 2013 Final Rule, CMS also announced how it intended to set prices for the new molecular diagnostic tests, for which the American Medical Association had adopted over 100 new codes. In that Rule, CMS announced it intended to continue to pay for the new molecular codes on the CLFS rather than move them to the Physician Fee Schedule, as some stakeholders had urged. It would then request that the Medicare Administrative Contractors &#8220;gapfill&#8221; the new codes and set an appropriate price for them. That &#8220;gapfilling&#8221; process took place over 2013 and CMS announced the new prices for these codes in September, 2013. The median of the prices set by the contractors became the new prices for these codes, effective January 1, 2014. We do not yet know what impact, if any, these changes will have on the Company&#8217;s operations. 

In the Proposed Physician Fee Schedule Rule for 2014, issued on July 8, 2013, CMS made two proposals that could affect laboratory reimbursement. First, CMS made a proposal to change how it calculates the RVUs used to calculate payments under the PFS. Under this proposal, where a service was paid at a lower rate in the hospital based on the hospital Outpatient Prospective Payment System (OPPS) than it is under the PFS, CMS proposed to reduce the RVUs for that service in order to equalize the payment between the two systems. This change, if implemented, would have resulted in approximately a 25% cut in aggregate payments to independent laboratories. In the Final Physician Rule for 2014, however, CMS chose not to implement this proposal, although it stated that it would develop a revised proposal in the future. At this point, it is impossible to know what the impact of such a proposal might be on the Company. 

In addition, in the 2014 Proposed Rule, CMS also noted that payments for many codes paid under the Clinical Laboratory Fee Schedule have not been revised to reflect technological advances that have occurred since the CLFS was first developed in 1984. CMS therefore proposed that it would begin to review all codes on the CLFS and adjust them to reflect technological changes, a process that it expected would take about five years. However, in April of 2014, Congress passed the Protecting Access to Medicare Act (PAMA), which eliminated CMS&#8217;s authority to implement its plan to adjust payments based on technological advances. CMS has since stated it will not implement this proposal. 

In PAMA, Congress also changed the way the Medicare will pay for clinical laboratory services. Under PAMA, laboratories will be required to report the amount that they are paid by third party payors for each test beginning in January 2016. CMS will use this data to calculate a weighted median for each test. That new price will become effective on January 1, 2017, although any resulting reductions will be phased in over time. This data reporting process will be repeated every three years for most tests, although Advanced Diagnostic Laboratory Tests (&#8220;ADLTs&#8221;) will have to report every year. It is possible that some of our tests could be considered ADLTs, which will require us to report prices annually. In addition, we may also be required to obtain a code from CMS or an entity that it designates for our tests that have not previously had a code. It is not known at this time how these changes will affect our reimbursement. As noted above, because of CMS&#8217;s delay in issuing a Final Rule implementing these requirements, it is unlikely that all of the statutory deadlines will be met. 

In addition, CMS made several other changes in the 2014 Final Rule that could impact our business. First, CMS implemented a policy that will bundle payment for the examination of 10 or more prostate biopsies for an individual patient, rather than paying separately for each individual procedure as had been done previously. This will result in a significant reduction in reimbursement on each of these procedures. In addition, CMS also has developed new codes applicable to billing for Immunohistochemistry procedures, which are a common staining procedure used in pathology. Those codes will reduce the reimbursement that we will receive when we provide these services. Finally, CMS has also implemented a set of edits under its National Correct Coding Initiative, which will only pay for a single unit of service when we perform a FISH (Fluorescent In Situ Hybridization) test. As many FISH tests require two or more probes, this change will also reduce the reimbursement received by the Company. 

Further, with respect to the Medicare Program, Congress has proposed on several occasions to impose a 20% coinsurance on patients for clinical laboratory tests reimbursed under the clinical laboratory fee schedule, which would require us to bill patients for these amounts. Because of the relatively low reimbursement for many clinical laboratory tests, in the event that Congress were to ever enact such legislation, the cost of billing and collecting for these services would often exceed the amount actually received from the patient and effectively increase our costs of billing and collecting. 

Finally, some of our Medicare claims may be subject to policies issued by Palmetto GBA, the current Medicare Administrative Contractor for North Carolina, South Carolina, Virginia and West Virginia. The Medicare contractor has recently issued a Local Coverage Decision that affects coverage, coding and billing of many molecular diagnostic tests. Under this Local Coverage Determination, Palmetto will not cover any molecular diagnostic tests, including our tests, unless the test is expressly included in a National Coverage Determination issued by CMS or a Local Coverage Determination or coverage article issued by Palmetto. Currently, laboratory providers may submit coverage determination requests to Palmetto for consideration and apply for a unique billing code for each test (which is a separate process from the coverage determination). In the event that a non-coverage determination is issued, the laboratory must wait six months following the determination to submit a new request. In addition, 

effective May 1, 2012, Palmetto implemented its new Molecular Diagnostic Services Program, under which, among other things, laboratories must use newly-assigned billing codes specific to the test. These new billing codes enable Palmetto to measure utilization and apply coverage determinations. Denial of coverage by Palmetto, or reimbursement at inadequate levels, would have a material adverse impact on market acceptance of our tests. Other Medicare contractors are also following the policies adopted by Palmetto. 

Governmental Regulations 

Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments of 1988 and State Regulation 

As a diagnostic service provider, we are required to hold certain federal, state and local licenses, certifications and permits to conduct our business. As to federal certifications, in 1988, Congress passed the Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments (&#8220;CLIA&#8221;) establishing quality standards for all laboratories testing to ensure the accuracy, reliability and timeliness of patient test results regardless of where the test was performed. Our U.S.-based laboratories are CLIA accredited. Under CLIA, a laboratory is defined as any facility which performs laboratory testing on specimens derived from humans for the purpose of providing information for the diagnosis, prevention or treatment of disease, or the impairment of, or assessment of health. CLIA also requires that we hold a certificate applicable to the type of work we perform and comply with certain standards. CLIA further regulates virtually all clinical laboratories by requiring they be accredited by the federal government and comply with various operational, personnel, facilities administration, quality and proficiency requirements intended to ensure that their clinical laboratory testing services are accurate, reliable and timely. CLIA compliance and accreditation is also a prerequisite to be eligible to bill for services provided to governmental payor program beneficiaries. CLIA is user-fee funded. Therefore, all costs of administering the program must be covered by the regulated facilities, including certification and survey costs. 

We are subject to survey and inspection every two years to assess compliance with program standards, and may be subject to additional unannounced inspections. Laboratories performing high complexity testing are required to meet more stringent requirements than laboratories performing less complex tests. In addition, a laboratory like ours that is certified as &#8220;high complexity&#8221; under CLIA may obtain analyte specific reagents, which are used as the basis for diagnostic tests that are developed and validated for use in examinations the laboratory performs itself known as laboratory-developed tests (&#8220;LDTs&#8221;). 

In addition to CLIA requirements, we participate in the oversight program of the College of American Pathologists (&#8220;CAP&#8221;). Under CMS requirements, accreditation by CAP is sufficient to satisfy the requirements of CLIA. Therefore, because we are accredited by CAP, we are deemed to also comply with CLIA. CLIA also provides that a state may adopt laboratory regulations that are more stringent than those under federal law, and a number of states have implemented their own more stringent laboratory regulatory schemes. State laws may require that laboratory personnel meet certain qualifications, specify certain quality controls, or prescribe record maintenance requirements. 

As to state laws, our clinical operations at our Rutherford and Los Angeles laboratories are required to meet certain state laboratory licensing and other requirements, which in some areas are more stringent than CLIA. Our laboratories are required hold the required licenses and accreditations obtained from the applicable state agencies in which we operate. State clinical laboratory laws generally require that laboratories and/or laboratory personnel meet certain qualifications. State clinical laboratory laws also generally require laboratories to specify certain quality assurance metrics and to maintain certain records. Several states, including Rhode Island, Florida, Maryland, New York and Pennsylvania, require that clinical laboratories hold licenses to test specimens from patients residing in those states, even though the laboratory is not located in such state. From time to time, other states may require out of state laboratories to obtain licensure in order to accept specimens from the state. If we identify any other state with such requirements or if we are contacted by any other state advising us of such requirements, we intend to follow instructions from the state regulators as to how we should comply with such requirements. In addition, the New York Department of Health separately approves certain LDTs offered in New York State. The Company has obtained the requisite approvals for its LDTs. 

Our Rutherford laboratory is licensed and in good standing under the State Departments of Health standards for New Jersey, New York, Pennsylvania, California, Florida and Maryland . Our Los Angeles laboratory is licensed and in good standing in California, New York, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, Florida and Maryland. If we are found to be out of compliance with applicable state statutory or regulatory standards we may be subject to suspension, restriction or revocation of our laboratory license or assessed civil money penalties. A noncompliant laboratory may also be found guilty of a misdemeanor under applicable state laws. A finding of noncompliance, therefore, may result in harm to our business. 

FDA 

The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (&#8220;FDA&#8221;) regulates the sale or distribution, in interstate commerce, of medical devices under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (&#8220;FDCA&#8221;), including in vitro diagnostic test kits, reagents and instruments used 

to perform diagnostic testing. Such devices must undergo pre-market review by FDA prior to commercialization unless the device is of a type exempted from such review by statute or pursuant to FDA&#8217;s exercise of enforcement discretion. FDA, to date, has not exercised its authority to actively regulate the development and use of LDTs such as ours as medical devices and therefore we do not believe that our LDTs currently require pre-market clearance or approval. 

Section 1143 of the Food and Drug Administration Safety and Innovation Act, signed by the President on July 9, 2012, requires FDA to notify Congress at least 60 days prior to issuing a draft or final guidance regulating LDTS and provide details of the anticipated action. On July 31, 2014, FDA notified Congress pursuant to the FDASIA that it intended to issue draft Guidances that would regulate LDTs. On October 3, 2014, the FDA issued two separate draft guidances: &#8220;Framework for Regulatory Oversight of Laboratory Developed Tests (LDTs)&#8221; (&#8220;The Framework Draft Guidance&#8221;) and &#8220;FDA Notification and Medical Device Reporting for Laboratory Developed Tests&#8221; (the &#8220;Notification Draft Guidance.&#8221;). In the Framework Draft Guidance, FDA states that after the Guidances are finalized, it will no longer exercise enforcement discretion with respect to most LDTs and will, instead, regulate them in a risk-based manner consistent with the existing classification of medical devices. Thus, the FDA plans to begin to enforce its medical device requirements, including premarket submission requirements, on LDTs that have historically been marketed without FDA premarket review and oversight. Comments on the Draft Guidances were due on February 2 and those comments are now being considered by the FDA. It is not known when the FDA may issue final Guidances or what form those Guidances may take. 

The Framework Draft Guidance states that within six months after the Guidances are finalized, all laboratories will be required to give notice to the FDA and provide basic information concerning the nature of the LDTs offered. The FDA will then begin a phased review of the LDTs available, based on the risk associated with the test. For the highest risk LDTs, which the FDA classifies as Class III devices, the Framework Draft Guidance states that the FDA will begin to require premarket review within 12 months after the Guidance is finalized. Other high risk LDTs will be reviewed over the next four years and then lower risk tests, which will be classified as Class II, will be reviewed in the following four to nine years. The Framework Draft Guidance states that FDA expects to issue a separate Guidance describing the criteria for its risk-based classification 18-24 months after the Guidances are finalized. 

If the FDA regulates LDTs as proposed, then it would classify LDTs according to the current system used to regulate medical devices. Under that system, there are three different classes of medical devices, with the requirements becoming more stringent depending on the Class. Class I devices are those for which reasonable assurance of the safety and effectiveness can be provided by adherence to FDA&#8217;s general regulatory controls for medical devices, which include compliance with the applicable portions of FDA&#8217;s Quality System Regulations, facility registration and product listing, reporting of adverse medical events and appropriate, truthful and non-misleading labeling, advertising and promotional materials, or general controls. Many Class I devices are exempt from pre-market regulation, however, some Class I devices require pre-market clearance by FDA through the 510(k) pre-market notification process described below. 

Class II devices are subject to FDA&#8217;s general controls, and any other special controls as deemed necessary by FDA to provide reasonable assurance of the safety and effectiveness of the devices. Pre-market review and clearance by FDA for Class II devices are generally accomplished through the 510(k) pre-market notification procedure. Pre- market notification submissions are subject to user fees, unless a specific exemption applies. To obtain 510(k) clearance for a medical device (or for certain modifications to devices that have received 510(k) clearance), a manufacturer must submit a pre-market notification demonstrating that the proposed device is substantially equivalent to a previously cleared 510(k) device or to a pre-amendment device that was in commercial distribution before May 28, 1976 (a &#8220;predicate device&#8221;) for which FDA has not yet called for the submission of a pre-market approval (&#8220;PMA&#8221;) application. In making a determination that the device is substantially equivalent to a predicate device, FDA compares the proposed device to the predicate device or predicate devices &#32; and assesses whether the subject device is comparable to the predicate device or predicate devices with respect to intended use, technology, design and other features which could affect the safety and effectiveness. If FDA determines that the subject device is substantially equivalent to the predicate device or predicate devices, the subject device may be cleared for marketing. FDA&#8217;s 510(k) clearance pathway generally takes from three to twelve months from the date the application is completed, but can take significantly longer. Moreover, in January 2011, FDA announced twenty-five specific action items it intended to take to improve transparency and predictability of the 510(k) program. We anticipate that the changes may also result in additional requirements with which manufacturers will need to comply in order to obtain or maintain 510(k) clearance for their devices. These additional requirements could increase the costs or time for manufacturers&#8217; seeking marketing clearances through the 510(k) process. Moreover, the 510(k) process could result in a not-substantially equivalent determination, in which case the device would be regulated as a Class III device, discussed below, or could be eligible for de novo classification available for novel low and moderate risk devices. In the de novo process, FDA can classify a device into Class I or Class II based on a risk- based determination without the submission of a 510(k) or within 30 days after receipt of a not-substantially equivalent determination. In 2013, several assays and diagnostic tests received pre-market approval through the de novo process. 

Class III devices are those devices which are deemed by FDA to pose the greatest risk, such as life-sustaining, life-supporting or implantable devices, have a new intended use, or use advanced technology that is not substantially equivalent to that of a legally marketed device. Reasonable assurance of the safety and effectiveness of Class III devices cannot be assured solely by the general controls and the other requirements described above. These devices are required to undergo the pre-market approval (&#8220;PMA&#8221;) process in which the manufacturer must demonstrate reasonable assurance of the safety and effectiveness of the device to FDA&#8217;s satisfaction. A PMA application must provide extensive preclinical and clinical trial data and also information about the device and its components regarding, among other things, device design, manufacturing and labeling. Premarket approval applications (and supplemental pre-market approval applications) are subject to significantly higher user fees than are 510(k) pre-market notifications. After approval of a PMA, a new PMA or PMA supplement is required in the event of a modification to the device, its labeling or its manufacturing process. The PMA process, including the gathering of clinical and nonclinical data and the submission to and review by FDA, can take several years. 

A clinical trial may be required in support of a 510(k) submission and generally is required for a PMA application. These trials generally require an effective Investigational Device Exemption from FDA for a specified number of patients, unless the product is exempt from Investigational Device Exemption requirements or deemed a non-significant risk device eligible for more abbreviated Investigational Device Exemption requirements. The Investigational Device Exemption application must be supported by appropriate data, such as animal and laboratory testing results. Clinical trials may begin 30 days after the submission of the Investigational Device Exemption application unless FDA or the appropriate institutional review boards at the clinical trial sites place the trial on clinical hold. 

Under the Guidances, LDTs would also be subject to significant post-market requirements as well. After a device is placed on the market, regardless of the classification or pre-market pathway, it remains subject to significant regulatory requirements. Even if regulatory approval or clearance of a medical device is granted, FDA may impose limitations or restrictions on the uses and indications for which the device may be labeled and promoted. Medical devices may be marketed only for the uses and indications for which they are cleared or approved. 

Device manufacturers must also establish registration and device listings with FDA. A medical device manufacturer&#8217;s manufacturing processes and those of its suppliers are required to comply with the applicable portions of the Quality Systems Regulations, which cover the methods and documentation of the design, testing, production, processes, controls, quality assurance, labeling, packaging and shipping of medical devices. Domestic facility records and manufacturing processes are subject to periodic unscheduled inspections by FDA. FDA also may inspect foreign facilities that export products to the United States. 

Failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements can result in enforcement action by FDA, which may include any of the following sanctions: warning letters, fines, injunctions, civil or criminal penalties, recall or seizure of current or future products, operating restrictions, partial suspension or total shutdown of production, denial of 510(k) clearance or PMA applications for new products, or challenges to existing 510(k) clearances or PMA applications. 

We are monitoring developments and anticipate that our products (CGH-Microarrays and FISH Probes) will be able to comply with requirements that are ultimately imposed by the FDA. In the meantime, we maintain our CLIA accreditation, which permits the use of LDTs for diagnostics purposes. 

We believe that our LDTs and, should we reach that point, our in vitro diagnostic test kits, would likely be regulated as either Class II or Class III devices should FDA decide to proceed in the way that it has outlined in the Guidances. It is also possible &#32; under those circumstances that some may fall into one Class and some into the other. Accordingly, some level of premarket review-either a 510(k), PMA or de novo approval-would likely be required for each test. While the data requirements are typically greater for Class III devices, the data required for Class II devices has increased, and it is likely that some amount of clinical data (retrospective or prospective or both) would be required for either type of submission. FDA continues to review the adequacy of its 510(k) process. It is difficult to predict what changes may result, but it should be assumed that any changes will increase, not decrease, the regulatory requirements. 

In addition to the Draft Guidances discussed above, the FDA has taken other actions that could have an impact on our business. In 2013, FDA issued Final Guidance for industry regarding appropriate labeling and distribution practices for in vitro diagnostic products intended for research or investigational use only. FDA&#8217;s guidance cautions that labeling or distribution practices that conflict with research or investigational use (e.g., use in clinical diagnostic applications) could subject products shipped with research or investigational use labeling to all applicable requirements of the FDCA as well as enforcement action. As a result of FDA&#8217;s recent guidance, component suppliers for our LDTs may no longer be willing to distribute components to our clinical laboratory. If this were to occur, we could not produce our LDTs. 

On August 6, 2014, the FDA also issued its Final Guidance on In Vitro Companion Diagnostic Devices. According to the Guidance, companion diagnostic devices are in vitro diagnostic devices that provide information that is essential for the safe and effective use of a corresponding therapeutic product. The Guidance notes that in most circumstances, FDA expects to approve or clear a companion diagnostic device and its corresponding therapeutic product contemporaneously, based on the label of the therapeutic product. If it were determined that our tests qualified as Diagnostic Devices then we might be required to file for either a 510(k) or a PMA, depending on the nature of the particular test. 

Post-market Regulation 

Our Tissue of Origin&#174; test obtained clearance under section 510(k) of the FDC Act. After a device, such as our Tissue of Origin&#174; test, is cleared or approved for marketing, numerous and pervasive regulatory requirements continue to apply. 

The FDA has broad regulatory compliance and enforcement powers. If the FDA determines that a company has failed to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, it can take a variety of compliance or enforcement actions, which may result in any of the following sanctions: 

&#8226; 

warning letters, untitled letters, fines, injunctions, consent decrees and civil penalties; 

&#8226; 

recalls, withdrawals, or administrative detention or seizure of products; 

&#8226; 

operating restrictions or partial suspension or total shutdown of production; 

&#8226; 

refusing or delaying requests for 510(k) marketing clearance or PMA approvals of new products or modified products; 

&#8226; 

withdrawing 510(k) clearances or PMA approvals that have already been granted; 

&#8226; 

refusal to grant export approvals for products; or 

&#8226; 

criminal prosecution. 

In addition, FDA could publicly issue a safety notice related to our test or request updates to our product labeling, including the addition of warnings, precautions, or contraindications. 

Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act, as amended by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act (&#8220;HITECH&#8221;) 

Under the administrative simplification provisions of HIPAA, as amended by HITECH, the United States Department of Health and Human Services has issued regulations which establish uniform standards governing the conduct of certain electronic health care transactions and protecting the privacy and security of Protected Health Information used or disclosed by health care providers and other covered entities. For further discussion of HIPAA and the impact on our business, see the section entitled &#8220;Risk Factors-Risks Related to Our Business-We are required to comply with laws governing the transmission, security and privacy of health information that require significant compliance costs, and any failure to comply with these laws could result in material criminal and civil penalties.&#8221; 

Federal, State and Foreign Fraud and Abuse Laws 

The federal Anti-Kickback Statute prohibits, among other things, knowingly and willfully offering, paying, soliciting or receiving remuneration to induce or in return for purchasing, leasing, ordering or arranging for the purchase, lease or order of any health care item or service reimbursable under a governmental payor program. The definition of &#8220;remuneration&#8221; has been broadly interpreted to include anything of value, including gifts, discounts, credit arrangements, payments of cash, waivers of co-payments, ownership interests and providing anything at less than its fair market value. Recognizing that the Anti-Kickback Statute is broad and may technically prohibit many innocuous or beneficial arrangements within the health care industry, the Department of Health and Human Services has issued a series of regulatory &#8220;safe harbors.&#8221; These safe harbor regulations set forth certain provisions, which, if met, will assure health care providers and other parties that they will not be prosecuted under the federal Anti- Kickback Statute. Although full compliance with these provisions ensures against prosecution under the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, the failure of a transaction or arrangement to fit within a specific safe harbor does not necessarily mean that the transaction or arrangement is illegal or that prosecution under the federal Anti-Kickback Statute will be pursued. For further discussion of the impact of federal and state health care fraud and abuse laws and regulations on our business, see the section entitled &#8220;Risk Factors- 

Risks Related to Our Business-We are subject to federal and state health care fraud and abuse laws and regulations and could face substantial penalties if we are unable to fully comply with such laws.&#8221; 

In addition to the administrative simplification regulations discussed above, HIPAA also created two new federal crimes: health care fraud and false statements relating to health care matters. The health care fraud statute prohibits knowingly and willfully executing a scheme to defraud any health care benefit program, including private payors. A violation of this statute is a felony and may result in fines, imprisonment or exclusion from governmental payor programs such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs. The false statements statute prohibits knowingly and willfully falsifying, concealing or covering up a material fact or making any materially false, fictitious or fraudulent statement in connection with the delivery of or payment for health care benefits, items or services. A violation of this statute is a felony and may result in fines, imprisonment or exclusion from governmental payor programs. 

Finally, another development affecting the health care industry is the increased enforcement of the federal False Claims Act &#32; and, in particular, actions brought pursuant to the False Claims Act&#8217;s &#8220;whistleblower&#8221; or &#8220;qui tam&#8221; provisions. The False Claims Act imposes liability on any person or entity that, among other things, knowingly presents, or causes to be presented, a false or fraudulent claim for payment by a federal governmental payor program. The qui tam provisions of the False Claims Act allow a private individual to bring actions on behalf of the federal government alleging that the defendant has defrauded the federal government by submitting a false claim to the federal government and permit such individuals to share in any amounts paid by the entity to the government in fines or settlement. In addition, various states have enacted false claim laws analogous to the federal False Claims Act, although many of these state laws apply where a claim is submitted to any third-party payor and not merely a governmental payor program. When an entity is determined to have violated the False Claims Act, it may be required to pay up to three times the actual damages sustained by the government, plus civil penalties ranging from $5,500 to $11,000 for each false claim. 

Additionally, in Europe various countries have adopted anti-bribery laws providing for severe consequences, in the form of criminal penalties and/or significant fines, for individuals and/or companies committing a bribery offence. Violations of these anti-bribery laws, or allegations of such violations, could have a negative impact on our business, results of operations and reputation. For instance, in the United Kingdom, under the new Bribery Act 2010, which went into effect in July 2011, a bribery occurs when a person offers, gives or promises to give a financial or other advantage to induce or reward another individual to improperly perform certain functions or activities, including any function of a public nature. Bribery of foreign public officials also falls within the scope of the Bribery Act 2010. Under the new regime, an individual found in violation of the Bribery Act of 2010, faces imprisonment of up to 10 years. In addition, the individual can be subject to an unlimited fine, as can commercial organizations for failure to prevent bribery. 

Physician Referral Prohibitions 

Under a federal law directed at &#8220;self-referral,&#8221; commonly known as the &#8220;Stark Law,&#8221; there are prohibitions, with certain exceptions, on Medicare and Medicaid payments for laboratory tests referred by physicians who personally, or through a family member, have an investment or ownership interest in, or a compensation arrangement with, the clinical laboratory performing the tests. A person who engages in a scheme to circumvent the Stark Law&#8217;s referral prohibition may be fined up to $100,000 for each such arrangement or scheme. In addition, any person who presents or causes to be presented a claim to the Medicare or Medicaid programs in violation of the Stark Law is subject to civil monetary penalties of up to $15,000 per bill submission, an assessment of up to three times the amount claimed and possible exclusion from participation in federal governmental payor programs. Bills submitted in violation of the Stark Law may not be paid by Medicare or Medicaid, and any person collecting any amounts with respect to any such prohibited bill is obligated to refund such amounts. Many states have comparable laws that are not limited to Medicare and Medicaid referrals. 

We are also subject to California&#8217;s Physician Ownership and Referral Act, or PORA as well as other state laws with self-referral restrictions. 

Both the Stark Law and PORA contain an exception for referrals made by physicians who hold investment interests in a publicly traded company that has stockholders&#8217; equity exceeding $75 million at the end of its most recent fiscal year or on average during the previous three fiscal years, and which satisfies certain other requirements. In addition, both the Stark Law and PORA contain an exception for compensation paid to a physician for personal services rendered by the physician. Following our acquisition of Response Genetics in the fourth quarter of 2015, we have compensation arrangements with a number of physicians for personal services, such as speaking engagements and specimen tissue preparation. These arrangements were structured with terms intended to comply with the requirements of the personal services exception to Stark Law and PORA. 

However, we cannot be certain that regulators would find these arrangements to be in compliance with Stark Law, PORA or similar state laws. If we are deemed to not be in compliance by the applicable regulators, we would be required to refund any payments we receive pursuant to a referral prohibited by these laws to the patient, the payor or the Medicare program, as applicable. 

Corporate Practice of Medicine 

Numerous states have enacted laws prohibiting business corporations, such as us, from practicing medicine and employing or engaging physicians to practice medicine, generally referred to as the prohibition against the corporate practice of medicine. These laws are designed to prevent interference in the medical decision-making process by anyone who is not a licensed physician. Violation of these laws may result in civil or criminal fines, as well as sanctions imposed against us and/or the professional through licensure proceedings. 

Other Regulatory Requirements 

Our laboratory is subject to federal, state and local regulations relating to the handling and disposal of regulated medical waste, hazardous waste and biohazardous waste, including chemical, biological agents and compounds, blood and bone marrow samples and other human tissue. Typically, we use outside vendors who are contractually obligated to comply with applicable laws and regulations to dispose of such waste. These vendors are licensed or otherwise qualified to handle and dispose of such waste. 

OSHA has established extensive requirements relating to workplace safety for health care employers, including requirements to develop and implement programs to protect workers from exposure to blood-borne pathogens by preventing or minimizing any exposure through needle stick or similar penetrating injuries. 

Segment and Geographical Information 

We operate in one reportable business segment and derive revenue from multiple countries, with 95%, 97%, and 97% coming from the United States in fiscal year 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. 

Employees 

As of December 31, 2015, we had a total of 223 full-time and 14 part-time employees, with 33 employees in sales and marketing, 156 employees in research and development and laboratory operations and 48 employees in general and administrative. None of our employees are represented by a labor union, and we consider our employee relations to be good. 

Corporate and Available Information 

We were incorporated in the State of Delaware on April 8, 1999. On July 16, 2014 we purchased substantially all of the assets of Gentris Corporation ("Gentris"), a laboratory specializing in pharmacogenomics profiling for therapeutic development, companion diagnostics and clinical trials. On August 18, 2014 we entered into two agreements by which we acquired BioServe Biotechnologies (India) Pvt. Ltd. (&#8220;BioServe&#8221;), a premier genomics services provider serving both the research and clinical markets in India, and as a result of the acquisition, BioServe became a subsidiary of ours. On October 9, 2015, Cancer Genetics acquired substantially all the assets and assumed certain liabilities of Response Genetics, Inc. ("Response Genetics") in connection with Response Genetics' filing of a chapter 11 petition for bankruptcy in the Delaware Bankruptcy Court for approximately $12.9 million, comprised of $7.5 million, in cash, and 788,584 shares of the Company's common stock, with the common stock being valued at $5.4 million. 

Our principal executive offices are located at 201 Route 17 North, 2nd Floor, Rutherford, New Jersey 07070. Our telephone number is (201) 528-9200 and our corporate website address is www.cancergenetics.com . We include our website address in this annual report on Form 10-K only as an inactive textual reference and do not intend it to be an active link to our website. The information on our website is not incorporated by reference in this annual report on Form 10-K. 

This annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to those reports, as well as other documents we file with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (&#8220;SEC&#8221;), are available free of charge through the Investors section of our website as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. The public can obtain documents that we file with the SEC at www.sec.gov . 

This report includes the following trademarks, service marks and trade names owned by us: MatBA&#174;, UroGenRA&#174;, FHACT&#174;, FReCaD&#8482;, Expand Dx&#8482;, Summation&#8482;, Select One&#174;, DLBCL Complete&#8482;, Cervixcyte&#8482;, Leuka&#8482;, CGI&#174;, CLL Complete&#174;, 

Focus::NGS&#8482;, Focus::Myeloid&#8482;, Focus::CLL&#8482;, Tissue of Origin&#174;, TOO&#174;, Powered by CGI&#8482; and Empowering Personal Cancer Treatment&#174;. These trademarks, service marks and trade names are the property of Cancer Genetics, Inc. and its affiliates. 

