 Item 1. Business 

Overview of Business and Strategy 

We are a diversified global financial services organization providing execution, risk management and advisory services, market intelligence and clearing services across asset classes and markets around the world. Our global platform has a physical presence in key financial markets with regulatory approvals to execute both exchange-listed as well as over-the-counter instruments in the asset classes we are active in. These businesses are supported by &#32;our global infrastructure of regulated operating subsidiaries, our advanced technology platform and our team of more than 1,400 employees. Our customer-first approach differentiates us from large banking institutions, engenders trust, and has enabled us to establish leadership positions in a number of complex fields in financial markets around the world. 

We serve more than 20,000 predominantly wholesale organizations located in more than 130 &#32;countries. Our customers include commercial customers, asset managers, introducing broker-dealers, insurance companies, brokers, institutional investors, commercial and investment banks and governmental and non-governmental organizations. We believe our customers value us for our focus on their needs, our expertise and flexibility, our global reach, our ability to provide access to liquidity in hard to reach markets and opportunities, and our status as a well-capitalized and regulatory-compliant organization. Our recent acquisition of the Sterne Agee correspondent clearing and independent wealth management businesses has further expanded our ability to serve customers by providing us with a clearing capability in securities markets and added approximately 50 correspondent clearing relationships with more than 120,000 accounts of which approximately 65,000 are related to the independent wealth management business. In addition, the independent wealth management business has over 500 registered representatives, providing a valuable foothold in this growing market. 

We believe we are well positioned to capitalize on key trends impacting the financial services sector. Among others, these trends include the impact of increased regulation on banking institutions and other financial services providers; increased consolidation, especially of smaller sub-scale financial services providers and independent securities clearing firms; the growing importance and complexity of conducting secure cross-border transactions; and the demand among financial institutions to transact with well-capitalized counterparties. 

We engage in direct sales efforts to seek new customers, with a strategy of extending our services to potential customers who are similar in size and operations to our existing customer base. In executing this plan, we intend to both target new geographic locations and expand the services offered in current locations, where there is an unmet demand for our services particularly in areas where commodity price controls have been recently lifted. In addition, in select instances we pursue small to medium sized acquisitions in which we target customer-centric organizations to expand our product offerings and/or geographic presence. 

Our strategy is to utilize a centralized and disciplined process for capital allocation, risk management and cost control, while delegating the execution of strategic objectives and day-to-day management to experienced individuals. This requires high quality managers, a clear communication of performance objectives and strong financial and compliance controls. We believe this strategy will enable us to build a scalable and significantly larger organization that embraces an entrepreneurial approach to business, supported and underpinned by strong central controls. 

INTL FCStone Inc. is a Delaware corporation formed in October 1987. 

&#32;3 

Available Information 

Our internet address is www.intlfcstone.com. Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, statements of changes in beneficial ownership and press releases are available free of charge in the Investor Relations section of this website. Our website also includes information regarding our corporate governance, including our Code of Ethics, which governs our directors, officers and employees. 

Capabilities 

Clearing and Execution 

We provide competitive and efficient clearing in all major futures and securities exchanges globally, as well as prime brokerage in all major foreign currency pairs and swap transactions. We provide &#8220;high touch&#8221; execution as well as electronic access through a wide variety of technology platforms in a number of critically important global markets. Asset and product types include listed futures and options on futures, equities, mutual funds, equity options, corporate, government and municipal bonds and unit investment trusts. We also provide global payments and treasury services in more than 175 &#32;countries to a broad array of commercial customers, including financial institutions, multi-national corporations, and governmental and charitable organizations. Finally, we provide clearing of foreign exchange transactions as well as for a wide range of over-the-counter products. 

Advisory Services 

We provide value-added advisory services across a variety of financial markets, including commodities, foreign currencies, interest rates, institutional asset management, and independent wealth management. 

For commercial customers with exposure to commodities, foreign currencies and interest rates, we work through our proprietary Integrated Risk Management Program (&#8220;IRMP&#174;&#8221;) to systematically identify and quantify their risks and then develop strategic plans to effectively manage these risks with a view to protecting their margins and and ultimately improving their bottom lines. 

We also participate in the underwriting and trading of municipal securities in domestic markets as well as asset-backed securities in our Argentinean operations. Through our asset management activities, we leverage our specialist expertise in niche markets to provide institutional investors with tailored investment products. Through our acquisition of the Sterne Agee independent wealth management business, we provide advisory services to the growing retail investor market. 

Physical Trading 

We trade in a variety of physical commodities, primarily precious metals, as well as select soft commodities including various agricultural oils, animal fats and feed ingredients. Through these trading activities, we have the ability to offer complex hedging structures as part of each physical contract to provide customers with enhanced price risk mitigation. We also offer customers efficient off-take or supply services, as well as logistics management. 

OTC / Market-Making 

We offer customers access to the over-the-counter &#32;(&#8220; OTC &#8221;)markets for virtually all traded commodities, foreign currencies and interest rates, as well as for foreign securities in the U.S. For customers with commodity price and financial risk, our customized and complex OTC &#32;structures help mitigate those risks by integrating the processes of product design, execution of the underlying components of the structured risk product, transaction reporting and valuation. 

By providing market-making and execution in a variety of financial products including commodity options, unlisted American Depository Receipts &#32;(&#8220;ADRs&#8221;) and Global Depository Receipts &#32;(&#8220;GDRs&#8221;), foreign ordinary shares, and foreign currencies. In addition, we are an institutional dealer in fixed income securities including United States &#32;(&#8220; U.S. &#8221;) Treasury, U.S. government agency, agency mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities. 

Trading Revenues 

In our business, we may act as principal in the purchase and sale of individual securities, currencies, commodities, or derivative instruments with our customers. These transactions may be offset simultaneously with another customer or counterparty, offset with similarly but not identical positions on an exchange, made from inventory, or aggregated with other purchases to provide liquidity intra-day, for a number of days, or in some cases even longer periods (during which fair value may fluctuate). In addition, in our Clearing and Execution Services segment, we operate a proprietary foreign exchange desk which arbitrages the futures and cash markets. 

Operating Segments 

We organize our business activities into five functional areas: Commercial Hedging, Global Payments, Securities, Physical Commodities and Clearing and Execution Services. 

&#32;4 

Commercial Hedging 

We serve our commercial customers through our team of risk management consultants, providing a high-value-added service that we believe differentiates us from our competitors and maximizes the opportunity to retain our customers. Our risk management consulting services are designed to quantify and monitor commercial entities&#8217; exposure to commodity and financial risk. Upon assessing this exposure, we develop a plan to control and hedge these risks with post-trade reporting against specific customer objectives. Our customers are assisted in the execution of their hedging strategies through a wide range of products from listed exchange-traded futures and options, to basic OTC &#32;instruments that offer greater flexibility and structured OTC &#32;products designed for customized solutions. 

Our services span virtually all traded commodity markets, with the largest concentrations in agricultural and energy commodities (consisting primarily of grains, energy and renewable fuels, coffee, sugar, cotton, and food service) and base metals products listed on the London Metals Exchange &#32;(&#8220; LME &#8221;). Our base metals business includes a position as a Category One ring dealing member of the LME , providing execution, clearing and advisory services in exchange-traded futures and OTC &#32;products. We also provide execution of foreign currency forwards and options and interest rate swaps as well as a wide range of structured product solutions to our commercial customers who are seeking cost-effective hedging strategies. Generally, our customers direct their own trading activity, and our risk management consultants do not have discretionary authority to transact trades on behalf of our customers. 

Within this segment, our risk management consultants organize their marketing efforts into customer industry product lines, and currently serve customers in the following areas: 

&#8226; 

Financial Agricultural &#38; Energy 

&#9702; 

Agricultural - 

&#9642; 

Grain elevator operators, grain merchandisers, traders, processors, manufacturers and end-users. 

&#9642; 

Livestock production, feeding and processing, dairy and users of agricultural commodities in the food industry. 

&#9642; 

Coffee, sugar and cocoa producers, processors and end-users. 

&#9642; 

Global fiber, textile and apparel industry. 

&#9702; 

Energy and renewable fuels - 

&#9642; 

Producers, refiners, wholesalers, transportation companies, convenience store chains, automobile and truck fleet operators, industrial companies, railroads, and municipalities. 

&#9642; 

Consumers of natural gas including some of the largest natural gas consumers in North America, including municipalities and large manufacturing firms, as well as major utilities. 

&#9642; 

Ethanol and biodiesel producers and end-users. 

&#9702; 

Other - 

&#9642; 

Lumber mills, wholesalers, distributors and end-users. 

&#9642; 

Commercial entities seeking to hedge their foreign exchange exposures. 

&#8226; 

LME Metals 

&#9702; 

Commercial - 

&#9642; 

Producers, consumers and merchants of copper, aluminum, zinc, lead, nickel, tin and other ferrous products. 

&#9702; 

Institutional - 

&#9642; 

Commodity trading advisors and hedge funds seeking clearing and execution of LME and NYMEX/COMEX base metal products. 

Global Payments 

We provide global payment solutions to banks and commercial businesses as well as charities and non-governmental organizations and government organizations. We offer payments services in more than 175 &#32;countries and 140 &#32;currencies, which we believe is more than any other payments solution provider, and provide competitive and transparent pricing. 

Our proprietary FXecute global payments platform is integrated with a financial information exchange (&#8220;FIX&#8221;) protocol. This FIX protocol is an electronic communication method for the real-time exchange of information, and we believe it represents one of the first FIX offerings for cross-border payments in exotic currencies. FIX functionality allows customers to view real time market rates for various currencies, execute and manage orders in real-time, and view the status of their payments through the easy-to-use portal. 

&#32;5 

Additionally, as a member of SWIFT (Society for Worldwide Interbank Financial Telecommunication), we are able to offer our services to large money center and global banks seeking more competitive international payments services. 

Through this single comprehensive platform and our commitment to customer service, we believe we are able to provide simple and fast execution, ensuring delivery of funds in any of these countries quickly through our global network of approximately 300 correspondent banks. In this business, we primarily act as a principal in buying and selling foreign currencies on a spot basis. We derive revenue from the difference between the purchase and sale prices. 

We believe our customers value our ability to provide exchange rates that are significantly more competitive than those offered by large international banks, a competitive advantage that stems from our years of foreign exchange expertise focused on smaller, less liquid currencies. 

Securities 

We provide value-added solutions that facilitate cross-border trading and believe our customers value our ability to manage complex transactions, including foreign exchange, utilizing our local understanding of market convention, liquidity and settlement protocols around the world. Our customers include U.S.-based regional and national broker-dealers and institutions investing or executing customer transactions in international markets and foreign institutions seeking access to the U.S. securities markets. We are one of the leading market makers in foreign securities, including unlisted ADRs, GDRs and foreign ordinary shares. We make markets in over 3,600 ADRs, GDRs and foreign ordinary shares, of which over 2,000 trade in the OTC market. In addition, we will, on request, make prices in more than 10,000 unlisted foreign securities. We are a broker-dealer in Argentina where we are active in providing institutional executions in the local capital markets. 

We act as an institutional dealer in fixed income securities, including U.S. Treasury, U.S. government agency, agency mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities to a customer base including asset managers, commercial bank trust and investment departments, broker-dealers and insurance companies. 

We originate, structure and place debt instruments in the international and domestic capital markets. These instruments include complex asset-backed securities (primarily in Argentina) and domestic municipal securities. On occasion, we may invest our own capital in debt instruments before selling them. We also actively trade in a variety of international debt instruments as well as operate an asset management business in which we earn fees, commissions and other revenues for management of third party assets and investment gains or losses on our investments in funds and proprietary accounts managed either by our investment managers or by independent investment managers. 

Physical Commodities 

This segment consists of our physical Precious Metals trading and Physical Agricultural (&#8220;Ag&#8221;) and Energy commodity businesses. In Precious Metals, we provide a full range of trading and hedging capabilities, including OTC products, to select producers, consumers, and investors. In our trading activities, we act as a principal, committing our own capital to buy and sell precious metals on a spot and forward basis. 

Our Physical Ag &#38; Energy commodity business provides financing to commercial commodity-related companies against physical inventories, including grain, lumber, meats, energy products and renewable fuels. We use sale and repurchase agreements to purchase commodities evidenced by warehouse receipts, subject to a simultaneous agreement to sell such commodities back to the original seller at a later date. Transactions where the sale and repurchase price are fixed upon execution, and meet additional required conditions, are accounted for as product financing arrangements, and accordingly no commodity inventory, purchases or sales are recorded. Transactions where the repurchase price is not fixed upon execution do not meet all the criteria to be accounted for as product financing arrangements and therefore are recorded as commodity inventory and purchases and sales. Additionally, we engage as a principal in physical purchase and sale transactions related to inputs to the renewable fuels and feed ingredient industries. 

We generally mitigate the price risk associated with commodities held in inventory through the use of derivatives. We do not elect hedge accounting under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (&#8220;U.S. GAAP&#8221;) in accounting for this price risk mitigation. 

Clearing and Execution Services (&#8220;CES&#8221;) 

We provide competitive and efficient clearing and execution in all major futures and securities exchanges globally as well as prime brokerage in all major foreign currency pairs and swap transactions. Through our platform, customer orders are accepted and directed to the appropriate exchange for execution. We then facilitate the clearing of customers&#8217; transactions. Clearing involves the matching of customer&#8217; trades with the exchange, the collection and management of customer margin deposits to support the transactions, and the accounting and reporting of the transactions to customers. 

As of September 30, 2016 , we held $2.1 billion &#32;in required customer segregated assets, which we believe makes us the third largest independent futures commission merchant (&#8220;FCM&#8221;) in the United States not affiliated with a major financial institution 

&#32;6 

or commodity intermediary, end-user or producer, as measured by required customer segregated assets. We seek to leverage our capabilities and capacity by offering facilities management or outsourcing solutions to other FCM&#8217;s. 

Following our acquisition of the Sterne Agee correspondent securities clearing business, we are an independent full-service provider to introducing broker-dealers (&#8220;IBD&#8217;s&#8221;) of clearing, custody, research, syndicated and security-based lending products and services, including a proprietary technology platform which offers seamless connectivity to ensure a positive customer experience through the clearing and settlement process. Also as part of this transaction, we acquired Sterne Agee&#8217;s independent wealth management business which offers a comprehensive product suite to retail customers nationwide. As a result we are one of the leading mid-market clearer&#8217;s in the securities industry, clearing for 50 correspondent clearing customers and in aggregate over 120,000 underlying individual retail securities accounts with over $12 billion in assets under management (&#8220;AUM&#8221;) as of September 30, 2016. 

In addition, we believe we are one of the largest non-bank prime brokers and swap dealers in the world. Through this offering, we provide prime brokerage foreign exchange (&#8220;FX&#8221;) services to financial institutions and professional traders. We provide our customers with the full range of OTC products, including 24-hour a day execution of spot, forwards and options as well as non-deliverable forwards in both liquid and exotic currencies. We also operate a proprietary foreign exchange desk that arbitrages the exchange-traded foreign exchange markets with the cash markets. 

Acquisition during Fiscal Year 2016 

Sterne Agee 

Effective July 1, 2016, we acquired all of the legacy independent brokerage and clearing businesses of Sterne Agee, LLC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Stifel Financial Corp. Effective August 1, 2016, we acquired all of the legacy Registered Investment Advisor (&#8220;RIA&#8221;) business of Sterne Agee, LLC. Pursuant to the two stock purchase agreements, we acquired Sterne Agee &#38; Leach, Inc.; Sterne Agee Clearing, Inc.; Sterne Agee Financial Services, Inc.; Sterne Agee Asset Management, Inc. and Sterne Agee Investment Advisor Services, Inc. for cash consideration. The purchase price of $45.0 million represents a discount to the preliminary allocation of fair value to the net assets of the Sterne entities acquired. The $6.2 million discount in the purchase price as compared to the preliminary allocation of fair value to the net assets at closing has been reflected as a bargain purchase gain on the transaction within &#8220;gain on acquisition&#8221; in the Consolidated Income Statement for the year ended September 30, 2016. 

Acquisition and Internal Subsidiary Consolidation during Fiscal Year 2015 

G.X. Clarke &#38; Co. 

Effective January 1, 2015, we acquired all of the partnership interests of G.X. Clarke &#38; Co. (&#8220;G.X. Clarke&#8221;), an SEC registered institutional dealer in fixed income securities. G.X. Clarke was based in New Jersey, transacted in U.S. Treasury, U.S. government agency and agency mortgage-backed securities, and was a member of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (&#8220;FINRA&#8221;) with an institutional customer base consisting of asset managers, commercial bank trust and investment departments, broker-dealers, and insurance companies. The purchase price was equal to G.X. Clarke&#8217;s net tangible book value at closing of $25.9 million plus a premium of $1.5 million, and up to an additional $1.5 million over the next three years, subject to the achievement of certain profitability thresholds. In conjunction with the acquisition, the name of G.X. Clarke was changed to INTL FCStone Partners L.P. Our consolidated financial statements include the operating results of INTL FCStone Partners L.P. from the date of acquisition. 

Internal Subsidiary Consolidation 

Effective July 1, 2015, we merged three of our wholly-owned regulated U.S. subsidiaries into our wholly owned regulated U.S. subsidiary, INTL FCStone Securities Inc., and the surviving entity was renamed INTL FCStone Financial Inc. and is registered as both a broker-dealer and a FCM. As such, the assets, liabilities and equity of FCStone, LLC, INTL FCStone Partners L.P., and FCC Investments, Inc. were transferred into INTL FCStone Financial. 

Disposal during Fiscal Year 2014 

Completed Exit of Physical Base Metals Business 

During fiscal 2014 we completed our exit of physical base metals business through the sale and orderly liquidation of then-current open positions. The remaining open contract positions were fulfilled during fiscal 2014, at which time we reclassified the physical base metals activities in the financial statements as discontinued operations. We continue to operate the component of our base metals business related to non-physical assets conducted primarily through the LME . 

Competition 

The international commodities and financial markets are highly competitive and rapidly evolving. In addition, these markets are dominated by firms with significant capital and personnel resources that are not matched by our resources. We expect these 

&#32;7 

competitive conditions to continue in the future, although the nature of the competition may change as a result of ongoing changes in the regulatory environment. We believe that we can compete successfully with other commodities and financial intermediaries in the markets we seek to serve, based on our expertise, products and quality of consulting and execution services. 

We compete with a large number of firms in the exchange-traded futures and options on futures execution sector and in the OTC derivatives sector. We compete primarily on the basis of diversity and value of services offered, and to a lesser extent on price. Our competitors in the exchange-traded futures and options sector include international, national and regional brokerage firms as well as local introducing brokers, with competition driven by price level and quality of service. Many of these competitors also offer OTC trading programs. In addition, there are a number of financial firms and physical commodities firms that participate in the OTC markets, both directly in competition with us and indirectly through firms like us. We compete in the OTC market by making specialized OTC transactions available to our customers in contract sizes that are smaller than those usually available from major counterparties. 

Investor interest in the markets we serve impact and will continue to impact our activities. The instruments traded in these markets compete with a wide range of alternative investment instruments. We seek to counterbalance changes in demand in specified markets by undertaking activities in multiple uncorrelated markets. 

Technology has increased competitive pressures on commodities and financial intermediaries by improving dissemination of information, making markets more transparent and facilitating the development of alternative execution mechanisms. In certain instances, we compete by providing technology-based solutions to facilitate customer transactions and solidify customer relationships. 

Administration and Operations 

We employ operations personnel to supervise and, for certain products, complete the clearing and settlement of transactions. 

INTL FCStone Financial&#8217;s securities transactions are cleared through Broadcort, a division of Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner &#38; Smith, Inc and Pershing LLC, a subsidiary of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation. In relation to security transactions, INTL FCStone Financial does not hold customer funds or directly clear or settle securities transactions. 

Sterne, Agee &#38; Leach, Inc. is a self-clearing broker-dealer which does hold customer funds and maintains deposits with the National Securities Clearing Corporation, Inc. (&#8220;NSCC&#8221;), MBS Clearing Corporation, Inc., Depository Trust &#38; Clearing Corporation, Inc. (&#8220;DTCC&#8221;) and the Options Clearing Corporation (&#8220;OCC&#8221;). 

We utilize front-end electronic trading, back office and accounting systems to process transactions on a daily basis. In some cases these systems are integrated. The systems provide record keeping, trade reporting to exchange clearing organizations, internal risk controls, and reporting to government and regulatory entities, corporate managers, risk managers and customers. A third-party service bureau located in Hopkins, MN maintains our futures and options back office system. It has a disaster recovery site in Salem, NH. 

We hold customer funds in relation to certain of our activities. In regulated entities, these customer funds are segregated, but in unregulated entities they are not. For a further discussion of customer segregated funds in our regulated entities, please see the &#8220;Customer Segregated Assets&#8221; discussion below. 

Our administrative staff manages our internal financial controls, accounting functions, office services and compliance with regulatory requirements. 

Governmental Regulation and Exchange Membership 

Our activities are subject to significant governmental regulation, both in the U.S. and overseas. Failure to comply with regulatory requirements could result in administrative or court proceedings, censure, fines, issuance of cease-and-desist orders, or suspension or disqualification of the regulated entity, its officers, supervisors or representatives. The regulatory environment in which we operate is subject to frequent change and these changes directly impact our business and operating results. 

The commodities industry in the U.S. is subject to extensive regulation under federal law. We are required to comply with a wide range of requirements imposed by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (the &#8220;CFTC&#8221;), the National Futures Association (the &#8220;NFA&#8221;) and the Chicago Mercantile Exchange, which is our designated self-regulatory organization. We are also a member of the Chicago Mercantile Exchange&#8217;s divisions: the Chicago Board of Trade, the New York Mercantile Exchange and COMEX, ICE Futures US, ICE Europe Ltd, the New Zealand Exchange and the Minneapolis Grain Exchange. These regulatory bodies protect customers by imposing requirements relating to capital adequacy, licensing of personnel, conduct of business, protection of customer assets, record-keeping, trade-reporting and other matters. 

The securities industry in the U.S. is subject to extensive regulation under federal and state securities laws. We must comply with a wide range of requirements imposed by the Securities and Exchange Commission (the &#8220;SEC&#8221;), state securities commissions, the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board (&#8220;MSRB&#8221;) and FINRA. These regulatory bodies safeguard the 

&#32;8 

integrity of the financial markets and protect the interests of investors in these markets. They also impose minimum capital requirements on regulated entities. 

The Financial Conduct Authority (&#8220;FCA&#8221;), the regulator of the financial services industry in the United Kingdom, regulates our subsidiary, INTL FCStone Ltd, as a Financial Services Firm under part IV of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000. The regulations impose regulatory capital, as well as conduct of business, governance, and other requirements. The conduct of business rules include those that govern the treatment of customer money and other assets which, under certain circumstances for certain classes of customers must be segregated from the firm&#8217;s own assets. INTL FCStone Ltd is a member of the LME , ICE Europe Ltd, LCH Enclear, Euronext, the European Energy Exchange, Eurex and Norexco ASA. 

The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the &#8220;Dodd-Frank Act&#8221;) created a comprehensive new regulatory regime governing over-the-counter derivatives (&#8220;swaps&#8221;) and further regulations on listed derivatives. The Dodd-Frank Act also created a registration regime for new categories of market participants, such as &#8220;swap dealers&#8221;, among others. Our wholly owned subsidiary, INTL FCStone Markets, LLC is a CFTC provisionally registered swap dealer, whose business is overseen by the National Futures Association (&#8220;NFA&#8221;), the self-regulatory organization for the U.S. derivatives industry. 

The Dodd-Frank Act generally introduced a framework for (i) swap data reporting and recordkeeping on counterparties and data repositories; (ii) centralized clearing for swaps, with limited exceptions for end-users; (iii) the requirement to execute swaps on regulated swap execution facilities; (iv) imposition on swap dealers to exchange margin on uncleared swaps with counterparties; and (v) the requirement to comply with new capital rules. 

Effective September 2016, CFTC margin rules came into effect, imposing new requirements to exchange initial and variation margin, depending upon aggregate daily notional transactions outstanding, with an implementation period ending in 2020. CFTC capital rules have not been finalized and therefore it is too early to predict with any degree of certainty how we will be affected. We will continue to monitor all applicable developments in the ongoing implementation of the Dodd-Frank Act. The legislation and implementing regulations affect not only us, but also our customers and counterparties. 

The European Markets Infrastructure Regulation (&#8220;EMIR&#8221;) is the European regulations on OTC derivatives, central counterparties and trade repositories. The EMIR has been implemented across the European Economic Area member states by the European Securities and Markets Authority (&#8220;ESMA&#8221;). The EMIR has imposed new requirements on our European operations, including (a) reporting derivatives to a trade repository; (b) putting in place certain risk management procedures for OTC derivative transactions that are not cleared; (c) changes to our clearing account models and increased central counterparty margin requirements. Reporting requirements came into effect in February 2014 and most risk mitigation procedures were set at the end of 2013. Implementation of collateral obligations applicable to non-cleared OTC transactions will begin to come into force in 2017. ESMA is continuing to evaluate and set clearing obligations for certain OTC derivatives. INTL FCStone Ltd complies with the enacted provisions and will do so when pending EMIR provisions are finalized as relevant to its activities. 

In addition to the EMIR, the FCA will be enforcing additional European Union issued regulations such as the Markets in Financial Instruments Directive II (&#8220;MIFID II&#8221;), for which implementation is scheduled for 2018, and the Markets in Financial Instruments Regulation (&#8220;MIFIR&#8221;). Principal areas of impact related to this directive will involve oversight of organized trade facilities (&#8220;OTF&#8217;s&#8221;) for trading OTC non-equity products, customer type re-assessment, investor protection, enhanced conflict of interest and execution policies and extended transaction reporting requirements. 

The USA PATRIOT Act contains anti-money laundering and financial transparency laws and mandates the implementation of various regulations applicable to broker-dealers and other financial services companies. The USA PATRIOT Act seeks to promote cooperation among financial institutions, regulators and law enforcement entities in identifying parties that may be involved in terrorism or money laundering. Anti-money laundering laws outside of the U.S. contain similar provisions. We believe that we have implemented, and that we maintain, appropriate internal practices, procedures and controls to enable us to comply with the provisions of the USA PATRIOT Act and other anti-money laundering laws. 

The U.S. maintains various economic sanctions programs administered by the U.S. Treasury Department&#8217;s Office of Foreign Assets Control (&#8220;OFAC&#8221;). The OFAC administered sanctions take many forms, but generally prohibit or restrict trade and investment in and with sanctions targets, and in some cases require blocking of the target&#8217;s assets. Violations of any of the OFAC-administered sanctions are punishable by civil fines, criminal fines, and imprisonment. We established policies and procedures designed to comply with applicable OFAC requirements. Although we believe that our policies and procedures are effective, there can be no assurance that our policies and procedures will effectively prevent us from violating the OFAC-administered sanctions in every transaction in which we may engage. 

Net Capital Requirements 

INTL FCStone Financial is a dually registered broker-dealer/FCM and is subject to minimum capital requirements under Section 4(f)(b) of the Commodity Exchange Act, Part 1.17 of the rules and regulations of the CFTC and the SEC Uniform Net Capital Rule 15c3-1 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These rules specify the minimum amount of capital that must be available to support our customers&#8217; open trading positions, including the amount of assets that INTL FCStone Financial must 

&#32;9 

maintain in relatively liquid form, and are designed to measure general financial integrity and liquidity. Net capital and the related net capital requirement may fluctuate on a daily basis. Compliance with minimum capital requirements may limit our operations if we cannot maintain the required levels of capital and restrict the ability of INTL FCStone Financial to make distributions to us. Moreover, any change in these rules or the imposition of new rules affecting the scope, coverage, calculation or amount of capital we are required to maintain could restrict our ability to operate our business and adversely affect our operations. 

Sterne, Agee &#38; Leach, Inc., Sterne Agee Clearing, Inc. and Sterne Agee Financial Services, Inc. are subject to the SEC Uniform Net Capital Rule 15c3-1 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. 

INTL FCStone Ltd, a Financial Services Firm regulated by the FCA is subject to a net capital requirement. 

The Australian Securities and Investment Commission regulates INTL FCStone Pty. Ltd. It is subject to a net tangible asset capital requirement. 

The Brazilian Central Bank and Securities and Exchange Commission of Brazil regulates INTL FCStone DTVM Ltda. (&#8220;INTL FCStone DTVM&#8221;). It is a registered broker-dealer and is subject to a capital adequacy requirement. 

The Comision Nacional de Valores regulates INTL Gainvest S.A. and INTL CIBSA S.A. and they are subject to net capital and capital adequacy requirements. The Rosario Futures Exchange and the General Inspector of Justice regulate INTL Capital, S.A. It is subject to a capital adequacy requirement. 

Certain of our other non-U.S. subsidiaries are also subject to capital adequacy requirements promulgated by authorities of the countries in which they operate. 

All of our subsidiaries are in compliance with all of their capital regulatory requirements as of September 30, 2016 . Additional information on these net capital and minimum net capital requirements can be found in Note 12 &#32;to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Segregated Customer Assets 

INTL FCStone Financial maintains customer segregated deposits from its customers relating to their trading of futures and options on futures on U.S. commodities exchanges held with INTL FCStone Financial, making it subject to CFTC regulation 1.20, which specifies that such funds must be held in segregation and not commingled with the firm&#8217;s own assets. INTL FCStone Financial maintains acknowledgment letters from each depository at which it maintains customer segregated deposits in which the depository acknowledges the nature of funds on deposit in the account. In addition, CFTC regulations require filing of a daily segregation calculation which compares the assets held in customers segregated depositories (&#8220;segregated assets&#8221;) to the firm&#8217;s total segregated assets held on deposit from customers (&#8220;segregated liabilities&#8221;). The amount of customer segregated assets must be in excess of the segregated liabilities owed to customers and any shortfall in such assets must be immediately communicated to the CFTC. As of September 30, 2016 , INTL FCStone Financial maintained $51.5 million &#32;in segregated assets in excess of its segregated liabilities. 

In addition, INTL FCStone Financial is subject to CFTC regulation 1.25, which governs the acceptable investment of customer segregated assets. This regulation allows for the investment of customer segregated assets in readily marketable instruments including U.S. Treasury securities, municipal securities, government sponsored enterprise securities, certificates of deposit, commercial paper and corporate notes or bonds which are guaranteed by the U.S. under the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program, interest in money market mutual funds, and repurchase transactions with unaffiliated entities in otherwise allowable securities. INTL FCStone Financial predominately invests its customer segregated assets in U.S. Treasury securities and money market mutual funds. 

Sterne, Agee &#38; Leach, Inc. maintains deposits from its customers related to its status as a self-clearing broker-dealer registered with the SEC and FINRA making it subject to Rule 15c3-3 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, which specifies that under certain circumstances a broker-dealer must maintain cash or qualified securities in a segregated reserve account for the exclusive benefit of its customers. As of September 30, 2016 , Sterne, Agee &#38; Leach, Inc. did not have a segregated reserve account requirement. 

INTL FCStone Ltd is subject to certain business rules, including those that govern the treatment of customer money and other assets which under certain circumstances for certain classes of customer must be segregated from the firm&#8217;s own assets. As of September 30, 2016 , INTL FCStone Ltd was in compliance with the applicable segregated funds requirements. 

Secured Customer Assets 

INTL FCStone Financial maintains customer secured deposits from its customers funds relating to their trading of futures and options on futures traded on, or subject to the rules of, a foreign board of trade held with INTL FCStone Financial, making it subject to CFTC Regulation 30.7, which requires that such funds must be carried in separate accounts in an amount sufficient to satisfy all of INTL FCStone Financial&#8217;s current obligations to customers trading foreign futures and foreign options on foreign 

&#32;10 

commodity exchanges or boards of trade, which are designated as secured customers&#8217; accounts. As of September 30, 2016 , INTL FCStone Financial maintained $16.4 million &#32;in secured assets in excess of its secured liabilities. 

Foreign Operations 

We operate in a number of foreign jurisdictions, including Canada, Ireland, the United Kingdom, Argentina, Brazil, Colombia, Uruguay, Paraguay, Mexico, Nigeria, Dubai, China, South Korea, Hong Kong, Australia and Singapore. We established wholly owned subsidiaries in Uruguay and Nigeria but do not have offices or employees in those countries. 

INTL FCStone Ltd is domiciled in the United Kingdom, and subject to regulation by the FCA. 

In Argentina, the activities of INTL Gainvest S.A. and INTL CIBSA S.A. are subject to regulation by the Comision Nacional de Valores and the activities of INTL Capital, S.A. are subject to regulation by the Rosario Futures Exchange and the General Inspector of Justice. 

In Brazil, the activities of FCStone do Brasil are subject to regulation by BM&#38;F Bovespa, and the activities of INTL FCStone DTVM Ltda. are regulated by the Brazilian Central Bank and Securities and Exchange Commission of Brazil. 

The activities of INTL Commodities DMCC are subject to regulation by the Dubai Multi Commodities Centre. 

INTL FCStone Pte. Ltd. is subject to regulation by the Monetary Authority of Singapore. 

INTL FCStone Pty. Ltd. is subject to regulation by the Australian Securities and Investments Commission. 

INTL FCStone (Hong Kong) Limited holds a type 2 derivatives license and is subject to regulation by the Securities &#38; Futures Commission of Hong Kong. 

Business Risks 

We seek to mitigate the market and credit risks arising from our financial trading activities through an active risk management program. The principal objective of this program is to limit trading risk to an acceptable level while maximizing the return generated on the risk assumed. 

We have a defined risk policy administered by our risk management committee, which reports to the risk committee of our board of directors. We established specific exposure limits for inventory positions in every business, as well as specific issuer limits and counterparty limits. We designed these limits to ensure that in a situation of unexpectedly large or rapid movements or disruptions in one or more markets, systemic financial distress, the failure of a counterparty or the default of an issuer, the potential estimated loss will remain within acceptable levels. The risk committee of our board of directors reviews the performance of the risk management committee on a quarterly basis to monitor compliance with the established risk policy. 

Employees 

As of September 30, 2016 , we employed 1,464 &#32;people globally: 1,014 &#32;in the U.S., 204 &#32;in the United Kingdom, 95 &#32;in Brazil, 68 &#32;in Argentina, 38 &#32;in Singapore, 12 &#32;in Dubai, 10 &#32;in Australia, 8 &#32;in Paraguay, 8 &#32;in China, 4 &#32;in Hong Kong and 3 &#32;in Mexico. None of our employees operate under a collective bargaining agreement, and we have not suffered any work stoppages or labor disputes. Many of our employees are subject to employment agreements, certain of which contain non-competition provisions. 

