 Item 1. Business. 

First Financial Bancorp. 

First Financial Bancorp., an Ohio corporation (First Financial or the Company), was formed in 1982. First Financial is a mid-sized, regional bank holding company headquartered in Cincinnati, Ohio. References in this Form 10-K to &#8220;we,&#8221; &#8220;us&#8221; or &#8220;our&#8221; refer, as the context requires, to First Financial and its subsidiaries, collectively or to First Financial as the holding company. 

First Financial engages in the business of commercial banking and other banking and banking-related activities through its wholly owned subsidiary, First Financial Bank, National Association (the Bank), which was founded in 1863. 

The range of banking services provided by First Financial to individuals and businesses includes commercial lending, real estate lending, and consumer financing. Real estate loans are loans secured by a mortgage lien on the real property of the borrower, which may either be residential property (one to four family residential housing units) or commercial property (owner-occupied and/or investor income producing real estate, such as apartments, shopping centers, or office buildings). In addition, First Financial offers deposit products that include interest-bearing and noninterest-bearing accounts, time deposits, and cash management services for commercial customers. A full range of trust and wealth management services is also provided through First Financial&#8217;s Wealth Management division. 

Commercial and industrial loans are made to all types of businesses for a variety of purposes including, but not limited to, inventory, receivables, and equipment. First Financial works with businesses to meet their shorter term working capital needs while also providing long-term financing for their business plans. First Financial also offers lease and equipment financing through a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Bank, First Financial Equipment Finance LLC (First Equipment Finance), primarily in its principal markets. Credit risk for lending activities is managed through standardized loan policies, established and authorized credit limits, centralized portfolio management and the diversification of market area and industries. The overall strength of the borrower is evaluated through the credit underwriting process and includes a variety of analytical activities, including the review of historical and projected cash flows, historical financial performance, financial strength of the principals and guarantors, and collateral values, where applicable. 

Commercial and industrial lending activities also include equipment and leasehold improvement financing for franchisees throughout the U.S., principally in the quick service and casual dining sector. The underwriting of these loans incorporates basic credit proficiencies combined with knowledge of select franchise concepts to measure the creditworthiness of proposed multi-unit borrowers. The focus is on a limited number of concepts that have sound economics, lower closure rates, and brand awareness within specified local, regional or national markets. Loan terms for equipment are generally up to 84 months fully amortizing and up to 180 months on real estate related requests. 

First Financial also offers financing to the insurance industry through a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Bank, Oak Street Funding LLC (Oak Street Funding), in 47 states. Insurance industry lending activities are driven by agency acquisitions, agency ownership transitions, the purchase by agencies of books of business, as well as financing general working capital needs. The underwriting of these loans involves analyses of collateral (through use of Oak Street Funding&#8217;s proprietary system) that consists of insurance commissions revenue, which is then monitored by Oak Street Funding throughout the life of the loans. 

Commercial real estate loans are secured by a mortgage lien on the real property. The credit underwriting for both owner-occupied and investor income producing real estate loans includes detailed market analysis, historical and projected cash flow analysis, appropriate equity margins, assessment of lessees and lessors, type of real estate and other analyses. Risk of loss is managed by adherence to standard loan policies that establish certain levels of performance prior to the extension of a loan to the borrower. Market diversification within First Financial&#8217;s service area, as well as a diversification by industry, are other means by which the risk of loss is managed by First Financial. First Financial does not have a significant exposure to residential builders and developers. 

The majority of residential real estate loans originated by the Bank conform to secondary market underwriting standards and are sold within a short timeframe to unaffiliated third parties. The Bank sells the loans both servicing-retained and servicing-released, depending on pricing and other market conditions. The credit underwriting standards adhere to a required level of documentation, verifications, valuation, and overall credit performance of the borrower. The underwriting of these loans includes an evaluation of these and other pertinent factors prior to the extension of credit. These underwriting standards increase the marketability and address the credit risk associated with the loans. 

&#32;1 

Consumer loans are primarily loans made to individuals. These types of loans include new and used vehicle loans, second mortgages on residential real estate, and unsecured loans. Risk elements in the consumer loan portfolio are primarily focused on the borrower&#8217;s cash flow and credit history, which are key indicators of the ability to repay. A level of security is provided through liens on automobile titles and second mortgage liens, where applicable. Consumer loans are generally smaller dollar amounts than other types of lending and are made to a large number of customers, increasing diversification within the portfolio. Economic conditions that affect consumers in First Financial&#8217;s markets have a direct impact on the credit quality of these loans. Higher levels of unemployment, lower levels of income growth and weaker economic growth are factors that may adversely impact consumer loan credit quality. 

Home equity lines of credit consist mainly of revolving lines of credit secured by residential real estate. Home equity lines of credit are generally governed by the same lending policies and subject to the same credit risk as described previously for residential real estate loans. 

First Financial has minimal foreign currency transactions and, in general, does not have a significant exposure to foreign currencies. Foreign currency activities are generally related to services provided to commercial customers. Information regarding statistical disclosure required by the Securities and Exchange Commission&#8217;s Industry Guide 3 is included on the "Statistical Information" page in First Financial's Annual Report to Shareholders for the year ended December 31, 2015 , and is incorporated herein by reference. 

First Financial's executive office is located at 255 East Fifth Street, Suite 700, Cincinnati, Ohio 45202, and the telephone number is (877) 322-9530. First Financial makes available, free of charge, its Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), through its website, www.bankatfirst.com under the &#8220;Investor Relations&#8221; link, under &#8220;Financial Reporting.&#8221; Copies of such reports also can be found on the SEC&#8217;s website at www.sec.gov . 

Employees 

At December 31, 2015 , First Financial and its subsidiaries had 1,471 full-time and part-time employees. 

Subsidiaries 

A listing of each of First Financial&#8217;s subsidiaries can be found in Exhibit 21 to this Form 10-K. 

Business Combinations 

During the third quarter of 2009, through Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC)-assisted transactions, First Financial acquired the banking operations of Peoples Community Bank (Peoples), Irwin Union Bank and Trust Company (Irwin Union Bank) and Irwin Union Bank, F.S.B. (Irwin FSB) (Irwin Union Bank and Irwin FSB, collectively, Irwin). Prior to the FDIC-assisted transactions, the Company also acquired three Indiana banking centers, including related deposits and loans, from Irwin in a separate and unrelated transaction. The acquisitions of the Peoples and Irwin franchises significantly expanded the First Financial footprint, opened new markets and strengthened the Company through the generation of additional capital. 

In connection with the Peoples and Irwin FDIC-assisted transactions, First Financial entered into loss sharing agreements with the FDIC. Under the terms of these agreements, the FDIC will reimburse First Financial for losses with respect to certain loans (covered loans) and other real estate owned (covered OREO) (collectively, covered assets), beginning with the first dollar of loss. Covered assets represent approximately 1.4% of First Financial&#8217;s assets at December 31, 2015 . These agreements provide for loss protection on single-family, residential loans for a period of ten years and First Financial is required to share any recoveries of previously charged-off amounts for the same time period, on the same pro-rata basis with the FDIC. All other loans were provided loss protection for a period of five years, which expired on October 1, 2014, and recoveries of previously charged-off loans must be shared with the FDIC for a period of eight years, again on the same pro-rata basis. 

First Financial must follow specific servicing and resolution procedures, as outlined in the loss sharing agreements, in order to receive reimbursement from the FDIC for losses on covered assets. First Financial services all covered assets with the same resolution practices and diligence as it does for the assets that are not subject to a loss sharing agreement. 

In August 2014, First Financial acquired three banks, The First Bexley Bank (First Bexley) located in Bexley, Ohio and Insight Bank (Insight) and Guernsey Bancorp, Inc. (Guernsey) both of which were located in Worthington, Ohio. First Bexley and Insight were each acquired in a stock and cash transaction, while Guernsey was an all cash deal. The First Bexley, Insight and 

&#32;2 

Guernsey acquisitions provided First Financial an entrance into the Columbus, Ohio market and introduced the Company&#8217;s diverse product set to commercial and consumer clients of those institutions. These acquisitions position the Bank as one of the largest community bank serving Franklin County and the metropolitan Columbus market. 

On August 14, 2015, First Financial acquired Oak Street Funding. Founded in 2003 and headquartered in Carmel, Indiana, Oak Street Funding finances insurance agencies for the purposes of agency acquisitions, agency ownership transitions, the purchase by agencies of books of business, as well as financing general working capital needs. First Financial acquired Oak Street Holdings Corporation, the parent of Oak Street Funding, in an all-cash transaction which resulted in Oak Street Holdings Corporation becoming a subsidiary of the Bank. The Company also paid off certain indebtedness due under financing facilities at the time of the merger. 

Market and Competitive Information 

First Financial, through the regionalization efforts and business model of the Bank, delivers a community banking philosophy to its clients. First Financial currently serves a combination of metropolitan and non-metropolitan markets through its full-service banking centers primarily in Indiana, Ohio, and Kentucky. Market selection is based upon a number of factors, but markets are primarily chosen for their potential for growth, long-term profitability, and customer reach. First Financial&#8217;s goal is to develop a competitive advantage through a local market focus, building long-term relationships with clients and helping them reach greater levels of financial success. 

We also compete on a nationwide basis with respect to franchisee lending through our franchise finance subsidiary, First Franchise Capital and with respect to insurance agency lending through Oak Street Funding. 

The Company&#8217;s markets support many different types of business activities, such as manufacturing, agriculture, education, healthcare, and professional services. Within these markets, growth is projected to continue in key demographic groups and populations. First Financial&#8217;s market evaluation includes demographic measures such as income levels, median household income, and population growth within key segments. The Midwest markets that First Financial serves have historically not experienced the level of economic highs and lows seen in other areas of the country. Its markets are generally marked by less volatility in business activity, although material fluctuations may occur. 

First Financial believes that it is well positioned to compete in its markets. Smaller than super-regional and multi-national bank holding companies, First Financial believes that it can meet the needs of its markets through a decision-making network of local management. First Financial believes that it is better positioned to compete for business than smaller banks that may have size or geographic limitations. First Financial&#8217;s targeted customers include individuals and small to medium sized businesses within the geographic region of the Bank&#8217;s banking center network. Through the delivery systems of banking centers, ATMs, internet banking, and telephone-based transactions, First Financial meets the needs of its customers in an ever-changing marketplace. 

First Financial faces strong competition from financial institutions and other non-financial organizations. Its competitors include local and regional financial institutions, savings and loans, and bank holding companies, as well as some of the largest banking organizations in the United States. In addition, other types of financial institutions, such as credit unions, offer a wide range of loan and deposit services that are competitive with those offered by First Financial. The consumer is also served by brokerage firms and mutual funds that provide checking services, credit cards, margin loans, and other services similar to those offered by First Financial. Online lenders also create additional competition, particularly in the mortgage and consumer lending areas. Major stores compete for loans by offering credit cards and retail installment contracts. It is anticipated that competition from other financial and non-financial services entities will continue and, for certain products and services, intensify. 

Supervision and Regulation 

First Financial Bank and its subsidiaries, are subject to an extensive system of laws and regulations that are intended primarily for the protection of customers and depositors and not for the protection of shareholders. These laws and regulations govern such areas as capital, permissible activities, allowance for loan and lease losses, loans and investments, and rates of interest that can be charged on loans. Described below are elements of selected laws and regulations. The descriptions are not intended to be complete and are qualified in their entirety by reference to the full text of the statutes and regulations described. 

&#32;3 

Bank Holding Company Regulation 

We are subject to the provisions of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (the BHCA) and subject to supervision and examination by the Federal Reserve Board. The BHCA requires prior approval by the Federal Reserve Board of the acquisition of 5% or more of the voting stock or substantially all the assets of any bank within the United States. In addition, subject to regulatory approval, First Financial can acquire thrift institutions. Acquisitions are subject to certain anti-competitive limitations. 

The BHCA and the regulations of the Federal Reserve Board prohibit a bank holding company and its subsidiaries from engaging in certain tie-in arrangements in connection with any extension of credit, lease or sale of property, or furnishing of services. A tie-in arrangement is when a bank uses its ability to offer banking products in a coercive manner to gain a competitive advantage for non-banking products or services. The BHCA also imposes certain restrictions upon dealings by affiliated banks with the holding company and among themselves, including restrictions on inter-bank borrowing and upon dealings in the securities or obligations of the holding company or other affiliates. 

In addition, bank holding companies that satisfy certain requirements may elect to become financial holding companies. Financial holding companies are permitted to engage in certain activities that are &#8220;financial in nature&#8221; (e.g. insurance underwriting, securities brokerage, merchant banking) and that are not permitted for bank holding companies. First Financial&#8217;s current strategic plans do not include utilizing these expanded activities and, as a result, it has not elected to become a financial holding company. 

The Federal Reserve Board also has extensive enforcement authority over bank holding companies, including, among other things, the ability to assess civil money penalties, issue cease and desist or removal orders, and require that a bank holding company divest subsidiaries (including a subsidiary bank). In general, the Federal Reserve Board may initiate enforcement actions for violations of laws and regulations and unsafe or unsound practices. Under Federal Reserve Board policy, a bank holding company is expected to act as a source of financial strength to each subsidiary bank and to commit resources to support such subsidiary bank. Under this policy, the Federal Reserve Board may require a bank holding company to contribute additional capital to an undercapitalized subsidiary bank and may disapprove of the payment of dividends to its shareholders if the Federal Reserve Board believes the payment of such dividends would be an unsafe or unsound practice. 

Depository Institution Regulation 

The Bank, as a national banking association, is subject to supervision and regular examination by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC). All depository institutions and their deposits are insured up to the legal limits by the Deposit Insurance Fund (DIF) which is administered by the FDIC and is subject to the provisions of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (FDIA). 

Insurance of Accounts 

The FDIC currently maintains the DIF, which was created in 2006 in the merger of the Bank Insurance Fund and the Savings Association Insurance Fund. The deposit accounts of the Bank are insured by the DIF to the maximum amount provided by law. The general insurance limit is $250,000 per customer. This insurance is backed by the full faith and credit of the United States Government. 

&#160; 

As insurer, the FDIC is authorized to conduct examinations of and to require reporting by DIF-insured institutions. It also may prohibit any DIF-insured institution from engaging in any activity the FDIC determines by regulation or order to pose a serious threat to the DIF. The FDIC also has the authority to take enforcement actions against insured institutions. 

&#160; 

The FDIC assesses deposit insurance premiums on each insured institution quarterly based on annualized rates for one of four risk categories. Each institution is assigned a risk category based on its capital, supervisory ratings and other factors. Well capitalized institutions that are financially sound with only a few minor weaknesses are assigned to Risk Category I. Risk Categories II, III and IV present progressively greater risks to the DIF. The Bank currently is in Risk Category I. 

&#160; 

As required by the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Dodd-Frank Act), the FDIC adopted rules, under which insurance premium assessments are based on an institution's quarterly average total assets minus its quarterly average tangible equity (defined as Tier 1 capital) instead of its deposits. Under these rules, an institution with total assets of less than $10 billion is assigned to a Risk Category as described above, and a range of initial base assessment rates applies to each category, subject to adjustment downward based on unsecured debt issued by the institution and, except for an institution in Risk Category I, adjustment upward if the institution's brokered deposits exceed 10% of its domestic deposits, to produce total base assessment rates. All base assessment rates are subject to further adjustment upward if the institution holds more 

&#32;4 

than a de minimis amount of unsecured debt issued by another FDIC-insured institution. The FDIC may increase or decrease its rates by 0.02% without further rule-making. The FDIC may also impose a special assessment in an emergency situation. 

The FDIC has proposed changing the deposit insurance premium assessment method for banks with less than $10 billion in assets that have been insured by the FDIC for at least five years. The proposed changes would revise the financial ratios method so that it would be based on a statistical model estimating the probability of failure of a bank over three years; update the financial measures used in the financial ratios method consistent with the statistical model; and eliminate risk categories for established small banks and use the financial ratios method to determine assessment rates for all such banks (subject to minimum or maximum initial assessment rates based upon a bank&#8217;s composite examination rating). 

In addition, all institutions with deposits insured by the FDIC are required to pay assessments to fund interest payments on bonds issued by the Financing Corporation, a mixed-ownership government corporation established to recapitalize a predecessor to the DIF. These assessments will continue until the Financing Corporation bonds mature in 2019. 

&#160; 

Insurance of deposits may be terminated by the FDIC upon a finding that the institution has engaged or is engaging in unsafe and unsound practices, is in an unsafe or unsound condition to continue operations or has violated any applicable law, regulation, rule, order or condition imposed by the FDIC or written agreement entered into with the FDIC. The management of the Bank does not know of any practice, condition or violation that might lead to termination of deposit insurance. 

&#160; 

Pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, the FDIC has established 2.0% as the designated reserve ratio (DRR), that is, the ratio of the DIF to insured deposits of the total industry. The FDIC has adopted a plan under which it will meet the statutory minimum DRR of 1.35% by September 30, 2020, the deadline imposed by the Dodd-Frank Act. The Dodd-Frank Act requires the FDIC to offset the effect on institutions with assets of less than $10 billion of the increase in the statutory minimum DRR to 1.35% from the former statutory minimum of 1.15%. The FDIC proposed rules in October 2015 regarding the offset. Under the proposal, banks with less than $10 billion in assets would receive an assessment credit for the portion of their assessments that contribute to the increase from 1.15% to 1.35%. These rules have not yet been finalized. 

&#160; 

Community Reinvestment Act 

Under the Community Reinvestment Act (CRA), every FDIC-insured institution is obligated, consistent with safe and sound banking practices, to help meet the credit needs of its entire community, including low and moderate income neighborhoods. The CRA requires the appropriate federal banking regulator, in connection with the examination of an insured institution, to assess the institution's record of meeting the credit needs of its community and to consider this record in its evaluation of certain applications to banking regulators, such as an application for approval of a merger or the establishment of a branch. An unsatisfactory rating may be used as the basis for the denial of an application and will prevent a bank holding company of the institution from making an election to become a financial holding company. As of its last examination, the Bank received a CRA rating of &#8220;satisfactory.&#8221; 

&#160; 

Privacy Rules 

Federal banking regulators, as required under the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, have adopted rules limiting the ability of banks and other financial institutions to disclose nonpublic information about consumers to non-affiliated third parties. The rules require disclosure of privacy policies to consumers and, in some circumstances, allow consumers to prevent disclosure of certain personal information to non-affiliated third parties. The privacy provisions of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act affect how consumer information is transmitted through diversified financial services companies and conveyed to outside vendors. 

Fiscal and Monetary Policies 

The earnings of banks, and, therefore, the earnings of First Financial (and its subsidiaries), are affected by the fiscal and monetary policies of the United States government and its agencies, including the Federal Reserve Board. An important function of the Federal Reserve Board is to regulate the national supply of bank credit in an effort to prevent recession and to restrain inflation. Among the procedures used to implement these objectives are open market operations in U.S. Government securities, changes in the discount rate on member bank borrowings, and changes in reserve requirements on member bank deposits. These policies are used in varying degrees and combinations to directly affect the availability of bank loans and deposits, as well as the interest rates charged on loans and paid on deposits. 

&#32;5 

Limits on Dividends and Other Payments 

There are various legal limitations on the extent to which a subsidiary bank may finance or otherwise supply funds to its parent holding company. Under applicable federal and state laws, a subsidiary bank may not, subject to certain limited exceptions, make loans or extensions of credit to, or investments in the securities of, its bank holding company. A subsidiary bank is also subject to collateral security requirements for any loan or extension of credit permitted by such exceptions. The Bank may not pay dividends out of its surplus if, after paying these dividends, it would fail to meet the required minimum levels under the risk-based capital guidelines and minimum leverage ratio requirements established by the OCC. In addition, the Bank must have the approval of the OCC if a dividend in any year would cause the total dividends for that year to exceed the sum of the Bank&#8217;s current year&#8217;s net income and the retained net income for the preceding two years, less required transfers to surplus. Payment of dividends by the Bank may be restricted at any time at the discretion of its regulatory authorities, if such regulatory authorities deem such dividends to constitute unsafe and/or unsound banking practices or if necessary to maintain adequate capital. 

The ability of First Financial to obtain funds for the payment of dividends and for other cash requirements is largely dependent on the amount of dividends which may be declared by the Bank. However, because the Federal Reserve Board expects us to serve as a source of strength to the Bank, as discussed above, payment of dividends by the Bank may be restricted at any time at the discretion of the OCC if the OCC deems such dividends to constitute an unsafe and/or unsound banking practice. These provisions could have the effect of limiting our ability to pay dividends on our shares. 

The Federal Reserve Board has issued a policy statement with regard to the payment of cash dividends by bank holding companies. The policy statement provides that, as a matter of prudent banking, a bank holding company should not maintain a rate of cash dividends unless its net income available to common shareholders has been sufficient to fully fund the dividends, and the prospective rate of earnings retention appears to be consistent with the bank holding company&#8217;s capital needs, asset quality, and overall financial condition. Accordingly, a bank holding company should not pay cash dividends that exceed its net income or can only be funded in ways that weaken the bank holding company&#8217;s financial health, such as by borrowing. 

The Dodd-Frank Act 

The Dodd-Frank Act requires various federal agencies to adopt a broad range of regulations. Although many of the regulations have been adopted, some still have not, and the full effect they will have on us and our subsidiaries cannot currently be known. Among the provisions already implemented that have or may have an effect on us are the following: 

&#160; 

&#8226; 

formation of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, which has broad powers to adopt and enforce consumer protection regulations; 

&#160; 

&#8226; 

a federal law prohibiting the payment of interest on commercial demand deposit accounts was eliminated effective July 21, 2011; 

&#160; 

&#8226; 

the standard maximum amount of deposit insurance per customer was permanently increased to $250,000; 

&#160; 

&#8226; 

the assessment base for determining deposit insurance premiums was expanded; and 

&#8226; 

new capital regulations for bank holding companies, which impose stricter requirements as discussed below. 

Regulatory Capital 

Financial institutions and their holding companies are required to maintain capital as a way of absorbing losses that can, as well as losses that cannot, be predicted. The Federal Reserve Board has adopted risk-based capital guidelines for financial holding companies as well as state banks that are members of the Federal Reserve Bank. The OCC and the FDIC have adopted risk-based capital guidelines for national banks and state non-member banks, respectively. The guidelines provide a systematic analytical framework that makes regulatory capital requirements sensitive to differences in risk profiles among banking organizations, takes off-balance sheet exposures expressly into account in evaluating capital adequacy and minimizes disincentives to holding liquid, low-risk assets. Capital levels as measured by these standards are also used to categorize financial institutions for purposes of prompt corrective action regulatory provisions. 

Prior to January 1, 2015, the risk-based capital guidelines included a minimum for the ratio of total capital to risk-weighted assets of 8.0%, with at least half of the ratio composed of common shareholders&#8217; equity, minority interests in certain equity accounts of consolidated subsidiaries and a limited amount of qualifying preferred stock and qualified trust preferred securities, 

&#32;6 

less goodwill and certain other intangible assets (known as &#8220;Tier 1&#8221; risk-based capital). The guidelines also provided for a minimum ratio of Tier 1 capital to average assets, or &#8220;leverage ratio,&#8221; of 3.0% for financial holding companies and bank holding companies that meet certain criteria, including having the highest regulatory rating, and 4.0% for all other financial holding companies and bank holding companies. 

The risk-based capital guidelines adopted by the federal banking agencies are based on the &#8220;International Convergence of Capital Measurement and Capital Standard&#8221; (Basel I), published by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (the Basel Committee) in 1988. In 2004, the Basel Committee published a new capital adequacy framework (Basel II) for large, internationally active banking organizations, and in December 2010 and January 2011, the Basel Committee issued an update to Basel II (Basel III). The Basel Committee frameworks did not become applicable to banks supervised in the United States until adopted into United States law or regulations. Although the United States banking regulators imposed some of the Basel II and Basel III rules on banks with $250 billion or more in assets or $10 billion of on-balance sheet foreign exposure, it was not until July 2013 that the United States banking regulators issued final (or, in the case of the FDIC, interim final) new capital rules applicable to smaller banking organizations such as First Financial. These new capital rules implement certain of the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act (the Basel III Capital Rules). Community banking organizations, including First Financial and the Bank, began transitioning to the new rules on January 1, 2015. The new minimum capital requirements became effective on January 1, 2015, whereas a new capital conservation buffer (i.e. common equity) and additional new deductions from common equity capital phase in from January 1, 2016, through January 1, 2019, and most deductions from common equity tier 1 capital will phase in from January 1, 2015, through January 1, 2019. 

The new capital rules include (a) a new common equity tier 1 capital ratio of at least 4.5%, (b) a Tier 1 capital ratio of at least 6.0%, rather than the former 4.0%, (c) a minimum total capital ratio that remains at 8.0%, and (d) a minimum leverage ratio of 4.0%. 

Common equity for the common equity tier 1 capital ratio includes common stock (plus related surplus) and retained earnings, plus limited amounts of minority interests in the form of common stock, less the majority of certain regulatory deductions. 

Tier 1 capital includes common equity as defined for the common equity tier 1 capital ratio, plus certain non-cumulative preferred stock and related surplus, cumulative preferred stock and related surplus and trust preferred securities that have been grandfathered (but which are not permitted going forward), and limited amounts of minority interests in the form of additional Tier 1 capital instruments, less certain deductions. 

Tier 2 capital, which can be included in the total capital ratio, includes certain capital instruments (such as subordinated debt) and limited amounts of the allowance for loan and lease losses, subject to new eligibility criteria, less applicable deductions. 

The deductions from common equity tier 1 capital include goodwill and other intangibles, certain deferred tax assets, mortgage-servicing assets above certain levels, gains on sale in connection with a securitization, investments in a banking organization&#8217;s own capital instruments and investments in the capital of unconsolidated financial institutions (above certain levels). The deductions phase in from 2015 through 2019. 

Under the guidelines, capital is compared to the relative risk related to the balance sheet. To derive the risk included in the balance sheet, one of several risk weights is applied to different balance sheet and off-balance sheet assets, primarily based on the relative credit risk of the counterparty. The capital amounts and classification are also subject to qualitative judgments by the regulators about components, risk weightings and other factors. Some of the risk weightings have been changed effective January 1, 2015. 

The new rules also place restrictions on the payment of capital distributions, including dividends, and certain discretionary bonus payments to executive officers if the Company does not hold a capital conservation buffer of greater than 2.5% composed of common equity tier 1 capital compared to its minimum risk-based capital requirements, or if its eligible retained income is negative in that quarter and its capital conservation buffer ratio was less than 2.5% at the beginning of the quarter. The capital conservation buffer phases in starting on January 1, 2016, at 0.625%. The implementation of Basel III is not expected to have a material impact on the Company&#8217;s or the Bank&#8217;s capital ratios. 

Effective January 1, 2015, in order to be &#8220;well-capitalized,&#8221; a bank must have a common equity tier 1 capital ratio of at least 6.5%, a total risk-based capital ratio of at least 10.0%, a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of at least 8.0% and a leverage ratio of at least 5.0%, and the bank must not be subject to any written agreement, order, capital directive or prompt corrective action directive to meet and maintain a specific capital level or any capital measure. The Company&#8217;s management believes that the Bank meets the ratio requirements to be deemed &#8220;well-capitalized&#8221; according to the guidelines described above. 

&#32;7 

Executive and Incentive Compensation 

In June 2010, the Federal Reserve Board, the OCC and the FDIC issued joint interagency guidance on incentive compensation policies (the Joint Guidance) intended to ensure that the incentive compensation policies of banking organizations do not undermine the safety and soundness of such organizations by encouraging excessive risk-taking. This principles-based guidance, which covers all employees that have the ability to materially affect the risk profile of an organization, either individually or as part of a group, is based upon the key principles that a banking organization&#8217;s incentive compensation arrangements should: (i) provide incentives that do not encourage risk-taking beyond the organization&#8217;s ability to effectively identify and manage risks; (ii) be compatible with effective internal controls and risk management; and (iii) be supported by strong corporate governance, including active and effective oversight by the organization&#8217;s board of directors. 

Pursuant to the Joint Guidance, the Federal Reserve Board will review as part of a regular, risk-focused examination process, the incentive compensation arrangements of financial institutions such as us. These reviews will be tailored to each organization based on the scope and complexity of the organization&#8217;s activities and the prevalence of incentive compensation arrangements. The findings of the supervisory initiatives will be included in reports of examination and deficiencies will be incorporated into the institution&#8217;s supervisory ratings, which can affect the institution&#8217;s ability to make acquisitions and take other actions. Enforcement actions may be taken against an institution if its incentive compensation arrangements, or related risk-management control or governance processes, are considered a risk to the organization&#8217;s safety and soundness and prompt and effective measures are not being taken to correct the deficiencies. 

On February 7, 2011, federal banking regulatory agencies jointly issued proposed rules on incentive-based compensation arrangements under applicable provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act (the Proposed Joint Rules). The Proposed Joint Rules generally apply to financial institutions with $1 billion or more in assets that maintain incentive-based compensation arrangements for certain covered employees. The Proposed Joint Rules: (i) prohibit covered financial institutions from maintaining incentive-based compensation arrangements that encourage covered persons to expose the institution to inappropriate risk by providing the covered person with &#8220;excessive&#8221; compensation; (ii) prohibit covered financial institutions from establishing or maintaining incentive-based compensation arrangements for covered persons that encourage inappropriate risks that could lead to a material financial loss; (iii) require covered financial institutions to maintain policies and procedures appropriate to their size, complexity and use of incentive-based compensation to help ensure compliance with the Proposed 

Joint Rules; and (iv) require covered financial institutions to provide enhanced disclosure to regulators regarding their incentive-based compensation arrangements for covered persons within 90 days following the end of each fiscal year. 

Pursuant to rules adopted by the stock exchanges and approved by the SEC in January 2013 under the Dodd-Frank Act, public company compensation committee members must meet heightened independence requirements and consider the independence of compensation consultants, legal counsel and other advisors to the compensation committee. A compensation committee must have the authority to hire advisors and to have the public company fund reasonable compensation of such advisors. 

Public companies will be required, once stock exchanges impose additional listing requirements under the Dodd-Frank Act, to implement &#8220;clawback&#8221; procedures for incentive compensation payments and to disclose the details of the procedures which allow recovery of incentive compensation that was paid on the basis of erroneous financial information necessitating a restatement due to material noncompliance with financial reporting requirements. This clawback policy is intended to apply to compensation paid within a three-year look-back window of the restatement and would cover all executives who received incentive awards. 

Volcker Rule 

In December 2013, five federal agencies adopted a final regulation implementing the so-called Volcker Rule provision of the Dodd-Frank Act (the Volcker Rule). The Volcker Rule places limits on the trading activity of insured depository institutions and entities affiliated with a depository institution, subject to certain exceptions. The trading activity includes a purchase or sale as principal of a security or a derivative, commodity future or option on a security in order to benefit from short-term price movements or to realize short-term profits. The Volcker Rule exempts specified U.S. Government, agency and/or municipal obligations, and it excepts trading conducted in certain capacities, including as a broker or other agent, through a deferred compensation or pension plan, as a fiduciary on behalf of customers, to satisfy a debt previously contracted, repurchase and securities lending agreements and risk-mitigating hedging activities. The Volcker Rule also prohibits a banking entity from having an ownership interest in, or certain relationships with, a hedge fund or private equity fund, with a number of exceptions. The Bank from time to time may engage in trading activities or own the types of funds regulated by the Volcker Rule. 

&#32;8 

Transactions with Affiliates, Directors, Executive Officers and Shareholders 

Sections 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act and Federal Reserve Board Regulation W generally: 

&#160; 

&#8226; 

limit the extent to which a bank or its subsidiaries may engage in &#8220;covered transactions&#8221; with any one affiliate; 

&#8226; 

limit the extent to which a bank or its subsidiaries may engage in &#8220;covered transactions&#8221; with all affiliates; and 

&#8226; 

require that all such transactions be on terms substantially the same, or at least as favorable to the bank or subsidiary, as those provided to a non-affiliate. 

An affiliate of a bank is any company or entity which controls, is controlled by or is under common control with the bank. The term &#8220;covered transaction&#8221; includes the making of loans to the affiliate, the purchase of assets from the affiliate, the issuance of a guarantee on behalf of the affiliate, the purchase of securities issued by the affiliate and other similar types of transactions. 

&#160; 

A bank&#8217;s authority to extend credit to executive officers, directors and greater than 10% shareholders, as well as entities under such persons control, is subject to Sections 22(g) and 22(h) of the Federal Reserve Act and Regulation O promulgated thereunder by the Federal Reserve Board. Among other things, these loans must be made on terms (including interest rates charged and collateral required) substantially the same as those offered to unaffiliated individuals or be made as part of a benefit or compensation program and on terms widely available to employees and must not involve a greater than normal risk of repayment. In addition, the amount of loans a bank may make to these persons is based, in part, on the bank&#8217;s capital position, and specified approval procedures must be followed in making loans which exceed specified amounts. 

Patriot Act 

In response to the terrorist events of September 11, 2001, the Uniting and Strengthening of America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism Act of 2001 (the Patriot Act) was signed into law in October 2001. The Patriot Act gives the United States government powers to address terrorist threats through enhanced domestic security measures, expanded surveillance powers, increased information sharing and broadened anti-money laundering requirements. Title III of the Patriot Act takes measures intended to encourage information sharing among bank regulatory agencies and law enforcement bodies. Further, certain provisions of Title III impose affirmative obligations on a broad range of financial institutions. Among other requirements, Title III and related regulations require regulated financial institutions to establish a program specifying procedures for obtaining identifying information from customers seeking to open new accounts and establish enhanced due diligence policies, procedures and controls designed to detect and report suspicious activity. The Bank has established policies and procedures that are believed to be compliant with the requirements of the Patriot Act. 

Internet Website 

We maintain a website with the address www.bankatfirst.com. The information contained on our website is not included as a part of, or incorporated by reference into, this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Other than an investor's own Internet access charges, we make available free of charge through our website our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to these reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after we have electronically filed such material with, or furnished such material to, the SEC. 

&#160; 

