 ITEM 1 - BUSINESS 

General 

Santander Holdings USA, Inc. ("SHUSA" or the "Company") is the parent company of Santander Bank, National Association, (the "Bank" or "SBNA"), a national banking association, and owns a majority interest (approximately 59% ) of Santander Consumer USA Holdings Inc. (together with its subsidiaries, "SC"), a specialized consumer finance company focused on vehicle finance and third-party servicing. SHUSA is headquartered in Boston, Massachusetts and the Bank's main office is in Wilmington, Delaware. SC is headquartered in Dallas, Texas. SHUSA is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Banco Santander, S.A. ("Santander"). 

The Bank, previously named Sovereign Bank, National Association, changed its name to Santander Bank, National Association on October 17, 2013. The Bank's principal markets are in the Mid-Atlantic and Northeastern United States. At December 31, 2015 , the Bank had 675 &#32;branches and 2,100 &#32;automated teller machines (ATMs) across its footprint. The Bank uses its deposits, as well as other financing sources, to fund its loan and investment portfolios. The Bank earns interest income on its loan and investment portfolios. In addition, the Bank generates non-interest income from a number of sources, including deposit and loan services, sales of loans and investment securities, capital markets products and bank-owned life insurance ("BOLI"). The Bank's principal non-interest expenses include employee compensation and benefits, occupancy and facility-related costs, technology and other administrative expenses. The volumes, and accordingly the financial results, of the Bank are affected by the economic environment, including interest rates and consumer and business confidence and spending, as well as the competitive conditions within the Bank's geographic footprint. 

SC's primary business is the indirect origination of retail installment contracts (RICs), principally through manufacturer-franchised dealers in connection with their sale of new and used vehicles to retail consumers. SC also offers a full spectrum of auto financing products and services to Chrysler customers and dealers under the Chrysler Capital brand, the trade name used in providing services ("Chrysler Capital") under the ten-year private label financing agreement with Fiat Chrysler Automobiles US LLC ("FCA"), formerly Chrysler Group LLC signed by SC in 2013 (the "Chrysler Agreement"). These products and services include consumer RIC and leases, as well as dealer loans for inventory, construction, real estate, working capital and revolving lines of credit. SC also originates vehicle loans through a web-based direct lending program, purchases vehicle RICs from other lenders, and services automobile and recreational and marine vehicle portfolios for other lenders. Additionally, SC has several relationships through which it provides personal unsecured consumer loans, private-label credit cards and other consumer finance products. Common stock of SC ("SC Common Stock") is listed for trading on the New York Stock Exchange (the "NYSE") under the trading symbol "SC". 

Segments 

The Company's reportable segments are organized in accordance with its strategic business units. Except for the Company's SC segment, segments are focused principally around the customers the Bank serves. 

In 2015, the Company's reportable segments include the following: 

Retail Banking 

The Retail Banking segment is primarily comprised of the Bank's branch locations and the residential mortgage business. The branch locations offer a wide range of products and services to customers, and attract deposits by offering a variety of deposit instruments, including demand and interest-bearing demand deposit accounts, money market and savings accounts, certificates of deposit (CDs) and retirement savings products. The branch locations also offer consumer loans such as credit cards, home equity loans and lines of credit, as well as business banking and small business loans to individuals. The Retail Banking segment also includes investment services and provides annuities, mutual funds, managed monies, and insurance products, and acts as an investment brokerage agent to the customers of the Retail Banking segment. 

Auto Finance &amp; Business Banking 

The Auto Finance &amp; Business Banking segment currently provides indirect consumer leasing as well as commercial loans to dealers and financing for commercial vehicles and municipal equipment. The Auto Finance and Alliances segment includes the activity related to the Bank's intercompany agreements with SC. 

In conjunction with the Chrysler Agreement, the Bank has an agreement with SC under which SC provides the Bank with the first right to review and assess Chrysler dealer floor plan lending opportunities and, if the Bank elects, to provide the proposed financing. Historically and through September 30, 2014, SC provided servicing under this arrangement. Effective October 1, 2014, the servicing of all Chrysler Capital receivables from dealers, including receivables held by the Bank and by SC, were transferred to the Bank. The agreements executed in connection with this transfer require SC to provide the Bank first right to review and assess Chrysler Capital dealer lending opportunities which requires the Bank to pay SC a relationship management fee based upon the performance and yields of Chrysler Capital dealer loans held by the Bank. All intercompany revenue and fees between the Bank and SC are eliminated in the consolidated results of SHUSA. The terms of this lending relationship were renegotiated between SBNA and SC in the first quarter of 2016. The terms provide greater fee income opportunity for SC for leads provided that meet SBNA approved credit criteria. 

In 2014, the Bank entered into a flow agreement with SC under which the Bank has the first right to review and approve all prime and super prime Chrysler Capital consumer vehicle lease applications. SC could review any applications declined by the Bank for SC’s own portfolio. SC provided servicing and receives an origination fee on all leases originated under this agreement. All intercompany revenue and fees between the Bank and SC are eliminated in the consolidated results of SHUSA. In April 2015, the Bank and SC determined not to renew this direct origination agreement, which expired by its terms on May 9, 2015. 

Real Estate and Commercial Banking 

The Real Estate and Commercial Banking segment offers commercial real estate loans, multifamily loans, commercial loans, and the Bank's related commercial deposits. This segment also provides financing and deposits for government entities and niche product financing for specific industries, including oil and gas and mortgage warehousing, among others. 

Global Corporate Banking ("GCB") 

The GCB segment serves the needs of global commercial and institutional customers by leveraging the international footprint of the Santander group to provide financing and banking services to corporations with over $500 million in annual revenues. GCB's offerings and strategy are based on Santander's local and global capabilities in wholesale banking. 

Santander Consumer USA Inc. ("SC") 

SC is a specialized consumer finance company focused on vehicle finance and third-party servicing. SC’s primary business is the indirect origination of RICs, principally through manufacturer-franchised dealers in connection with their sale of new and used vehicles to retail consumers. In conjunction with the Chrysler Agreement, SC offers a full spectrum of auto financing products and services to Chrysler customers and dealers under the Chrysler Capital brand. These products and services include consumer RICs and leases, as well as dealer loans for inventory, construction, real estate, working capital and revolving lines of credit. SC also originates vehicle loans through a web-based direct lending program, purchases vehicle RICs from other lenders, and services automobile, recreational and marine vehicle portfolios for other lenders. Additionally, SC has several other relationships through which it holds personal loans, private-label credit cards and other consumer finance products. In the third quarter of 2015, SC announced that it would exit personal lending, and such assets were accordingly classified as held for sale. In February 2016, SC announced the sale of substantially all of the $900 million &#32;Lending Club portfolio. The remaining personal lending portfolio is being actively marketed. 

SC has entered into a number of intercompany agreements with the Bank as described above as part of the Auto Finance &amp; Business Banking segment. All intercompany revenue and fees between the Bank and SC are eliminated in the consolidated results of SHUSA. 

The financial results for each of these reportable segments are included in Note 24 &#32;of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and are discussed in Item 7, "Line of Business Results" within Management's Discussion &amp; Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&amp;A) section of this Form 10-K. These results have been presented based on the Company's management structure and management accounting practices. The structure and accounting practices are specific to the Company and, as a result, the financial results of the Company's reportable segments are not necessarily comparable with similar information for other financial institutions. 

Subsidiaries 

SHUSA had two &#32;principal consolidated majority-owned subsidiaries at December 31, 2015 , the Bank and SC. 

By July 1, 2016, due to both its global and U.S. non-branch total consolidated asset size, Santander is subject to both of the provisions of the Final Rule as discussed below under "Supervision and Regulation" section of Item 1 of this Form 10-K. As a result of this rule, Santander is required to transfer its U.S. non-bank subsidiaries currently outside the Company to the Company, which would become a U.S. intermediate holding company (an "IHC"), or establish a top-tier IHC structure that would include all of its U.S. bank and non-bank subsidiaries. SHUSA must consolidate all but 10% of Santander's U.S. subsidiaries activity under an IHC by July 1, 2016. 

Employees 

At December 31, 2015 &#32;the Company had approximately 15,150 &#32;employees. This compares to approximately 14,000 &#32;employees as of December 31, 2014 . No Company employees are represented by a collective bargaining agreement. 

Competition 

The Bank is subject to substantial competition in attracting and retaining deposits and in lending funds. The primary factors in competing for deposits include the ability to offer attractive rates, the convenience of office locations, the availability of alternate channels of distribution, and servicing capabilities. Direct competition for deposits comes primarily from other national and state banks, thrift institutions, and broker dealers. Competition for deposits also comes from money market mutual funds, corporate and government securities, and credit unions. The primary factors driving competition for commercial and consumer loans are interest rates, loan origination fees, service levels and the range of products and services offered. Competition for origination of loans normally comes from thrift institutions, national and state banks, mortgage bankers, mortgage brokers, finance companies, and insurance companies. 

SC is also subject to substantial competition, particularly in the automotive finance industry. SC competes on the pricing it offers on its loans and leases as well as the customer service SC provides automotive dealer customers. SC, along with its competitors, provides pricing and other terms and conditions for loans and leases through web-based credit application aggregation platforms. When dealers submit applications for consumers acquiring vehicles, they can compare SC's terms and conditions against its competitors’ pricing. Dealer relationships are important in the automotive finance industry. Vehicle finance providers tailor product offerings to meet dealers' needs. SC's primary competitors in the vehicle finance space are national and regional banks, credit unions, independent financial institutions, and the affiliated finance companies of automotive manufacturers. 

Supervision and Regulation 

The activities of the Company and the Bank are subject to regulation under various U.S. federal laws, including the Bank Holding Company (the "BHC") Act, the Federal Reserve Act, the National Bank Act, the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (the "FDIA"), the Dodd-Frank Act (the "DFA"), the Truth-in-Lending Act (which governs disclosures of credit terms to consumer borrowers), the Truth-in-Savings Act, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Fair Credit Reporting Act (which governs the provision of consumer information to credit reporting agencies and the use of consumer information), the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act (which governs the manner in which consumer debts may be collected by collection agencies), the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act (which requires financial institutions to provide certain information about home mortgage and refinanced loans), the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act (the "SCRA"), Section 5 of the Federal Trade Commission Act (which prohibits unfair or deceptive acts or practices in or affecting commerce), the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act, and the Electronic Funds Transfer Act (which governs automatic deposits to and withdrawals from deposit accounts and customers' rights and liabilities arising from the use of ATMs and other electronic banking services), as well as other federal and state laws. 

As SC is a subsidiary of the Company, it is also subject to regulatory oversight from the Federal Reserve Bank (the "FRB") for BHC regulatory supervision purposes, as well as the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (the "CFPB"). 

Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act ("DFA") 

On July 21, 2010, the DFA was enacted. The DFA instituted major changes to the banking and financial institutions regulatory regimes in light of the performance of and government intervention in the financial services sector during the financial crisis and includes a number of provisions designed to promote enhanced supervision and regulation of financial companies and financial markets. The DFA introduced a substantial number of reforms that reshape the structure of the regulation of the financial services industry. The enhanced regulation has and will continue to involve higher compliance costs and negatively affect the Company's revenue and earnings. 

More specifically, the DFA imposes enhanced prudential standards on BHCs with at least $50.0 billion in total consolidated assets (often referred to as "systemically important financial institutions" or "SIFIs"), which includes the Company, and requires the Federal Reserve to establish prudential standards for such BHCs that are more stringent than those applicable to other BHCs, including standards for risk-based requirements and leverage limits; heightened capital and liquidity standards, including eliminating trust preferred securities as Tier 1 regulatory capital; enhanced risk management requirements; and credit exposure reporting and concentration limits. These changes have impacted and are expected to continue impacting the profitability and growth of the Company. 

The DFA mandates an enhanced supervisory framework, which means that the Company is subject to annual stress tests by the Federal Reserve, and the Company and the Bank are required to conduct semi-annual and annual stress tests, respectively, reporting results to the Federal Reserve and the OCC. The Federal Reserve also has discretionary authority to establish additional prudential standards, on its own or at the Financial Stability Oversight Council's recommendation, regarding contingent capital, enhanced public disclosures, short-term debt limits, and otherwise as deemed appropriate. 

Under the Durbin Amendment to the DFA in June 2011, the Federal Reserve issued the final rule implementing debit card interchange fee and routing regulation. The final rule establishes standards for assessing whether debit card interchange fees received by debit card issuers including the Bank, are "reasonable and proportional" to the costs incurred by issuers for electronic debit transactions, and prohibits network exclusivity arrangements on debit cards to ensure merchants have choices in how debit card transactions are routed. 

The DFA established the CFPB, which has broad powers to set the requirements for the terms and conditions of consumer financial products. This has resulted in and is expected to continue to result in increased compliance costs and reduced revenue. 

The Company routinely executes interest rate swaps for the management of its asset/liability mix, and also executes such swaps with its borrower clients. Under the DFA, the Bank is required to post collateral with certain of its counterparties and clearing exchanges. While clearing these financial instruments offers some benefits and additional transparency in valuation, the system requirements for clearing execution add operational complexities to the business and accordingly increase operational risk exposure. 

Provisions of the DFA relating to the applicability of state consumer protection laws to national banks, including the Bank, became effective in July 2011. Questions may arise as to whether certain state consumer financial laws that were previously preempted by federal law are no longer preempted as a result of these new provisions. Depending on how such questions are resolved, the Bank may experience an increase in state-level regulation of its retail banking business and additional compliance obligations, which may impact revenue and costs. SC already is subject to such state-level regulation. 

The DFA and certain other legislation and regulations impose various restrictions on compensation of certain executive officers. The Company's ability to attract and/or retain talented personnel may be adversely affected by these restrictions. 

Other requirements of the DFA include increases in the amount of deposit insurance assessments the Bank must pay; changes to the nature and levels of fees charged to consumers, which are negatively affecting the Bank's income; banning banking organizations from engaging in proprietary trading and restricting their sponsorship of, or investing in, hedge funds and private equity funds, subject to limited exceptions; and increasing regulation of the derivative markets through measures that broaden the derivative instruments subject to regulation and requiring clearing and exchange trading as well as imposing additional capital and margin requirements for derivative market participants, which will increase the cost of conducting this business. 

Volcker Rule 

The DFA added new section 13 to the BHC Act which is commonly referred to as the "Volcker Rule." The Volcker Rule prohibits a "banking entity" from engaging in "proprietary trading" or engaging in any of the following activities with respect to a hedge fund or a private equity fund (together, a "Covered Fund"): (i) acquiring or retaining any equity, partnership or other ownership interest in the fund; (ii) controlling the fund; or (iii) engaging in certain transactions with the fund if the banking entity or any affiliate is an investment adviser or sponsor to the fund. These prohibitions are subject to certain exemptions for permitted activities. 

Because the term "banking entity" includes an insured depository institution, a depository institution holding company and any affiliate of any of the foregoing, the Volcker Rule has sweeping worldwide application and covers entities such as Santander, the Company, SC, the Bank and numerous other Santander subsidiaries in the United States and abroad. 

When the agencies responsible for administering the Volcker Rule approved the final regulations implementing the rule, the Federal Reserve extended the deadline for compliance with the rule until July 21, 2015. The Federal Reserve subsequently extended the deadline by which banking entities were to conform investments in and relationships with Covered Funds and foreign funds that may be subject to the Volcker Rule and that were in place prior to December 31, 2013 ("Legacy Covered Funds") until July 21, 2016. Furthermore, the Federal Reserve expressed its intention to grant a final one-year extension until July 21, 2017 to conform ownership interests in and relationships with Legacy Covered Funds. The extension did not apply to non-Legacy Covered Funds or to proprietary trading activities which were required to conform to the Volcker Rule by July 21, 2015. 

In implementing the Volcker Rule, an examination was made of all activities and investments worldwide to determine which banking entities were involved in proprietary trading and/or Covered Fund activity. Based on this review, all proprietary trading that was not permitted under the Volcker Rule was terminated and all Covered Fund activity was addressed under the rule’s requirements. As a result, the Company and its banking entity subsidiaries satisfied all requirements of the Volcker Rule for non-Legacy Covered Funds by the July 21, 2015 deadline. In addition, many Legacy Covered Funds have already been conformed to the requirements of the Volcker Rule or will either be conformed to the Volcker Rule’s requirements or divested before any deadline for conformance. 

Certain policies and procedures, training programs, recordkeeping, internal controls and other compliance requirements that are necessary to comply with the Volcker Rule were implemented before July 21, 2015. As required by the Volcker Rule, the compliance infrastructure has been tailored to each banking entity based on the size of the &#32; entity and its level of &#32; trading activities. The compliance program includes, among other things, processes for prior approval of new activities and investments that are permitted under the rule, testing and auditing for compliance and a process for attesting annually that the compliance program is reasonably designed to achieve compliance with the Volcker Rule. &#32; On March 31, 2016, the Chief Executive Officer of the Company, on behalf of Santander, provided an attestation to the federal agencies responsible for administering the rule that the compliance program requirements applicable to Santander’s U.S. operations under the Volcker Rule were met by July 21, 2015. 

Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act 

The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act established five capital tiers: well-capitalized, adequately-capitalized, undercapitalized, significantly undercapitalized and critically undercapitalized. A depository institution’s capital tier depends on its capital levels in relation to various capital measures, which include leverage and risk-based capital measures and certain other factors. Depository institutions that are not classified as well-capitalized or adequately-capitalized are subject to various restrictions regarding capital distributions, payment of management fees, acceptance of brokered deposits and other operating activities. 

Basel III 

New and evolving capital standards, both as a result of the DFA and the implementation in the U.S. of Basel III, have and will continue to have a significant effect on banks and BHCs, including the Company and the Bank. In July 2013, the Federal Reserve, the FDIC and the OCC released final U.S. Basel III regulatory capital rules implementing the global regulatory capital reforms of Basel III. The final rules established a comprehensive capital framework that includes both the advanced approaches for the largest internationally active U.S. banks, formerly known as Basel II, and a standardized approach that applies to all banking organizations with over $500 million in assets. Subject to various transition periods, the rule became effective for the largest banks on January 1, 2014, and for all other banks on January 1, 2015. 

The new rules narrow the definition of regulatory capital and establish higher minimum risk-based capital ratios that, when fully phased in, will require banking organizations, including the Company and the Bank, to maintain a minimum common equity tier 1 ("CET1") ratio of 4.5%, a Tier 1 capital ratio of 6.0%, a total capital ratio of 8.0% and a minimum leverage ratio of 4.0%, calculated as the ratio of Tier 1 capital to average consolidated assets for the quarter. These requirements for the Company and the Bank went into effect on January 1, 2015. 

A capital conservation buffer of 2.5% above these minimum ratios will be phased in over three years starting in 2016, beginning at 0.625% and increasing by that amount on each subsequent January 1, until it reaches 2.5% on January 1, 2019. This capital conservation buffer will be required for banking institutions and BHCs to avoid restrictions on their ability to make capital distributions, including paying dividends. 

The final framework included new deductions from and adjustments to CET1. These include, for example, the requirement that mortgage servicing rights ("MSRs"), deferred tax assets dependent upon future taxable income and significant investments in non-consolidated financial entities are deducted from CET1 to the extent any one such category exceeds 10% of CET1 or all such categories in the aggregate exceed 15% of CET1. Implementation of the deductions and other adjustments to CET1 for the Company and the Bank began on January 1, 2015 and will be phased in over three years. 

As of December 31, 2015 , the Bank's and the Company's CET1 ratio under Basel III, on a fully phased-in basis under the standardized approach, were 13.36% &#32;and 10.97% , respectively. Under the transitions provided under Basel III, the Bank's and the Company's CET1 ratio under the standardized approach, were 13.81% &#32;and 11.95% , respectively. The calculation of the CET1 ratio on both a fully phased-in and transition basis is based on management's interpretation of the final rules adopted by the Federal Reserve in July 2013. As part of the implementation of any regulations, management interprets the rules in order to implement the new regulations. If regulators would interpret the rules differently, there could be an impact on the results of the calculation which may have a negative impact to the calculation of CET1. As mentioned above, the minimum required CET1 ratio is comprised of the 4.5% minimum and the 2.5% conservation buffer. On that basis, the Company believes that, as of December 31, 2015 , it would remain above regulatory minimums under the currently enacted capital adequacy requirements of Basel III, including when implemented on a fully phased-in basis. 

See the Bank Regulatory Capital section of the MD&amp;A for the Company's capital ratios under Basel III standards. The implementation of certain regulations and standards relating to regulatory capital could disproportionately affect the Company's regulatory capital position relative to that of its competitors, including those that may not be subject to the same regulatory requirements as the Company. 

The Basel III liquidity framework will require banks and BHCs to measure their liquidity against specific liquidity tests that, although similar in some respects to liquidity measures historically applied by banks and regulators for management and supervisory purposes, will be required by regulation going forward. One test, referred to as the liquidity coverage ratio ("LCR"), is designed to ensure that a banking entity maintains an adequate level of unencumbered high-quality liquid assets ("HQLA") equal to its expected net cash outflow for a 30-day time horizon. The other, referred to as the net stable funding ratio ("NSFR"), is designed to promote more medium and long-term funding of the assets and activities of banking entities over a one-year time horizon. 

On October 24, 2013, the Federal Reserve, the FDIC, and the OCC issued a proposal to implement the Basel III LCR for certain internationally active banks and nonbank financial companies, and a modified version of the LCR for certain depository institution holding companies that are not internationally active. On September 3, 2014, the agencies approved the final LCR rule. The agencies stressed that LCR is a key component in their effort to strengthen the liquidity soundness of the U.S. financial sector and is used to complement the broader liquidity regulatory framework and supervisory process that includes Enhanced Prudential Standards ("EPS") and Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review ("CCAR"). The agencies have mandated a phased implementation approach under which the most globally important covered companies (more than $700 billion in assets) and large regional financial institutions ($250 billion to $700 billion in assets) were required to report their LCR calculation beginning January 1, 2015. Smaller covered companies (more than $50 billion in assets) such as SHUSA are required to report their LCR calculation monthly beginning January 1, 2016. On November 13, 2015, the Federal Reserve published a revised final LCR rule. Under this revision, the Company is required to calculate the 'Modified US LCR (the "US LCR") on a monthly basis beginning with data as of January 31, 2016 for the BHC. There is no requirement to submit the calculation to the Federal Reserve. The Company will be required to publicly disclose its US LCR results starting July 1, 2017. Based on management's interpretation of the final rule, effective on January 1, 2016, the Company's LCR was in excess of the regulatory minimum of 90% which will increase to 100% on January 1, 2017. 

On October 31, 2014, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision issued the final standard for the NSFR. The NSFR requires banks to maintain a stable funding profile in relation to their on- and off-balance sheet activities, thus reducing the likelihood that disruptions to a bank's regular sources of funding will erode its liquidity position in a way that could increase the risk of its failure and potentially lead to broader systemic stress. NSFR will become a minimum standard by January 1, 2018. 

The next step will be publication of a U.S. notice of proposed rule-making on implementation of NSFR. 

Stress Tests and Capital Adequacy 

Pursuant to the DFA, as part of the Federal Reserve's annual CCAR, certain banks and BHCs, including the Company and the Bank, are required to perform stress tests and submit capital plans to the Federal Reserve and the OCC on an annual basis, and receive a notice of non-objection to those capital plans from the Federal Reserve and the OCC before taking capital actions, such as paying dividends, implementing common equity repurchase programs, or redeeming or repurchasing capital instruments. As a consolidated subsidiary of the Company, SC is included in the Company's stress tests and capital plans. In March 2014 and 2015, the Federal Reserve, as part of its CCAR process, objected on qualitative grounds to the capital plans submitted by the Company. In its 2015 public report on CCAR, the Federal Reserve cited widespread and critical deficiencies in the Company's capital planning processes, including specific deficiencies in governance, internal controls, risk identification and risk management, management information systems, and supporting assumptions and analysis. As a result of the 2014 and 2015 CCAR objections, the Company is not permitted to make any capital distributions without the Federal Reserve's approval other than the continued payment of dividends on the Company's outstanding class of preferred stock, until a new capital plan is approved by the Federal Reserve. The Company submitted its updated capital plan on time on April 5, 2016. 

On May 1, 2014 , the Board of Directors of SC declared a cash dividend of $0.15 &#32;per share of SC Common Stock (the "May SC dividend"). The Federal Reserve informed the Company on May 22, 2014 &#32;that it did not object to SC's payment of the May SC dividend, provided that Santander contribute at least $20.9 million &#32;of capital to the Company prior to such payment, so that the Company's consolidated capital position would be unaffected by the May SC dividend. The Federal Reserve also informed the Company that, until the Federal Reserve issues a non-objection to the Company's capital plan, any future SC dividend will require prior receipt of a written non-objection from the Federal Reserve. On May 28, 2014 , the Company issued 84,000 &#32;shares of its common stock, no par value per share, to Santander in exchange for cash in the amount of $21.0 million . 

On September 15, 2014, the Company entered into a written agreement with the Federal Reserve Bank (the "FRB") of Boston and the Federal Reserve. Under the terms of this written agreement, the Company must serve as a source of strength to the Bank; strengthen Board oversight of planned capital distributions by the Company and its subsidiaries; and not declare or pay, and not permit any non-bank subsidiary that is not wholly-owned by the Company to declare or pay, any dividends, and not make, or permit any such subsidiary to make, any capital distribution, in each case without the prior written approval of the FRB of Boston. 

On March 11, 2015, the Federal Reserve announced that the Company received an objection from the FRB of Boston to the 2015 capital plan the Company submitted on January 5, 2015. The FRB of Boston objected to the Company’s capital plan on qualitative grounds due to significant deficiencies in the Company’s capital planning process. Subject to the restrictions outlined above with respect to the written agreement, the FRB did not object to the Company’s payment of dividends on its outstanding class of preferred stock. The FRB of Boston did object to the requested payment of dividends on SC Common Stock. 

On July 2, 2015, the Company entered into a written agreement with the FRB of Boston. Under the terms of that written agreement, the Company is required to make enhancements with respect to, among other matters, board oversight of the consolidated organization, risk management, capital planning and liquidity risk management. 

Total Loss Absorbing Capacity 

On October 30, 2015 the Federal Reserve released a notice of proposed rulemaking (NPR) on total loss absorbing capacity ("TLAC"), long-term debt ("LTD"), and clean holding company requirements for systemically important U.S. BHCs and intermediate holding companies ("IHCs") of systemically important foreign banking organizations ("FBOs"). SHUSA, as the IHC for Santander in the U.S., will be subject to these requirements. 

TLAC represents the amount of equity and debt a company must hold to facilitate its orderly liquidation. Under the Federal Reserve’s proposal, the Company would be required to hold loss absorbing equity and unsecured debt of 18.5% of risk-weighted assets ("RWAs") by January 1, 2019 and then 20.5% of RWAs by January 1, 2022. These amounts represent the TLAC requirement (16% by January 1, 2019 and then 18% by January 1, 2022) plus a TLAC buffer of 2.5%. The Federal Reserve's proposal also establishes a requirement for the LTD component of the TLAC. The LTD requirement for the Company would be 7% of RWAs by January 1, 2019. 

The comment period on the FRB's TLAC proposal ended on February 19, 2016. 

Enhanced Prudential Standards ("EPS") for Liquidity 

On February 18, 2014, the Federal Reserve approved the final rule implementing certain of the EPS mandated by Section 165 of the DFA (the "Final Rule"). The Final Rule applies the EPS to (i) U.S. BHCs with $50 billion (and in some cases $10 billion) or more in total consolidated assets and (ii) foreign banking organizations ("FBOs") with a U.S. banking presence exceeding $50 billion in consolidated U.S. non-branch assets. The Final Rule implements, as new requirements for U.S. BHCs, risk management requirements (including requirements, duties and qualifications for a risk management committee and chief risk officer), liquidity stress testing and buffer requirements. U.S. BHCs with total consolidated assets of $50 billion or more on June 30, 2014 were subject to the liquidity requirements as of January 1, 2015. The Company believes it has made significant progress in meeting the EPS requirements, including developing liquidity stress testing capabilities and reporting in 2015. 

FBOs 

On February 18, 2014, the Federal Reserve issued the Final Rule to strengthen regulatory oversight of FBOs. Under the Final Rule, FBOs with over $50 billion of U.S. non-branch assets, including Santander, must consolidate U.S. subsidiary activities under a U.S. intermediate holding company ("IHC"). In addition, the Final Rule requires U.S. BHCs and FBOs with at least $50 billion in total U.S. consolidated non-branch assets to be subject to EPS and heightened capital, liquidity, risk management, and stress testing requirements. Due to both its global and U.S. non-branch total consolidated asset size, Santander is subject to both of the above provisions of the Final Rule. As a result of this rule, Santander will transfer its U.S. bank and non-bank subsidiaries currently outside of the Company to the Company, which will become an IHC. As required under the Final Rule, the Company submitted its IHC implementation plan to the Federal Reserve on December 31, 2014. A phased-in approach is being used for the standards and requirements at both the FBO and the IHC. As a U.S. BHC with more than $50 billion in total consolidated assets, the Company was subject to EPS as of January 1, 2015. As permitted by the Final Rule, the IHC will be formed, with all but 10% of non-BHC assets included, by July 1, 2016. Other standards of the Final Rule will be phased in through January 1, 2018. 

Bank Regulations &#32; 

As a national bank, the Bank is subject to the OCC's regulations under the National Bank Act. The various laws and regulations administered by the OCC for national banks affect corporate practices and impose certain restrictions on activities and investments to ensure that the Bank operates in a safe and sound manner. These laws and regulations also require the Bank to disclose substantial business and financial information to the OCC and the public. 

Holding Company Regulations 

Federal laws restrict the types of activities in which BHCs may engage, and subject them to a range of supervisory requirements, including regulatory enforcement actions for violations of laws and policies. BHCs may engage in the business of banking and managing and controlling banks, as well as closely-related activities. 

The Company may be required to obtain approval from the Federal Reserve if the Company were to acquire shares of any depository institution or any holding company of a depository institution. In addition, the Company may have to provide notice to the Federal Reserve if the Company acquires any financial entity that is not a depository institution, such as a lending company. 

Control of the Company or the Bank 

Under the Change in Bank Control Act, individuals, corporations or other entities acquiring SHUSA common stock may, alone or together with other investors, be deemed to control the Company and thereby the Bank. If deemed to control the Company, those persons or groups would be required to obtain the Federal Reserve's approval to acquire the Company’s common stock and could be subject to certain ongoing reporting procedures and restrictions under federal law and regulations. Ownership of more than 10% &#32;of SHUSA's capital stock may be deemed to constitute "control" if certain other control factors are present. 

Regulatory Capital Requirements 

Federal regulations require federal savings associations and national banks to maintain minimum capital ratios. Under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act ("FDIA"), insured depository institutions must be classified in one of five defined tiers (well-capitalized, adequately-capitalized, undercapitalized, significantly undercapitalized and critically undercapitalized). Under OCC regulations, an institution is considered "well-capitalized" if it (i) has a total risk-based capital ratio of 10% &#32;or greater, (ii) has a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 8% &#32;or greater, (iii) has a Tier 1 leverage ratio of 5% &#32;or greater and (iv) is not subject to any order or written directive to meet and maintain a specific capital level. An institution’s capital category is determined by reference to its most recent financial report filed with the OCC. If an institution’s capital deteriorates to the undercapitalized category or below, the FDIA and OCC regulations prescribe an increasing amount of regulatory intervention, including the adoption by the institution of a capital restoration plan, a guarantee of the plan by its parent holding company and restricting increases in assets, numbers of branches and lines of business. 

If capital has reached the significantly or critically undercapitalized levels, further material restrictions can be imposed, including restrictions on interest payable on accounts, dismissal of management and, in critically undercapitalized situations, appointment of a receiver or conservator. Critically undercapitalized institutions generally may not, beginning 60 days &#32;after becoming critically undercapitalized, make any payment of principal or interest on their subordinated debt. All but well-capitalized institutions are prohibited from accepting brokered deposits without prior regulatory approval. Pursuant to the FDIA and OCC regulations, institutions which are not categorized as well-capitalized or adequately-capitalized are restricted from making capital distributions, which include cash dividends, stock redemptions or repurchases, cash-out mergers, interest payments on certain convertible debt and other transactions charged to the capital account of the institution. 

At December 31, 2015 , the Bank met the criteria to be classified as " well-capitalized ." 

Standards for Safety and Soundness 

The federal banking agencies adopted certain operational and managerial standards for depository institutions, including internal audit system components, loan documentation requirements, asset growth parameters, information technology and data security practices, and compensation standards for officers, directors and employees. The implementation or enforcement of these guidelines has not had a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations. 

Insurance of Accounts and Regulation by the FDIC 

The Bank is a member of the Deposit Insurance Fund, which is administered by the FDIC. Deposits are insured up to the applicable limits by the FDIC, and such insurance is backed by the full faith and credit of the U.S. government. The FDIC imposes deposit insurance premiums and is authorized to conduct examinations of, and require reporting by, FDIC-insured institutions. It also may prohibit any FDIC-insured institution from engaging in any activity the FDIC determines by regulation or order to pose a serious risk to the Deposit Insurance Fund. The FDIC also has the authority to initiate enforcement actions against banking institutions and may terminate an institution’s deposit insurance if it determines that the institution has engaged in unsafe or unsound practices or is in an unsafe or unsound condition. 

The FDIC charges financial institutions deposit premium assessments to ensure it has reserves to cover deposits that are under FDIC-insured limits, which is currently $250,000 &#32;per depositor per ownership category for each ownership deposit account category. 

FDIC insurance premium expenses were $52.2 million &#32;for the year ended December 31, 2015 . 

In addition to deposit insurance premiums, all insured institutions are required to pay a Financing Corporation assessment, in order to fund the interest on bonds issued to resolve thrift failures in the 1980s. In 2015 , the Bank paid Financing Corporation assessments of $4.2 million , compared to $4.1 million &#32;in 2014 . The annual rate for all insured institutions dropped to $0.060 &#32;for every $1,000 &#32;in domestic deposits in 2015 , compared to $0.062 &#32;for the same measure in 2014 . The assessments are revised quarterly and will continue until the bonds mature in 2017 . 

Federal Restrictions on Transactions with Affiliates and Insiders 

All national banks are subject to affiliate and insider transaction rules applicable to member banks of the Federal Reserve under the Federal Reserve Act, as well as additional limitations the institutions’ primary federal regulator may adopt. These provisions prohibit or limit a banking institution from extending credit to, or entering into certain transactions with, affiliates, principal shareholders, directors and executive officers (and these individuals' related interests) of the banking institution and its affiliates. For these purposes, the term "affiliate" includes a holding company such as the Company, Santander and any other company under common control with the Bank, such as SC. 

Restrictions on Subsidiary Banking Institution Capital Distributions 

The Company has the following major sources of funding to meet its liquidity requirements: dividends and returns of capital and investment from its subsidiaries, short-term investments held by non-bank affiliates and access to the capital markets. Federal banking laws, regulations and policies limit the Bank’s ability to pay dividends and make other distributions to the Company. The Bank must obtain prior OCC approval to declare a dividend or make any other capital distribution if, after such dividend or distribution: (1) the Bank’s total distributions to the Company within that calendar year would exceed 100% &#32;of its net income during the year plus retained net income for the prior two years; (2) the Bank would not meet capital levels imposed by the OCC in connection with any order, or (3) the Bank is not adequately capitalized at the time. In addition, the OCC's prior approval would be required if the Bank’s examination or Community Reinvestment Act ("CRA") ratings fall below certain levels or the Bank is notified by the OCC that it is a problem institution or in troubled condition. Moreover, the Bank must obtain the OCC's prior written approval to make any capital distribution until it has positive retained earnings. 

Any dividends declared and paid have the effect of reducing the Bank’s Tier 1 capital to average consolidated assets and risk-based capital ratios. There were no dividends declared or paid in 2015 &#32;or 2014 . There were no returns of capital in 2015 . The Bank returned capital of $128.0 million &#32;in 2014 . 

Federal Reserve Regulation 

Under Federal Reserve regulations, the Bank is required to maintain a reserve against its transaction accounts (primarily interest-bearing and non-interest-bearing checking accounts). Because reserves must generally be maintained in cash or in low-interest-bearing accounts, the effect of the reserve requirements is to reduce an institution’s asset yields. 

The amounts of total reserve requirement at December 31, 2015 &#32;and 2014 &#32;were $492.7 million &#32;and $446.5 million , respectively. At December 31, 2015 &#32;and 2014 , the Company complied with the reserve requirements. 

Federal Home Loan Bank (FHLB) System 

The FHLB system was created in 1932 and consists of eleven regional FHLBs. FHLBs are federally-chartered, but privately owned institutions created by Congress. The Federal Housing Finance Agency is an agency of the federal government that is charged with overseeing FHLBs. Each FHLB is owned by its member institutions. The primary purpose of the FHLBs is to provide funding to their members for making housing loans as well as for affordable housing and community development lending. FHLBs are generally able to make advances to their member institutions at interest rates that are lower than could otherwise be obtained by such institutions. As a member, the Bank is required to make minimum investments in FHLB stock based on its level of borrowings from the FHLB. The Bank is a member of and held investments in the FHLB of Pittsburgh which totaled $600.9 million &#32;as of December 31, 2015 , compared to $425.0 million &#32;at December 31, 2014 . The Bank utilizes advances from FHLB to fund balance sheet growth, provide liquidity and for asset and liability management purposes. The Bank had access to advances with the FHLB of up to $18.9 billion &#32;at December 31, 2015 &#32;and had outstanding advances of $13.9 billion &#32;or 73% &#32;of total availability at that date. The level of borrowing capacity the Bank has with the FHLB of Pittsburgh is contingent upon the level of qualified collateral the Bank holds at a given time. 

The Bank received $28.5 million &#32;and $13.8 million &#32;in dividends on its stock in the FHLB of Pittsburgh in 2015 &#32;and 2014 , respectively. 

Community Reinvestment Act (the "CRA") 

The CRA requires financial institutions regulated by the federal financial supervisory agencies to ascertain and help meet the credit needs of their communities, including low- to moderate-income neighborhoods within those communities, while maintaining safe and sound banking practices. The regulatory agencies periodically assess the Bank’s record in meeting the credit needs of the communities it serves. A bank’s performance under the CRA is important in determining whether the bank may obtain approval for, or utilize streamlined procedures in, certain applications for acquisitions or engage in new activities. 

The Bank’s lending activities are generally in compliance with applicable CRA requirements, and the Bank’s most recent public CRA report of the examination rated the Bank as "Outstanding," the highest category. The OCC conducted a CRA examination that began in March 2014 covering the period from January 1, 2011 to December 31, 2013. This CRA examination is still open and the final results of the examination and rating have not been provided to the Bank or the public. &#32; 

The Bank has developed a Community Reinvestment Plan for 2014-2016 &#32;that calls for a multi-billion dollar commitment to lending and investment to low- and moderate-income individuals and in communities in its principal banking markets. This commitment also continues the Bank's financial support and financial education services to many non-profit organizations within its market. 

Anti-Money Laundering and the USA Patriot Act 

Several federal laws, including the Bank Secrecy Act, the Money Laundering Control Act, and the USA Patriot Act require all financial institutions to, among other things, implement policies and procedures relating to anti-money laundering, compliance, suspicious activities, currency transaction reporting and due diligence on customers. The USA Patriot Act substantially broadened existing anti-money laundering legislation and the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the U.S.; imposed compliance and due diligence obligations; created criminal penalties; compelled the production of documents located both inside and outside the U.S., including those of non-U.S. institutions that have a correspondent relationship in the U.S.; and clarified the safe harbor from civil liability to clients. The U.S. Treasury has issued a number of regulations that further clarify the USA Patriot Act’s requirements and provide more specific guidance on their application. The Company has complied with these regulations. 

Financial Privacy 

Under the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (the "GLBA"), financial institutions are required to disclose to their retail customers their policies and practices with respect to sharing nonpublic customer information with their affiliates and non-affiliates, how they maintain customer confidentiality, and how they secure customer information. Customers are required under the GLBA to be provided with the opportunity to "opt out" of information sharing with non-affiliates, subject to certain exceptions. The Company and the Bank have complied with these regulations. 

Environmental Laws 

Environmentally related hazards have become a source of high risk and potentially significant liability for financial institutions related to their loans. Environmentally contaminated properties owned by an institution’s borrowers may result in a drastic reduction in the value of the collateral securing the institution’s loans to such borrowers, high environmental cleanup costs to the borrower affecting its ability to repay its loans, the subordination of any lien in favor of the institution to a state or federal lien securing clean-up costs, and liability to the institution for cleanup costs if it forecloses on the contaminated property or becomes involved in the management of the borrower. To minimize this risk, the Bank may require an environmental examination of, and reports with respect to, the property of any borrower or prospective borrower if circumstances affecting the property indicate a potential for contamination, taking into consideration the potential loss to the institution in relation to the burdens to the borrower. Such examination must be performed by an engineering firm experienced in environmental risk studies and acceptable to the institution, and the costs of such examinations and reports are the responsibility of the borrower. These costs may be substantial and may deter a prospective borrower from entering into a loan transaction with the Bank. The Company not aware of any borrower which is currently subject to any environmental investigation or clean-up preceding that is likely to have a material adverse effect on the financial condition or results of operations of SHUSA or its subsidiaries. 

Disclosure Pursuant to Section 219 of the Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act 

Pursuant to Section 219 of the Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act of 2012, which added Section 13(r) to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), an issuer is required to disclose in its annual or quarterly reports, as applicable, whether it or any of its affiliates knowingly engaged in certain activities, transactions or dealings relating to Iran or with individuals or entities designated pursuant to certain Executive Orders. Disclosure is generally required even where the activities, transactions or dealings were conducted in compliance with applicable law. 

The following activities are disclosed in response to Section 13(r) with respect to affiliates of Santander U.K. plc ("Santander U.K.") within the Santander group. 

During the period covered by this annual report: 

-  Santander UK holds frozen savings and one &#32;current accounts for two customers resident in the U.K. who are currently designated by the U.S. for terrorism. The accounts held by each customer were blocked after the customer's designation and have remained blocked and dormant throughout 2015 . Revenue generated by Santander UK on these accounts were 2.15 . 

-  An Iranian national, resident in the U.K., who is currently designated by the U.S. under the Iranian Financial Sanctions Regulations and the Non-Proliferation Weapons of Mass Destruction ("NPWMD") designation, holds a mortgage with Santander U.K. that was issued prior to any such designation. No further draw-down has been made (or would be allowed) under this mortgage, although Santander U.K. continues to receive repayment installments. In 2015 , total revenue in connection with this mortgage was approximately &#163; 3,876 , while net profits were negligible &#32;relative to the overall profits of Santander U.K. Santander U.K. does not intend to enter into any new relationships with this customer, and any disbursements will only be made in accordance with applicable sanctions. The same Iranian national also holds two investment accounts with Santander ISA Managers Limited; with the funds split into the same investment portfolio fund. The accounts have remained frozen during 2015 . The investment returns are being automatically reinvested, and no disbursements have been made to the customer. Total revenue for the Santander group in connection with the investment accounts was approximately &#163; 189 &#32;while net profits in 2015 &#32;were negligible &#32;relative to the overall profits of Santander. 

-  During the third &#32;quarter of 2015, two additional Santander UK customers were designated. A UK national designated by the U.S under the Specially Designated Global Terrorist ("SDGT") sanctions program and is on the U.S Department of the Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons ("SDN") List. This customer holds a bank account which generated revenue of &#163; 183 &#32;combined during the third &#32;and fourth &#32;quarters of 2015. A stop was placed on the account. Net profits combined in the third &#32;and fourth &#32;quarters of 2015 in connection with this account were negligible &#32;relative to the overall profits of Santander. A second UK national is designated by the U.S under the SDGT sanctions program and on the U.S. SDGT List. No transactions were made in the third &#32;or fourth &#32;quarter of 2015 and this account is blocked and in arrears. 

-  In addition, during the fourth &#32;quarter of 2015 , Santander UK identified one additional customer. UK national designated by the U.S, under the SDGT sanctions program and on the U.S. SDN List. The customer holds a bank account which generated revenue of &#163; 2.15 &#32;during the fourth &#32;quarter of 2015 . The account was closed during the fourth &#32;quarter of 2015 . Net profits in the fourth &#32;quarter of 2015 &#32;were negligible &#32;relative to the overall profits of Santander. 

In addition, the Santander group has outstanding legacy export credit facilities with Bank Mellat, which was in the U.S. SDN List at December 31, 2015 . In 2005, Santander participated in a syndicated credit facility for Bank Mellat of &#8364; 15.5 million , which matured on July 6, 2015. As of December 31, 2015 , Santander was owed &#8364; 0.3 million &#32;under this credit facility and 95% &#32;covered by official export credit agencies. 

Santander has not been receiving payments from Bank Mellat under any of this or other credit facilities in recent years. Santander has been and expects to continue to be repaid any amounts due by official export credit agencies. No funds have been extended by Santander under this facility since it was granted. 

The Santander group also has certain legacy performance guarantees for the benefit of Bank Sepah and Bank Mellat (stand-by letters of credit to guarantee the obligations - either under tender documents or under contracting agreements - of contractors who participated in public bids in Iran) that were in place prior to April 27, 2007. However, should any of the contractors default in their obligations under the public bids, the Santander group would need prior approval from the Spanish Government to pay any amounts due to Bank Sepah or Bank Mellat pursuant to Council Regulation (EU) No. 2015/1861. 

In the aggregate, all of the transactions described above resulted in approximately &#8364; 15,000 &#32;in gross revenues and approximately &#8364; 77,000 &#32;of net loss to the Santander group in 2015 , all of which resulted from the performance of export credit agencies rather than any Iranian entity. The Santander group has undertaken significant steps to withdraw from the Iranian market such as closing its representative office in Iran and ceasing all banking activities therein, including correspondent relationships, deposit taking from Iranian entities and issuing export letters of credit, except for the legacy transactions described above. The Santander group is not contractually permitted to cancel these arrangements without either (i) paying the guaranteed amount - which payment would be subject to prior approval (in the case of the performance guarantees), or (ii) forfeiting the outstanding amounts due to it (in the case of the export credits). Accordingly, the Santander group intends to continue to provide the guarantees and hold these assets in accordance with company policy and applicable laws. 

The Company does not have any activities, transactions, or dealings which would require disclosure under Section 13(r) to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. 

Corporate Information 

All reports filed electronically by the Company with the SEC, including the Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, and Current Reports on Form 8-K, as well as any amendments to those reports, are accessible on the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov . Our filings are also accessible through our website at &#32; https://www.santanderbank.com/us/about/financials/sec-filings . The information contained on our website is not being incorporated herein and is provided for the information of the reader and are not intended to be active links. 

