 ITEM 1. BUSINESS. General 

We were incorporated under the laws of the State of Nevada on April 25, 2007.

We currently have no business operations or significant assets. We are an exploration stage company engaged in the acquisition and exploration of mineral properties. We plan to identify and acquire an interest in a mineral property. The acquisition of a mineral property will be dependent upon our possessing sufficient capital resources at the time to purchase such mineral property. We have not entered into any discussions, understandings, arrangements or other agreements, preliminary or otherwise, for acquiring any mineral property and/or funding arrangements for the purpose of acquiring a mineral property. 

Competition 

We are a company engaged in the acquisition and exploration of mineral properties. We compete with other mineral exploration and development companies for financing and for the acquisition of new mineral properties. Many of the mineral exploration and development companies with whom we compete have greater financial and technical resources than we do. Accordingly, these competitors may be able to spend greater amounts on acquisitions of mineral properties of merit, on exploration of their mineral properties and on development of their mineral properties. In addition, they may be able to afford greater geological expertise in the targeting and exploration of mineral properties. This competition could result in competitors having mineral properties of greater quality and interest to prospective investors who may finance additional exploration and development. This competition could adversely impact our ability to finance future mineral property acquisitions and the exploration of those properties. 

The mineral exploration industry, in general, is intensively competitive and, even if commercial quantities of ore are discovered, a ready market may not exist for the sale of the ore. Numerous factors beyond our control may affect the marketability of any substances discovered. These factors include market fluctuations, the proximity and capacity of natural resource markets and processing equipment, government regulations, including regulations relating to prices, taxes, royalties, land tenure, land use, importing and exporting of minerals and environmental protection. The exact effect of these factors cannot be accurately predicted, but the combination of these factors may result in us not receiving an adequate return on invested capital. 

Compliance With Government Regulation 

Our activities are subject to extensive regulation at all levels of government. There are a number of applicable rules that regulate the exploration and mining of mineral properties, and also the possible effects of such activities upon the environment. Future legislation and regulations could cause additional expense, capital expenditures, restrictions and delays in the exploration and development of a mineral property, the extent of which cannot be predicted. In addition, we will also be subject to rules regulating the employment, occupational health and safety, accident investigation, work place conditions, protective equipment, training programs, and site supervision. Additional approvals and authorizations may be required from other government agencies, depending upon the nature and scope of the proposed exploration program.

Compliance With Environmental Regulations 

We will also have to sustain the cost of reclamation and environmental remediation for all exploration work undertaken. Both reclamation and environmental remediation refer to putting disturbed ground back as close to its original state as possible. Other potential pollution or damage must be cleaned-up and renewed along standard guidelines outlined in the usual permits. Reclamation is the process of bringing the land back to its natural state after completion of exploration activities. Environmental remediation refers to the physical activity of taking steps to remediate, or remedy, any environmental damage caused. The amount of these costs is not known at this time as we do not know the extent of the exploration program that will be undertaken on any mineral properties that we acquire. Because there is presently no information on the size, tenor, or quality of any resource or reserve at this time, it is impossible to assess the impact of any capital expenditures on earnings, our competitive position or on us in the event a potentially economic deposit is discovered.

If we enter the production phase of a mineral property, of which there is no assurance, the cost of complying with permit and regulatory environment laws will be greater because the impact on the project area is greater. Permits and regulations will control all aspects of the production program if the project continues to that stage. The regulatory requirements that we will have to meet will likely include: 

&#160; (i) Ensuring that any water discharge meets drinking water standards;

&#160; (ii) Dust generation will have to be minimal or otherwise re-mediated;

&#160; (iii) Dumping of material on the surface will have to be re-contoured and re-vegetated with natural vegetation;

&#160; (iv) All material to be left on the surface will need to be environmentally benign;

&#160; (v) Ground water will have to be monitored for any potential contaminants;

&#160; (vi) The socio-economic impact of the project will have to be evaluated and if deemed negative, will have to be re-mediated; and

&#160; (vii) There will have to be an impact report of the work on the local fauna and flora including a study of potentially endangered species.

Employees 

Other than our executive officer, we have no employees as of the date of this Annual Report. We conduct our business largely through agreements with consultants and arms-length third parties. 

Research And Development Expenditures 

We have not incurred any research or development expenditures since our inception.

Patents And Trademarks 

We do not own any patents or trademarks. 

