 Item 1. BUSINESS 

General Business and Products Description 

International Isotopes Inc. (the &#147;Company&#148;, &#147;we&#148;, &#147;us&#148; and &#147;our&#148;) was formed as a Texas corporation in 1995. Our wholly-owned subsidiaries are International Isotopes Idaho Inc., a Texas corporation; International Isotopes Fluorine Products, Inc., an Idaho corporation; and International Isotopes Transportation Services, Inc., an Idaho corporation. Our core business consists of six reportable segments which include: Nuclear Medicine Standards, Cobalt Products, Radiochemical Products, Fluorine Products, Radiological Services, and Transportation.

During 2015 we focused our efforts on achieving profitability in each of our core business segments and reached several significant goals. During 2015, we:

&#183;

Continued research into the expansion of radiochemical products through joint development agreements and continued work towards the submittal of a new generic drug product application to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (&#147;FDA&#148;);

&#183;

Obtained trademark registration of I 3 odine/MAX TM , our sodium iodide radiochemical product (I-131) as an oral solution or capsules for use in the treatment and diagnosis of various thyroid diseases, thyroid cancer, and hyperthyroidism, and for the use in investigational and clinical trials for the treatment of breast, lung, prostate, and ovarian cancers;

&#183;

Entered into several supply agreements with customers for the purchase of cobalt-60 which in some cases includes on-going services such as source manufacturing and source installation into therapy devices;

&#183;

Continued to identify alternate sources of cobalt-60 for customers to stem the shortages in supply that have occurred in the past, and that will continue to occur until the first full cobalt irradiation services are complete in late 2017;

&#183;

Were awarded several radiological services jobs through the DOE&#146;s Orphan Source Recovery Program (&#147;OSRP&#148;) in which we were able to use our mobile hot cell; and

&#183;

Continued to support the essential tasks related to our de-conversion project and continued to pursue opportunities to obtain additional contracts for depleted uranium de-conversion services.

In 2016, we plan to continue efforts to further expand and improve upon our operations in our core business segments. We intend to continue to invest in these segments and work to pursue product development, reduce production costs and expand sales in each of them. The following paragraphs provide a brief description of each of our business segments. Certain financial information with respect to each of our business segments, including revenues from external customers, a measure of profit or loss, and total assets, is set forth in Note 14 in the Notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements which begin on page F-6.

Nuclear Medicine Standards 

This segment consists of the manufacture of sources and standards associated with Single Photon Emission Computed Tomography (SPECT) imaging, patient positioning, and calibration or operational testing of dose measuring equipment for the nuclear pharmacy industry. Our nuclear medicine standards products include flood sources, dose calibrators, rod sources, flexible and rigid rulers, spot markers, pen point markers, and a host of specialty design items. These products are manufactured through an exclusive manufacturing agreement with RadQual,LLC (&#147;RadQual&#148;) of which we own a 24.5% interest. The manufacturing agreement provides that we will manufacture sources exclusively for RadQual and will not manufacture products that would directly compete with RadQual sources. The agreement also states that RadQual will only procure sources manufactured by us for distribution to RadQual customers. Should this agreement with RadQual terminate, we would be precluded from competing with RadQual in the nuclear medicine market for a period of two years. For this reason, we have worked to expand revenues from other segments to decrease our risk of dependency on RadQual. The initial term of the agreement with RadQual expired on December 31, 2008, but the agreement automatically renews each January 1 st thereafter unless otherwise terminated by either party with 60 days&#146; written notice, and continues in effect currently.

There are over 5,000 nuclear medicine centers in the United States (&#147;U.S.&#148;) that require nuclear medicine products on a regular repeat basis. We have been manufacturing these products for RadQual since 2001. The majority of nuclear medicine product sales are to U.S. customers; however, in recent years we have seen an increase in foreign sales. All of these products contain radioactive isotopes that decay at a predictable rate. Therefore, customers are required to periodically replace most of these products when they reach the end of their useful lives. The useful life of these products varies depending on the isotope used in manufacture, but in most cases averages 18 months to two years. The isotopes used in manufacturing these nuclear medicine products are available from various sources world-wide and we are not dependent on a single supplier. In addition to the products themselves, we have developed a complete line of specialty packaging for the safe transportation and handling of these products.

RadQual has numerous distributors for direct sales of its products. Formerly, the largest distributor was Technology Imaging Services Inc. (&#147;TIS&#148;). In December 2010, we formed a 50/50 joint venture with RadQual to acquire the assets of TIS, and those assets were used to create TI Services, LLC (&#147;TI Services&#148;). We believed that this joint venture would provide growth opportunities in existing and future RadQual product lines both domestically and internationally by using TI Services as a marketer for RadQual products.

Cobalt Products 

Our cobalt products segment includes the production of bulk cobalt (cobalt-60), fabrication of cobalt capsules for radiation therapy or various industrial applications, and recycling of expended cobalt sources.

Although historically bulk cobalt sales have accounted for a significant amount of the total revenue from this business segment, as further described below, during the past several years we have not had any bulk sales because of limited access to the irradiation positions in the U.S. Department of Energy&#146;s (&#147;DOE&#148;) Advanced Test Reactor (&#147;ATR&#148;) located in Idaho. However, through continued discussions, in October 2014, we entered into a ten year agreement with the DOE for the irradiation of cobalt material which should increase our supply of cobalt material from the ATR beginning in late 2017. Cobalt material requires approximately two to three years of irradiation at the ATR in order to achieve the desired level of activity.

The year-over-year demand for cobalt products has continued to remain strong as a result of the introduction of several new types of cobalt therapy units and we have continued to see robust growth in the demand for cobalt manufactured products for those devices. We continue to explore opportunities to further develop cobalt products sales through increased production of finished source products. The production, use, transport, and import/export of these products are all heavily regulated, but we have developed an experienced staff of technicians, drivers, and supervisors to comply with the regulations and support cost effective and timely delivery of these products. One reason we established our Transportation segment was to support the delivery of cobalt products.

Historically, most of our cobalt production has been dependent upon the DOE and its prime operating contractor, which controls the ATR operations and, therefore, controls the continued production of cobalt in the government-funded ATR. In June 2012, a leak of a cobalt target at the ATR belonging to another commercial business resulted in the curtailment of all further cobalt handling and production activities at the ATR pending completion of several corrective actions. During 2013, we worked with the prime operating contractor to resolve some of the issues related to the corrective actions, and in October 2013, we were able to resume shipments of some cobalt material to our production facility in Idaho Falls, Idaho. During 2014, we continued to work with the contractor to complete a new cobalt target design that could be used in the ATR and to negotiate a new cobalt production agreement with the DOE. In October 2014, we entered into a ten year agreement for cobalt production with the DOE and in early 2015, the DOE resumed cobalt irradiation in the ATR. Subsequent to completing the agreement with the DOE, we began putting commercial sales agreements in place with our customers. In accordance with those agreements we began receiving pre-payments from customers on future cobalt shipments which we have recorded as unearned revenue. We expect to recognize significant sales of our cobalt-60 material beginning in late 2017, however, for the next year our access to supplies of high activity material will be limited. In the meantime, we will rely on obtaining recycled material and material procured in small quantities from other sources to fulfill some of our customer demand.

We are continuing to work with the DOE on the possibility of resuming production and sale of an older version of cobalt targets that we own and have stored at the ATR. However, at this point, it appears that the cost to further irradiate these targets may not be cost beneficial and we may have the targets shipped to our facility at their current levels of activity and use them for lower activity source production. We are working with the DOE to obtain some additional cost information for loading and shipping these older targets before making a final determination on the disposition of this material.

Radiochemical Products 

This segment includes production and distribution of various isotopically pure radiochemicals for medical, industrial, or research applications. These products are either directly produced by us or are purchased in bulk from other producers and distributed by us in customized packages and chemical forms tailored to meet customer and market demands. Sodium Iodide (Iodine-131) radiochemical products account for the largest portion of sales within this segment. Our Iodine-131 is supplied to us through an agreement with NTP Radioisotopes (Pty) Ltd. (&#147;NTP&#148;) in South Africa and is imported as a radiochemical intended for medical applications. Although there are other manufacturers of Iodine-131, in August 2013, we renewed our agreement with NTP for the supply of Iodine-131 that allows us to purchase iodine at a mutually agreeable pre-determined price through July 2018. Either party may terminate the agreement by giving three months&#146; notice prior to the expiration of the term.

Generally, Iodine-131 is used in the treatment and diagnosis of various diseases of the thyroid gland such as Graves&#146; disease, thyroid cancer and hyperthyroidism. There are also several investigational and clinical trials underway to explore the use of Iodine-131 for such applications as the treatment of breast, lung, prostate, and ovarian cancers. Other less significant sales of radiochemical in this segment consist of sales of isotopes such as Cobalt-57 (Co-57), Cesium-137 (Cs-137), Sodium-22 (Na-22), and Barium-133 (Ba-133).

Fluorine Products 

We established the fluorine products business segment in 2004 to support production and sale of the gases produced using our Fluorine Extraction Process (&#147;FEP&#148;) that we intended to use in conjunction with the operation of the proposed depleted uranium de-conversion facility in Lea County, New Mexico. The FEP is a process that produces ultra-high-purity fluoride gas products through a solid-to-solid reaction between depleted uranium tetrafluoride (&#147;DUF4&#148;) and various solid metal oxides such as silicon. High-purity fluoride gases are in high demand for 

processes such as ion-implantation and chemical vapor deposition and also for the manufacture of organic complexes used in a host of industrial applications and manufacturing processes. The FEP products have very high purity, which makes them ideally suited to these specialty applications.

We acquired seven patents for the FEP in January 2004 and built a pilot production facility in Idaho that began operation in 2006. In 2010, we were granted an additional process patent on FEP based upon information gained through the operation of the pilot facility. Our pilot facility was not used for commercial gas production but instead focused upon production of high-purity products and examined methods of scaling up the size of the production operations in support of the proposed de-conversion facility in New Mexico. By the end of 2012, we had completed our testing of individual components and analytical processes and in April 2013, we shut down the pilot facility and terminated our lease on that property.

Near the end of 2013, due to changes in the nuclear industry, we placed further engineering work on the proposed uranium de-conversion facility on hold. Further activity within this segment will be deferred until market and industry conditions change and justify resuming design and construction of the facility. In the meantime, we expect to continue to incur costs associated with the maintenance of licenses and other necessary project investment, and the Company expects to continue to keep certain agreements in place that will support resumption of project activities at the appropriate time.

Radiological Services 

This segment includes a wide variety of miscellaneous services such as processing gemstones, decommissioning disused irradiation units, and performing sealed source exchanges in irradiation and therapy units. In May 2004, we entered into an exclusive contract with Quali-Tech, Inc., for gemstone processing and, historically, this contract has accounted for the majority of sales in this segment. In May 2012, we modified and renewed the contract, which remains in effect until either party gives a minimum of six months&#146; notice to the other that it does not intend to continue the contract. The contract provides that we will act as the exclusive processor of gemstones for Quali-Tech, Inc., for the term of the contract and two years beyond.

We are licensed through the Nuclear Regulatory commission (&#147;NRC&#148;) to perform certain field service activities in connection with the DOE&#146;s Orphan Source Recovery Program (&#147;OSRP&#148;). These activities include services to support recovery of disused sources under the DOE&#146;s OSRP and installation or removal of certain cobalt therapy units. We designed and built a mobile hot cell unit to use in this field service work and during 2015 and 2014 used the unit to perform numerous OSRP field service jobs. This type of field service work is expected to generate the majority of revenue within this business segment in the coming years.

Transportation 

This segment was established in 2006 through our subsidiary, International Isotopes Transportation Services (&#147;IITS&#148;), to provide transportation of our products (such as cobalt sources) and to offer &#147;for hire&#148; transportation services of hazardous and non-hazardous cargo materials. A major factor in our decision to establish this subsidiary and business segment was the high cost of third-party transportation services and high volume of regulations involving the security and tracking of shipments of cobalt. IITS provides us with considerable savings for the transportation of our own products and produces a small revenue stream through the transportation of products for other companies. We expect to expand transportation services to support our expanding field services work and to support delivery of other products in other business segments.

Uranium De-conversion Facility 

In 2004, we began a major undertaking to construct the first commercial uranium de-conversion facility in the U.S. At that time, it was our belief that such an undertaking would provide an excellent commercial opportunity to us in the future.

In October 2012, we received the NRC construction and operating license for the planned de-conversion facility. This is a forty (40) year operating license and is the first commercial license of this type issued in the U.S. There are no other companies with a similar license application under review by the NRC and the license does not require us 

to begin construction of the project by any specific date. Therefore, the NRC license represents a significant competitive barrier and we believe that it provides us with a very valuable asset now and in the future when we are ready to resume formal design and engineering work on the plant.

In 2013, we placed this project on hold due to changing market conditions and the need for additional funding; however, we still consider this project to be an excellent future commercial opportunity. The changes to market conditions were the result of changes in the outlook for growth in the nuclear industry. When we began pursuing this project, there were several companies planning for construction of new commercial uranium enrichment plants in the U.S. We were successful in executing a de-conversion service agreement with one of these companies, Urenco USA (UUSA), that would use approximately 50% of the installed processing capacity of our proposed de-conversion facility. However, plans to obtain additional contracts with the other enrichment companies that would commit 100% of the planned facility&#146;s capacity have been delayed because of the slowdown in nuclear industry growth. Having contracts in place is necessary for us to obtain funding for the project. In addition, both the Fukushima, Japan disaster and low natural gas prices in the U.S. continue to negatively impact growth in the nuclear industry and there is no serious discussion of constructing additional nuclear capacity in the U.S. in the near term. Meanwhile, however, the facility operated by UUSA continues to produce and stockpile depleted uranium tails and, therefore, we believe there is still an opportunity to provide commercial depleted uranium de-conversion services at some point in the future. Unless and until that opportunity emerges, we will keep this project on hold and focus our efforts on our other business segments and continue to work towards achieving profitability in those areas.

Industry Overview, Target Markets, and Competition 

The industries and markets that require or involve the use of radioactive material are diverse. Our current core business operations involve products that are used in a wide variety of applications and in various markets. The following provides an explanation of the markets and competitive factors affecting our current business segments.

Nuclear Medicine Standards 

Calibration and reference standards are required for the daily operational checks and calibration of the measurement of SPECT imaging devices frequently used in nuclear medicine. Calibration and quality assurance testing is required as a routine part of the normal operations of this equipment to ensure its reliability and accuracy. We exclusively manufacture many of these reference standard products for one customer, RadQual, which in turn has several distributors who make direct sales around the U.S. and internationally. We directly ship these products to all 50 states and many overseas locations. There is only one other producer of these products in the world that directly competes with us for these products. Most of the products manufactured by our competitor are similar in design to our products because all must meet Original Equipment Manufacturer (&#147;OEM&#148;) dimensional and performance standards. However, we attempt to differentiate our products from our competitor&#146;s products through increased levels of quality control and customer service. We received ISO-9001:2008 and ISO-13485-2003 quality program certifications in 2011 that have allowed us to start selling these products into several foreign countries that require this additional quality certification for manufacturers. We use a small number of suppliers for the isotopes and other materials used in manufacturing these nuclear medicine products, and if we were to lose any of these suppliers, others would be available.

In December 2010, we formed TI Services, a joint venture with RadQual, with the expectation that we would use TI Services as a distributor of nuclear medicine and nuclear cardiology products. In 2014, we began selling a new lightweight flood source, the Rad-Lite, that we developed in collaboration with RadQual. This new product was introduced to the market in April 2014 and is being marketed by TI Services.

Cobalt Products 

Historically, we have sold high-activity bulk cobalt to one customer that used it to fabricate several models of sealed sources for medical and industrial applications. However, due to problems at the DOE&#146;s ATR during 2012, as described above, we were forced to discontinue the irradiation of our in-process cobalt targets and have not recorded any bulk cobalt sales for the past several years. With some residual cobalt material that we held at our facility, we were able to manufacture a variety of sealed source products through the beginning of 2014. Pursuant to the 10-year agreement that we entered into with the DOE in 2014, we anticipate that cobalt shipments to customers will resume 

in late 2017. Our cobalt products are used in applications such as radiation therapy, security devices, and radiography examination. While there are other technologies available to provide external radiation therapy, there are several new state-of-the-art devices that depend on cobalt sources for several of their specialized applications. There are currently no other producers of high specific activity cobalt in the U.S., however, there is one producer of medium specific activity material and there are at least three significant producers of high specific activity material in other parts of the world. In addition to us, there is only one other company in the U.S. currently licensed to handle large quantities of cobalt.

We manufacture cobalt sources as well as recycle used cobalt sources by recovering the cobalt for re-use in the manufacture of new sealed sources for teletherapy devices, irradiators, and other source applications. We are the only company in the U.S. that provides this unique service. There has been a significant increase in regulation by the NRC in recent years that has created a significant barrier to new entrants to this market. We expect growth in the demand for cobalt in several of the newer applications, and coupled with an expected decline in reactors around the world that are capable of producing this type of high-activity material, we expect increased demand for our cobalt products over the next five years. Nonetheless, we are at present dependent upon our contract relationship with the DOE for access to its ATR in Idaho for continued cobalt production. The interruption to cobalt production experienced in 2012 had a significant negative impact on our cobalt products business segment, and although we currently have a ten-year irradiation contract in place with the DOE, future interruptions in the operation of the ATR could have a negative impact on our cobalt products business segment. With our new cobalt production contract in place with the DOE we anticipate our market position in this business segment will continue to grow in future years.

Radiochemical Products 

We typically supply radiochemical products in bulk form. The markets for most radiochemicals are highly competitive. The target markets for these products are customers who (1) incorporate them into finished industrial or medical devices; (2) use radioisotope products in clinical trials for various medical applications; or (3) further process and include the radioisotope products into a pharmaceutical product FDA approved therapy or imaging. We are the only U.S. company that supplies Iodine-131 radiochemical directly to radiopharmacies. There is one major foreign company that produces a similar product as an FDA approved pharmaceutical product that competes with our sales. Continuation of business in this segment is highly dependent upon maintaining a low-cost, high-quality product meeting all of the current Good Manufacturing Practices (&#147;cGMP&#148;). We are currently taking steps to advance into the manufacture of generic drug products using these basic radiochemicals. We have received trademark approval for I 3 ODINE/MAX TM , our Iodine-131 oral solution and we are in the process of submitting an abbreviated New Drug Application (aNDA) to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for approval of this product as a generic drug. The time required for FDA approval of the I 3 ODINE/MAX TM product is unknown. Once approved, however, we anticipate it will significantly expand the sales of this product. We are also considering other generic drug opportunities and plans to significantly expand the range of products offered within this business segment in the coming years.

Fluorine Products 

Our Fluorine Products segment was developed in conjunction with uranium de-conversion in order to take advantage of the anticipated need for depleted uranium de-conversion services. Our FEP patents provide a unique opportunity to provide certain high-purity fluoride compounds while also offering a &#147;for fee&#148; de-conversion service to the uranium enrichment industry. Although during 2013 we curtailed the formal engineering work on the de-conversion facility, we believe that in the future there will be a resumption of nuclear growth overseas that will positively impact the front end of the nuclear fuel cycle. Once that occurs the ground work we have completed on the depleted uranium de-conversion and fluorine extraction project should put us in an excellent position to take advantage of our position in the industry and should serve to justify the financial investment in this uranium de-conversion project in the future. We intend to continue to maintain our licenses and other necessary project investments so that the project activities can be resumed when market conditions improve.

Radiological Services 

Historically, most of our radiological services have been performed in support of gemstone processing for Quali-Tech, Inc. Gemstone processing has fluctuated in recent years but has remained a significant contributor to this segment&#146;s revenue.

In 2012, we obtained our first amendment to our NRC license to permit certain field service activities and since that time radiological field service work has become a significant contributor to revenue within the segment. In both 2015 and 2014 we were awarded several contracts for field service activities in connection with the DOE&#146;s OSRP project. We designed and built a mobile hot cell unit for use in this field service work and in 2014 and 2015 we were granted additional amendments to our NRC license that have allowed us to expand the types of services we can provide. We will use the mobile hot cell to support these expanded services. While there are other companies that compete with us for field services work, we believe our mobile hot cell gives us a unique competitive advantage in some of these opportunities. In 2015 we worked to further increase these field service opportunities in the U.S. and abroad and expect that field services will be the major source of revenue within this business segment.

Transportation 

IITS was formed in order to support transportation of our own products and to provide &#147;for hire&#148; transportation services. IITS specializes in the transportation of hazardous, radioactive materials including large cobalt shipments. These types of shipments face a significant amount of increased regulation and enhanced security requirements and IITS is well suited to meeting these requirements while significantly reducing our transportation costs. IITS has specially trained drivers and specially equipped vehicles intended to meet the standards for transportation of large cobalt shipments. Therefore, IITS is capable of providing unique transportation services that we believe only one or two other commercial carriers in the U.S. can also provide. The transportation segment directly supports the sale and delivery of our cobalt products and the performance of field service projects and as such is a cost saving operation for us.

Government Regulation 

Licensing 

We currently operate under two NRC licenses, one for broad scope operations and another for exempt distribution. Our broad scope license covers calibration and reference standard manufacturing and distribution, radioisotope processing and distribution, large scale cobalt processing and recycle operations, radioactive gemstone processing, environmental sample analysis, certain field service activities, and research and development. The exempt distribution license permits the release and distribution of irradiated gemstones to unlicensed entities in the U.S. All of our existing licenses and permits are adequate to allow current business operations. We do not handle &#147;special nuclear materials&#148; (i.e. nuclear fuels and weapons grade uranium, thorium or plutonium); therefore, our facility is not designated as a &#147;nuclear&#148; facility that would require additional licensing.

In October 2012, we were granted a Part 40 construction and operating license by the NRC for the de-conversion facility. The de-conversion facility, which is to be located in Lea County, New Mexico, is proposed to initially de-convert up to approximately 11 million pounds of depleted uranium hexafluoride (&#147;DUF 6 &#148;) annually into fluoride products and depleted uranium oxides (&#147;DUO&#148;). Further engineering work on the proposed de-conversion facility was placed on hold in 2013 until additional contracts for utilization could be obtained. There is no specific timeline required by the NRC for the start of construction on this project. The de-conversion facility will require a ground water permit from the state of New Mexico before operation.

As a condition of our NRC licenses in Idaho, we are required to provide financial assurance for decommissioning activities. We fulfill this license requirement with a letter of credit and a restricted certificate of deposit in the amount of $450,630, held at Wells Fargo Bank, which names the NRC as beneficiary. The letter of credit is supported by a restricted certificate of deposit. Similar financial assurances will be required to fund the decommissioning of the proposed de-conversion facility.

Regulation of Radioisotope Production Waste 

All of our manufacturing processes generate some radioactive waste. We must handle this waste pursuant to the Low Level Radioactive Waste (&#147;LLRW&#148;) Policy Act (&#147;LLRW Act&#148;), which requires the safe disposal of mildly radioactive materials. The estimated costs for storage and disposal of these materials have been included in the manufacturing and sales price of our products. However, actual disposal costs are subject to change at the discretion of the disposal site and are ultimately applied at the time of disposal. We have obtained all necessary permits and approvals for the disposal of our waste materials and we do not anticipate any negative changes in capacity or regulatory conditions that would limit or restrict our waste disposal capabilities.

Nuclear Regulatory Commission Oversight 

We operate under two NRC licenses and are subject to NRC oversight of our operations. In August 2015, one of our employees received an elevated radiation exposure in excess of legal limits but with no apparent resulting injury. As a result of this exposure incident, the NRC may impose a violation which could also include a civil penalty. However, we do not expect the civil penalty to be material in amount due to the prompt and complete corrective actions taken by us.

Other Regulations 

We are registered as a medical device manufacturer through the FDA for several of our nuclear medicine reference and calibration standards. We are registered with the U.S. Department of Transportation for the shipment of radioactive materials. We also have an NRC license for the import and export of radioactive materials. Because of increasing security controls and regulations, it is likely that we may encounter additional regulations affecting transportation, storage, sale, and import/export of radioactive materials. We are also subject to inspection by the FDA to be in compliance with cGMP for our sodium iodide product and are registered with the FDA as an Active Pharmaceutical Ingredient manufacturer and a manufacturing facility.

We are subject to government regulation and intervention both in the U.S. and in all foreign jurisdictions in which we conduct business. Compliance with applicable laws and regulations results in higher capital expenditures and operating costs and changes to current regulations with which we must comply can necessitate further capital expenditures and increases in operating costs to enable continued compliance.

Employees 

As of December 31, 2015, we had 27 total employees including 25 full-time employees.

Distribution Methods for Products 

We sell our products directly to our customers who, in some cases, are both end users and distributors. We use common commercial carriers and our own IITS subsidiary for delivery of our products. For smaller quantities of material, and overnight and next-day delivery, we utilize other commercial carriers. For our products that involve large quantities of radioactive material, most commonly cobalt-60, and that invoke certain special transportation requirements, we use our IITS transportation subsidiary.

Dependence on Customers 

During 2015, one major customer, RadQual, accounted for 27% of our total gross revenue. This total includes both sales under an exclusive sales agreement with RadQual and its sales as a distributor of the products we manufacture for them and also includes sales reported by TI Services, our joint venture with RadQual. Historically, the majority of the radiochemical products sold by the Company were done so through a supply agreement with RadQual. In September 2014, upon mutual agreement, we ended this radiochemical supply agreement with RadQual and began direct sales to customers of all radiochemical products.

Combined sales, on which we are dependent, to our three largest customers, accounted for 40% of our total gross revenues in 2015 and accounted for 46% of our total gross revenues in 2014. We are making efforts to reduce our dependency on a small number of customers by expanding sales in both domestic and foreign markets and through our establishment of the joint venture, TI Services, to expand distribution of products. We also have several agreements in place for the sale of cobalt products and services and anticipate additional opportunities for revenue from expanded radiological services.

Patents, Trademarks, Licenses and Royalty Agreements 

In 2004, we obtained certain patents related to the FEP. In July 2010, we were granted a new patent on the FEP process which provides patent protection of this intellectual property through 2019. These patents will be important to the future operation and production capacity of the de-conversion facility. We believe these patents will provide a commercial opportunity once companies resume planning and construction of any new uranium enrichment facilities in the U.S. In 2009, patent applications were made in Brazil, Canada, China, Europe, Japan, Russia, and South Africa for other FEP related production techniques. In 2013, the FEP process patent was granted in Russia and in 2014 the FEP process patent was approved in South Africa. In 2015, the FEP process patents in China and Japan were abandoned. The applications in the other countries mentioned above are still in process.

In September 2015, we obtained approval from the U.S. Patent and Trademark office for the trademark registration of I 3 odine/MAX TM . The trademark is for Iodine-131 radiochemical product as solution or capsules for use in the treatment and diagnosis of diseases of the thyroid, thyroid cancer, and hyperthyroidism and for use in investigational and clinical trials for the treatment of breast, lung, prostate, and ovarian cancers.

Research and Development 

We had research and development expenses totaling $821,453 in 2015, compared with $464,206 in 2014. These expenses were primarily associated with current product development activities related to generic radiochemical products.

Available Information 

Our internet website address is http://www.internationalisotopes.com . Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the &#147;Exchange Act&#148;) are available free of charge through our website as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. Information on our website is not incorporated by reference into this report or other reports filed with the SEC.

