 ITEM 1. BUSINESS &#160; 

General 

We are a leading independent owner and operator of wireless communications tower structures, rooftops and other structures that support antennas used for wireless communications, which we collectively refer to as &#8220;towers&#8221; or &#8220;sites.&#8221; Our principal operations are in the United States and its territories. In addition, we own and operate towers in South America, Central America, and Canada . Our primary business line is our site leasing business, which contributed 96.8% of our total segment operating profit for the year ended December 31, 2015 . In our site leasing business, we (1) lease antenna space to wireless service providers on towers that we own or operate and (2) manage rooftop and tower sites for property owners under various contractual arrangements. As of December 31, 2015 , we owned 25,465 towers, a substantial portion of which have been built by us or built by other tower owners or operators who, like us, have built such towers to lease space to multiple wireless service providers. We also managed or leased approximately 5,500 actual or potential towers, approximately 500 of which were revenue producing as of December 31, 2015 . Our other business line is our site development business, through which we assist wireless service providers in developing and maintaining their own wireless service networks. 

Site Leasing Services 

Our primary focus is the leasing of antenna space on our multi-tenant towers to a variety of wireless service providers under long-term lease contracts in the United States, Canada, Central America, and South America . We receive s ite leasing revenues primarily from wireless service provider tenants, including AT&#38;T, Sprint, T-Mobile, Verizon Wireless, Oi S.A., Telefonica, Claro, and Digicel. Wireless service providers enter into tenant leases with us, each of which relates to the lease or use of space at an individual site . Our site leasing business generates substantially all of our total segment operating profit, representing 96.2% or more of our total segment operating profit for the past three years. O ur site leasing business is classified into two reportable segments, domestic site leasing and international site leasing. 

Domestic Site Leasing 

As of December 31, 2015 , we had 15,778 sites in the United States. For the year ended December 31, 2015 , we generated 83.5% of our total site leasing revenue from these sites. We receive d omestic site leasing revenues primarily from AT&#38;T, Sprint, Verizon Wireless, and T-Mobile. In the United States, wireless service providers typically enter into tenant leases with us, each of which relates to the lease or use of space at an individual tower. Our tenant leases in the United States are generally for an initial term of five to ten years with five 5-year renewal periods at the option of the tenant. These tenant leases typically contain specific rent escalators, which typically average 3- 4 % per year , for both the initial and renewal option periods . Our ground leases in the United States are generally for an initial term of five years or more with multiple renewal terms of 5-year periods, at our option, and provide for rent escalators which typically average 2 - 3 % annually. 

International Site Leasing 

In 2015 , we continued to focus on growing our international site leasing business through the acquisition and development of towers. We believe that we can create substantial value by expanding our site leasing services into select international markets which we believe have a high-growth wireless industry and relatively stable political and regulatory environments. As of December 31, 2015 , we owned 9,687 towers in our international markets, including Brazil, Canada, Costa Rica, Ecuador, El Salvador, Guatemala, Nicaragua, and Panama. We receive i nternational site leasing revenues primarily from Oi S.A., Telefonica, Claro, Digicel, and TIM. Our operations in these countries are solely in the site leasing business, and we expect to continue to expand operations through new builds and acquisitions. 

Our tenant leases in Canada typically have similar terms and conditions as those in the United States with an initial term of five to ten years with five 5-year renewal periods at the option of the tenant. These tenant leases typically contain specific rent escalators, which average 3-4% per year. Tenant leases in our Central America n and South American markets typically have an initial term of ten years with multiple five year renewal periods. In Central America, we have similar rent escalators to that of leases in the United States and Canada while our leases in South America typically escalate in accordance with a standard cost of living index. In Brazil, site leases are typically governed by master lease agreements, which provide for the material terms and conditions that will govern the terms of the use of the site. S ite leases in South America typically provide for a fixed rental amount and a pass-through charge for the underlying ground lease rent. Our ground leases in Canada, Central America and South America generally have similar terms and conditions as those in the United States, except that the annual escalator s in our South America n ground leases are based on a cost of living index. 

&#160;

Domestic and International Expansion 

We expand our tower portfolio, both domestically and internationally, through the acquisition of towers from third parties and through the construction of new tower structures. In our tower acquisition program, we pursue towers that meet or exceed our internal guidelines regarding current and future potential returns. For each acquisition, we prepare various analyses that include projections of a five-year unlevered internal rate of return, review of available capacity, future lease up projections, and a summary of current and future tenant/technology mix. 

The majority of our international markets typically have less mature wireless networks with limited wireline infrastructure and lower wireless data penetration rates than those in the United States. Accordingly, our expansion in these markets is primarily driven by (i) wireless service providers seeking to increase the quality and coverage of their networks, (ii) increased consumer mobile data traffic , such as media streaming, mobile apps and games, web browsing, and email , and (iii) incremental spectrum auctions, which have resulted in new market entrants, as well as incremental voice and data network deployments. Since we first entered the Central and South American markets , we have built or acquired 9,430 towers and continue to expand in these markets to respond to growing demand. 

We consider various factors when identifying a market for our international expansion, including: 

&#183; 

Country analysis &#8211; We consider the country&#8217;s political stability, and whether the country&#8217;s general business, legal and regulatory environment is conducive to the sustainability and growth of our business. 

&#183; 

Market potential &#8211; We analyze the expected demand for wireless services, and whether a country has multiple wireless service providers who are actively seeking to invest in deploying voice and data networks, as well as spectrum auctions that have occurred or that are anticipated to occur. 

&#183; 

Risk adjusted return criteria &#8211; We consider whether buying or building towers in a country, and providing our management and leasing services, will meet our return criteria. As part of this analysis, we consider the risk of entering into an international market (for example, the impact of foreign currency exchange rates), and how our expansion meets our long-term strategic objectives for the region and our business generally. 

In our new build program, we construct tower structures (1) in locations that a re strategically chosen by us or (2) under build-to-suit arrangements. Under build-to-suit arrangements, we build tower structures for wireless service providers at locations that they have identified. Under these arrangements, we retain ownership of the tower structure and the exclusive right to co-locate additional tenants. When we construct tower structures in locations chosen by us, we utilize our knowledge of our customers&#8217; network requirements to identify locations where we believe multiple wireless service providers need, or will need, to locate antennas to meet capacity or service demands. We seek to identify attractive locations for new tower structures and complete pre-construction procedures necessary to secure the site concurrently with our leasing efforts. We generally will have at least one signed tenant lease for each new build tower structure on the day that it is completed and expect that some will have multiple tenants. During 2016 , we intend to build between 590 and 610 new tower structures, domestically and internationally. 

Site Development Services 

Our site development business, which is conducted in the United States only, is complementary to our site leasing business and provides us the ability to keep in close contact with the wireless service providers who generate substantially all of our site leasing revenue and to capture ancillary revenues that are generated by our site leasing activities, such as antenna and equipment installation at our towers. We earn s ite development services revenues primarily from the full range of end to end services we provide to wireless service providers or companies providing development or project management services to wireless service providers. Our services include: (1) network pre-design; (2) site audits; (3) identification of potential locations for towers and antennas; (4) support in buying or leasing of the location; (5) assistance in obtaining zoning approvals and permits; (6) tower and related site construction; (7) antenna installation; and (8) radio equipment installation, commissioning, and maintenance. We provide site development services on a local basis, through regional, territory, and project offices. The regional offices are responsible for all site development operations, including hiring employees and opening or closing project offices, and a substantial portion of the sales in such area. 

For financial information about our operating segments, please see Note 18 of our Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Form 10-K. 

&#160;

Industry Developments 

We believe that growing wireless traffic (particularly data and video), the deployment of additional spectrum, and technology advancements will require wireless service providers to improve their network infrastructure and increase their network capacity resulting in an increase in the number of towers that they u tilize and additions and changes to the equipment they deploy at existing towers. We expect that the wireless communications industry will continue to experience growth as a result of the following trends: 

&#183; 

As wireless traffic continues to grow, carriers are investing to increase the capacity of their networks; and we believe that the continued capacity increases will require our customers to add large numbers of additional cell sites and additional new equipment at current cell sites. 

&#183; 

Spectrum licensed by the Federal Communications Commission (the &#8220;FCC&#8221;) has enabled continued network development. We expect the deployment of currently fallow spectrum and the potential availability of additional spectrum through &#160; a planned government auction to drive continued network development in the U.S. 

&#183; 

Consumers are increasing their use of wireless data services due to expansion of wireless data applications, such as video, mobile apps and games, web browsing, email and social networking, and continued wireline to wireless migration. Wireless devices such as smartphones, tablets, laptops, and other emerging and embedded devices continue to trend toward being more bandwidth-intensive . As a result, according to industry estimates, global mobile data traffic will grow at an approximately 5 3 % compound annual growth rate from 201 5 to 20 20 and will grow at a rate three times faster than non-mobile data traffic over the same period . 

&#183; 

Consumers list network quality as one of the greatest contributors to their dissatisfaction when terminating or changing service. To decrease subscriber churn rate and drive revenue growth, wireless carriers have made substantial capital expenditures on wireless networks to improve service quality and expand coverage. For example, U.S. wireless carriers&#8217; capital expenditures have increased from an estimated $ 22.9 billion in 20 1 0 to an estimated $ 31.7 billion in 201 5 , and we expect capital expenditures in the foreseeable future to remain elevated as wireless carriers continue to improve their networks. 

We believe that the world-wide wireless industry will continue to grow and is reasonably well-capitalized, highly competitive and focused on quality and advanced services. Therefore, we expect that we will see a multi-year trend of strong additional demand for tower space from our customers, which we believe will translate into strong leasing growth for us. 

Business Strategy 

Our primary strategy is to continue to focus on expanding our site leasing business due to its attractive characteristics such as long-term contracts, built-in rent escalators, high operating margins, and low customer churn. The long-term and repetitive nature of the revenue stream of our site leasing business makes it less volatile than our site development business, which is more cyclical. By focusing on our site leasing business, we believe that we can maintain a stable, recurring cash flow stream and reduce our exposure to cyclical changes in customer spending. Key elements of our strategy include: 

Maximizing Use of Tower Capacity. We generally have constructed or acquired towers that accommodate multiple tenants and a majority of our towers are high capacity tower structures. Most of our towers have significant capacity available for additional antennas, and we believe that increased use of our towers can be achieved at a low incremental cost. We actively market space on our towers through our internal sales force. As of December 31, 2015 , we had an average of 1.8 tenants per tower structure. 

Disciplined Growth of our Tower Portfolio . &#160; We believe that our tower operations are highly scalable. Consequently, we believe that we are able to materially increase our tower portfolio without proportionately increasing selling, general, and administrative expenses. During 2016 , we intend to continue to grow our tower portfolio, domestically and internationally, through tower acquisitions and the construction of new tower structures. In connection with our international expansion, we have targeted select international markets that we believe have relatively stable political environments and a growing wireless communications industry. We intend to use our available cash from operating activities and available liquidity, including borrowings, to build and/or acquire new towers at prices that we believe will be accretive to our shareholders both in the short and long term and which allow us to maintain our long-term target leverage ratios. 

Capitalizing on our Scale and Management Experience. We are a large owner, operator and developer of towers, with substantial capital, human, and operating resources. We have been developing towers for wireless service providers in the U.S. since 1989 and owned and operated towers for ourselves since 1997. We believe our size, experience, capabilities, and resources make us a preferred partner for wireless service providers both in the U.S. and internationally. Our management team has extensive experience in site leasing and site development, with some of the longest tenures in the tower and site development industries. We believe that our 

&#160;

i ndustry expertise and strong relationships with wireless service providers will allow us to expand our position as a leading provider of site leasing and site development services. 

Controlling our Underlying Land Positions . We have purchased and/or entered into perpetual easements or long-term leases for the land that underlies our tower structures and intend to continue to do so, to the extent available at commercially reasonable prices. We believe that these purchases, perpetual easements, and/or long-term leases will increase our margins, improve our cash flow from operations, and minimize our exposure to increases in ground lease rents in the future. As of December 31, 2015 , approximately 73% of our tower structures were located on land that we own or control for more than 20 years and the average remaining life under our ground leases, including renewal options under our control, was 33 years. As of December 31, 2015 , approximately 5.8% of our tower structures have ground leases maturing in the next 10 years. 

Using our Local Presence to Build Strong Relationships with Major Wireless Service Providers. Given the nature of towers as location-specific communications facilities, we believe that substantially all of what we do is done best locally. Consequently, we have a broad field organization that allows us to develop and capitalize on our experience, expertise and relationships in each of our local markets which in turn enhances our customer relationships. We are seeking to replicate this operating model internationally. Due to our presence in local markets, we believe we are well positioned to capture additional site leasing business and new tower build opportunities in our markets and identify and participate in site development projects across our markets. 

Customers 

Since commencing operations, we have performed site leasing and site development services for all of the large U.S. wireless service providers. In both our site leasing and site development businesses, we work with large national providers and smaller regional, local, or private operators. 

We depend on a relatively small number of customers for our site leasing and site development revenues. The following customers represented at least 10% of our total revenues during the last three years: 

&#160; 

&#160; 

&#160; 

&#160; 

&#160; 

For the year ended December 31, 

Percentage of Total Revenues 

2014 

&#160; 

AT&#38;T Wireless (1) 

24.2% 

23.0% 

20.5% Sprint 

19.6% 

23.4% 

25.0% T-Mobile 

16.0% 

15.5% 

17.3% Verizon Wireless 

13.8% 

12.0% 

11.3% 

&#160; 

&#160; 

(1) Prior year amounts have been adjusted to reflect the merger of AT&#38;T Wireless and Leap Wireless (Cricket Wireless). 

During the past two years, we provided services or leased space to a number of customers, including: 

&#160; 

&#160; 

&#160; 

AT&#38;T Wireless 

NII Holdings 

Sprint 

Cellular South 

Ntelos 

T-Mobile 

Claro 

Mastec 

TIM 

Digicel 

Oi S.A. 

Telefonica 

Ericsson, Inc. 

Overland Contracting 

U.S. Cellular 

Goodman Networks 

SouthernLinc 

Verizon Wireless 

Sales and Marketing 

Our sales and marketing goals are to: 

&#183; 

use existing relationships and develop new relationships with wireless service providers to lease antenna space on and sell related services with respect to our owned or managed towers, enabling us to grow our site leasing business; and 

&#183; 

successfully bid and win those site development services contracts that will contribute to our operating margins and/or provide a financial or strategic benefit to our site leasing business. 

&#160;

We approach sales on a company-wide basis, involving many of our employees. We have a dedicated sales force that is supplemented by members of our executive management team. Our dedicated salespeople are based regionally as well as in our corporate office. We also rely on our vice presidents, general managers, and other operations personnel to sell our services and cultivate customers. Our strategy is to delegate sales efforts by geographic region or to those employees of ours who have the best relationships with our customers. Most wireless service providers have national corporate headquarters with regional and local offices. We believe that wireless service providers make most decisions for site development and site leasing services at the regional and local levels with input from their corporate headquarters. Our sales representatives work with wireless service provider representatives at the regional and local levels and at the national level when appropriate. Our sales staff&#8217;s compensation is heavily weighted to incentive-based goals and measurements. 

Competition 

Domestic Site Leasing &#8211; In the U.S., our primary competitors for our site leasing activities are (1) the national independent tower companies including American Tower Corporation and Crown Castle International, (2) a large number of regional independent tower owners, (3) wireless service providers that own and operate their own towers and lease, or may in the future decide to lease, antenna space to other providers, and (4) alternative facilities such as rooftops, outdoor and indoor distributed antenna system (&#8220;DAS&#8221;) networks, billboards, and electric transmission towers. American Tower and Crown Castle have significantly more towers than we do, which could provide them a competitive advantage in negotiating with wireless service providers. Furthermore, these entities generally have greater financial resources than we do which may provide them with a competitive advantage in connection with the acquisition of material tower portfolios. However, we believe that tower location and capacity have been and will continue to be the most significant competitive factors affecting the site leasing business. Other competitive factors are quality of service to our tenants and price. 

International Site Leasing &#8211; O ur competition consists of wireless service providers that own and operate their own tower networks, as well as large national and regional independent tower companies. 

Site Development &#8211; The site development business is extremely competitive and price sensitive. We believe that the majority of our competitors in the U.S. site development business operate within local market areas exclusively, while some firms offer their services nationally. The market includes participants from a variety of market segments offering individual, or combinations of, competing services. The field of competitors includes site development consultants, zoning consultants, real estate firms, right-of-way consulting firms, construction companies, tower owners/managers, radio frequency engineering consultants, telecommunications equipment vendors, which provide end-to-end site development services through multiple subcontractors, and wireless service providers&#8217; internal staff. We believe that providers base their decisions for site development services on a number of criteria, including company experience, price, track record, local reputation, geographic reach, and time for completion of a project. 

Employees 

Our executive, corporate development, accounting, finance, human resources, legal and regulatory, information technology and site administration personnel, and our network operations center, are located in our headquarters in Boca Raton, Florida. Certain sales, new tower build support and tower maintenance personnel are also located in our Boca Raton office. Our remaining employees are based in our international, regional, and local offices. 

As of December 31, 2015 , we had 1,310 employees of which 230 were based outside of the U.S. and its territories. We consider our employee relations to be good. 

Regulatory and Environmental Matters 

Federal Regulations. In the U.S., which accounted for 83.5% of our total site leasing revenue for the year ended December 31, 2015 , both the FCC and the Federal Aviation Administration (the &#8220;FAA&#8221;) regulate towers. Many FAA requirements are implemented in FCC regulations. These regulations, which were amended in 2014, govern the construction, lighting, and painting or other marking of towers, as well as the maintenance, inspection, and record keeping related to towers, and may, depending on the characteristics of particular towers, require prior approval and registration of towers before they may be constructed, altered or used. Wireless communications equipment and radio or television stations operating on towers are separately regulated and may require independent customer licensing depending upon the particular frequency or frequency band used. In addition, any applicant for an FCC tower structure registration (through the FCC&#8217;s Antenna Structure Registration System) must certify that, consistent with the Anti-Drug Abuse Act of 1988, neither the applicant nor its principals are subject to a denial of Federal benefits because of a conviction for the possession or distribution of a controlled substance. New tower construction also requires approval from the state or local governing 

&#160;

authority for the proposed site: compliance with the National Environmental Policy Act (&#8220;NEPA&#8221;); compliance with the National Historic Preservation Act (&#8220;NHPA&#8221;); compliance with the Endangered Species Act (&#8220;ESA&#8221;); and may require notification to the FAA. 

Pursuant to the requirements of the Communications Act of 1934, as amended, the FCC, in conjunction with the FAA, has developed standards to consider proposals involving new or modified towers. These standards mandate that the FCC and the FAA consider the height of the proposed tower, the relationship of the tower to existing natural or man-made obstructions, and the proximity of the tower to runways and airports. Proposals to construct or to modify existing towers above certain heights must be reviewed by the FAA to ensure the structure will not present a hazard to air navigation. The FAA may condition its issuance of a no-hazard determination upon compliance with specified lighting and/or painting requirements. Towers that meet certain height and location criteria must also be registered with the FCC. A tower that requires FAA clearance will not be registered by the FCC until it is cleared by the FAA. Upon registration, the FCC may also require special lighting and/or painting. Owners of wireless communications towers may have an obligation to maintain painting and lighting or other marking in conformance with FAA and FCC regulations. Tower owners and licensees that operate on those towers also bear the responsibility of monitoring any lighting systems and notifying the FAA of any lighting outage or malfunction. 

Owners and operators of towers may be subject to, and therefore must comply with, environmental laws, including NEPA, NHPA and ESA. Any licensed radio facility on a tower is subject to environmental review pursuant to the NEPA, among other statutes, which requires federal agencies to evaluate the environmental impact of their decisions under certain circumstances. The FCC has issued regulations implementing the NEPA. These regulations place responsibility on applicants to investigate potential environmental effects of their operations and to disclose any potential significant effects on the environment in an environmental assessment prior to constructing or modifying a tower and prior to commencing certain operations of wireless communications or radio or television stations from the tower. In the event the FCC determines the proposed structure or operation would have a significant environmental impact based on the standards the FCC has developed, the FCC would be required to prepare an environmental impact statement, which will be subject to public comment. This process could significantly delay the registration of a particular tower. 

We generally indemnify our customers against any failure to comply with applicable regulatory standards relating to the construction, modification, or placement of towers. Failure to comply with the applicable requirements may lead to civil penalties. 

The Telecommunications Act of 1996 amended the Communications Act of 1934 by preserving state and local zoning authorities&#8217; jurisdiction over the construction, modification, and placement of towers. The law, however, limits local zoning authority by prohibiting any action that would discriminate among different providers of personal wireless services or ban altogether the construction, modification or placement of radio communication towers. Finally, the Telecommunications Act of 1996 requires the federal government to help licensees for wireless communications services gain access to preferred sites for their facilities. This may require that federal agencies and departments work directly with licensees to make federal property available for tower facilities. 

As an owner and operator of real property, we are subject to certain environmental laws that impose strict, joint and several liability for the cleanup of on-site or off-site contamination and related personal injury or property damage. We are also subject to certain environmental laws that govern tower placement and may require pre-construction environmental studies. Operators of towers must also take into consideration certain radio frequency (&#8220;RF&#8221;) emissions regulations that impose a variety of procedural and operating requirements. Certain proposals to operate wireless communications and radio or television stations from tower structures are also reviewed by the FCC to ensure compliance with requirements relating to human exposure to RF emissions. Exposure to high levels of RF energy can produce negative health effects. The potential connection between low-level RF energy and certain negative health effects, including some forms of cancer, has been the subject of substantial study by the scientific community in recent years. We believe that we are in substantial compliance with and we have no material liability under any applicable environmental laws. These costs of compliance with existing or future environmental laws and liability related thereto may have a material adverse effect on our prospects, financial condition or results of operations. 

State and Local Regulations. Most states regulate certain aspects of real estate acquisition, leasing activities, and construction activities. Where required, we conduct the site acquisition portions of our site development services business through licensed real estate brokers&#8217; agents, who may be our employees or hired as independent contractors, and conduct the construction portions of our site development services through licensed contractors, who may be our employees or independent contractors. Local regulations include city and other local ordinances, zoning restrictions and restrictive covenants imposed by community developers. These regulations vary greatly from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, but typically require tower owners to obtain approval from local officials or community standards organizations, or certain other entities prior to tower construction and establish regulations regarding maintenance and removal of towers. In addition, many local zoning authorities require tower owners to post bonds or cash collateral to secure their removal obligations. Local zoning authorities generally have been unreceptive to construction of new towers in their communities because of the height and visibility of the towers, and have, in some instances, instituted moratoria. 

&#160;

International . Regulatory regimes outside of the U.S. and its territories vary by country and locality; however, these regulations typically require tower owners and/or licensees to obtain approval from local officials or government agencies prior to tower construction or modification or the addition of a new antenna to an existing tower. Additionally, some regulations include ongoing obligations regarding painting, lighting, and maintenance. Our international operations may also be subject to limitations on foreign ownership of land in certain areas. Based on our experience to date, these regimes have been similar to, but not more rigorous, burdensome or comprehensive than, those in the U.S. Non-compliance with such regulations may lead to monetary penalties or deconstruction orders. Our international operations are also subject to various regulations and guidelines regarding employee relations and other occupational health and safety matters. As we expand our operations into additional international geographic areas, we will be subject to regulations in these jurisdictions. 

Backlog 

Backlog related to our site leasing business consists of lease agreements and amendments, which have been signed, but have not yet commenced. As of December 31, 2015 , we had 697 new leases and amendments which had been executed with customers but which had not begun generating revenue. These leases and amendments will contractually provide for approximately $6.6 million of annual revenue. By comparison, as of December 31, 2014 , we had 264 new leases and amendments which had been executed with customers but which had not begun generating revenue. These leases and amendments contractually provided for approximately $3.8 million of annual revenue. 

Our backlog for site development services consists of the value of work that has not yet been completed under executed contracts. As of December 31, 2015 , we had approximately &#160; $30.7 &#160; million of contractually committed revenue as compared to approximately $66.2 million as of December 31, 2014 . 

Availability of Reports and Other Information 

SBA Communications Corporation was incorporated in the State of Florida in March 1997. Our corporate website is www.sbasite.com . We make available, free of charge, access to our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, Proxy Statement on Schedule 14A and amendments to those materials filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, on our website under &#8220;Investor Relations &#8211; Reports and Results &#8211; SEC Filings,&#8221; as soon as reasonably practicable after we file electronically such material with, or furnish it to, the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (the &#8220;Commission&#8221;). 

&#160; 