 ITEM 1. &#160; BUSINESS 

Overview 

ServiceNow is a leading provider of enterprise cloud computing solutions that define, structure, manage and automate services across the global enterprise. Our mission is to help the modern enterprise operate faster and be more scalable by applying a service-oriented lens to the activities, tasks and processes that comprise day-to-day work life. Our solutions, and the custom solutions built by our customers and partners, all of which are delivered through our highly flexible and scalable platform, are empowering enterprises to change the way people work. 

In 2004, ServiceNow pioneered the cloud-based delivery of information technology (IT) service management applications that helped enterprises define and structure services and workflows, provide an intuitive user experience and knowledge base, implement service delivery, establish service level agreements and provide analytics. Today, we provide cloud-based service management and business management solutions that address the needs of many departments within an enterprise, including IT, human resources (HR), facilities, field service, marketing, customer service, security, legal and finance. Our service management solutions are built on our proprietary platform that also allows customers to easily create, by themselves or with our partners, their own service-oriented applications for use in departments across the enterprise. 

We also provide a suite of IT operations management (ITOM) solutions that enhance visibility of business services and infrastructure with a single system of record, increase service availability and maximize operational agility. By capturing and correlating service and infrastructure events across multiple IT systems and monitoring tools, our ITOM solutions help enterprises easily detect and diagnose service issues and restore services more quickly. Through the use of predictive analytics, our ITOM solutions can also predict infrastructure and business service issues, resulting in a less reactive and more proactive IT organization. 

We deliver our software applications via the Internet as a service, through an easy-to-use, consumer-like interface, which means they can be rapidly deployed and easily configured. 

We market our services to enterprises in a wide variety of industries, including financial services, consumer products, IT services, health care and technology. We sell our solutions primarily through direct sales and to a lesser extent through indirect channel sales. We also provide a portfolio of comprehensive professional services to customers through our professional services experts and a network of partners. 

We were incorporated as Glidesoft, Inc. in California in June 2004 and changed our name to Service-now.com in February 2006. In May 2012, we reincorporated into Delaware as ServiceNow, Inc. 

Key Business Benefits 

Key customer benefits of our services include: 

&#8226; 

Availability, security and scalability . Our service is designed to provide our customers with the highest level of performance and security. Our single-instance application architecture, customer-dedicated databases and advanced high 

availability infrastructure reduces maintenance windows, isolates customer impact and allows for high scalability. We further provide a level of transparency by providing our customers with the real availability of their ServiceNow instance. 

&#8226; 

Automation. &#32;Our platform facilitates the implementation of work through standardized and automated workflows that improve the speed and accuracy of service delivery within the enterprise and decrease inefficiencies. 

&#8226; 

Extensibility. Our common data model and ease of customization and development enable customers to leverage their existing ServiceNow implementations to expand into additional service management applications and functionality across the enterprise. 

&#8226; 

Speed and ease of implementation. &#32; We offer a comprehensive set of feature-rich service management applications delivered via the cloud that enable rapid and cost-effective implementation of solutions. 

&#8226; 

Governance and compliance. &#32;Our solutions facilitate the consolidation of previously disparate applications thereby enabling integrated auditing, governance, transparency and reporting. Our powerful reporting features deliver visibility into key costs and service performance, including access to key performance indicators (KPIs), benchmarking and executive dashboards. 

&#8226; 

User satisfaction. &#32;Through a mobile-enabled, consumerized storefront with personalized dashboards and reporting and embedded user self-help and collaboration features, we can increase user satisfaction and use of service management applications. 

&#8226; 

Expertise. &#32; We provide access to highly skilled professional services, training, technical support, and dedicated peer support engagement programs, including annual user conferences, local user groups, special interest groups, online forums and blogs, collaboration and knowledge sharing for end users, partners and application developers. 

Our Strategy 

&#160; 

ServiceNow is changing the way people work by removing dependencies on inefficient manual processes to manage the flow of work within the corporate environment. Our goal is to be the recognized leader of cloud computing solutions to automate service management across the enterprise. Key elements of our growth strategy include: 

Enhancing our solutions. &#32;We intend to continue to enhance our solutions with new features and functions through our own development, acquisitions and partnerships. We have made, and will continue to make, significant investments in research and development to strengthen our existing applications, expand the number of applications on our platform and develop additional automation technologies. We typically offer multiple upgrades each year that allow our customers to benefit from ongoing innovation. 

Expanding into new categories. As part of our growth strategy, we are delivering our service management solutions in new categories, including most recently security and customer service. 

Expanding our customer base. &#32; We believe the global market for next-generation service management is underserved, and we will continue to make investments to capture market share. To expand our customer base, we will invest in our direct sales force and strategic resellers as well as our infrastructure and capacity, including our data center footprint. 

Extending our relationships with existing customers . &#32;We intend to increase the number of subscription licenses purchased by our current customers as they expand their use of the ServiceNow solution and deploy additional purchased and custom-built applications to manage more services across their enterprise. 

Expanding internationally . &#32;We have eight paired data centers on five continents. We are investing in new geographies, including investment in direct and indirect sales channels, data centers, professional services, customer support and implementation partners. We also plan to increase investment in our existing international locations in order to achieve scale efficiencies in our sales and marketing efforts. 

Strengthening our customer community . &#32;Our customer community contributes to our success through their willingness to share their ServiceNow experiences with other potential customers. We host our annual user conference, Knowledge, to support our customer community and encourage collaboration. Also, our ServiceNow Community and Share websites provide an online forum for customers, partners and ServiceNow employees to interact and collaborate, as well as share custom applications and other ServiceNow platform content. We will continue to leverage our customer community to expose our existing customers to new use cases and increase awareness of our service management solutions. 

Developing our partner ecosystem . We intend to further develop our existing partner ecosystem by establishing agreements with strategic resellers, system integrators, global service providers and independent software vendors to provide broader customer coverage, access to senior executives and solution delivery capabilities, as well as extending the breadth of application coverage through complementary partner offerings. 

Encouraging development on our extensible platform . Our platform is currently being used by customers to address the needs of various departments within an organization, including IT, HR, customer service, security, facilities, field service, marketing, legal and finance organizations. We plan to continue to enhance our platform to enable the creation of business applications by customers and partners. In addition, we have provided independent software vendors and other partners with the ServiceNow Store to market and sell any applications they develop for current and future customers. 

Enterprise Service Management Solutions 

Service Management 

Our service management solutions help enterprises define and deliver services through an intuitive service experience while ensuring service availability and providing critical service metrics. Although we provide applications specific to IT, HR, customer service, security, facilities and field services, our service management solutions are also adopted by marketing, legal and finance departments looking to manage services in the contemporary workplace. Each of these solutions includes the foundational capabilities of Incident Management, Problem Management, Change Management, Request Management, Service Catalog and Knowledge Base, allowing organizations to offer their employees a familiar user experience consistent with that of consumer applications typically encountered outside of the enterprise. 

Our core service management solutions are as follows: 

IT Service Management &#32;solutions give IT managers and administrators end-to-end visibility into processes and infrastructure through a single system of record for IT, provided by our configuration management database (CMDB) that forms the core of all of our solutions. This enables IT to consolidate and automate service management processes, increase efficiency, lower costs and devote more time to creating and delivering the consumer-like experiences that users expect. 

HR Service Management &#32;solutions help transform HR service delivery through a modernized employee experience, greater productivity for HR and improvement in overall quality of service. Our solution enables organizations to provide a unified view of all HR services through easy to use portals, helps HR teams effectively address questions and manage requests from employees through HR case management and knowledge management, and automates employee lifecycle events such as onboarding, transfers and off-boarding. 

Customer Service Management solutions apply service management discipline to customer service and support for external customers and partners. Our solutions provide a single system to manage the customer service and support relationship from initial engagement through final resolution, thereby helping to improve customer satisfaction and to build loyalty through complete service transparency and consistent service delivery. This accelerates resolution through a single view of the entire service lifecycle. 

Security Operations solutions use the advanced workflow and systems management inherent in the ServiceNow platform and seamlessly integrate with other ServiceNow solutions such as ServiceWatch Mapping and ServiceNow Performance Analytics. The result is a single-source-of-truth response platform that connects disparate sources of security alerts from applications and services provided by leading vendors and helps security organizations prioritize vulnerabilities, systematically manage security incidents, adapt to changing conditions in threat behavior and automate remediation. 

Facilities Service Management &#32;solutions help facilities teams prioritize, standardize and manage their tasks, thereby reducing the burden of reactive, day-to-day operations and increasing productivity, optimizing resource utilization and reducing costs. 

Field Service Management &#32;solutions ensure that work orders are dispatched to the right person, with the right inventory and tools, at the right time. 

&#160; 

Business Management 

Our Business Management solutions help enterprises manage costs, projects, compliance and vendors. Our solutions consolidate business data into a single system of record, enabling enterprises to more effectively align investments, utilize resources, automate management of projects, ensure regulatory compliance and manage business relationships. 

Our core business management solutions are as follows: 

Financial Management &#32;provides a way for IT to gain insight into spending by mapping actual costs to consumption or usage across business services, applications, projects and infrastructure. It allows chief information officers (CIOs) to ensure IT costs are correctly aligned to business goals. 

Project Portfolio Suite &#32;provides the capabilities to plan, organize and manage projects, including associated tasks and resources. Demand Management centralizes strategic requests from the business and streamlines the investment decision process for new products and services. Software Development Lifecycle provides the capabilities to manage the software development and maintenance process, from product inception to deployment. 

Governance, Risk and Compliance (GRC) &#32;provides clarity into compliance and audit initiatives, helps companies mitigate compliance exposure, and automates the work of organizations rising to the challenge of complex regulatory environments. 

Performance Analytics &#32;drives continual service improvement across the enterprise by helping organizations analyze process performance and discover trends in service management. By leveraging trusted, in-platform data, our solution gives companies the real-time, actionable insights needed to make business decisions resulting in higher service quality and reduced service delivery cost. 

ServiceNow Platform 

The ServiceNow platform is the foundation of all of our solutions, integrating all business applications leveraging one user interface, one code base and one data model to create a single system of record. It provides core capabilities to both ServiceNow developed applications and to third-party applications developed on the platform. These capabilities include the critical differentiators of our offerings such as workflow, configuration management database (CMDB), service catalog, knowledge management, reporting, visual task boards, collaboration tools, security, and developer tools. 

The Platform Runtime &#32;developer tools reduce the complexities and inefficiencies of developing applications for our customers&#8217; business. Utilizing a comprehensive set of platform services, developers in IT and departments across the enterprise, such as legal, marketing, HR and finance, can quickly build, test and deploy customer-specific applications for every department in the enterprise. ServiceNow Store &#32;is an enterprise application marketplace for ServiceNow certified third party business applications built on the ServiceNow platform to help customers optimize business and IT operations. 

ServiceNow Studio &#32;is the Integrated Development Environment for the ServiceNow platform that brings all required tooling into a single familiar environment, enabling rapid business application development, scoping and deployment, all from within the browser and without the need for a client application. Features such as a script editor with intelligent code assist, quick file search, application file explorer, and code search speed application development and increase developer productivity on the platform. 

ServiceNow Edge Encryption &#32;provides customers peace-of-mind making their sensitive data unreadable by encrypting and decrypting data sent to and from the ServiceNow data center through an on-premises proxy. Customers retain control of their encryption keys used to encrypt data sent to, and stored in, the ServiceNow data center. 

IT Operations Management Solutions 

Our ITOM solutions allow our customers to connect their physical infrastructure as well as their public and private clouds more directly with the ServiceNow platform. By applying these solutions, our customers gain greater visibility into their infrastructure and are able to more effectively manage the services they are delivering to the business. The result is increased service availability and reduced operational costs. The ITOM products are sold individually as well as in the following logical bundles: 

ServiceWatch Mapping &#32;includes our Service Mapping and Discovery solutions which accurately discover and map the relationships between IT infrastructure components (e.g. servers) and business services. This allows our customers to create a "service-aware" CMDB so that their IT organizations have greater visibility into their infrastructure and its relationship with the services used by the business. 

ServiceWatch Insight &#32;adds Event Management to the ServiceWatch Mapping bundle and is designed to provide rapid insight into the issues affecting service availability and performance. The solution accomplishes this by providing a single interface for collecting, filtering, and correlating event data captured by existing third-party monitoring tools. In addition to rapidly identifying root causes of service issues, ServiceWatch Insight allows customers to automate remedial actions by leveraging relevant IT service management processes, such as incident and change management. 

ServiceWatch Suite &#32;adds Orchestration and Cloud Management to the ServiceNow ITOM products described above , offering the highest level of IT operational effectiveness. Through Orchestration, IT can automate key processes and tasks associated with common use cases, such as password reset, employee onboarding, client software distribution, provisioning and management of cloud resources, server configuration and provisioning, system resets and more. Cloud Management provides enterprises with the ability to create virtualized infrastructure offerings that can be published to the Service Catalog, requested by business end-users through self-service, and automatically provisioned using ServiceNow Orchestration. Requesters receive infrastructure &#8220;on-demand&#8221; while IT is able to standardize cloud resources and minimize the time spent managing cloud infrastructure, resulting in controlled costs and increased compliance. 

Comprehensive Services 

&#160; 

We offer a portfolio of comprehensive services that help ensure customer success. These offerings include Professional Services, Education Services and Customer Support. 

Professional Services . Through an ecosystem of ServiceNow and partner resources, we provide professional services that advise and assist customers with implementation and drive value realization of the ServiceNow platform. 

Education Services. &#32; We offer extensive training services and certification programs for different levels of ServiceNow expertise. Our training portfolio is customized for various skill levels and individual schedules. 

Customer Support. &#32;Customers receive free support 24 hours a day, seven days a week, from technical resources located in Orlando, San Diego and Santa Clara in the United States, as well as internationally in Amsterdam, London, and Sydney. We also offer self-service technical support through our support portal, which provides access to documentation, knowledge base, online support forums and online incident filing. 

&#32; 

&#160; Our Technology and Operations 

We designed our cloud computing service to support global enterprises. The architecture, design, deployment and management of our services are focused on security, availability and scalability. 

Unlike many cloud vendors where customers run in multi-tenant environments on shared infrastructure servers and databases, we operate a unique single-instance architecture that provides each customer with their own dedicated application and database processes. This reduces the risk associated with infrastructure outages, improves system scalability and security, and allows for flexibility in deployment location and version upgrading. We are also able to process billions of record-producing transactions per month and manage multiple petabytes of data across our customer base while optimizing transaction-processing time. We will continue to invest in enhancements to our cloud infrastructure, which are designed to provide all our customers with increased data reliability and availability. We have a standardized Java-based development environment with the majority of our software written in industry standard software programming languages. We also use Web2.0 technologies like HTTPS and XML that give users an intuitive and familiar experience. Our infrastructure primarily consists of industry standard servers and network components. Our standard operating system and database are Linux and MySQL, respectively. The system is also highly portable and has been deployed across multiple environments including Microsoft Windows and Oracle databases. 

Our data centers operate in a mirrored configuration to provide high availability and are located in Australia, Brazil, Canada, Hong Kong, the Netherlands, Singapore, Switzerland, the United Kingdom, and the United States. 

We employ a number of technologies, policies and procedures designed to protect customer data. We offer services that have received SSAE 16 (SOC 1 Type 1 and Type 2), SOC 2 and ISO 27001 third-party attestation. Our U.S. federal services have received a FISMA Moderate Authorization (ATO) attestation that can be used by our U.S. federal customer base. Additionally, our data center providers have received an ISO27001 or SSAE 16 attestation or equivalent. 

For an increased subscription fee, we offer our customers the option to be deployed on dedicated hardware in our data centers. Our architecture also gives us the added flexibility to deploy our service on-premises at a customer data center in order to support regulatory or security requirements. When our software is installed on-premises, we define the hardware requirements that the customers must install and manage. We then work with the customers to remotely install the service and provide ongoing customer support similar to the way we support customer instances deployed in our own managed data centers. 

Sales and Marketing 

&#160; 

We sell our services primarily through our global direct sales organization. We also sell our services indirectly through third- party channels by partnering with systems integrators, managed services providers and resale partners, particularly in less developed markets. 

Our marketing efforts and lead generation activities consist primarily of customer referrals, Internet advertising, trade shows, industry events and press releases. We also host our annual Knowledge global user conference, webinars and other customer forums where customers and partners both participate in and present on a variety of programs designed to help accelerate marketing success with our services and platform. 

We are investing in new geographies, including investment in direct and indirect sales channels, professional services capabilities, customer support resources and implementation partners. In addition to adding new geographies, we also plan to increase our investment in our existing locations in order to achieve scale efficiencies in our sales and marketing efforts. 

Customers 

&#160; 

We primarily market our services to large enterprise customers. We have proven scalability supporting large enterprise-wide deployments. As of December 31, 2015 , we had approximately 3,000 &#32;enterprise customers, including more than 30% &#32;of the Global 2000, an annual ranking of the top 2000 public companies in the world by Forbes magazine. In addition, as of December 31, 2015, we had approximately 400 customers that have purchased our Express product offering, which is our entry-level IT service management solution. Our customers operate in a wide variety of industries, including financial services, consumer products, IT services, health care and technology. No &#32;single customer accounted for more than 10% of our revenue for any of the periods presented. 

In the first quarter of 2015, we changed our definition of customer count to better align to a global standard for business identification and tracking. Refer to the &#8220;Total customers&#8221; paragraph section in Item 7 of Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further details of the change. 

&#160; 

Backlog 

Backlog represents future amounts to be invoiced under our existing agreements and is not included in the deferred revenue on our consolidated balance sheets. As of December 31, 2015 &#32;and 2014 , we had backlog of approximately $1.3 billion &#32;and $1.0 billion , respectively. We expect backlog will change from period to period for several reasons, including the timing and duration of customer subscription and professional services agreements, varying billing cycles of subscription agreements, and the timing of customer renewals. 

Financial Information about Segments and Geographic Areas 

We manage our operations and allocate resources as a single reporting segment. For information regarding our revenue, revenue by geographic area and long-lived assets by geographic area, please refer to Note 2 and Note 17 in the notes to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. For financial information about our segment, please refer to the section entitled &#8220;Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations&#8221; in Item 7 of Part II and to our consolidated financial statements and the related notes thereto included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. For information regarding risks associated with our international operations, please refer to the section entitled &#8220;Risk Factors&#8221; in Item 1A of Part I in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Research and Development 

&#160; 

Our research and development organization is responsible for the design, development, testing and certification of our software solutions. We focus on developing new services and core technologies and further enhancing the functionality, reliability, performance and flexibility of existing solutions. We focus our efforts on anticipating customer demand and then bringing new services and new versions of existing services to market quickly in order to remain competitive in the marketplace. We have made, and will continue to make, significant investments in research and development to strengthen our existing applications, expand the number of applications on our platform and develop additional automation technologies. Total research and development expense was $217.4 million , $148.3 million &#32;and $78.7 million &#32;for the years ended December 31, 2015 , 2014 &#32;and 2013 , respectively. 

Competition 

&#160; 

The markets in which we compete to manage service across the enterprise are fragmented, rapidly evolving and highly competitive, with relatively low barriers to entry. As the market for service management matures, we expect competition to intensify. We face competition from in-house solutions, large integrated systems vendors, and established and emerging cloud and software vendors. Our competitors vary in size and in the breadth and scope of the products and services offered. Our primary competitors include BMC Software, Inc., CA, Inc., Hewlett-Packard Company, International Business Machines Corporation and Salesforce.com. Further, other potential competitors not currently offering competitive products may expand their services to compete with our services. As we expand the breadth of our services to include offerings for service domains outside of IT, and offerings for small and medium sized businesses, we expect increasing competition from platform vendors and from application development vendors focused on these other markets. 

The principal competitive factors in our industry include total cost of ownership, product functionality, breadth of offerings, security, flexibility and performance. We believe that we compete favorably with our competitors on each of these factors. However, our competitors may be able to respond more quickly and effectively than we can to new or changing opportunities, technologies, standards and customer requirements. An existing competitor or new entrant could introduce new technology that reduces demand for our services. In addition, some of our competitors offer their products or services at a lower price, which has resulted in pricing pressures. Some of our larger competitors have the operating flexibility to bundle competing products and services with other software offerings, including offering them at a lower price as part of a larger sale. 

Intellectual Property 

&#160; 

We rely upon a combination of copyright, trade secret, patent and trademark laws in the United States and other jurisdictions as well as and contractual restrictions, such as confidentiality and license agreements, to establish, protect and grow our proprietary rights. We also enter into confidentiality and proprietary rights agreements with our employees, consultants and other third parties and control access to our proprietary information. 

Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or obtain and use our technology to develop products and services that provide features and functionality that are similar to our solutions. Policing unauthorized use of our technology is difficult. The laws of the countries in which we market our services may offer little or no effective protection of our proprietary technology. Our competitors could also independently develop services equivalent to ours, and our intellectual property rights may not be broad enough for us to prevent competitors from doing so. Reverse engineering, unauthorized copying or other misappropriation of our proprietary technology could enable third parties to benefit from our technology without paying us for it, which would significantly harm our business. 

Companies in our industry own large numbers of patents, copyrights, trademarks, and trade secrets and frequently enter into litigation based on allegations of infringement, misappropriation or other violations of intellectual property or other rights. We currently face, and we expect we will face in the future, allegations that we have infringed the trademarks, copyrights, patents, trade secrets and other intellectual property rights of third parties, including our competitors and non-practicing entities. As we face increasing competition and as our business grows, we will likely face more claims of infringement. For example, on February 6, 2014, Hewlett-Packard Company (&#8220;Hewlett-Packard&#8221;) filed a lawsuit against us in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California that alleges that some of our services infringe the claims of eight of Hewlett-Packard's patents. Hewlett-Packard is seeking unspecified damages and an injunction. On September 23, 2014, BMC Software, Inc. (&#8220;BMC&#8221;) filed a lawsuit against us in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Texas alleging that some of our services willfully infringe the claims of seven BMC patents. On February 12, 2016, BMC filed a second lawsuit against us in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Texas alleging that some of our services willfully infringe the claims of five BMC patents. BMC is seeking damages and an injunction. For additional information, see the sections entitled "Risk Factors" in Item 1A and "Legal Proceedings" in Item 3 of Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

&#160; 

Employees 

&#160; 

As of December 31, 2015 , we had 3,686 &#32;full-time employees worldwide, including 1,065 &#32;in operations, professional services, training and customer support, 1,416 &#32;in sales and marketing, 756 &#32;in research and development and 449 &#32;in general and administrative roles. None of our U.S. employees is represented by a labor union with respect to his or her employment. Employees in certain European countries have the benefits of collective bargaining arrangements at the national level. We have not experienced any work stoppages and we believe our relations with our employees to be good. 

Available Information 

You can obtain copies of our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and other filings with the SEC, and all amendments to these filings, free of charge from our website at www.servicenow.com as soon as reasonably practicable following our filing of any of these reports with the SEC. The public may read and copy any materials we have filed with the SEC at the SEC&#8217;s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Room 1580, Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at www.sec.gov. The contents of these websites are not incorporated into this filing and our references to the URLs for these websites are intended to be inactive textual references only. 

