 ITEM 1. BUSINESS. This business description should be read in conjunction with our audited consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes thereto appearing elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015 (the &#147;2015 Form 10-K&#148;), which are incorporated herein by this reference. 

Company Overview 

IDI, Inc. (&#147;we&#148;, &#147;us&#148;, &#147;our&#148;, &#147;IDI&#148;, or the &#147;Company&#148;), a Delaware corporation, is a data and analytics company providing information and marketing solutions to businesses in a variety of industries. Through powerful analytics, we transform data into intelligence, in a fast and efficient manner, so that our clients can spend their time on what matters most &#150; running their organizations with confidence. Through leading-edge, proprietary technology and a massive data repository, our data and analytical solutions harness the power of data fusion, uncovering the relevance of disparate data points and converting them into comprehensive and insightful views of people, businesses, assets and their interrelationships. We empower clients across markets and industries to better execute all aspects of their business. 

The Company serves the risk management and the consumer marketing industries through its consolidated subsidiaries Interactive Data, LLC and Fluent, LLC (&#147;Fluent&#148;), respectively. Interactive Data provides information solutions to a broad and diverse set of industries including financial services, insurance, healthcare, corporate risk, law enforcement, government, collections, retail, and legal, for purposes including identity verification, location, due diligence, risk management, prevention and detection of fraud and abuse, legislative compliance, and debt recovery. Fluent provides people-based, digital marketing solutions to leading consumer brands and direct marketers utilizing Fluent&#146;s proprietary audience data and technology to enable marketers to acquire their best customers, with precision, at a massive scale. We provide our services to organizations in the United States. 

We provide unique and compelling solutions essential to the daily workflow of organizations within both the public and private sectors. Our next-generation, cloud-based data fusion platform, customer acquisition technology platform, proprietary algorithms, and massive database consisting of public record, proprietary, and publicly-available data, as well as a unique, first-party database of self-reported information on millions of consumers, enables the delivery of differentiated products and solutions used for a variety of essential functions throughout the customer life cycle &#150; from customer identification and authentication, through investigation and validation, to customer acquisition and retention. 

Company Evolution 

Previously, we provided advertising services in the out-of-home advertising industry in China under the name Tiger Media, Inc. (&#147;Tiger Media&#148;). On March 21, 2015 Tiger Media completed the acquisition of The Best One, Inc. (&#147;TBO&#148;). In the transaction, TBO became a wholly owned subsidiary of Tiger Media, with TBO changing its name to IDI Holdings, LLC and Tiger Media changing its name to IDI, Inc. TBO was a holding company engaged in the acquisition of operating businesses and the acquisition and development of technology assets across various industries. Previously, on October 2, 2014, TBO acquired 100% of the membership interests of Interactive Data. Historically, Interactive Data provided data solutions and services to the Accounts Receivable Management industry, consisting primarily of collection agencies, collection law firms, and debt buyers, for location and identity verification, legislative compliance and debt recovery. Interactive Data now serves the entirety of the risk management industry. Through leading-edge, proprietary technology, an advanced systems architecture, and a massive data repository, Interactive Data addresses the rapidly growing need for actionable intelligence. 

On December 9, 2015, we completed the acquisition of Fluent with certain transactions effective December 8, 2015. Fluent is a leader in people-based digital marketing and customer acquisition, serving over 500 leading consumer brands and direct marketers. Fluent&#146;s proprietary audience data and robust ad-serving technology enables marketers to acquire their best customers, with precision, at a massive scale. Leveraging compelling content, unique first-party data assets, and real-time survey interaction with customers, Fluent has helped marketers acquire millions of new prospective customers since its inception. 

IDI&#146;s principal executive offices are located at 2650 North Military Trail, Suite 300, Boca Raton, Florida 33431 and our telephone number is (561) 757-4000. Our Internet websites are www.ididata.com and www.fluentco.com . The website addresses provided in this Form 10-K are not intended to function as a hyperlink and information obtained on the websites is not and should not be considered part of this Form 10-K and is not incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K or any filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the &#147;SEC&#148;). Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to reports filed or furnished pursuant to Sections 13(a) and 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, are available, free of charge, on IDI&#146;s Investor Relations website at www.ididata.com as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. You may also read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC&#146;s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. You may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC also maintains an Internet website located at http://www.sec.gov that contains the information we file or furnish electronically with the SEC. 

&#160;

Our Markets 

The target markets for our data and analytical solutions consist primarily of businesses within the risk management and consumer marketing and advertising industries. For risk management, we help identify, assess and mitigate risks, as well as verify, enhance and add to clients&#146; current knowledge of individuals, businesses, assets, and the interrelationships to support their operations and revenue generating initiatives. For consumer marketing, we use a people-based approach, leveraging data collection and analytics to aggregate information from multiple sources and consolidate the information into in-depth, robust user profiles that enables our customers to contact users across multiple channels. Using our data assets, we deliver customers with actionable results that drive marketing and other business initiatives forward. 

Data fusion analytics and the information derived therefrom is the primary service product for risk management associated with key purchasers such as banking and financial services companies, insurance companies, healthcare companies, law enforcement and government, collection agencies, law firms, retail, telecommunications companies and private investigative firms. Primary use cases include, but are not limited to, obtaining information on consumers, businesses and assets (and their interrelationships) to facilitate the location of individuals and assets, identity verification, and to support criminal, legal, financial, insurance, and corporate investigations, due diligence and the assessment of counterparty risk. 

International Data Corporation (IDC), a global provider of market intelligence and advisory services, estimates, in a November 2015 study, that worldwide business analytics services spending will reach $58.6 billion in 2015 and $101.9 billion in 2019, representing a compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of 14.7%. The big data and analytics sector continues to grow at an accelerated pace due to the proliferation of data generated by technological advancements and changing consumer behavior. Continued, rapid adoption and use of smartphones and other mobile devices, social media and online purchasing channels, and the necessity of organizations to sort through this sea of data to glean actionable intelligence to support their daily operations, serve as key drivers of the sector&#146;s growth.

People-based marketing is a method of deterministically targeting consumers across various marketing channels and devices, as opposed to probabilistic, cookie-based targeting that has proven less effective both because it is backward-looking and because in this mobile-first world, support for cookies on mobile devices is infrequent or non-existent. We facilitate people-based marketing by specializing in the declarative acquisition of personally identifiable information on behalf of our clients, such as email addresses, which can be used for traditional email marketing, but also increasingly for the precise targeting of ads to individuals across mobile, social, search, video, and display advertising. We help organizations better engage their customers, manage their audience distribution to optimize media spend, and provide consumers with better experiences and access to the things that matter most to them. 

Employing a &#147;performance-based&#148; pricing model for online customer acquisition, rather than a cost-per-thousand impressions (&#147;CPM&#148;) model, our clients only pay when consumers take meaningful action(s) in response to the marketing communications they are presented with, such as joining a loyalty club, signing up for an email marketing list, installing a mobile application, paying for a subscription, or any number of other ways of actively responding to an ad (as opposed to simply viewing an ad). 

According to the Interactive Advertising Bureau&#146;s (IAB) &#147;Internet Advertising Revenue Report, 2015 first six months results,&#148; published October 2015, performance-based advertising now accounts for 66% of total U.S. digital advertising spending. Total digital ad spend in the U.S. was $27.5 billion for the first half of 2015, a 19.0% increase over the first 6 months of 2014. According to the IAB, U.S. digital ad spend hit $15 billion in the third quarter of 2015, making it the highest quarter on record and a 23% increase over the third quarter in 2014. According to Magna Global, digital ad spend is projected to increase to $57.76 billion in 2015 and $66.3 billion in 2016, a CAGR of about 16% and will surpass television in 2016 to become the #1 media category, one year earlier than previously expected. 

Our Segments 

The Company&#146;s operations are organized in two reportable segments: (i) Information Services and (ii) Performance Marketing. For additional financial information regarding our two reportable segments, please refer to Note 16 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements set forth in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Information Services 

Leveraging leading-edge technology, proprietary algorithms, and massive datasets, and through intuitive and powerful analytical applications, we provide data and analytical solutions for businesses within the risk management and consumer marketing industries. These businesses use our services to acquire new customers, identify cross-selling opportunities, collect debt, verify consumer identities, investigate fraud and abuse, mitigate risk, and to connect and analyze online, offline, customer and partner data to better know their customers. The core capabilities and technology systems in our Information Services segment allow us to serve multiple industries and solve a broad range of business issues. Products within our Information Services segment include: 

idiCORE&#153; &#150; a forthcoming platform that provides instant, comprehensive views of individuals, businesses, assets and their interrelationships. idiCORE is an advanced analytical solution to be used across multiple industries, including law enforcement, government, financial services, insurance, and corporate risk. 

&#160;

idiBASIC&#153; - a streamlined consumer verification and location solution. Use cases include identity verification for retail transactions and skip tracing for a multitude of industries, including collection agencies, law firms, bail bond agents, and process servers. 

idiVERIFIED&#153; - offers a risk-free solution for collection professionals, greatly enhancing judgment recovery efforts. We utilize numerous proprietary data sources, coupled with manual verification methods, to discover debtor assets for garnishment and seizure. 

Batch Processing - leveraging a massive consumer database and advanced data analytics, we verify and augment client data, providing insight for a variety of uses within a large number of industries. Batch processing is conducted through secure file transfers or real-time data flow. 

Hosted Customer Acquisition &#150; empowering clients to rapidly grow their prospective customer base by using declarative data to identify and acquire their best customers at massive scale and connect with them. 

Audience Now &#150; leveraging our massive database to create audience segments that can be used by clients for programmatic advertising purchases across multiple channels. 

Performance Marketing 

Performance Marketing deterministically targets consumers across various marketing channels and devices, through the user-supplied acquisition of personally identifiable information on behalf of our clients, such as email addresses, other identifying information and responses to dynamically populated survey questions, which can be used for traditional email marketing but also increasingly for the precise targeting of ads to individuals across mobile, social, search, video, and display advertising. We help brands, advertisers and marketers find the right customers and better engage with their customers, manage their audience distribution to optimize media spend, and provide consumers with better experiences and access to the things that matter most to them. Products within our Performance Marketing segment include: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; LiveConnect &#150; enabling our clients to reconnect with their users by identifying when those users are accessible to receive targeted ads. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Display Advertising - using our targeted data acquisition strategy and the compelling content of our owned and operated promotional websites to drive targeted users to our clients&#146; sites. Our Competitive Strengths 

Innovative and Proprietary Technology - We have developed our next-generation data fusion platform, idiCORE, using a cloud-based infrastructure, proprietary algorithms and linking technology, and a massive data repository. This technology allows us to assimilate, structure, and fuse billions of records to create comprehensive views of individuals and to present this view essentially in real time. We believe idiCORE&#146;s speed, power, and scalability is a differentiator in the marketplace and will enable organizations to seamlessly answer questions and solve complex problems encountered throughout their daily workflow. Built to be data and industry agnostic, idiCORE provides flexibility in design and application to address the needs of a broad and diverse set of industries and markets. Powerful analytics and machine learning are transforming the way organizations view their data and conduct their operations. idiCORE&#146;s proprietary algorithms, coupled with machine learning, create powerful connections and enable predictive analysis to better inform organizations. Moreover, machine learning enables adaptation and evolution of idiCORE, whereby our systems and solutions build upon connections and patterns identified over time such that we believe our offerings will improve over time, presenting a significant competitive advantage over similar offerings in the market. We will continue to invest to ensure that our big data capabilities remain on the leading edge. 

Our patent pending ad-serving and customer acquisition technology platform enables brands to target, engage, qualify, and communicate with relevant consumers across mobile, web and in-app content environments. Proprietary targeting algorithms and a dynamic survey module matches consumers with the most relevant advertisers, content, and media across all devices. We optimize campaigns by leveraging each advertiser&#146;s performance data. Most valuable customer profiles (&#147;MVCs&#148;), as determined by factors such as individual-level engagement with ads and/or conversion or purchasing histories, are used to fuel lookalike modeling enabling 

&#160;

the targeting of individuals who share similar attributes to those MVCs. This results in broadening the scale of acquisition campaigns and enhancing campaign performance over time. The majority of our ads are served on, and qualified customers are acquired on, owned-and-operated proprietary, promotional websites. These sites provide users with promotional offers, content and information in targeted verticals such as retail and savings, job listings and careers, personal finance and other financial products using our targeted ad-serving and customer acquisition capabilities. We target verticals that align with our current and projected stable of advertising clients, as well as our knowledge of broader trends in the current advertising marketplace. 

Data Assets &#150; Data is the lifeblood of our solutions. We compile massive, disparate datasets, both structured and unstructured, consisting of public record data, proprietary data, and publicly-available data. Such data includes financial, identity, bankruptcy, lien, judgment, automotive, phone and other information aggregated from public record repositories, financial institutions, companies specializing in data aggregation, and publicly-available sources, as well as our own, proprietary data assets, such as self-reported consumer information obtained from our proprietary, owned websites. We believe that the combination of our next-generation data fusion technology, our massive, aggregated data repository, and significant first-party data assets is unique within both the risk management and consumer marketing industries. We will continuously work to expand the breadth and depth of our data assets to ensure that we are transforming data into greater intelligence, enabling our clients to enhance their decision-making capabilities across all markets and industries. 

Better and More Efficient Solutions - As we invest in our technology and data assets, we will always do so with a view towards providing solutions that deliver scale and efficiency. Our cloud-based infrastructure provides elasticity to our operating environment, affording us the ability to scale upon demand due to periods of heightened development or increased client demand, and to reduce processing power during non-peak periods, providing greater cost efficiencies than traditional constructs. Historically, in order to process the massive, unstructured datasets and provide the solutions that we offer, it would be necessary to buildout a large-scale data center, requiring significant expenditures on the data center, hardware, software, and personnel. Our cloud-based infrastructure provides even greater scale, albeit far more cost efficient, which permits us to deliver a differentiated product or solution at a better price. Whether through this cloud-based infrastructure or through the development and enhancement of solutions to address a broad spectrum of challenges for a given market or industry, we approach these challenges in ways to bring efficiencies to our model, which, again, translate to reduced cost to clients. This will ensure that we remain client-centric at all times and that we build and maintain a competitive advantage in our markets. 

Superior Personnel - People are what drive our organization. Our management team is comprised of leaders in their respective industries. We have a long history and proven experience in the big data and analytics sector, where we previously built the leading companies in our space, creating significant shareholder value. As well, we have built teams of individuals with expertise in various fields within the organization. Our Seattle-based technology team is comprised of expert data scientists, programmers, and technologists from top-tier organizations such as Microsoft, Boeing, and Cray. We will continue to invest in attracting top-tier talent to advance our corporate objectives. 

Data Assets 

We compile massive, disparate datasets, both structured and unstructured, consisting of public record data, proprietary data, and publicly-available data. Such data includes financial, identity, bankruptcy, lien, judgment, automotive, phone and other information aggregated from financial institutions, companies specializing in data aggregation, public record repositories, and publicly-available sources. Through next-generation technology and proprietary algorithms, we efficiently ingest these datasets, structure them into common form, and utilize the process of data fusion to connect or fuse the data so as to create an actionable view of the data for various use cases.

In addition, our technology platforms and systems enable us to collect four types of user data: 1) Meta-data: information gleaned by the system such as the user&#146;s IP address, browser type, operating system, and, for mobile connected devices, the device model, device ID, browser, and mobile carrier; 2) Demographic data: self-reported user information such as name, address, gender, email address and telephone number; 3) Ethnographic data: user responses to dynamically curated and served survey questions; and, 4) Behavioral data: purchase history, interests, likes and dislikes, preferences and frequencies. We also use third-party services in order to verify and supplement some of the data collected. 

This data is stored and analyzed, and can be further enhanced in real-time when consumers respond to dynamically populated survey questions, enabling precise targeting and profiling for ad serving and customer acquisition purposes. By using the system and the insights gained, we can develop deep and relevant insights into each individual consumer. 

The platform and user volume has enabled us to accumulate a massive, owned data warehouse, which contains: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; First party data on over 120 million consumers, &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; 1.2 billion survey responses and growing by 5.5 million responses a day, and &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; More than 500,000 unique user registrations per day. &#160;

We believe that our platform, systems, expertise and user database affords us numerous growth opportunities. 

Paid CRM - &#160; leverage our database to accelerate the retargeting of consumers in order to drive greater customer lifetime value (CLV) using paid media such as Google, Facebook, paid search, display and mobile platforms. 

Owned CRM - &#160; develop a robust strategy and products designed to retarget consumers and drive greater CLV leveraging to Company-owned, higher-margin channels including permission-based email marketing, push notifications, text messaging and telephone marketing. 

Data Products - &#160; monetize our proprietary data assets outside of our own platform by delivering ad targeting and consumer insights solutions (e.g., development of custom audiences for targeting in specific verticals such as finance and insurance). 

Our Sales, Distribution and Marketing 

Inside Sales 

Our inside sales team cultivates relationships, and ultimately closes business, with their end-user markets. These professionals are relationship-based sellers with experience identifying clients&#146; needs and clearly explaining and defining products that provide solutions to those needs. 

Outside Sales 

While the majority of our direct sales efforts are supported through professional inside sales staff, major accounts within certain industries require a more personal, face-to-face sales approach. We are expanding our sales organization to include professionals that meet this need. 

Distributors, Resellers, and Strategic Partners 

In conjunction with direct-to-client sales efforts, we engage value-added distributors, resellers, and strategic partners that have a significant foothold in many of the industries that we have not historically served, as well as to further penetrate those industries that we serve. This allows us to rapidly penetrate these markets while also significantly reducing overhead associated with direct sales and support efforts. 

Marketing 

We have implemented several methods to market our products, including participation in trade shows and seminars, advertising, distribution of sales literature and product specifications and ongoing communication with prospective clients, distributors, resellers, and strategic partners, and our installed base of current clients. 

Our Strategy 

We are committed to developing unique technology and using our analytical capabilities to deliver solutions that transform the way organizations view data. We are advancing our business through a &#147;three-prong,&#148; strategic approach: 

The Risk Management industry &#150; providing actionable intelligence in support of such use cases as the verification and authentication of consumer identities, due diligence, prevention of fraud and abuse, legislative compliance, and debt collection. 

The Consumer Marketing industry &#150; deploying advanced data analytics to better identify and segment consumers in support of highly-scalable, people-based marketing, resulting in increased customer acquisition and retention. 

Custom Analytics &#150; enabling the public and private sectors to leverage our advanced data fusion platform and analytical applications to obtain insight essential to decision-making processes throughout each client organization. 

&#160;

We will remain focused on building the business organically and will continue to devote resources to the following to ensure that we are well positioned within the industry: 

Innovative and Proprietary Technology - We developed unique, next-generation data fusion and customer acquisition platforms. Our data fusion platform, idiCORE, uses a cloud-based infrastructure, proprietary algorithms and linking technology, and a massive data repository. Our innovative processes allow us to assimilate, structure, and fuse massive, disparate datasets to create comprehensive views of individuals and to present these views essentially in real time through intelligent applications. We believe idiCORE&#146;s speed, power, and scalability is transformative to the marketplace, changing the way organizations view data, and providing intelligence otherwise unattainable from a singular view of disparate data. Built to be data and industry agnostic, idiCORE provides flexibility in design and application to address the needs of a broad and diverse set of industries and markets. idiCORE&#146;s proprietary algorithms, coupled with machine learning, create powerful connections and enable predictive analysis and modeling to better inform organizations across the entire business and consumer lifecycle. We will continually develop and invest in our big data technology and capabilities, ensuring we remain on the leading edge. 

Our patent pending ad-serving and customer acquisition technology platform enables brands to target, engage, qualify, and communicate with relevant consumers across mobile, web and in-app content environments. Proprietary targeting algorithms and a dynamic survey module matches consumers with the most relevant advertisers, content, and media across all devices. We optimize campaigns by leveraging each advertiser&#146;s performance data. Most valuable customer profiles (&#147;MVCs&#148;), as determined by factors such as individual-level engagement with ads and/or conversion or purchasing histories, are used to fuel lookalike modeling enabling the targeting of individuals who share similar attributes to those MVCs. This results in broadening the scale of acquisition campaigns and enhancing campaign performance over time. The majority of our ads are served on, and qualified customers are acquired on, owned-and-operated proprietary, promotional websites. The owned and operated sites provide users with promotional offers, content and information in targeted verticals such as retail and savings, job listings and careers, personal finance and other financial products using our targeted ad-serving and customer acquisition capabilities. We target verticals that align with our current and projected stable of advertising clients, as well as our knowledge of broader trends in the current advertising marketplace. 

Data Assets &#150; Through data, we power analytical processes that enable diverse use cases &#150; from investigating crime and identifying fraud and abuse, to targeting the ideal consumer of a given product. As data is an integral part of our solutions, we will continuously expand the breadth and depth of our data assets. The advancement of technology over the last two decades, and the enormous amount of data generated therefrom, has caused a seismic shift in the relevance of data and the intelligence gleaned from modern data science. We remain focused on identifying and acquiring key assets generated from this data revolution. 

Better and More Efficient Solutions - We build highly scalable and efficient solutions. Our platforms are used by a broad and diverse set of clients across markets and industries. We are dedicated to maintaining a dynamic, client-centric environment, which we believe differentiates us from competition in the marketplace. In building solutions, we focus on specific, complex problems for our clients, as well as creating solutions that address broad-based, industry-wide challenges. In doing so, we aim to achieve scale, while delivering greater efficiency to clients. Traditionally, our clients have become highly reliant on the services that we provide in their daily workflow. Enabling clients to perform their decision-making processes with greater confidence, while eliminating operational inefficiencies, will yield high client retention and spend. 

Superior Personnel - Our team has built industry-leading companies within their respective fields. We are well positioned to execute on our plans of expansion within our targeted industries. To ensure success, we are committed to investing in extraordinary talent in various fields, including big data analytics (machine learning), cloud, mobile, and marketing. 

Strategic Acquisitions - In addition to organic growth, we will make acquisitions of businesses or technologies that advance our objectives and that enhance shareholder value. We are focused on identifying complimentary technologies and businesses that advance our &#147;three-prong&#148; strategic approach. The acquisition of Fluent is an example of serving as our entr&#233;e into the consumer marketing industry while offering a multitude of beneficial synergies. The acquisition provides greater diversity of customers, markets, products, and revenues generated therefrom, within the significantly larger addressable market of the consumer marketing industry. Further, the acquisition presents substantial revenue growth opportunities within the U.S. through new markets, cross-selling opportunities, the application of our data fusion technology to the consumer marketing industry, the enhancement of existing products and solutions, the development and commercialization of new products and solutions, and the increased aggregation and fusion of consumer data, including our massive first-party consumer database, creating more robust consumer profiles to be utilized for both risk management and consumer marketing, among other uses. While we maintain our long-term strategy of increasing revenue, gaining market share and enhancing shareholder value through internal development and organic growth, we will continually seek to identify and pursue acquisition opportunities that fit within our strategy. 

&#160;

Product Development &#38; Suppliers 

The big data and analytics sector is characterized by rapidly changing technology, standards and client demands. Our future success in this space depends in large part upon (i) the continued development and commercialization of our next generation data fusion engine that will allow us to deliver new, differentiated products and solutions that meet industry standards, perform successfully and simplify client workflow so clients can do more with fewer resources, in less time, and (ii) forging new, and fostering existing, relationships with data suppliers and other vendors to ensure the continued increase in breadth and depth of data, as well as technology and infrastructure services. 

Our Competition 

Competition in the big data and analytics sector centers on innovation, product stability, pricing and customer service. The market for our products and services is highly competitive and is subject to constant change. We compete on the basis of differentiated solutions, analytical capabilities, integration with our clients&#146; technology, client relationships, service stability, innovation and price. We believe we are well-positioned to effectively compete on all fronts. 

In our Information Services segment, our competitors vary widely in size and nature of the products and services they offer. There are a large number of competitors who offer competing products and services in specialized areas, such as fraud prevention, risk management and decisioning solutions. We believe our next-generation data fusion technology, analytical capabilities, robust database, and intelligent design of our cloud-based infrastructure will allow us to differentiate ourselves from our competition in flexibility, capability, service and price. 

In our Performance Marketing segment, our traditional competitors have been database marketing services providers, online and traditional media companies, and advertising agencies. We believe the competitive landscape is changing and becoming more complex. We believe our ad-serving and data and customer acquisition technology platform enables our clients to better target, engage, qualify, and communicate with relevant consumers across mobile, web and in-app content environments than our competitors. 

Some of our competitors have substantially greater financial, technical, sales and marketing resources, better name recognition and a larger customer base. Even if we introduce advanced products that meet evolving customer requirements in a timely manner, there can be no assurance that our new products will gain market acceptance. 

Certain companies in the big data and analytics sector have expanded their product lines or technologies in recent years as a result of acquisitions. Further, more companies have developed products which conform to existing and emerging industry standards and have sought to compete on the basis of price. We anticipate increased competition from large data and analytics vendors. Increased competition in the big data and analytics sector could result in significant price competition, reduced profit margins or loss of market share, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully in the future with current or new competitors. 

Concentration of Customers 

One customer accounted for 14% of the Company&#146;s total revenue for the year ended December 31, 2015. Such customer, however, manages the ad platforms of leading search engines and represents a consortium of advertisers, which limits overall concentration risk. 

Our Intellectual Property 

Our success and ability to compete are highly dependent upon our proprietary technology. We rely primarily upon a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as other intellectual property laws, and confidentiality procedures and contractual agreements, such as non-disclosure agreements to protect our proprietary technology. We recently filed a patent application on our proprietary ad serving and customer acquisition platform and system. We have also entered into various agreements with our suppliers, resellers and certain clients to limit access to and disclosure of proprietary information. There can be no assurance that the steps taken to protect our intellectual property will be adequate to prevent misappropriation of such technology or that our competitors will not independently develop technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to our technology. 

We use data acquired through licensing rights from approximately 12 providers. The loss of any one of these providers could have an immediate near-term impact on our financial position, results of operations, and liquidity. We rely on declarative, first-party data supplied by our users and supplemented and verified with third party data sources. 

&#160;

Regulatory Matters 

Our business is subject to various federal, state, and local laws, rules, and regulations, including, without limitation, the Driver&#146;s Privacy Protection Act (18 U.S.C. &#167;&#167; 2721-2725) (&#147;DPPA&#148;), and the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (15 U.S.C. &#167;&#167; 6801-6809) (&#147;GLBA&#148;). A change in any one of a number of the laws, rules, or regulations applicable to our business and/or the enactment of future legislation could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and our ability to provide products or services to its customers. 

In addition, we are subject to a variety of federal, state, and local laws, rules and regulations applicable to lead generation, online advertising, commercial email marketing, telemarketing and privacy, including, but not limited to, the Federal Trade Commission Act (the &#147;FTC Act&#148;), Telephone Consumer Protection Act (&#147;TCPA&#148;), Do Not Call Implementation Act, Controlling the Assault of Non-Solicited Pornography and Marketing Act of 2003 (&#147;CAN-SPAM&#148;), Telemarketing Sales Rule (&#147;TSR&#148;) and California Business &#38; Professions Code &#167; 17529 (the &#147;California Anti-Spam Act&#148;). These laws, rules and regulations are constantly changing and keeping our business in compliance with or bringing our business into compliance with new laws may be costly, affect our revenue and harm our financial results. 

Seasonality 

Our results are subject to seasonal fluctuation. Historically, certain products within our Information Services segment experience strength during the second and third quarters, while other products, including within our Performance Marketing segment, tend to be strongest in the fourth quarter, due to holiday advertising budgets, which traditionally carry over into the first quarter. 

Management Team 

Our management team has a track record of strong performance and significant expertise in the markets we serve. We have built the leading companies in our industry, creating significant shareholder value. We continue to attract and retain experienced management talent for our business. Our team has deep knowledge of the big data and analytics sector and the online marketing and digital advertising industry, and expertise across the various industries that we serve. Our team has overseen the expansion of our proprietary technology platforms, while managing ongoing initiatives and the strategic acquisition of synergistic businesses and technologies. As a result, we are well positioned to continue to successfully drive growth both organically and through acquisitions. 

Our Employees 

We employ a total of 142 persons. None of our employees are represented by a labor organization, and none are party to any collective bargaining agreement. We have not experienced any work stoppages and consider our relations with our employees to be good. Competition in the recruiting of personnel in the big data and analytics sector is intense. We believe that our future success will depend in part on our continued ability to hire, motivate and retain qualified sales and marketing, executive and administrative and technical personnel. To date, we have not experienced significant difficulties in attracting or retaining qualified employees. 

Recent Developments 

On March 9, 2016, the Board of Directors appointed Derek Dubner, who has served as our Co-Chief Executive Officer since March 21, 2015, as Chief Executive Officer of the Company and removed Peter Tan as Co-Chief Executive Officer. 

On March 11, 2016, the Company issued 1,800,220 shares (the &#147;Series A Earn-Out Shares&#148;) of the Company&#146;s Series A Non-Voting Convertible Preferred Stock (the &#147;Series A Preferred&#148;) and 900,108 shares (the &#147;Common Earn-Out Shares,&#148; and together with Series A Earn-Out Shares, the &#147;Earn-Out Shares&#148;) of the Company&#146;s Common Stock, which shares represent &#147;earn-out&#148; consideration paid in accordance with the TBO Merger, upon a determination by the Board of Directors that certain financial targets had been achieved as set forth in the Merger Agreement and Plan of Reorganization governing the TBO Merger. The issuance of the Earn-Out Shares is exempt from the registration requirements of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the &#147;1933 Act&#148;) in accordance with Section 4(a)(2) of the 1933 Act. 

On March 11, 2016, the Company amended the Certificate of Designations of the Series A Preferred to provide for the conversion of the Series A Preferred into Common Stock of the Company on a one-for-one basis. Previously, the Series A Preferred were convertible in connection with a sale of any such shares to a non-affiliate of the Company. 

&#160;

As a result, on March 11, 2016 a total of 5,719,822 outstanding shares of Series A Preferred converted into an equal number of shares of the Company&#146;s Common Stock (the &#147;Conversion Shares&#148;). 

Effective March 11, 2016, the Board of Directors approved the issuance of an aggregate of 1,069,728 shares the (&#147;Exchange Shares&#148;) of Common Stock in exchange for warrants to purchase shares of Common Stock previously issued to four stockholders of the Company, including Frost Gamma. No additional consideration was paid by the stockholders and the warrants were cancelled. As of March 17, 2016, an aggregate of 149,925 Exchange Shares have been issued. 

In addition to the foregoing issuances, on March 9, 2016, the Board of Directors approved the issuance of up to 12,000 shares of restricted shares of Common Stock (the &#147;Vendor Shares&#148;) to a vendor of the Company as additional consideration for services rendered. The Vendor Shares vest in twelve equal monthly installments. 

Following the conversion of the Series A Preferred and the issuance of the Exchange Shares and Vendor Shares, the Company will have approximately 46.9 million shares of Common Stock outstanding. 

Executive Officers 

Our executive officers are as follows: 

&#160;

Name 

&#160; Position 

Michael Brauser &#160; Executive Chairman of the Board Derek Dubner &#160; Chief Executive Officer and Director Aaron Solomon &#160; Interim Chief Financial Officer James Reilly &#160; President and Chief Operating Officer Mr. Michael H. Brauser, 60, has served as our Executive Chairman and principal executive officer since June 16, 2015. He has been the manager of, and an investor with, Marlin Capital Partners, LLC (&#147;Marlin Capital&#148;), a private investment company, since 2003. From 1999 to 2002, he served as president and chief executive officer of Naviant, Inc. (eDirect, Inc.), an internet marketing company. He also was a founder of Seisint, Inc. (eData.com, Inc.). Mr. Brauser served as co-chairman of the board of directors of InterCLICK (now a part of Yahoo Inc. (NASDAQ: YHOO)), from August 2007 to December 2011. Mr. Brauser also served as co-chairman of the board of directors of Chromodex, Inc., an innovative natural products company, from October 2011 to February 2015. 

Mr. Derek Dubner, 44, presently serves as the Chief Executive Officer and as a member of the board of directors of IDI, as well as Chief Executive Officer of Interactive Data. Mr. Dubner has served as our Co-Chief Executive Officer since March 21, 2015, and as our Chief Executive Officer since March 9, 2016. Mr. Dubner has over 15 years of experience in the big data and analytics sector. Mr. Dubner has served as the Chief Executive Officer of TBO, and its subsidiary, Interactive Data, since October 2014. Prior to TBO, Mr. Dubner served as General Counsel of TransUnion Risk and Alternative Data Solutions, Inc. from December 2013 to June 2014. Mr. Dubner served as General Counsel and Secretary of TLO, LLC, a leading information solutions provider, from inception in 2009 through the sale of substantially all of the assets to TransUnion in December 2013. 

Mr. Aaron Solomon, 33, has served as our Interim Chief Financial Officer since June 30, 2015, has served as the Company&#146;s VP of Finance and Administration since June 16, 2015 and served as VP of Finance and Administration of the Company&#146;s subsidiary, IDI Holdings, LLC since February 26, 2015. From September 2012 until February 2015, Mr. Solomon served as Vice President and Controller of Fleet Advantage, a leading leasing and technology company specializing in truck fleet business analytics, equipment financing, and life cycle management. From September 2008 until September 2012, Mr. Solomon serviced as Vice President and Controller of Athenian Venture Partners, a venture capital fund investing in the Information Technology and Healthcare industries. Mr. Solomon began his career at Grant Thornton LLP. Mr. Solomon is an active CPA. 

Mr. James Reilly, 41, has served as our President and Chief Operating Officer since June 2015. Mr. Reilly also serves as the President and Chief Operating Officer of two of the Company&#146;s consolidated subsidiaries, IDI Holdings, LLC and Interactive Data, positions he has held since October 2014. From December 2013 through September 2014, Mr. Reilly served as Senior Vice President of TransUnion Risk and Alternative Data Solutions, Inc. (&#147;TransUnion&#148;). From August 2010 through its acquisition of substantially all of the assets by TransUnion in December 2013, Mr. Reilly served as Senior Vice President of TLO, LLC. 

&#160;

