 Item 1: Business 

The Company 

W.W. Grainger, Inc., incorporated in the State of Illinois in 1928, is a broad line distributor of maintenance, repair and operating (MRO) supplies and other related products and services used by businesses and institutions primarily in the United States and Canada, with presence also in Europe, Asia and Latin America. In this report, the words &#8220;Grainger&#8221; or &#8220;Company&#8221; mean W.W. Grainger, Inc. and its subsidiaries. 

During 2015, Grainger acquired Cromwell Group (Holdings) Limited (Cromwell), a broad line distributor of MRO supplies in the United Kingdom. See the Other Businesses discussion below for a description of the business. 

Grainger uses a combination of multichannel and single channel online business models to provide customers with a range of options for finding and purchasing products, utilizing sales representatives, contact centers, direct marketing materials, catalogs and eCommerce. Grainger serves approximately 3 &#32;million customers worldwide through a network of highly integrated distribution centers, websites and branches. 

Products are regularly added to and deleted from Grainger's product lines on the basis of customer demand, market research, recommendations of suppliers, sales volumes and other factors. 

Grainger's centralized business support functions provide coordination and guidance in the areas of accounting and finance, business development, communications and investor relations, compensation and benefits, information systems, health and safety, global supply chain functions, human resources, risk management, internal audit, legal, real estate, security, tax and treasury. These services are provided in varying degrees to all business units. 

Grainger&#8217;s two reportable segments are the United States and Canada, and they are described further below. Other businesses include Zoro Tools, Inc. (Zoro), the single channel online business in the United States, and operations in Europe, Asia and Latin America. These businesses generate revenue through the distribution of maintenance, repair and operating supplies and products and provide related services. For segment and geographical information and consolidated net sales and operating earnings, see &#8220;Item 7: Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations&#8221; and Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

United States 

The United States business offers a broad selection of maintenance, repair and operating supplies and other related products and services through sales representatives, catalogs, eCommerce and local branches. A combination of product breadth, local availability, speed of delivery, detailed product information and competitively priced products and services is provided by this business. Products offered include material handling equipment, safety and security supplies, lighting and electrical products, power and hand tools, pumps and plumbing supplies, cleaning and maintenance supplies, building and home inspection supplies, vehicle and fleet components and many other items primarily focused on the facilities maintenance market. Services offered primarily relate to inventory management solutions. In 2015, service fee revenue represented less than 1% of sales. 

The majority of the products sold by the United States business are well-recognized nationally branded products. In addition, 22% of 2015 sales were private label items bearing Grainger&#8217;s registered trademarks, such as DAYTON&#174; motors, power transmission, HVAC and material handling equipment, SPEEDAIRE&#174; air compressors, AIR HANDLER&#174; air filtration equipment, TOUGH GUY&#174; cleaning products, WESTWARD&#174; tools, CONDOR&#174; safety products and LUMAPRO&#174; lighting products. Grainger has taken steps to protect these trademarks against infringement and believes that they will remain available for future use in its business. The United States business purchases products for sale from more than 2,500 &#32;key suppliers, most of which are manufacturers. Through a global sourcing operation, the business procures competitively priced, high-quality products produced outside the United States from approximately 400 &#32;suppliers. Grainger sells these items primarily under the private label brands listed above. No single supplier comprised more than 5% &#32;of total purchases and no significant difficulty has been encountered with respect to sources of supply. 

&#32;3 

The United States business operates in all 50 states through a network of distribution centers (DCs), branches and contact centers. Customers range from small and medium-sized businesses to large corporations, government entities and other institutions. They are primarily represented by purchasing managers or workers in facilities maintenance departments and service shops across a wide range of industries such as manufacturing, hospitality, transportation, government, retail, healthcare and education. Sales in 2015 &#32;were made to approximately 1.2 million &#32;customers averaging 105,000 &#32;daily transactions. Approximately 78% of sales are concentrated with large customers and no single customer accounted for more than 3% &#32;of total sales. 

Macro trends around the world are changing the way Grainger's customers behave. The world is more networked both geographically and technologically. Customers want highly tailored solutions with real-time access to information and just-in-time delivery of products and services. Demands for transparency are also increasing as access to information expands. These changes in behaviors are reflected in how customers do business with Grainger as demonstrated in the following chart. 

Customers continue to migrate to online and electronic purchasing platforms such as EDI and eProcurement. Through Grainger.com&#174; and other branded websites, customers have access to approximately 1.4 million &#32; products and serve as prominent channels for the United States business. Grainger.com provides real-time price and product availability and detailed product information and offers advanced features such as product search and compare capabilities. For customers with sophisticated electronic purchasing platforms, Grainger utilizes technology that allows these systems to communicate directly with Grainger.com. eCommerce revenues were $3.3 &#32; billion in 2015, an increase of 16% &#32; versus 2014 and represented 41% of total revenues. 

Another area in which the United States business helps customers be more productive is through inventory management services. KeepStock&#174; inventory solutions is a comprehensive program that includes vendor-managed inventory, customer-managed inventory and on-site vending machines. Grainger's KeepStock program currently provides services to more than 21,000 customers and completed over 10,000 installations in 2015. As of December 31, 2015, there were approximately 54,000 total installations. 

Due to the migration to online and electronic purchasing, Grainger initiated a restructuring that resulted in the closing of 49 branches in 2015. In addition, in January 2016, the intention to close an additional 55 branches in 2016 was announced. As of December 31, 2015, the United States had 330 branches, 19 DCs, 2 national contact centers and 41 regional contact centers, which are co-located within branches. 

&#32;4 

DCs range in size from 45,000 square feet to 1.3 million square feet, the largest of which can stock up to 500,000 products. Automated equipment and processes allow larger DCs to handle the majority of the customer shipping for next-day product availability and replenish the branches that provide same-day availability. The DC network increasingly fulfills a larger portion of customer orders, especially as customers migrate to online and electronic purchasing. In 2015, Grainger began the replacement of its existing DC in New Jersey with the construction of a new 1.3 million square-foot DC, scheduled to open in 2016. The new DC will begin inbound operations in early 2016 and outbound operations in mid-2016. 

Branches serve the immediate needs of customers in their local markets by allowing them to pick up items directly. In addition, branches support local KeepStock operations. The branch network has approximately 2,300 &#32;employees who primarily fulfill counter and will-call product purchases and provide customer service. Grainger's contact center network consists of approximately 1,900 employees who handle about 30,000 orders per day from customer orders via phone, e-mail and fax, a reduction of almost 17% since 2014, as more orders have transitioned to eCommerce and KeepStock. 

The business has a sales force of approximately 3,600 professionals who help businesses and institutions select the right products to find immediate solutions to maintenance problems and reduce operating expenses by utilizing Grainger as a consistent source of supply across multiple locations. In 2015, Grainger continued to expand its sales force to facilitate growth with large customers who typically have more complex purchasing requirements than small and medium-sized customers. 

The Grainger catalog, most recently issued in February 2016 , offers approximately 452,000 facilities maintenance and other products and is used by customers to assist in product selection. The 2016 catalog includes over 86,000 new items and approximately 1.2 &#32;million copies of the catalog were produced. 

Grainger estimates the United States 2015 market for facilities maintenance and related products to be approximately $127 billion, of which Grainger&#8217;s share is approximately 6%. 

Canada 

Acklands &#8211; Grainger Inc. (Acklands &#8211; Grainger) is Canada&#8217;s leading broad line distributor of industrial and safety supplies. This business provides a combination of product breadth, local availability, speed of delivery, detailed product information and competitively priced products and services. 

Acklands &#8211; Grainger distributes tools, fasteners, safety supplies, welding and shop equipment and many other items. The Canadian business serves customers through branches, sales and service representatives and DCs across Canada. In response to the decline in oil prices and the resultant weak economy and MRO market growth, the business initiated a restructuring that resulted in the closure of 16 branches in 2015. As of December 31, 2015, Acklands &#8211; Grainger had 165 branches and 5 DCs. Approximately 14,100 &#32;sales transactions were completed daily. Customers have access to more than 176,000 &#32;stocked products and through a comprehensive catalog, printed in both English and French. There are no plans to produce a new catalog in 2016 due to the transition to Grainger's North America ERP platform in February 2016. In addition, customers can purchase products through Acklandsgrainger.com, a fully bilingual website. In early 2015, the Canadian business opened a 535,000 square-foot DC in the Toronto area. Grainger estimates the 2015 Canadian market for facilities maintenance and related products to be approximately $11 billion, of which Acklands &#8211; Grainger&#8217;s share is approximately 8%. 

Other Businesses 

Included in other businesses is Zoro and operations in Europe, Asia and Latin America. The more significant businesses in this group, those with revenues of more than $100 million in 2015, are described below. 

Cromwell 

Cromwell is a broad line industrial distributor of MRO products in Europe serving approximately 35,000 industrial and manufacturing customers. Headquartered in Leicester, England, Cromwell has 54 United Kingdom branches and 12 international branches. Customers have access to more than 80,000 industrial products through a catalog and through cromwell.co.uk. Grainger estimates the U.K. market for facilities maintenance and related products to be approximately $18 billion, of which Cromwell's share is approximately 1%. 

&#32;5 

Fabory 

The Fabory Group (Fabory) is a European distributor of fasteners, tools and industrial supplies. Fabory is headquartered in Tilburg, the Netherlands. During 2015, Fabory restructured its business and as a result closed 16 locations. As of December 31, 2015, Fabory has 73 branches in 13 &#32;countries. Customers have access to more than 100,000 &#32;products through a catalog and through Fabory.com. Grainger estimates the 2015 European market (in which Fabory has its primary operations) for facilities maintenance and related products, including fasteners, to be approximately $34 billion, of which Fabory&#8217;s share is approximately 1%. 

MonotaRO &#32; 

Grainger operates in Japan and South Korea through its 51% &#32;interest in MonotaRO Co. MonotaRO provides small and mid-sized Japanese businesses with products that help them operate and maintain their facilities. MonotaRO is a catalog and web-based direct marketer with approximately 88% &#32;of orders being conducted through Monotaro.com, through which customers have access to more than 8 million products. MonotaRO has no branches or sales force and fulfills all orders from three DCs, the largest of which is a 425,000 square-foot DC in the Osaka area. Grainger estimates the 2015 Japanese market for facilities maintenance and related products to be approximately $37 billion, of which MonotaRO&#8217;s share is approximately 1%. 

Grainger Mexico &#32; 

Grainger&#8217;s operations in Mexico provide local businesses with MRO supplies and other related products primarily from Mexico and the United States. The business in Mexico distributes products through a network of branches and two DCs where customers have access to approximately 284,000 &#32;products through a Spanish-language catalog and through Grainger.com.mx. Grainger estimates the 2015 Mexican market for facilities maintenance and related products to be approximately $10 billion, of which Grainger Mexico&#8217;s share is approximately 1%. 

Zoro 

Zoro is an online distributor of MRO products serving U.S. businesses and consumers through its website, Zoro.com. Zoro serves Canadian customers through ZoroCanada.com via export from the United States. Zoro offers a broad selection of more than one million items at single, competitive prices. Zoro has no branches or sales force, and customer orders are fulfilled through the Grainger U.S. supply chain. 

Seasonality 

Grainger&#8217;s business in general is not seasonal, however, there are some products that typically sell more often during the winter or summer season. In any given month, unusual weather patterns, i.e., unusually hot or cold weather, could impact the sales volumes of these products, either positively or negatively. 

Competition 

Grainger faces competition in all the markets it serves, from manufacturers (including some of its own suppliers) that sell directly to certain segments of the market, wholesale distributors, catalog houses, retail enterprises and Internet-based businesses. Grainger provides local product availability, a broad product line, sales representatives, competitive pricing, catalogs (which include product descriptions and, in certain cases, extensive technical and application data) and electronic and Internet commerce technology. Other services, such as inventory management, are also offered. Grainger believes that it can effectively compete with manufacturers on small orders, but manufacturers may have an advantage in filling large orders. There are several large competitors, although the majority of the market is served by small local and regional competitors. 

Employees 

As of December 31, 2015 , Grainger had approximately 25,800 &#32;employees, of whom approximately 24,400 &#32;were full-time and 1,400 &#32;were part-time or temporary. Grainger has never had a major work stoppage and considers employee relations to be good. 

Website Access to Company Reports 

Grainger makes available, through its website, free of charge, its Annual Report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements and amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after this material is electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission. This material may be accessed by visiting www.grainger.com/investor. 

&#32;6 

