 ITEM 1. DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS Back to Table of Contents 

Overview

The Company was incorporated under the name Creative Learning Products, Inc. in the State of New Jersey on August 31, 1988 and changed its name to Creative Gaming, Inc. in May 1997. The Company changed its name to Management Services, Inc. in October 2006. In August 2008, the Company changed its name to Centriforce Technology Corp. In May 2010, the Company changed its name to ADB International Group, Inc. The Company changed its name to its current name, E-Qure Corp., on August 27, 2014.

On May 12, 2014, the board of directors approved a plan to redomicile from the State of New Jersey to the State of Delaware. In conjunction with the change in domicile the board of directors also approve a 1:100 reverse split of our Common Stock. The redomicile and reverse split were approved by FINRA and became effective on August 4, 2014.

From December 2010 to early 2012, we were engaged in efforts to enter the water treatment industry and began working to develop a new line of water desalination products. We did not generate any revenues from our water desalination development efforts and, as a result, we determined that it would be in the best interests of the Company and our shareholders to devote our limited financial and personnel resources to pursue joint ventures to become a distributor of existing water treatment technology products manufactured by others. We made this determination based upon the business relationships that we had developed while we were engaged in pursuing the development of water desalination products, which caused us to believe that we could become a distributor working together with established Israeli-based companies engaged in the water treatment industry.

In early 2012, we changed our business focus from our efforts to enter the water desalinization technology business, and began to pursue our plan to serve as a distributor of water treatment products manufactured by established companies in the water treatment industry. 

During 2012, the Company's business activities involved evaluating the water treatment business and product research, seeking marketing and distribution agreements, evaluating the regulatory requirements and engaging in related activities to become a distributor of water treatment products in certain markets. To that end, we consulted with third parties, including certain of our shareholders as well as technical specialists who were either known by or introduced to us regarding entering the water treatment industry. Our management evaluated competing water treatment technologies and potential partners for whom we could potentially serve as distributor. These efforts resulted in our entering into a memorandum of understanding (&#34;MOU&#34;) with Treatec21 Industries Ltd, a major Israeli-based private company engaged in the water treatment industry (&#34;Treatec&#34;) and a wholly-owned subsidiary of Yaad Industry Agencies Ltd, a public company listed on the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange (&#34;TASE&#34;). The MOU contemplated the grant by Treatec of certain distribution rights to Treatec's water treatment products in New Zealand, Australia, Canada and the US. Shortly thereafter, on February 28, 2012, we entered into MOU with Green Eng Ltd, an Israeli company (&#34;GreenEng&#34;) also engaged in the water treatment industry. The GreenEng MOU also contemplated the grant to the Company of non-exclusive distribution rights to GreenEng's products in the US and Canada. Following execution of both MOUs, we were able to enter into formal distribution agreements with Treatec21 and GreenEng, two companies that we believed had competitive and innovative water treatment technologies and products that we could successfully market.

Notwithstanding our success in entering into distribution agreements with both Treatec21 and GreenEng, we were not able to generate any revenues from our distribution efforts in our territories.

During the last quarter of 2013, we had discussion with a principal shareholder, Mr. Ron Weissberg, about considering other business opportunities for the Company. On December 23, 2013, Mr. Weissberg invested a total $91,545 represented by $20,000 for his purchase of 2,000,000 shares of Common Stock and $71,545 in a convertible note. On December 27, 2013, Mr. Weissberg was appointed as our Chairman, CEO and CFO.

Our Business

In January 2014, Mr. Weissberg negotiated with Lifewave Ltd., a public company organized under the laws of the State of Israel, for the purpose of acquiring certain of Lifewave's IP assets pertaining to a wound healing device. The Registrant signed a patent purchase agreement with Lifewave on January 6, 2014 (the &#34;Agreement&#34;), the closing of which was subject to several material conditions, including our ability of raising equity capital sufficient to develop and commercially exploit the technology.

On June 4, 2014, we completed the purchase of all right, title and interest to certain IP assets, including rights to a wound treatment device. The IP assets, including the wound healing device, acquired by the Registrant are designed for wound treatment incorporating Bioelectrical Signal Therapy (&#34;BST Device&#34;). The BST Device implements patented and proprietary electrical stimulation technologies to treat hard-to-cure wounds and ulcers up to complete closure and/or cure.

Pursuant to the Agreement, the Registrant has agreed to pay Lifewave a royalty of from 10% to 20% of the profits (as defined in the Agreement) generated from the BST Device. 

In June 2014, the Registrant entered into an agreement with the Austen BioInnovation Institute in Akron (&#34;ABIA&#34; or the &#34;Institute&#34;), for the purpose of bringing our BST Device to the U.S. market.

The Company's management selected ABIA's Product Innovation and Commercialization Division, which has significant expertise in wound healing, clinical trial development, and regulatory operations, to spearhead its pre-market clinical trial program, which is necessary to apply for regulatory approval from the United States Food and Drug Administration (&#34;FDA&#34;) to distribute the BST Device in the United States. As part of the Institute's fully integrated regulatory and device development service Offerings, ABIA will prepare on behalf of the Company an application to obtain FDA approval. The initial trial will include 70 patients in a double-arm, randomized, multi-center study to assess the safety and efficacy of the BST Device in patients with Stage II and III pressure and venous stasis ulcers; and submit data to the FDA to obtain approval.

On December 18, 2015, the Registrant confirmed certain information that it had received from ABIA that, while ABIA still anticipated that it would be able to provide the Registrant with a final draft of the IDE application, ABIA had sustained financial difficulties and key personnel losses that would likely adversely effect its ability to perform under the Agreement on a timely basis, if at all. As a result, the Registrant requested that ABIA fully refund the monies paid to ABIA under the Agreement. In addition, the Registrant agreed to engage a professional regulatory consultant, who was a former member of ABIA's regulatory staff, to serve as the Registrant's FDA regulatory consultant on an interim basis, subject to the execution of a separate services agreement. The Registrant is also evaluating the advisability of engaging another firm to replace ABIA, which process may be expected to delay the IDE approval process for the BST Device. 

The Company's success is dependent upon the successful FDA clinical trial of its BST Device. The Device may need additional development and may never achieve safety or efficacy. The Company believes that its design and procedure show promise, but the path to commercial success, even if development milestones are met, may take more time and might be more costly. 

There are a number of potential obstacles the Company might face, including the following: 

&#159 We may not be able to raise sufficient additional funds that we may need to complete the all requisite clinical trials. &#159 Competitors may develop alternatives that render BST Device redundant or unnecessary. &#159 We may not have a sufficient and/or sustainable intellectual property position. &#159 Our device may be shown to have harmful side effects/characteristics that indicate it is unlikely to be safe and effective. &#159 Our device may not receive FDA regulatory approval. &#159 Even if our device receives regulatory approval, it may not be accepted by patients, the medical community or third-party payers. 

During the year ended December 31, 2015 and 2014, the Registrant raised $2.395 million in equity capital to fund its plans to obtain FDA approval, developing marketing and sales capacities and actively engage in the medical device industry, generally, and in wound treatment, specifically.

Effective October 15, 2014, through our wholly-owned Israeli subsidiary, ESQURE, we entered into an Asset Purchase Agreement with Michael Cohen. We purchased all of Mr. Cohan's assets (the &#34;Seller's Assets&#34;) related to our BST Device for 875,000 restricted shares of common stock valued at $350,000. The Seller's Assets settled a subscription receivable under a previous subscription agreement for the same number of shares.

Pursuant to the terms of the Asset Purchase Agreement, we purchased all of Seller's assets (the &#34;Seller's Assets&#34;) related to our BST Device as follows:

(i) medical research data held by Seller's research partners, distributors and marketing advisors in Israel and elsewhere; (ii) manufacturing and design files related to the BST device, including mechanical and electronics schemes drawings, printed circuit boards graphics, BST electrodes including rechargeable electrodes; and related files, as well as files related to all BST electrodes; (iii) testing equipment and devices for BST manufacturing; (iv) PowerLab devices including equipment of Lifewave Ltd (the entity from whom Registrant acquired the BST Device and technology); (v) BST devices and electrodes under the control of BST distributors, physicians, hospitals, clinics worldwide; (vi) the Main Server of Lifewave which holds all manufacturing, marketing and other material related to the Registrant's BST Device; and (vii) Injection molds for the manufacture of the Registrant's BST Device plastic parts. 

On December 28, 2014, the Registrant entered into a preliminary distribution agreement with Rubifarm S.A., an entity organized under the laws of Argentina (&#34;Rubifarm&#34;), which agreement is subject to approval by the regulatory authorities of Argentina. At the date of regulatory approval, which is anticipated during the 4th quarter of 2015, a definitive agreement will be executed and filed with the SEC. The agreement contemplates that Rubifarm will be granted exclusive distribution rights for the BST Device&#153 in Argentina for an initial term of 5 years subject to Rubifarm meeting a minimum purchase quota of $1.5 million during the initial 5-year term in order to retain its exclusivity.

On July 30, 2015, the Company reported that it entered into an exclusive distribution agreement (the &#34;Distribution Agreement&#34;) with Chemipal Ltd, a closely-held Tel-Aviv Stock Exchange listed company organized under the laws of the State of Israel (&#34;Chemipal&#34;). Chemipal has been actively engaged in the distribution of medical products in Israel since 1941. Under the Distribution Agreement, the Registrant has granted Chemipal exclusive distribution rights to the Registrant's medical device for the treatment of chronic wounds (the &#34;BST Device&#153&#34;) and the accompanying disposable electrodes (sometimes collectively, the &#34;Products&#34;) in Israel for an initial 5 year term, subject to Chemipal satisfying a minimum purchase quota of $3 million during the term. The Chemipal agreement further provides as follows:

(i) the Registrant will supply the Distributor with an initial inventory; (ii) the Registrant will re-supply the Distributor with Products from time-to-time, based upon payment by the Distributor to the Registrant; (iii) based upon demand for the Products, the parties will reevaluate and increase the size of the inventory as sales of the Products increase; and (iv) the Distributor will use the BST Device&#153 for treatment of patients in hospitals, long-term care facilities, medical centers and clinics and other potential users.

We are a start-up company and we may require additional capital to implement our business and fund our operations. See &#34;Management's Discussion and Analysis&#34; on page 60.

The Company's principal executive office and mailing address is 20 West 64th Street, Suite 39G, New York, NY 10023. Our telephone number is (972) 54 427777.

Electrical Stimulation To Accelerate Wound Healing

The human cell is, in essence, an electrical unit. Human cells are enveloped by a plasma membrane that operates on the electrochemical physiology principle (the principal of the electrical properties of biological cells and tissues) of direct current exchange of ions. Injury to the outermost layer or epithelial layer of the human skin disrupts the body's naturally occurring electrical current therefore creating an electrical field. This electrical field guides the epithelial cell migration during wound healing. Electrical stimulation has shown enhanced movement of epithelial cells through the application of electrical fields. Movement of epithelial cells does not occur in a linear fashion; rather, the cells migrate approximately along the electrical field. Epithelial cells have the ability to change direction in response to electrical fields. If the polarity of the electrical field is changed, a reversal of movement of the epithelial cell can be observed. Epithelial cells cultured in the presence of an electrical field demonstrate an increase in the extent of cell movement. Under the impact of direct electrical current, endothelial cell orientation may be observed as early as 4 hours after the onset of an electrical field. Electrical stimulation is believed to restart or accelerate chronic wound healing by imitating the natural electrical current that occurs in injured skin and which is absent around chronic wounds.

Our BST Device

The BST Device, using electrodes affixed around the opposing sides of the wound, emits an electrical field around the wound and therefore mimics the electrochemical physiology principle and induces local cell regeneration. Wound treatment with the BST Device is non-invasive, painless and efficient. The procedure calls for electric stimulation to be performed 3 times a day for a duration of 30 minutes. The patient is connected to the BST Device only for the duration of the treatment. Our BST Device is positioned to treat severe stage II, as well as stage III and IV wounds including pressure ulcers, diabetic ulcers and venous ulcers.

The BST Device is a standalone and easy-to-operate Device for adjunctive therapy in wound healing. The Device is able to automatically adjust the electric pulse amplitude based on a patient's impedance reading. It has a built-in, pre-programmed timer to stop treatment after a 30 minute session. We believe that our BST Device represents a cost-effective wound healing method that can reduce hospitalization time and therefore reduce treatment costs. 

The Global Wound Care Market

Based upon the knowledge and professional experience of members of our management in the wound care industry, we believe that the global market for wound care, which includes an array of surgical, chronic and acute wound care products reached around $24 billion in 2013 and we expect it to grow by approximately 7% annually.

The advanced wound care market, which includes drug treatment, negative pressure devices, enzymatic debridement, electrical treatment and tissue engineered skin substitutes, represents the segment of the overall wound care market, which we believe has the greatest growth potential. 

Chronic Wounds - Our Target Market

Our BST Device is designed for chronic wound treatments in hospitals, nursing homes and home care. 

Chronic wound care represents a critical issue for healthcare providers. Unlike an acute wound, a chronic wound is one that shows no signs of significant healing within a period of three months. We believe that chronic wounds constitute an expensive and debilitating healthcare problem, with significant clinical and social implications. Without effective treatment, a chronic wound can lead to a more severe medical condition, such as infection, gangrene or amputation, which further impedes the patient's quality of life and even death. 

Patients can suffer from chronic wounds for months, or even years, before healing is achieved, if at all. The treatment of a patient suffering from a chronic wound &#150; including nursing time, wound care products, pressure-relieving devices, special beds, surgical procedures, and hospitalization in the event of more severe complications &#150; can possibly surpass $100,000 - with no guarantee of healing. Treatment usually requires a joint effort conducted by an interdisciplinary team of nurses, doctors and surgeons.

There are four types of chronic wounds (also known as trophic or skin ulcers): (i) Pressure ulcers; (ii) Venous insufficiency ulcers (also known as venous stasis ulcers); (iii) Diabetic or Neuropathic ulcers; and (iv) Arterial insufficiency ulcers. 

Chronic wounds are classified by four stages according to their degree of severity, with Stages III and IV being the two most severe, requiring, in most cases, hospitalization and special treatment.

Chronic wounds primarily occur in patients over the age of 60 and those with restricted mobility such as being confined to a wheelchair or bed. The wounds are often large and/or deep, prone to infection, and debilitating due to the extent of tissue damage incurred, resulting a compromised state of the patient's health. Sepsis can result in extremely severe cases, which in turn, may lead to amputation and even death. 

A range of traditional passive therapy and advanced wound therapy products are used to prevent further wound deterioration. Passive therapy products include synthetic dressings and gels that offer early-stage treatment, by enabling the wound to remain clean and moist so as to prevent infection. Advanced wound therapy includes specialty beds, mattress overlays, compression devices, negative pressure therapy and mattress replacements used to accelerate blood flow to the wound. All advanced wound therapy treatments are expensive and require professional assistance. 

In recent years, an array of modern, interactive wound management products has been developed to provide a controlled local environment to stimulate the healing process. These sophisticated products, based on growth factors, tissue bioengineering, and hyperbaric oxygen technology, not only are very expensive, but also require a high level of patient compliance.

There is a large number of patients suffering from chronic wounds. We believe, based upon the knowledge and experience of our management in the wound care industry that current treatments available may not be sufficient to manage the various chronic wound conditions. As a result, we believe that our BST device offers an additional, cost-effective and curative treatment method. 

Our Wound Healing Strategy

The objective of our BST Device is to reduce treatment time and therefore costs while delivering optimal therapeutic results, which eventually will lead to lower wound treatment costs.

The cost of an unhealed wound goes far beyond the costs of the physician, hospital and medical equipment, particularly when there are subsequent complications that require additional medical treatment.

The healing time of chronic wounds usually ranges from a few weeks to a few months depending on the size and type of the wound. Wound treatment typically can involve many direct and indirect costs. Wound dressings comprise only 10-15% of the total direct treatment cost according to the International Committee on Wound Management. In contrast, a significant percentage of the total cost is attributable to care providers' salaries and staff expenses. As a result, treatment methods that reduce healing time to closure of the wound inevitably lead to lower cost of care. 

The majority of severe chronic wounds are treated in hospitals. Treatment options often have limited efficacy and typically are very expensive. In addition, they are mostly only partially reimbursed by most insurance, primarily due to their poor clinical viability. As a result, hospitals lose revenues due to long and possibly unsuccessful treatment cycles. 

We believe that our BST Device is a very effective and cost-saving method for the chronic wound treatment market. Our belief is based on the knowledge and experience of our management in the wound care industry that our BST Device is designed to be able to significantly lower treatment cost compared to other wound therapies due to the fact that our wound heal method requires shorter healing times and therefore lower per day treatment costs.

Marketing and Sales

The Company intends to launch marketing efforts in the US upon FDA approval has been granted, of which there can be no assurance. Until such time, most of our efforts will be related to internally preparing for the launch of our BST Device in the US and launching a few European territories.

Assuming FDA approval, which we believe will be achieved, in part because of approval that has been received in Europe, the Company plans to indirectly sell its wound treatment solution by entering into distribution agreements with distributors specializing in medical devices complementary to BST Device or by creating its own sales and marketing force. The distributors or the company will then sell the treatment to hospitals, nursing homes, geriatric institutions, and private clinics.

In addition to indirect sales through distribution agreements, the Company considers the outright sale of its treatment to each institution such as hospitals, nursing homes, geriatric institutions, and private clinics, which would rent the Device to their patients on a monthly basis. Upon completion of the wound healing treatment, the patient would return the Device, which would then re-enter the medical device rental market.

Competition

Our principal competition in the chronic wound care market are expected to be the wound care products manufactured by Kinetic Concepts, Inc. (&#34;KCI&#34;) and Smith &#38; Nephew. KCI is considered market leader and, we believe, commands a market share of approximately 21% in the United States. Smith &#38; Nephew's U.S. market share is believed to be approximately 19% based on revenues. Other significant competitors are ConvaTec, Johnson &#38; Johnson and 3M, al manufacturers of wound healing devices.

In addition to the above-mentioned device manufacturers, we expect to face competition from specialty clinics that have been established by hospitals or physicians. Additionally, there are a number of private companies that provide wound care services. We may also face competition from general health care facilities and service providers, biopharmaceutical companies and pharmaceutical companies.

We also face indirect competition from numerous companies that offer a variety of wound healing methods including traditional wound care dressings, advanced wound care dressings, such as hydrogels, hydrocolloids, and alginates, skin substitutes, and products containing growth factors. While many of these methods compete with our BST Device, such methods can also be utilized as complementary therapies to our BST Device and vis versa.

We believe that the following treatments or therapies represent alternatives or complementary treatments and/or therapies to our BST device:

Hyperbaric oxygen therapy (&#34;HBOT&#34;): Hyperbaric oxygen therapy is a medical treatment that utilizes pressurized oxygen to heal wounds. The treatment is administered by placing a patient in a comfortable pressure chamber that circulates oxygen at two to three times the atmospheric pressure rate. The HBOT method is not specifically designed for chronic wounds and the treatment process is both very long and very expensive. HBOT treatments typically last 90-120 minutes and are administered 1-2 times a daily for a period of 5 to 6 days a week. The length of treatment depends on the wound's severity, with some patients requiring 20-40 treatments. There are many companies that offer HBOT treatment in clinics as a direct service to patients. 

Vacuum-assisted closure (&#34;V.A.C.&#34;) method: The V.A.C. method is designed for the treatment of acute care setting, serious trauma wounds, failed surgical closures, amputations, and serious pressure ulcers. The leading V.A.C. product was launched in 1995 by KCI, a major global medical technology company. We believe that the V.A.C. method is very expensive, painful and inconvenient, since the patient needs to be connected to the device 22 hours a day. 

EZCARE (Smith &#38; Nephew) - Following the acquisition of BlueSky Medical in May 2007, Smith &#38; Nephew provide negative pressure wound therapy (NPWT). NPWT is a technology used to treat chronic wounds such as diabetic ulcers, pressure ulcers, as well as post-operative and hard-to-heal wounds. It aids in the healing of open wounds by the application of sub-atmospheric pressure (Similar technology to KCI).

In addition, recently developed technologies, or technologies that may be developed in the future, are or may be the basis for products which compete with our BST Device. There can be given no assurance that we will be able to successfully enter into the chronic wound heal market with our BST Device or that we will be able to compete effectively against such companies in the future.

Many of these companies have substantially greater capital and marketing resources, and greater experience in commercializing products and services than we have.

Patents, Trademarks, and Copyrights

We have a list of all pending and granted patents to date attached as exhibit 10.9 to our S-1 Registration Statement as filed with the Company's S-1 on September 6, 2014 . To the extent that we determine that additional intellectual property (&#34;IP&#34;) protection may be necessary, we plan to secure such protection by applying for additional patents, trademarks or copyrights related to our business and IP, as we deem necessary.

Government Regulation 

Our operations and the marketing of our BST Device is subject to extensive regulation by numerous federal and state governmental authorities in the United States, foremost of which is the FDA. There can be no assurance that the FDA, other governmental agencies or a third party will not contend that certain aspects of our business and our BST Device is either subject to or is not in compliance with applicable laws, regulations or rules or that the state or federal regulatory agencies or courts would interpret such laws, regulations and rules in our favor. The sanctions for failure to comply with such laws, regulations or rules could include denial of the right to conduct business, significant fines and criminal and civil penalties. Additionally, any increase in the complexity or substantive requirements of such laws, regulations or rules could have a material adverse effect on our business.

Any change in current regulatory requirements or related interpretations by or positions of, state officials where we operate could adversely affect our operations within those states. State regulatory requirements could adversely affect our ability to establish operations in such other states.

Various state and federal laws apply to the operations of medical device providers including, but are not limited to, the following:

Licensure: Certain medical device providers are required to be licensed by various state regulatory bodies. However, if we are found to not be in compliance, we could be subject to fines and penalties or ordered to cease operations which could have an adverse effect on our business.

False Claims Act: The Federal False Claims Act and some state laws impose requirements in connection with the submission of claims for payment for health care services and products, including prohibiting the knowing submission of false or fraudulent claims and submission of false records or statements for reimbursement and payment to the United States government or state government. Such requirements would apply to the hospitals to which we provide our Device related to wound care treatment services. Not only are government agencies active in investigating and enforcing actions with respect to applicable health laws, but also health care providers are often subject to actions brought by individuals on behalf of the government. As such, &#34;whistleblower&#34; lawsuits, also known as &#34;qui tam&#34; actions, are generally filed under seal with a court to allow the government adequate time to investigate and determine whether it will intervene in the action. As a result, health care providers subject to qui tam actions are often unaware of the lawsuit until the government has made its determination whether to intervene, or not, at which time the seal is lifted. The Federal False Claims Act provides for penalties equal to three (3) times the actual amount of any overpayments plus $11,000 per claim. Under legislation passed in 2009, those who bill third parties are now obligated to discover and disclose any overpayments received or be subject to False Claims Act penalties as well

Fraud and Abuse Laws: Since a significant portion of reimbursement for healthcare products and services are currently paid through reimbursements under Medicare, Medicaid or similar programs, the federal government and many states have adopted statutes and regulations that address fraudulent and/or abusive behavior in connection with such programs.

As part of this regulatory scheme, the federal government believes that an &#34;inducement&#34; to refer a Medicare or Medicaid patient is likely to result in fraud or abuse on the Medicare or Medicaid programs. Therefore, the federal government adopted a number of laws and regulations to recoup funds and assess penalties which it believes were paid inappropriately. In cases of criminal fraud, the individuals responsible for the fraudulent activity can be subject to imprisonment.

One of the principal federal statutes regulating fraud and abuse is the Anti-Kickback Statute. The Anti-Kickback statute prohibits the solicitation, payment, receipt or offering of any direct or indirect remuneration in exchange for the referral of Medicare and Medicaid patients or for the purchasing, arranging for or recommending the purchasing, leasing or ordering of Medicare or Medicaid covered services, items or equipment. To be convicted of a violation of the Anti-Kickback Statute, the party must have had specific intent to induce the referral of Medicare or Medicaid patients or the purchase, lease or ordering of a good, item or service reimbursable by Medicare or Medicaid. Some of the federal courts have broadly construed the Anti-Kickback Statute and held that the &#34;intent&#34; required to support a criminal conviction will exist if only one purpose of the referral is to induce a prohibited referral.

To clarify some of the issues created by the Anti-Kickback Statute, the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services issued &#34;safe harbor&#34; regulations identifying actions which will not be deemed to violate the Anti-Kickback Statute. Some of these &#34;safe harbors&#34; are in the area of joint ventures, personal services, and other arrangements. Conducting an activity that falls within a &#34;safe harbor&#34; regulation provides comfort that such activity will not be prosecuted. Compliance with each element of a particular &#34;safe harbor&#34; is required in order to assured of the protection provided by such &#34;safe harbor.&#34;Even though a transaction that does not fall within a &#34;safe harbor&#34; may be perfectly appropriate, the arrangement will be evaluated based on its facts and circumstances to determine if the parties intended to induce the referral of Medicare or Medicaid patients or the purchase, lease or ordering of a good, item or service reimbursable under Medicare or Medicaid.

An allegation of violation and/or a conviction for violation of the Anti-Kickback Statute and parallel state laws could have a significant impact on our ability to conduct our business. As noted earlier, significant fines, penalties, exclusion from Medicare and Medicaid programs and imprisonment of individuals can result. Because the burden to prove specific intent under the Anti-Kickback Statute can sometimes be difficult, the government has been pursuing enforcement under statutes that do not require specific intent such as the False Claims Act. In fact, in recent legislation the Congress has required that those submitting claims for third party reimbursement are required to discover and repay any overpayments, or they are subject to additional penalties.

The Stark Law: Federal and some state laws prohibit physician referrals to an entity in which the physician or his or her immediate family members have a financial interest for provision of certain designated health services that are reimbursed by Medicare or Medicaid. We cannot assure you that the federal government, or other states in which we operate, will not enact similar or more restrictive legislation or restrictions or interpret existing laws and regulations in a manner that could harm our business.

Health Care Reform: There are currently a number of legislative proposals that have been proposed as health care reform in the United States Congress. At this time, it is not clear which, if any, of these proposals will be enacted. Therefore, although one or more of these proposals, if enacted, could have an impact on our business, we cannot predict at this time what that impact will be until there is legislation that becomes law.

Ongoing Investigations: Federal and state investigations and enforcement actions continue to focus on the health care industry, scrutinizing a wide range of items such as joint venture arrangements and referral and billing practices. We believe planned activities will be substantially in compliance with applicable legal requirements. We cannot assure you, however, that a governmental agency or a third party will not contend that certain aspects of our business are subject to, or are not in compliance with, such laws, regulations or rules, or that state or federal regulatory agencies or courts would interpret such laws, regulations and rules in our favor, or that future interpretations of such laws will not require structural or organizational modifications of our business or have a negative impact on our business. Applicable laws and regulations are very broad and complex, and, in many cases, the courts interpret them differently, making compliance difficult. Although we try to comply with such laws, regulations and rules, a violation could result in denial of the right to conduct business, significant fines and criminal penalties. Additionally, an increase in the complexity or substantive requirements of such laws, regulations or rules, or reform of the structure of health care delivery systems and payment methods, could have a material adverse effect on our business.

Employees 

We presently have one full-time employee, which is our CEO, Ohad Goren. Our CFO, Gal Paleg, dedicates 25% of his professional time to our business and Itsik Ben Yesha, our CTO, dedicates 50% of his professional time to our business. Our CEO, CTO and CFO are employed under a service agreement with the company. 

&#160;

