 Item 1. Business 

Bank of America Corporation (together, with its consolidated subsidiaries, Bank of America, we or us) is a Delaware corporation, a bank holding company (BHC) and a financial holding company. When used in this report, &#8220;the Corporation&#8221; may refer to Bank of America Corporation individually, Bank of America Corporation and its subsidiaries, or certain of Bank of America Corporation&#8217;s subsidiaries or affiliates. As part of our efforts to streamline the Corporation&#8217;s organizational structure and reduce complexity and costs, the Corporation has reduced and intends to continue to reduce the number of its corporate subsidiaries, including through intercompany mergers. 

Bank of America is one of the world&#8217;s largest financial institutions, serving individual consumers, small- and middle-market businesses, institutional investors, large corporations and governments with a full range of banking, investing, asset management and other financial and risk management products and services. Our principal executive offices are located in the Bank of America Corporate Center, 100 North Tryon Street, Charlotte, North Carolina 28255. 

Bank of America&#8217;s website is www.bankofamerica.com. Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Exchange Act) are available on our website at http://investor.bankofamerica.com under the heading Financial Information SEC Filings as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such reports with, or furnish them to, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Also, we make available on http://investor.bankofamerica.com under the heading Corporate Governance: (i) our Code of Conduct (including our insider trading policy); (ii) our Corporate Governance Guidelines (accessible by clicking on the Governance Highlights link); and (iii) the charter of each active committee of our Board of Directors (the Board) (accessible by clicking on the committee names under the Committee Composition link), and we also intend to disclose any amendments to our Code of Conduct, or waivers of our Code of Conduct on behalf of our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer or Chief Accounting Officer, on our website. All of these corporate governance materials are also available free of charge in print to stockholders who request them in writing to: Bank of America Corporation, Attention: Office of the Corporate Secretary, Hearst Tower, 214 North Tryon Street, NC1-027-20-05, Charlotte, North Carolina 28255. 

Segments 

Through our banking and various nonbank subsidiaries throughout the U.S. and in international markets, we provide a diversified range of banking and nonbank financial services and products through five business segments: Consumer Banking , &#32;Global Wealth &#38; Investment Management (GWIM), Global Banking, Global Markets and &#32;Legacy Assets &#38; Servicing (LAS), &#32;with the remaining operations recorded in All Other . Additional information related to our business segments and the products and services they provide is included in the information set forth on pages 32 &#32;through 46 &#32;of Item 7. Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&#38;A) and Note 24 &#8211; Business Segment Information &#32; to the Consolidated Financial Statements &#32;in Item 8. 

&#160;

Financial Statements and Supplementary Data (Consolidated Financial Statements). 

Competition 

We operate in a highly competitive environment. Our competitors include banks, thrifts, credit unions, investment banking firms, investment advisory firms, brokerage firms, investment companies, insurance companies, mortgage banking companies, credit card issuers, mutual fund companies, and e-commerce and other internet-based companies. We compete with some of these competitors globally and with others on a regional or product basis. 

Competition is based on a number of factors including, among others, customer service, quality and range of products and services offered, price, reputation, interest rates on loans and deposits, lending limits, and customer convenience. Our ability to continue to compete effectively also depends in large part on our ability to attract new employees and retain and motivate our existing employees, while managing compensation and other costs. 

Employees 

As of December 31, 2015 , we had approximately 213,000 &#32;full-time equivalent employees. None of our domestic employees are subject to a collective bargaining agreement. Management considers our employee relations to be good. 

Government Supervision and Regulation 

The following discussion describes, among other things, elements of an extensive regulatory framework applicable to BHCs, financial holding companies, banks and broker-dealers, including specific information about Bank of America. 

We are subject to an extensive regulatory framework applicable to BHCs, financial holding companies and banks and other financial services entities. U.S. federal regulation of banks, BHCs and financial holding companies is intended primarily for the protection of depositors and the Deposit Insurance Fund rather than for the protection of stockholders and creditors. 

As a registered financial holding company and BHC, the Corporation is subject to the supervision of, and regular inspection by, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Federal Reserve). Our U.S. banking subsidiaries (the Banks) organized as national banking associations are subject to regulation, supervision and examination by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC), the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) and the Federal Reserve. U.S. financial holding companies, and the companies under their control, are permitted to engage in activities considered &#8220;financial in nature&#8221; as defined by the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act and related Federal Reserve interpretations. Unless otherwise limited by the Federal Reserve, a financial holding company may engage directly or indirectly in activities considered financial in nature provided the financial holding company gives the Federal Reserve after-the-fact notice of the new activities. The Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act also permits national banks to engage in activities considered financial in nature through a financial subsidiary, subject to certain conditions and limitations and with the approval of the OCC. 

2 &#160; Bank of America 2015 

&#160; 

&#160; 

The 2010 Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Financial Reform Act) enacted sweeping financial regulatory reform across the financial services industry, including significant changes regarding capital adequacy and capital planning, stress testing, resolution planning, derivatives activities, prohibitions on proprietary trading and restrictions on debit interchange fees. As a result of the Financial Reform Act, we have altered and will continue to alter the way in which we conduct certain businesses. Our costs and revenues could continue to be negatively impacted as additional final rules of the Financial Reform Act are adopted. 

We are also subject to various other laws and regulations, as well as supervision and examination by other regulatory agencies, all of which directly or indirectly affect our operations and management and our ability to make distributions to stockholders. For instance, our broker-dealer subsidiaries are subject to both U.S. and international regulation, including supervision by the SEC, the New York Stock Exchange and the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, among others; our commodities businesses in the U.S. are subject to regulation by and supervision of the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC); our U.S. derivatives activity is subject to regulation and supervision of the CFTC and National Futures Association or the SEC, and in the case of the Banks, certain banking regulators; our insurance activities are subject to licensing and regulation by state insurance regulatory agencies; and our consumer financial products and services are regulated by the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB). 

Our non-U.S. businesses are also subject to extensive regulation by various non-U.S. regulators, including governments, securities exchanges, central banks and other regulatory bodies, in the jurisdictions in which those businesses operate. For example, our financial services operations in the U.K. are subject to regulation by and supervision of the Prudential Regulatory Authority for prudential matters, and the Financial Conduct Authority for the conduct of business matters. 

Source of Strength 

Under the Financial Reform Act and Federal Reserve policy, BHCs are expected to act as a source of financial strength to each subsidiary bank and to commit resources to support each such subsidiary. Similarly, under the cross-guarantee provisions of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of 1991 (FDICIA), in the event of a loss suffered or anticipated by the FDIC, either as a result of default of a banking subsidiary or related to FDIC assistance provided to such a subsidiary in danger of default, the affiliate banks of such a subsidiary may be assessed for the FDIC&#8217;s loss, subject to certain exceptions. 

Transactions with Affiliates 

Pursuant to Section 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act, as implemented by the Federal Reserve&#8217;s Regulation W, the Banks are subject to restrictions that limit certain types of transactions between the Banks and their nonbank affiliates. In general, U.S. banks are subject to quantitative and qualitative limits on extensions of credit, purchases of assets and certain other transactions involving its nonbank affiliates. Additionally, transactions between U.S. banks and their nonbank affiliates are required to be on arm&#8217;s length terms and must be consistent with standards of safety and soundness. 

&#160;

Deposit Insurance 

Deposits placed at U.S. domiciled banks (U.S. banks) are insured by the FDIC, subject to limits and conditions of applicable law and the FDIC&#8217;s regulations. Pursuant to the Financial Reform Act, FDIC insurance coverage limits were permanently increased to $250,000 per customer. All insured depository institutions are required to pay assessments to the FDIC in order to fund the Deposit Insurance Fund (DIF). 

The FDIC is required to maintain at least a designated minimum ratio of the DIF to insured deposits in the U.S. The Financial Reform Act requires the FDIC to assess insured depository institutions to achieve a DIF ratio of at least 1.35 percent by September 30, 2020. The FDIC has adopted new regulations that establish a long-term target DIF ratio of greater than two percent. The DIF ratio is currently below the required targets and the FDIC has adopted a restoration plan that may result in increased deposit insurance assessments. Deposit insurance assessment rates are subject to change by the FDIC and will be impacted by the overall economy and the stability of the banking industry as a whole. For more information regarding deposit insurance, see Item 1A. Risk Factors &#8211; Regulatory, Compliance and Legal Risk &#32;on page 11 . 

Capital, Liquidity and Operational Requirements 

As a financial services holding company, we and our bank subsidiaries are subject to the risk-based capital guidelines issued by the Federal Reserve and other U.S. banking regulators, including the FDIC and the OCC. These rules are complex and are evolving as U.S. and international regulatory authorities propose and enact enhanced capital and liquidity rules. The Corporation seeks to manage its capital position to maintain sufficient capital to meet these regulatory guidelines and to support our business activities. These evolving rules are likely to influence our planning processes for, and may require additional, regulatory capital and liquidity, as well as impose additional operational and compliance costs on the Corporation. In addition, the Federal Reserve and the OCC have adopted guidelines that establish minimum standards for the design, implementation and board oversight of BHC&#8217;s and national banks&#8217; risk governance frameworks. The Federal Reserve has also proposed rules which would require us to maintain minimum amounts of long-term debt meeting specified eligibility requirements. 

For more information on regulatory capital rules, capital composition and pending or proposed regulatory capital changes, see Capital Management &#8211; Regulatory Capital &#32;in the MD&#38;A on page 54 , and Note 16 &#8211; Regulatory Requirements and Restrictions &#32; to the Consolidated Financial Statements , which are incorporated by reference in this Item 1. 

Distributions 

We are subject to various regulatory policies and requirements relating to capital actions, including payment of dividends and common stock repurchases. For instance, Federal Reserve regulations require major U.S. BHCs to submit a capital plan as part of an annual Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review (CCAR). The purpose of the CCAR is to assess the capital planning process of the BHC, including any planned capital actions, such as payment of dividends and common stock repurchases. 

Our ability to pay dividends is also affected by the various minimum capital requirements and the capital and non-capital standards established under the FDICIA. The right of the Corporation, our stockholders and our creditors to participate in 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Bank of America 2015 &#160; 3 

any distribution of the assets or earnings of our subsidiaries is further subject to the prior claims of creditors of the respective subsidiaries. 

If the Federal Reserve finds that any of our Banks are not &#8220;well-capitalized&#8221; or &#8220;well-managed,&#8221; we would be required to enter into an agreement with the Federal Reserve to comply with all applicable capital and management requirements, which may contain additional limitations or conditions relating to our activities. Additionally, the applicable federal regulatory authority is authorized to determine, under certain circumstances relating to the financial condition of a bank or BHC, that the payment of dividends would be an unsafe or unsound practice and to prohibit payment thereof. 

For more information regarding the requirements relating to the payment of dividends, including the minimum capital requirements, see Note 13 &#8211; Shareholders&#8217; Equity &#32;and Note 16 &#8211; Regulatory Requirements and Restrictions &#32; to the Consolidated Financial Statements . 

Many of our subsidiaries, including our bank and broker-dealer subsidiaries, are subject to laws that restrict dividend payments, or authorize regulatory bodies to block or reduce the flow of funds from those subsidiaries to the parent company or other subsidiaries. 

Resolution Planning 

As a BHC with greater than $50 billion of assets, the Corporation is required by the Federal Reserve and the FDIC to annually submit a plan for a rapid and orderly resolution in the event of material financial distress or failure. 

Such resolution plan is intended to be a detailed roadmap for the orderly resolution of a BHC and material entities pursuant to the U.S. Bankruptcy Code and other applicable resolution regimes under one or more hypothetical scenarios assuming no extraordinary government assistance. 

If both the Federal Reserve and the FDIC determine that the Corporation&#8217;s plan is not credible and the deficiencies are not cured in a timely manner, the Federal Reserve and the FDIC may jointly impose on us more stringent capital, leverage or liquidity requirements or restrictions on our growth, activities or operations. A description of our plan is available on the Federal Reserve and FDIC websites. 

The FDIC also requires the annual submission of a resolution plan for Bank of America, N.A. (BANA), which must describe how the insured depository institution would be resolved under the bank resolution provisions of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act. A description of this plan is also available on the FDIC&#8217;s website. 

We continue to make substantial progress to enhance our resolvability, including simplifying our legal entity structure and business operations, and increasing our preparedness to implement our resolution plan, both from a financial and operational standpoint. 

Similarly, in the U.K., rules have been issued requiring the submission of significant information about certain U.K.-incorporated subsidiaries and other financial institutions, as well as branches of non-U.K. banks located in the U.K. (including information on intra-group dependencies, legal entity separation and barriers to resolution) to allow the Bank of England to develop resolution plans. As a result of the Bank of England&#8217;s review of the submitted information, we could be required to take certain actions over the next several years which could increase operating 

&#160;

costs and potentially result in the restructuring of certain businesses and subsidiaries. 

For more information regarding our resolution, see Item 1A. Risk Factors &#8211; Regulatory, Compliance and Legal Risk &#32;on page 11 . 

Insolvency and the Orderly Liquidation Authority 

Under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, the FDIC may be appointed receiver of an insured depository institution if it is insolvent or in certain other circumstances. In addition, under the Financial Reform Act, when a systemically important financial institution (SIFI) such as the Corporation is in default or danger of default, the FDIC may be appointed receiver in order to conduct an orderly liquidation of such institution. In the event of such appointment, the FDIC could, among other things, invoke the orderly liquidation authority, instead of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, if the Secretary of the Treasury makes certain financial distress and systemic risk determinations. The orderly liquidation authority is modeled in part on the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, but also adopts certain concepts from the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. 

The orderly liquidation authority contains certain differences from the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. For example, in certain circumstances, the FDIC could permit payment of obligations it determines to be systemically significant (e.g., short-term creditors or operating creditors) in lieu of paying other obligations (e.g., long-term creditors) without the need to obtain creditors&#8217; consent or prior court review. The insolvency and resolution process could also lead to a large reduction or total elimination of the value of a BHC&#8217;s outstanding equity, as well as impairment or elimination of certain debt. 

In 2013, the FDIC issued a notice describing its preferred &#8220;single point of entry&#8221; strategy for resolving SIFIs. Under this approach, the FDIC could replace a distressed BHC with a bridge holding company, which could continue operations and result in an orderly resolution of the underlying bank, but whose equity is held solely for the benefit of creditors of the original BHC. 

Furthermore, the Federal Reserve Board has proposed regulations regarding the minimum levels of long-term debt required for BHCs to ensure there is adequate loss absorbing capacity in the event of a resolution. 

For more information regarding our resolution, see Item 1A. Risk Factors &#8211; Regulatory, Compliance and Legal Risk &#32;on page 11 . 

Limitations on Acquisitions 

The Riegle-Neal Interstate Banking and Branching Efficiency Act of 1994 permits a BHC to acquire banks located in states other than its home state without regard to state law, subject to certain conditions, including the condition that the BHC, after and as a result of the acquisition, controls no more than 10 percent of the total amount of deposits of insured depository institutions in the U.S. and no more than 30 percent or such lesser or greater amount set by state law of such deposits in that state. At December 31, 2015, we held approximately 11 percent of the total amount of deposits of insured depository institutions in the U.S. 

In addition, the Financial Reform Act restricts acquisitions by a financial institution if, as a result of the acquisition, the total liabilities of the financial institution would exceed 10 percent of the total liabilities of all financial institutions in the U.S. At December 31, 2015, our liabilities did not exceed 10 percent of the total liabilities of all financial institutions in the U.S. 

4 &#160; Bank of America 2015 

&#160; 

&#160; 

The Volcker Rule 

The Volcker Rule prohibits insured depository institutions and companies affiliated with insured depository institutions (collectively, banking entities) from engaging in short-term proprietary trading of certain securities, derivatives, commodity futures and options for their own account. The Volcker Rule also imposes limits on banking entities&#8217; investments in, and other relationships with, hedge funds and private equity funds, although the Federal Reserve extended the conformance period for certain existing covered investments and relationships to July 2016 (with indications that the conformance period may be further extended to July 2017). The Volcker Rule provides exemptions for certain activities, including market-making, underwriting, hedging, trading in government obligations, insurance company activities, and organizing and offering hedge funds and private equity funds. The Volcker Rule also clarifies that certain activities are not prohibited, including acting as agent, broker or custodian. A banking entity with significant trading operations, such as the Corporation, is required to establish a detailed compliance program to comply with the restrictions of the Volcker Rule. 

Derivatives 

Our derivatives operations are subject to extensive regulation globally. Various regulations have been promulgated since the financial crisis, including those under the U.S. Financial Reform Act, the European Union (EU) Markets in Financial Instruments Directive II/Regulation and the European Market Infrastructure Regulation, that regulate or will regulate the derivatives market by: requiring clearing and exchange trading of certain derivatives; imposing new capital, margin, reporting, registration and business conduct requirements for certain market participants; and imposing position limits on certain over-the-counter (OTC) derivatives. In response to global prudential regulator concerns that the closeout of derivatives transactions during the resolution of a SIFI could impede resolution efforts and potentially destabilize markets, SIFIs, including the Corporation, together with the International Swaps and Derivatives Association, Inc. (ISDA) developed a protocol amending ISDA Master Agreements to provide for contractual recognition of stays of termination rights under various statutory resolution regimes and a contractual stay on certain cross-default rights. The original protocol was superseded by the ISDA 2015 Universal Resolution Stay Protocol (2015 Protocol), which took effect January 1, 2016, and expanded the financial contracts covered by the original protocol to also include industry forms of repurchase agreements and securities lending agreements. Dealers representing 23 SIFIs have adhered to the 2015 Protocol. Global prudential regulators are beginning 

&#160;

to promulgate regulations requiring regulated firms, including the Corporation and many of its subsidiaries, to amend financial contracts to impose the terms of the 2015 Protocol. The adoption of many of these regulations is ongoing and their ultimate impact remains uncertain. 

Consumer Regulations 

Our consumer businesses are subject to extensive regulation and oversight by federal and state regulators. Certain federal consumer finance laws to which we are subject, including, but not limited to, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act, the Electronic Fund Transfer Act, the Fair Credit Reporting Act, the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act, the Truth in Lending Act and Truth in Savings Act, are enforced by the CFPB. Other federal consumer finance laws, such as the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act, are enforced by the OCC. 

Privacy and Information Security 

We are subject to many U.S. federal, state and international laws and regulations governing requirements for maintaining policies and procedures to protect the non-public confidential information of our customers and employees. The Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act requires the Banks to periodically disclose Bank of America&#8217;s privacy policies and practices relating to sharing such information and enables retail customers to opt out of our ability to share information with unaffiliated third parties under certain circumstances. Other laws and regulations, at the international, federal and state level, impact our ability to share certain information with affiliates and non-affiliates for marketing and/or non-marketing purposes, or to contact customers with marketing offers. The Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act also requires the Banks to implement a comprehensive information security program that includes administrative, technical and physical safeguards to ensure the security and confidentiality of customer records and information. These security and privacy policies and procedures for the protection of personal and confidential information are in effect across all businesses and geographic locations. The October 6, 2015 ruling by the European Court of Justice that the U.S. EU Safe Harbor is invalid has impacted the ability of certain vendors who relied upon the Safe Harbor to provide services to us. While an EU-U.S. Privacy Shield agreement to replace the EU-U.S. Safe Harbor has been announced, the timing of adoption and implementation is uncertain. We also expect the EU to adopt a Data Protection Regulation, which will replace the existing EU Data Protection Directive. The impacts of the anticipated EU Data Protection Regulation are uncertain at this time. 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Bank of America 2015 &#160; 5 

