 Item 1. Business 

Realty Finance Trust, Inc. was incorporated in Maryland on November 15, 2012 and conducts its operations to qualify as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes beginning with the taxable year ended December 31, 2013. Substantially all of our business is conducted through Realty Finance Operating Partnership, L.P. (the &#8220;OP&#8221;), a Delaware limited partnership. Realty Finance Advisors, LLC is our advisor. We are the sole general partner and directly or indirectly hold all of the units of limited partner interests in the OP. Additionally, our Advisor contributed $1,000 &#32;to us in exchange for 1,000 &#32;convertible shares of Realty Finance Trust, Inc. The convertible shares will automatically convert to shares of our common stock upon the first occurrence of any of the following triggering events, (each a "Triggering Event"): (i) we have paid total distributions on the then-outstanding shares of our common stock in an amount equal to or in excess of the sum of the invested capital (as defined in our charter) plus an aggregate 6.0% cumulative, pre-tax, non-compounded, annual return on such invested capital, (ii) a listing of our shares of common stock on a national securities exchange and (iii) the termination of our advisory agreement under certain circumstances. We did not incur any of the aforementioned trigger events to date. 

We are in business to originate, acquire and manage a diversified portfolio of commercial real estate debt secured by properties located both within and outside of the United States. We also invest in commercial real estate securities. Commercial real estate debt investments may include first mortgage loans, subordinated mortgage loans, mezzanine loans and participations in such loans. Commercial real estate securities may include commercial mortgage-backed securities (&#8220;CMBS&#8221;), senior unsecured debt of publicly traded REITs, debt or equity securities of other publicly traded real estate companies and collateralized debt obligations (&#8220;CDOs&#8221;). 

The Company has no direct employees. The Company has retained the Advisor to manage the Company's affairs on a day-to-day basis. The Advisor is controlled by AR Global Investments, LLC ("AR Global"), the parent of American Realty Capital VIII, LLC (the "Sponsor"), as a result of which they are related parties and each of them has received or will receive compensation and fees for services related to the investment and management of the Company's assets, the operations of the Company and the liquidation of the Company. 

Realty Capital Securities, LLC, (the &#8220;Former Dealer Manager&#8221;) served as the dealer manager of our primary offering and, together with certain of its affiliates, continued to provide us with various services through December 31, 2015. RCS Capital Corporation, the parent company of our Former Dealer Manager and certain of its affiliates that provided us with services, filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection in January 2016, prior to which it was also under common control with AR Global, the parent of our Sponsor. 

Investment Objectives 

We plan to implement policies and strategies to achieve our primary investment objectives: 

&#8226; 

to pay attractive and stable cash distributions to stockholders; and 

&#8226; 

to preserve and return stockholders&#8217; invested capital. 

Investment Strategies and Policies 

Our strategy is to originate, acquire and manage a diversified portfolio of commercial real estate debt, including first mortgage loans, subordinate loans, mezzanine loans and participations in such loans. We expect that our portfolio of debt investments will be secured by real estate located both within and outside of the United States and diversified by property type and geographic location. We may also invest in commercial real estate securities, such as CMBS, senior unsecured debt of publicly-traded REITs and CDO notes. 

We will seek to create and maintain a portfolio of commercial real estate investments that generate stable income to enable us to pay attractive and consistent cash distributions to our stockholders. Our focus on originating and acquiring commercial real estate debt instruments emphasizes the payment of current returns to investors and preservation of invested capital as our primary investment objectives. We also believe our investments may offer the potential for capital appreciation. 

Commercial Real Estate Debt 

We originate, fund, acquire and structure commercial real estate debt, including first mortgage loans, mezzanine loans, bridge loans, and other loans related to commercial real estate. We may also acquire some equity participations in the underlying collateral of commercial real estate debt. We structure, underwrite, and originate most of our investments. We use conservative underwriting criteria to focus on risk adjusted returns based on several factors which may include, the leverage point, debt service coverage and sensitivity, lease sustainability studies, market and economic conditions, quality of the underlying collateral and location, reputation and track record of the borrower, and a clear exit or refinancing plan for the borrower. Our underwriting process involves comprehensive financial, structural, operational, and legal due diligence to assess any risks in connection with making such investments so that we can optimize pricing and structuring. By originating loans directly, we are able to structure and underwrite loans that satisfy our standards, establish a direct relationship with the 

borrower, and utilize our own documentation. Described below are some of the types of loans we may originate or acquire. In addition, although we generally prefer the benefits of new origination, market conditions can create situations where holders of commercial real estate debt may be in distress and are therefore willing to sell at prices that compensate the buyer for the lack of control typically associated with directly structured investments. 

First Mortgage Loans 

First mortgage loans generally finance the acquisition, refinancing or rehabilitation of commercial real estate. First mortgage loans may be either short (one-to-five years) or long (up to ten years) term, may be fixed or floating rate, and are predominantly current-pay loans. We may originate or acquire current-pay first mortgage loans backed by properties that fit our investment strategy. We may selectively syndicate portions of these loans, including senior or junior participations that will effectively provide permanent financing or optimize returns which may include retained origination fees. 

First mortgage loans provide for a higher recovery rate and lower defaults than other debt positions due to the lender's favorable control features which at times means control of the entire capital structure. Because of these attributes, this type of investment receives favorable treatment from third-party rating agencies and financing sources, which should increase the liquidity of these investments. However, these loans typically generate lower returns than subordinate debt, such as subordinate loans and mezzanine loans, commonly referred to as B-notes. 

B-notes 

B- notes consist of subordinate mortgage loans, including structurally subordinated first mortgage loans and junior participations in first mortgage loans or participations in these types of assets. Like first mortgage loans, these loans generally finance the acquisition, refinancing, rehabilitation or construction of commercial real estate. Subordinated mortgage loans or B-notes may be either short (one-to-five years) or long (up to ten years) term, may be fixed or floating rate, and are predominantly current-pay loans. We may originate or acquire current-pay subordinated mortgage loans or B-notes backed by high quality properties that fit our investment strategy. We may create subordinated mortgage loans by tranching our directly originated first mortgage loans generally through syndications of senior first mortgages or buy such assets directly from third party originators. Due to the current credit market disruption and resulting dearth of capital available in this part of the capital structure, we believe that the opportunities to both directly originate and to buy subordinated mortgage investments from third parties on favorable terms will continue to be attractive. 

Bridge Loans 

We may offer bridge financing products to borrowers who are typically seeking short-term capital to be used in an acquisition, development or refinancing of a given property. From the borrower&#8217;s perspective, shorter term bridge financing is advantageous because it allows time to improve the property value through repositioning without encumbering it with restrictive long-term debt. The terms of these loans generally do not exceed three years. 

Mezzanine Loans 

Mezzanine loans are secured by one or more direct or indirect ownership interests in an entity that directly or indirectly owns commercial real estate and generally finance the acquisition, refinancing, rehabilitation or construction of commercial real estate. Mezzanine loans may be either short (one-to-five years) or long (up to ten years) term and may be fixed or floating rate. We may originate or acquire mezzanine loans backed by properties that fit our investment strategy. We may own such mezzanine loans directly or we may hold a participation in a mezzanine loan or a sub-participation in a mezzanine loan. These loans are predominantly current-pay loans (although there may be a portion of the interest that accrues) and may provide for participation in the value or cash flow appreciation of the underlying property as described below. With the credit market disruption and resulting dearth of capital available in this part of the capital structure, we believe that the opportunities to both directly originate and to buy mezzanine loans from third parties on favorable terms will continue to be attractive. 

Equity Participations or &#8220;Kickers&#8221; 

We may pursue equity participation opportunities in connection with our commercial real estate debt originations if we believe that the risk-reward characteristics of the loan merit additional upside participation related to the potential appreciation in value of the underlying assets securing the loan. Equity participations can be paid in the form of additional interest, exit fees, percentage of sharing in refinance or resale proceeds or warrants in the borrower. Equity participation can also take the form of a conversion feature, sometimes referred to as a "kicker," which permits the lender to convert a loan or preferred equity investment into common equity in the borrower at a negotiated premium to the current net asset value of the borrower. We expect to generate additional revenues from these equity participations as a result of excess cash flows being distributed or as appreciated properties are sold or refinanced. 

Commercial Real Estate Securities 

In addition to our focus on origination of and investments in commercial real estate debt, we may also acquire commercial real estate securities, such as CMBS, unsecured REIT debt, CDO notes, and equity investments in entities that own commercial real estate. 

CMBS 

CMBS are securities that are collateralized by, or evidence ownership interests in, a single commercial mortgage loan or a partial or entire pool of mortgage loans secured by commercial properties. CMBS are generally pass-through certificates that represent beneficial ownership interests in common law trusts whose assets consist of defined portfolios of one or more commercial mortgage loans. They are typically issued in multiple tranches whereby the more senior classes are entitled to priority distributions of specified principal and interest payments from the trust&#8217;s underlying assets. The senior classes are often securities which, if rated, would have ratings ranging from low investment grade &#8220;BBB&#8221; to higher investment grades &#8220;A,&#8221; &#8220;AA&#8221; or &#8220;AAA.&#8221; The junior, subordinated classes typically would include one or more non-investment grade classes which, if rated, would have ratings below investment grade &#8220;BBB.&#8221; Losses and other shortfalls from expected amounts to be received on the mortgage pool are borne first by the most subordinate classes, which receive payments only after the more senior classes have received all principal and/or interest to which they are entitled. We may invest in senior or subordinated, investment grade or non-investment grade CMBS, as well as unrated CMBS. 

Unsecured Publicly-Traded REIT Debt Securities 

We may also choose to acquire senior unsecured debt of publicly-traded equity REITs that acquire and hold real estate. Publicly-traded REITs may own large, diversified pools of commercial real estate properties or they may focus on a specific type of property, such as shopping centers, office buildings, multifamily properties and industrial warehouses. Publicly-traded REITs typically employ moderate leverage. Corporate bonds issued by these types of REITs are usually rated investment grade and benefit from strong covenant protection. 

CDO Notes 

CDOs are multiple class debt notes, secured by pools of assets, such as CMBS, mezzanine loans, and unsecured REIT debt. Like typical securitization structures, in a CDO, the assets are pledged to a trustee for the benefit of the holders of the bonds. CDOs often have reinvestment periods that typically last for five years, during which time, proceeds from the sale of a collateral asset may be invested in substitute collateral. Upon termination of the reinvestment period, the static pool functions very similarly to a CMBS securitization where repayment of principal allows for redemption of bonds sequentially. 

Commercial Real Estate Equity Investments 

We may acquire: (i) equity interests (including preferred equity) in an entity (including, without limitation, a partnership or a limited liability company) that is an owner of commercial real property (or in an entity operating or controlling commercial real property, directly or through affiliates), which may be structured to receive a priority return or is senior to the owner's equity (in the case of preferred equity); (ii) certain strategic joint venture opportunities where the risk-return and potential upside through sharing in asset or platform appreciation is compelling; and (iii) private issuances of equity securities (including preferred equity securities) of public companies. Our commercial real estate equity investments may or may not have a scheduled maturity and are expected to be of longer duration (five-to-ten year terms) than our typical portfolio investment. Such investments are expected to be fixed rate (if they have a stated investment rate) and may have accrual structures and provide other distributions or equity participations in overall returns above negotiated levels. 

Other Possible Investments 

Although we expect that most of our investments will be of the types described above, we may make other investments. We may invest in whatever types of interests in real estate-related assets that we believe are in our best interests which may include the commercial real property underlying our debt investments as a result of a loan workout, foreclosure or similar circumstances. Although we can purchase any type of real estate-related assets, our charter does limit our ability to make certain types of investments. 

Investment Process 

Our Advisor has the authority to make all the decisions regarding our investments consistent with the investment guidelines and borrowing policies approved by our board of directors and subject to the limitations in our charter and the direction and oversight of our board of directors. With respect to investments in commercial real estate debt, our board of directors has adopted investment guidelines that our Advisor must follow when acquiring such assets on our behalf without the approval of our board of directors. We will not, however, purchase assets in which our Sponsor, our Advisor, any of our directors or any of their affiliates has an interest without a determination by a majority of our directors (including a majority of the independent directors) not otherwise interested in the transaction that such transaction is fair and reasonable to us and at a price to us no greater than the cost of the asset to the affiliated seller, unless there is substantial justification for the excess 

amount and such excess is reasonable. Our charter requires that our independent directors review our investment guidelines at least annually to determine that the policies we are following are in the best interests of our stockholders. Each determination and the basis of such determination shall be set forth in the minutes of the meetings of our board of directors. Our investment guidelines and borrowing policies, except to the extent set forth in our charter, may be altered by a majority of our directors, including a majority of the independent directors, without approval of our stockholders. Our Advisor may not alter our investment guidelines or borrowing policies without the approval of a majority of our directors, including a majority of our independent directors. Our charter provides that the board of directors may not amend provisions of the charter relating to investment guidelines or investment restrictions without the approval of the majority of the shares entitled to vote on such matter. 

Borrowing Strategies and Policies 

In addition to raising capital through our distribution reinvestment plan (the "DRIP") offering, our financing strategy includes secured repurchase agreement facilities for loans, securities and securitizations. In addition to our current mix of financing sources, we may also access additional forms of financings, including credit facilities, public and private, secured and unsecured debt issuances by us or our subsidiaries. 

We expect to use additional debt financing as a source of capital. Under our charter, the maximum amount of our total indebtedness shall not exceed 300% of our total &#8216;&#8216;net assets&#8217;&#8217; as defined by the North American Securities Administrators ("NASAA") Statement of Policy regarding REITs (the "REIT Guidelines") as of the date of any borrowing, which is generally expected to be 75% of the cost of our investments; however, we may exceed that limit if approved by a majority of our independent directors and disclosed to stockholders in our next quarterly report following such borrowing along with justification for exceeding such limit. This charter limitation, however, does not apply to individual real estate assets or investments. At the date of acquisition of each asset, we anticipate that the cost of investment for such asset will be substantially similar to its fair market value, which will enable us to satisfy our requirements under the NASAA Statement of the REIT Guidelines. However, subsequent events, including changes in the fair market value of our assets, could result in our exceeding these limits. We anticipate that adequate cash will be generated from operations to fund our operating and administrative expenses, continuing debt service obligations and the payment of cash distributions. 

Income Taxes 

We have elected to be taxed as a REIT under Sections 856 through 860 of the Internal Revenue Code commencing with the taxable year ended December 31, 2013. As a REIT, we generally will not be subject to federal corporate income tax as long as we distribute at least 90% of our REIT taxable income to our stockholders. REITs are subject to a number of other organizational and operational requirements. Even if we continue to qualify for taxation as a REIT, we may be subject to certain state and local taxes on our income and property and federal income and excise taxes on our undistributed income. 

Competition 

Our net income depends, in large part, on our ability to originate investments that provide returns in excess of our borrowing cost. In originating these investments, we compete with other mortgage REITs, specialty finance companies, savings and loan associations, banks, mortgage bankers, insurance companies, mutual funds, institutional investors, investment banking firms, private funds, other lenders, governmental bodies, and other entities, many of which have greater financial resources and lower costs of capital available to them than we have. In addition, there are numerous mortgage REITs with asset acquisition objectives similar to ours, and others may be organized in the future, which may increase competition for the investments suitable for us. Competitive variables include market presence and visibility, size of loans offered and underwriting standards. To the extent that a competitor is willing to risk larger amounts of capital in a particular transaction or to employ more liberal underwriting standards when evaluating potential loans than we are, our investment volume and profit margins for our investment portfolio could be impacted. Our competitors may also be willing to accept lower returns on their investments and may succeed in buying or underwriting the assets that we have targeted. Although we believe that we are well positioned to compete effectively in each facet of our business, there is enormous competition in our market sector and there can be no assurance that we will compete effectively or that we will not encounter increased competition in the future that could limit our ability to conduct our business effectively. 

Financial Information About Industry Segments 

We conduct our business through the following segments: 

&#8226; 

The real estate debt business will be focused on originating, acquiring, and asset managing commercial real estate debt investments, including first mortgage loans, subordinate mortgages, mezzanine loans, and participations in such loans. 

&#8226; 

The real estate securities business will be focused on investing in and asset managing commercial real estate securities primarily consisting of CMBS and may include unsecured REIT debt, CDO notes and other securities. 

Employees 

As of December 31, 2015 , we had no direct employees. The employees of the Advisor and other affiliates of the Advisor perform a full range of real estate services for us, including acquisitions, accounting, legal, asset management, wholesale brokerage, and investor relations services. We are dependent on these affiliates for services that are essential to us, including the sale of shares of our common stock, asset acquisition decisions, and other general administrative responsibilities. In the event that any of these companies were unable to provide these services to us, we would be required to provide such services ourselves or obtain such services from other sources. 

Available Information 

We electronically file annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to those reports, and proxy statements, with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"). We also filed with the SEC our Registration Statement in connection with our securities offerings. Individuals may read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549, or may obtain information by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an internet address at www.sec.gov &#32;that contains reports, proxy statements and information statements, and other information, which may be obtained free of charge. In addition, copies of our filings with the SEC may be obtained from the website maintained for us at www.realtyfinancetrust.com . Access to these filings is free of charge. We are not incorporating our website or any information from the website into this Form 10-K. 

