 ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

The Company 

TransDigm Inc. was formed in 1993 in connection with a leveraged buyout transaction. TD Group was formed in 2003 to facilitate a leveraged buyout of TransDigm Inc. The Company was owned by private equity funds until its initial public offering in 2006. TD Group&#8217;s common stock is publicly traded on the New York Stock Exchange, or NYSE, under the ticker symbol &#8220;TDG.&#8221; 

We believe we are a leading global designer, producer and supplier of highly engineered aircraft components for use on nearly all commercial and military aircraft in service today. Our business is well diversified due to the broad range of products we offer to our customers. We estimate that about 90% of our net sales for fiscal year 2016 were generated by proprietary products. In addition, for fiscal year 2016, we estimate that we generated about 80% of our net sales from products for which we are the sole source provider. 

Most of our products generate significant aftermarket revenue. Once our parts are designed into and sold on a new aircraft, we generate net sales from aftermarket consumption over the life of that aircraft, which is generally estimated to be approximately 25 to 30 years. A typical platform can be produced for 20 to 30 years, giving us an estimated product life cycle in excess of 50 years. We estimate that approximately 54% of our net sales in fiscal year 2016 &#32;were generated from aftermarket sales, the vast majority of which come from the commercial and military aftermarkets. These aftermarket revenues have historically produced a higher gross margin and been more stable than sales to original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs. 

Products 

We primarily design, produce and supply highly engineered proprietary aerospace components (and certain systems/subsystems) with significant aftermarket content. We seek to develop highly customized products to solve specific needs for aircraft operators and manufacturers. We attempt to differentiate ourselves based on engineering, service and manufacturing capabilities. We typically choose not to compete for non-proprietary &#8220;build to print&#8221; business because it frequently offers lower 

margins than proprietary products. We believe that our products have strong brand names within the industry and that we have a reputation for high quality, reliability and customer support. 

Our business is well diversified due to the broad range of products that we offer to our customers. Some of our more significant product offerings, substantially all of which are ultimately provided to end-users in the aerospace industry, include mechanical/electro-mechanical actuators and controls, ignition systems and engine technology, specialized pumps and valves, power conditioning devices, specialized AC/DC electric motors and generators, NiCad batteries and chargers, engineered latching and locking devices, rods and locking devices, engineered connectors and elastomers, databus and power controls, cockpit security components and systems, specialized cockpit displays, aircraft audio systems, specialized lavatory components, seat belts and safety restraints, engineered interior surfaces and related components, lighting and control technology, military personnel parachutes, high performance hoists, winches and lifting devices and cargo loading, handling and delivery systems. 

Segments 

The Company&#8217;s businesses are organized and managed in three reporting segments: Power &#38; Control, Airframe and Non-aviation. 

The Power &#38; Control segment includes operations that primarily develop, produce and market systems and components that predominately provide power to or control power of the aircraft utilizing electronic, fluid, power and mechanical motion control technologies. Major product offerings include mechanical/electro-mechanical actuators and controls, ignition systems and engine technology, specialized pumps and valves, power conditioning devices, specialized AC/DC electric motors and generators, databus and power controls, high performance hoists, winches and lifting devices and cargo loading and handling systems. Primary customers of this segment are engine and power system and subsystem suppliers, airlines, third party maintenance suppliers, military buying agencies and repair depots. Products are sold in the OEM and aftermarket market channels. 

The Airframe segment includes operations that primarily develop, produce and market systems and components that are used in non-power airframe applications utilizing airframe and cabin structure technologies. Major product offerings include engineered latching and locking devices, rods and locking devices, engineered connectors and elastomers, cockpit security components and systems, aircraft audio systems, specialized lavatory components, seat belts and safety restraints, engineered interior surfaces and related components, lighting and control technology, military personnel parachutes and cargo delivery systems. Primary customers of this segment are airframe manufacturers and cabin system suppliers and subsystem suppliers, airlines, third party maintenance suppliers, military buying agencies and repair depots. Products are sold in the OEM and aftermarket market channels. 

The Non-aviation segment includes operations that primarily develop, produce and market products for non-aviation markets. Major product offerings include seat belts and safety restraints for ground transportation applications, mechanical/electro-mechanical actuators and controls for space applications, and refueling systems for heavy equipment used in mining, construction and other industries. Primary customers of this segment are off-road vehicle suppliers and subsystem suppliers, child restraint system suppliers, satellite and space system suppliers and manufacturers of heavy equipment used in mining, construction and other industries. 

For financial information about our segments, see Note 16, &#8220;Segments&#8221; to our consolidated financial statements included herein. 

Sales and Marketing 

Consistent with our overall strategy, our sales and marketing organization is structured to continually develop technical solutions that meet customer needs. In particular, we attempt to focus on products and programs that will lead to high-margin, repeatable sales in the aftermarket. 

We have structured our sales efforts along our major product offerings, assigning a business unit manager to certain products. Each business unit manager is expected to grow the sales and profitability of the products for which he or she is responsible and to achieve the targeted annual level of bookings, sales, new business and profitability for such products. The business unit managers are assisted by account managers and sales engineers who are responsible for covering major OEM and aftermarket accounts. Account managers and sales engineers are expected to be familiar with the personnel, organization and needs of specific customers to achieve total bookings and new business goals at each account and, together with the business unit managers, to determine when additional resources are required at customer locations. Most of our sales personnel are evaluated, in part, on their bookings and their ability to identify and obtain new business opportunities. 

Though typically performed by employees, the account manager function may be performed by independent representatives depending on the specific customer, product and geographic location. We also use a number of distributors to 

provide logistical support as well as serve as a primary customer contact with certain smaller accounts. Our major distributors are Aviall, Inc. (a subsidiary of The Boeing Company) and Satair A/S (a subsidiary of Airbus S.A.S.). 

Manufacturing and Engineering 

We maintain 57 principal manufacturing facilities. Most of our manufacturing facilities are comprised of manufacturing, distribution and engineering functions, and most facilities have certain administrative functions, including management, sales and finance. We continually strive to improve productivity and reduce costs, including rationalization of operations, developing improved control systems that allow for accurate accounting and reporting, investing in equipment, tooling, information systems and implementing broad-based employee training programs. Management believes that our manufacturing systems and equipment contribute to our ability to compete by permitting us to meet the rigorous tolerances and cost sensitive price structure of aircraft component customers. 

We attempt to differentiate ourselves from our competitors by producing uniquely engineered products with high quality and timely delivery. Our engineering costs are recorded in cost of sales and in selling and administrative expenses and research and development costs are recorded in selling and administrative expenses in our consolidated statements of income. The aggregate of engineering expense and research and development expense represents approximately 7% of our operating units&#8217; aggregate costs, or approximately 4% of our consolidated net sales. Our proprietary products, and particularly our new product initiatives, are designed by our engineers and are intended to serve the needs of the aircraft component industry. These proprietary designs must withstand the extraordinary conditions and stresses that will be endured by products during use and meet the rigorous demands of our customers&#8217; tolerance and quality requirements. 

We use sophisticated equipment and procedures to comply with quality requirements, specifications and Federal Aviation Administration (&#8220;FAA&#8221;) and OEM requirements. We perform a variety of testing procedures as required by our customers, such as testing under different temperature, humidity and altitude levels, shock and vibration testing and X-ray fluorescent measurement. These procedures, together with other customer approved techniques for document, process and quality control, are used throughout our manufacturing facilities. Refer to Note 3, &#8220;Summary of Significant Accounting Policies&#8221; to the consolidated financial statements included herein with respect to total costs of research and development, which is incorporated herein by reference. 

Customers 

We predominantly serve customers in the commercial, regional, business jet and general aviation aftermarket, which accounts for approximately 37% of total sales; the commercial aerospace OEM market, comprising large commercial transport manufacturers and regional and business jet manufacturers, which accounts for approximately 29% of total sales; and the defense market, which accounts for approximately 30% of total sales. Non-aerospace sales comprise approximately 4% of our total sales. 

Our customers include: (1) distributors of aerospace components; (2) worldwide commercial airlines, including national and regional airlines; (3) large commercial transport and regional and business aircraft OEMs; (4) various armed forces of the United States and friendly foreign governments; (5) defense OEMs; (6) system suppliers; and (7) various other industrial customers. For the year ended September 30, 2016 , Airbus S.A.S. (which includes Satair A/S, a distributor of commercial aftermarket parts to airlines throughout the world) accounted for approximately 13% of our net sales and The Boeing Company (which includes Aviall, Inc., also a distributor of commercial aftermarket parts to airlines throughout the world) accounted for approximately 12% of our net sales. Our top ten customers for fiscal year 2016 &#32;accounted for approximately 45% of our net sales. Products supplied to many of our customers are used on multiple platforms. 

Active commercial production programs include the Boeing 737, 747, 767, 777 and 787, the Airbus A318/19/20/21 (including neo), A330/A340, A350 and A380, the Bombardier CRJ&#8217;s, Challenger and Learjets, the Embraer RJ&#8217;s, the Cessna Citation family, the Raytheon Premier and Hawker and most Gulfstream airframes. Military platforms include aircraft such as the Boeing C-17, F-15, F-18, P-8 and V-22, the Airbus A400M, the Lockheed Martin C-130J, F-16 and F-35 Joint Strikefighter, the Northrop Grumman E-2C Hawkeye, the Sikorsky UH-60 helicopter, CH-47 Chinook and AH-64 Apache helicopters, the General Atomics Predator Drone and the Raytheon Patriot Missile. TransDigm has been awarded numerous contracts for the development of engineered products for production on the Airbus A330neo, the Boeing 737 MAX and 777X, the Embraer 175/190/195 E2, the Sikorsky S-97 and JMR helicopter. 

The markets in which we sell our products are, to varying degrees, cyclical and have experienced upswings and downturns. The demand for our commercial aftermarket parts and services depends on, among other things, the breadth of our installed OEM base, revenue passenger miles (&#8220;RPMs&#8221;), the size and age of the worldwide aircraft fleet and, to a lesser extent, airline profitability. The demand for defense products is specifically dependent on government budget trends, military campaigns and political pressures. 

Competition 

The niche markets within the aerospace industry that we serve are relatively fragmented and we face several competitors for many of the products and services we provide. Due to the global nature of the commercial aircraft industry, competition in these categories comes from both U.S. and foreign companies. Competitors in our product offerings range in size from divisions of large public corporations to small privately-held entities with only one or two components in their entire product portfolios. 

We compete on the basis of engineering, manufacturing and marketing high quality products, which we believe meet or exceed the performance and maintenance requirements of our customers, consistent and timely delivery, and superior customer service and support. The industry&#8217;s stringent regulatory, certification and technical requirements, and the investments necessary in the development and certification of products, create barriers to entry for potential new competitors. As long as customers receive products that meet or exceed expectations and performance standards, we believe that they will have a reduced incentive to certify another supplier because of the cost and time of the technical design and testing certification process. In addition, we believe that the availability, dependability and safety of our products are reasons for our customers to continue long-term supplier relationships. 

Government Contracts 

Companies engaged in supplying defense-related equipment and services to U.S. Government agencies are subject to business risks specific to the defense industry. These risks include the ability of the U.S. Government to unilaterally: (1) suspend us from receiving new contracts based on alleged violations of procurement laws or regulations; (2) terminate existing contracts; (3) reduce the value of existing contracts; (4) audit our contract-related costs and fees, including allocated indirect costs; and (5) control and potentially prohibit the export of our products. 

Governmental Regulation 

The commercial aircraft component industry is highly regulated by the FAA in the United States and by the Joint Aviation Authorities in Europe and other agencies throughout the world, while the military aircraft component industry is governed by military quality specifications. We, and the components we manufacture, are required to be certified by one or more of these entities or agencies, and, in many cases, by individual OEMs, in order to engineer and service parts and components used in specific aircraft models. 

We must also satisfy the requirements of our customers, including OEMs and airlines that are subject to FAA regulations, and provide these customers with products and services that comply with the government regulations applicable to commercial flight operations. In addition, the FAA requires that various maintenance routines be performed on aircraft components. We believe that we currently satisfy or exceed these maintenance standards in our repair and overhaul services. We also maintain several FAA approved repair stations. 

In addition, our businesses are subject to many other laws and requirements typically applicable to manufacturers and exporters. Without limiting the foregoing, sales of many of our products that will be used on aircraft owned by foreign entities are subject to compliance with export control laws and the manufacture of our products and the operations of our businesses, including the disposal of hazardous wastes, are subject to compliance with applicable environmental laws. 

Market Channels 

The commercial aerospace industry, including the aftermarket and OEM market, is impacted by the health of the global economy and geo-political events around the world. The commercial aerospace industry had shown strength with increases in revenue passenger miles, or RPMs, between 2003 and 2008, as well as increases in OEM production and backlog. However, in 2009, the global economic downturn negatively impacted the commercial aerospace industry causing RPMs to decline slightly. This market sector began to rebound in 2010 and positive growth has continued through 2016 with increases in RPMs, as well as the growth in the large commercial OEM sector (aircraft with 100 or more seats) with order announcements by The Boeing Company and Airbus S.A.S. leading to planned increases in production. The 2017 leading indicators and industry consensus suggest a continuation of current trends in the commercial transport market sector supported by continued RPM growth and increases in production at the OEM level. 

The defense aerospace market is dependent on government budget constraints, the timing of orders and the extent of global conflicts. It is not necessarily affected by general economic conditions that affect the commercial aerospace industry. 

Our presence in both the commercial aerospace and military sectors of the aerospace industry may mitigate the impact on our business of any specific industry risk. We service a diversified customer base in the commercial and military aerospace industry, and we provide components to a diverse installed base of aircraft, which mitigates our exposure to any individual airframe platform. At times, declines in sales in one channel have been offset by increased sales in another. However, due to differences between the profitability of our products sold to OEM and aftermarket customers, variation in product mix can cause variation in gross margin. 

There are many short-term factors (including inventory corrections, unannounced changes in order patterns, strikes and mergers and acquisitions) that can cause short-term disruptions in our quarterly shipment patterns as compared to previous quarters and the same periods in prior years. As such, it can be difficult to determine longer-term trends in our business based on quarterly comparisons. To normalize for short-term fluctuations, we tend to look at our performance over several quarters or years of activity rather than discrete short-term periods. 

There are also fluctuations in OEM and aftermarket ordering and delivery requests from quarter-to-quarter, as well as variations in product mix from quarter-to-quarter, that may cause positive or negative variations in gross profit margins since commercial aftermarket sales have historically produced a higher gross margin than sales to commercial OEMs. Again, in many instances these are timing events between quarters and must be balanced with macro aerospace industry indicators. 

Commercial Aftermarket 

The key growth factors in the commercial aftermarket include worldwide RPMs and the size and activity level of the worldwide fleet of aircraft. After a decline in RPMs in 2009, worldwide RPMs returned to growth between 2010 and 2016 and current industry consensus indicates that positive RPM growth will continue in 2017. 

Commercial OEM Market 

The commercial transport market sector, the largest sector in the commercial OEM market, grew modestly during 2016. Our commercial transport OEM shipments and revenues generally run ahead of the Boeing and Airbus airframe delivery schedules. As a result and consistent with prior years, our fiscal 2017 shipments will be a function of, among other things, the estimated 2017 and 2018 commercial airframe production rates. We have been experiencing increased sales in the large commercial OEM sector (aircraft with 100 or more seats) driven by an increase in production by The Boeing Company and Airbus S.A.S tied to previous order announcements. Industry consensus indicates this production increase will continue in 2017 and 2018, though the growth may continue to moderate and begin to flatten. 

Defense 

Our military business fluctuates from year to year, and is dependent, to a degree, on government budget constraints, the timing of orders and the extent of global conflicts. In recent years, defense spending has reached historic highs, due in part to the military engagements in Afghanistan and Iraq and the war on terrorism. For a variety of reasons, the military spending outlook is very uncertain. For planning purposes we assume that military related sales of our types of products to be flat in future years over the recent high levels. 

Raw Materials 

We require the use of various raw materials in our manufacturing processes. We also purchase a variety of manufactured component parts from various suppliers. At times, we concentrate our orders among a few suppliers in order to strengthen our supplier relationships. Most of our raw materials and component parts are generally available from multiple suppliers at competitive prices. 

Intellectual Property 

We have various trade secrets, proprietary information, trademarks, trade names, patents, copyrights and other intellectual property rights, which we believe, in the aggregate but not individually, are important to our business. 

Backlog 

As of September 30, 2016 , the Company estimated its sales order backlog at $1,554 million compared to an estimated sales order backlog of $1,428 million as of September 30, 2015 . The increase in estimated sales order backlog is primarily due to acquisitions. The majority of the purchase orders outstanding as of September 30, 2016 &#32;are scheduled for delivery within the next twelve months. Purchase orders may be subject to cancellation or deferral by the customer prior to shipment. The level of unfilled purchase orders at any given date during the year will be materially affected by the timing of the Company&#8217;s receipt of purchase orders and the speed with which those orders are filled. Accordingly, the Company&#8217;s backlog as of September 30, 2016 &#32;may not necessarily represent the actual amount of shipments or sales for any future period. 

Foreign Operations 

Although we manufacture a significant portion of our products in the United States, we manufacture some products in Belgium, China, Germany, Hungary, Malaysia, Mexico, Norway, Sri Lanka, Sweden, and the United Kingdom. Although the majority of sales of our products are made to customers (including distributors) located in the United States, our products are ultimately sold to and used by customers (including airlines and other end users of aircraft) throughout the world. A number of risks inherent in international operations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, including currency fluctuations, difficulties in staffing and managing multi-national operations, general economic and political uncertainties and potential for social unrest in countries in which we operate, limitations on our ability to enforce legal rights and remedies, 

restrictions on the repatriation of funds, change in trade policies, tariff regulation, difficulties in obtaining export and import licenses and the risk of government financed competition. 

Environmental Matters 

Our operations and facilities are subject to a number of federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and regulations that govern, among other things, discharges of pollutants into the air and water, the generation, handling, storage and disposal of hazardous materials and wastes, the remediation of contamination and the health and safety of our employees. Environmental laws and regulations may require that the Company investigate and remediate the effects of the release or disposal of materials at sites associated with past and present operations. Certain facilities and third-party sites utilized by the Company have been identified as potentially responsible parties under the federal superfund laws and comparable state laws. The Company is currently involved in the investigation and remediation of a number of sites under applicable laws. 

Employees 

As of September 30, 2016 , we had approximately 9,300 full-time, part-time and temporary employees. Approximately 11% of our full-time and part-time employees were represented by labor unions. Collective bargaining agreements between us and these labor unions expire at various dates ranging from November 2016 to April 2020. We consider our relationship with our employees generally to be satisfactory. 

Available Information 

TD Group&#8217;s Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K, including any amendments, will be made available free of charge on the Company&#8217;s website, www.transdigm.com , as soon as reasonably practicable, following the filing of the reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission. 

