 ITEM 1. 

BUSINESS 

Organization 

Global Medical REIT Inc. (the &#147;Company&#148;) was originally incorporated in the state of Nevada on March 18, 2011 under the name Scoop Media, Inc. (&#147;Scoop Media&#148;), which was acquired by the Hong Kong company ZH International Holdings Limited (formerly known as Heng Fai Enterprises, Ltd.) in 2013. The Company changed to its current name effective January 6, 2014 in connection with its re-domestication into a Maryland corporation and change of strategy to focus on the acquisition and leasing of licensed purpose-built healthcare facilities. 

On June 29, 2015, Joy Town Inc., a company incorporated in the British Virgin Islands, acquired a controlling interest in Heng Fai Enterprises, Ltd . On September 7, 2015, Heng Fai Enterprises, Ltd. changed its name to ZH International Holdings Limited.

ZH International Holdings Limited, is a Hong Kong listed company engaged in real estate development, investments, management and sales, hospitality management and investments and REIT management. ZH International Holdings Limited owns ZH USA, LLC, (formerly known as HFE USA, LLC) the Company&#146;s majority stockholder. As of December 31, 2015, ZH USA, LLC owns an aggregate of 248,825 (or 99.5%) of the Company&#146;s outstanding common stock. 

On March 14, 2016, the Company formed an operating partnership subsidiary through which the Company intends to hold substantially all of its assets and conduct substantially all of its operations and investment activities going forward.

Overview 

We are a Maryland corporation engaged primarily in the acquisition and leasing of licensed, state-of-the-art, purpose-built healthcare facilities in select markets with leading clinical operators with dominant market share. We are externally managed and advised by Inter-American Management LLC, our advisor (the &#147;Advisor&#148;), which is an entity owned or controlled by an affiliate of ZH USA, LLC. Our management team has significant healthcare, real estate and public real estate investment trust, or REIT, experience and has long-established relationships with a wide range of healthcare providers, which we believe will provide us a competitive advantage in sourcing growth opportunities that produce attractive risk-adjusted returns.

We believe that the aging of America in conjunction with the expansion of health insurance is increasing the need for specialized healthcare facilities leased to premier practice groups, healthcare systems and corporate providers that will capture the growth in age-related procedures. These leading medical operators require state-of-the-art facilities that through their technology and design enhance the quality of care provided and improve clinical outcomes for patients. We seek to invest in these purpose-built, specialized facilities, such as surgery centers, specialty hospitals and outpatient treatment centers, in order to align with contemporary trends in the delivery of best healthcare practices. Our healthcare facilities are leased to established providers that, through clinical expertise and strong management, operate sustainable and dominant practices. We target markets with high demand for premium healthcare services, and within those markets, assets that are strategically located to take advantage of the decentralization of healthcare. We believe that our investment in the confluence of state-of-the-art medical facilities, market dominant tenant-operators and strategic sub-markets enhances clinical outcomes and provides attractive risk-adjusted returns to our stockholders. 

Our healthcare facilities are typically fully leased, or under contract to be leased, under long-term triple-net leases on the date of purchase. We may acquire existing healthcare facilities under sale-leaseback or similar arrangements, or we may contract to purchase facilities under development that are being built to an operator&#146;s specifications. Most of our tenant-operators are physician group tenant-operators, community hospital tenant-operators and corporate medical treatment chain operators that are leading clinical operators in the markets they serve. 

For details about our portfolio of assets, refer to Item 2. &#150; &#147;Properties&#148; herein.

Our Objectives and Growth Strategy 

Our principal business objective is to provide attractive risk-adjusted returns to our stockholders through a combination of (i) sustainable and increasing rental income that allows us to pay reliable, increasing dividends, and (ii) potential long-term appreciation in the value of our healthcare facilities and common stock. Our primary strategies to achieve our business objective are to:

&#183;

acquire state-of-the-art, licensed medical facilities that through their technology and design enhance the quality of care provided and improve clinical outcomes for patients; 

&#183;

target facilities that are built and adapted to contemporary best healthcare practices; 

&#183;

lease each facility to a single, local market leading medical provider who has sustained and is successfully managing excellent clinical and profitable practices;

&#183;

focus on practice types that are highly dependent on their purpose-built real estate to deliver core medical procedures, such as cardiovascular treatment, cosmetic plastic surgery, eye surgery, gastroenterology, oncology treatment and orthopedics;

&#183;

originate the majority of our investments by working directly with the operating medical providers in our target markets;

&#183;

create value by negotiating new leases rather than acquiring leased fee returns via acquisition of already rented healthcare facilities;

&#183;

lease the facilities under long-term triple-net leases with contractual rent escalations; and

&#183;

efficiently and rapidly grow our portfolio to drive economies of scale and diversification. 

We believe that healthcare facilities with the following technological and design characteristics, which are generally consistent with our current portfolio, will enable us to achieve strong risk-adjusted returns: 

&#183;

state-of-the-art intensive care and operating room equipment and imaging technology;

&#183;

efficient and contiguous patient treatment space for imaging, pre-operation, surgery, post-surgery and recovery phases of care;

&#183;

state-of-the-art infection control materials in patient treatment room surfaces;

&#183;

specialized sub-micron filtration HVAC in operating rooms;

&#183;

high capacity and modern back-up emergency power generation;

&#183;

highly durable and energy efficient internal and external construction materials, including membrane roofing; and

&#183;

fiber optic cabling incorporated in initial construction.

Financing Strategy: 

The primary objective of our financing strategy is to maintain financial flexibility with a prudent capital structure using retained cash flows, long-term debt and the issuance of common and preferred stock to finance our growth. We seek to manage our balance sheet by maintaining prudent financial ratios and leverage levels. We intend to (i) achieve opportunistic and reasonable debt service with leverage that initially approaches approximately 60% of the fair market value of our healthcare facilities, and lower ratios as we grow our equity capital base, (ii) establish a secured revolving credit facility to finance acquisitions in concert with other debt instruments, (iii) create staggered debt maturities that are aligned to our expected average lease term, positioning us to re-price parts of our capital structure as our rental rates change with market conditions, (iv) achieve easier and faster access to the equity capital markets using a shelf registration statement once we are eligible to use Form S-3, which we expect to occur in August 2016, and (v) access international capital to avoid market cycle shortages and enhance acquisition expediency. We are not subject to any limitations on the amount of leverage we may use, and accordingly, the amount of leverage we use may be significantly less or greater than we currently anticipate.

Healthcare Industry and Healthcare Real Estate Market Opportunity 

We believe the U.S. healthcare industry is continuing its rapid pace of growth due to increasing healthcare expenditures, favorable demographic trends, evolving patient preferences and recently enacted government initiatives. Furthermore, we believe these factors are contributing to the increasing need for healthcare providers to enhance the delivery of healthcare by, among other things, integrating real estate solutions that focus on higher quality, more efficient and conveniently located patient care. 

U.S. Healthcare Spending Expected to Increase 5.8% per Year over Next Decade 

According to the United States Department of Health and Human Services, or HHS, healthcare spending was approximately 17.5% of U.S. gross domestic product, or GDP, in 2014. The anticipated continuing increase in demand for healthcare services, together with an evolving complex and costly regulatory environment, changes in medical technology and reductions in government reimbursements are expected to pressure capital-constrained healthcare providers to find cost effective solutions for their real estate needs.

We believe the demand of healthcare providers for healthcare facilities will increase as health spending in the United States continues to increase.

Aging U.S. Population Driving Increase in Demand for Healthcare Services 

The general aging of the population, driven by the baby boomer generation and advances in medical technology and services which increase life expectancy, is a key driver of the growth in healthcare expenditures. We believe that demographic trends in the United States, including in particular an aging population, will result in continued growth in the demand for healthcare services, which in turn will lead to an increasing need for a greater supply of modern, well-located healthcare facilities.

Between 2015 and 2060, the U.S. population over 65 years of age is projected to more than double from 47.8 million to nearly 98.2 million and the 85 and older population is expected to more than triple, from 6.3 million to 19.7 million. The number of older Americans is also growing as a percentage of the total U.S. population with the number of persons older than 65 estimated to comprise 14.9% of the total U.S. population in 2015 and projected to grow to 23.6% by 2060. 

Affordable Care Act Driving Increase in Insured Americans 

The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010, or Affordable Care Act, represents a significant overhaul of many aspects of healthcare regulations and health insurance and requires every American to have health insurance or be subjected to a tax. The percentage of insured Americans has increased significantly since the enactment of the Affordable Care Act in 2010. The number of uninsured Americans decreased from 44.2 million in 2013 to 35.5 million in 2014, a decrease of 24.5%. HHS predicts that the Affordable Care Act will result in an additional 35 million Americans having health insurance by 2020, which we believe will increase the frequency of physician office visits. Accordingly, we believe the increased demand for healthcare services will result in the need for healthcare providers to invest in the expansion of medical, outpatient and smaller specialty outpatient-oriented hospital facilities.

Clinical Care Continues to Shift to Outpatient Facilities 

We believe the continued shift in the delivery of healthcare services to outpatient facilities will increase the need for smaller, more specialized and efficient hospitals and outpatient facilities that more effectively accommodate those services. Procedures traditionally performed in hospitals, such as certain types of surgery, are increasingly moving to outpatient facilities driven by advances in clinical science, shifting consumer preferences, limited or inefficient space in existing hospitals and lower costs in the outpatient environment. Additionally, studies by the American Hospital Association show that outpatient visits per thousand have grown approximately 50.8% from 1993 to 2013, whereas inpatient admissions per thousand have declined 10.9%. This continuing shift in delivery of healthcare services to an outpatient environment increases the need for additional outpatient facilities and smaller, more specialized and efficient hospitals.

We believe that healthcare is delivered more cost effectively and with higher patient satisfaction when it is provided on an outpatient basis. We believe the Affordable Care Act, and healthcare market trends toward outpatient care will continue to push healthcare services out of larger, older, inefficient hospitals and into newer, more efficient and conveniently located outpatient facilities and smaller specialized hospitals. Increased specialization within the medical field is also driving demand for medical facilities that are purpose-built for particular specialties.

Evidence-Based Design Influencing Healthcare Real Estate 

Evidence-based design, or EBD, is an increasingly recognized component of healthcare real estate. EBD demonstrates that there is an interrelatedness between the design of a healthcare facility and patient outcomes. EBD research indicates that certain design elements, such as efficient layouts, placement of sinks and bathrooms, orientation of furniture, size of hallways and uniformity of surgical rooms, have an important impact on productivity, safety, health and morale for both physicians and patients.

We believe that as EBD research becomes more widely recognized and reproduced, healthcare facilities without these design principles will be disadvantaged. We believe that leading medical providers will increasingly desire and require modern, purpose-built facilities with state of the art technology and efficient layouts, such as those that we own in our current portfolio. We believe that this positions us to outperform other healthcare facility owners over time. 

Qualification as a REIT 

Our business strategy is conducive to a more favorable tax structure whereby we may qualify and elect to be treated as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes. We plan to elect to be taxed as REIT under U.S. federal income tax laws commencing with our contemplated taxable year ending December 31, 2016. We believe that, commencing with 2016, we will have been organized and have operated in such a manner as to qualify for taxation as a REIT under all of the federal income tax laws, and we intend to continue to operate in such a manner. We, however, cannot provide assurances that we will operate in a manner so as to qualify or remain qualified as a REIT.

In order to qualify as a REIT, a substantial percentage of the Company&#146;s assets must be qualifying real estate assets and a substantial percentage of the Company&#146;s income must be rental revenue from real property or interest on mortgage loans. We must elect under the U.S. Internal Revenue Code (the &#147;Code&#148;) to be treated as a REIT. Subject to a number of significant exceptions, a corporation that qualifies as a REIT generally is not subject to U.S. federal corporate income taxes on income and gains that it distributes to its stockholders, thereby reducing its corporate level taxes.

Competition 

Our healthcare facilities often face competition from nearby hospitals and other healthcare facilities that provide comparable services. Similarly, our tenant-operators face competition from other medical practices and service providers at nearby hospitals and other healthcare facilities. From time to time and for reasons beyond our control, managed-care organizations may change their lists of preferred hospitals or in-network physicians. Physicians also may change hospital affiliations. If competitors of our tenant-operators or competitors of the associated healthcare delivery systems with which our healthcare facilities are strategically aligned have greater geographic coverage, improve access and convenience to physicians and patients, provide or are perceived to provide higher quality services, recruit physicians to provide competing services at their facilities, expand or improve their services or obtain more favorable managed-care contracts, our tenant-operators may not be able to successfully compete. Any reduction in rental revenues resulting from the inability of our tenant-operators or the associated healthcare delivery systems with which our healthcare facilities are strategically aligned to compete in providing medical services and/or receiving sufficient rates of reimbursement for healthcare services rendered may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, our ability to make distributions to our stockholders and the trading price of our common stock.

Government Regulation 

The healthcare industry is heavily regulated by U.S. federal, state and local governmental authorities. Our tenant-operators generally will be subject to laws and regulations covering, among other things, licensure, and certification for participation in government programs, billing for services, privacy and security of health information and relationships with physicians and other referral sources. In addition, new laws and regulations, changes in existing laws and regulations or changes in the interpretation of such laws or regulations could negatively affect our financial condition and the financial condition of our tenant-operators. These changes, in some cases, could apply retroactively. The enactment, timing or effect of legislative or regulatory changes cannot be predicted. 

Many states regulate the construction of healthcare facilities, the expansion of healthcare facilities, the construction or expansion of certain services, including by way of example specific bed types and medical equipment, as well as certain capital expenditures through certificate of need, or CON, laws. Under such laws, the applicable state regulatory body must determine a need exists for a project before the project can be undertaken. If one of our tenant-operators seeks to undertake a CON-regulated project, but is not authorized by the applicable regulatory body to proceed with the project, the tenant-operator would be prevented from operating in its intended manner. 

Failure to comply with these laws and regulations could adversely affect us directly and our tenant-operators&#146; ability to make rent payments to us, which may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, our ability to make distributions to our stockholders and the trading price of our common stock.

Fraud and Abuse Laws 

There are various federal and state laws prohibiting fraudulent and abusive business practices by healthcare providers who participate in, receive payments from or are in a position to make referrals in connection with government-sponsored healthcare programs, including the Medicare and Medicaid programs. Our lease arrangements with certain tenant-operators may also be subject to these fraud and abuse laws. 

These laws include without limitation:

&#183;

the Federal Anti-Kickback Statute, which prohibits, among other things, the offer, payment, solicitation or receipt of any form of remuneration in return for, or to induce, the referral of any U.S. federal or state healthcare program patients; 

&#183;

the Federal Physician Self-Referral Prohibition (commonly called the &#147;Stark Law&#148;), which, subject to specific exceptions, restricts physicians who have financial relationships with healthcare providers from making referrals for designated health services for which payment may be made under Medicare or Medicaid programs to an entity with which the physician, or an immediate family member, has a financial relationship;

&#183;

the False Claims Act, which prohibits any person from knowingly presenting false or fraudulent claims for payment to the federal government, including under the Medicare and Medicaid programs; 

&#183;

the Civil Monetary Penalties Law, which authorizes the Department of Health and Human Services to impose monetary penalties for certain fraudulent acts; and 

&#183;

state anti-kickback, anti-inducement, anti-referral and insurance fraud laws which may be generally similar to, and potentially more expansive than, the federal laws set forth above. 

Violations of these laws may result in criminal and/or civil penalties that range from punitive sanctions, damage assessments, penalties, imprisonment, denial of Medicare and Medicaid payments and/or exclusion from the Medicare and Medicaid programs. In addition, the Affordable Care Act clarifies that the submission of claims for items or services generated in violation of the Anti-Kickback Statute constitutes a false or fraudulent claim under the False Claims Act. The federal government has taken the position, and some courts have held, that violations of other laws, such as the Stark Law, can also be a violation of the False Claims Act. Additionally, certain laws, such as the False Claims Act, allow for individuals to bring whistleblower actions on behalf of the government for violations thereof. Imposition of any of these penalties upon one of our tenant-operators or strategic partners could jeopardize that tenant-operator&#146;s ability to operate or to make rent payments or affect the level of occupancy in our healthcare facilities, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, our ability to make distributions to our stockholders and the trading price of our common stock. Further, we enter into leases and other financial relationships with healthcare delivery systems that are subject to or impacted by these laws. In the future we may have other investors who are healthcare providers in certain of our subsidiaries that own our healthcare facilities. If any of our relationships, including those related to the other investors in our subsidiaries, are found not to comply with these laws, we and our physician investors may be subject to civil and/or criminal penalties.

Environmental Matters 

Under various U.S. federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations, current and prior owners and tenant-operators of real estate may be jointly and severally liable for the costs of investigating, remediating and monitoring certain hazardous substances or other regulated materials on or in such healthcare facility. In addition to these costs, the past or present owner or tenant-operator of a healthcare facility from which a release emanates could be liable for any personal injury or property damage that results from such releases, including for the unauthorized release of asbestos-containing materials and other hazardous substances into the air, as well as any damages to natural resources or the environment that arise from such releases. These environmental laws often impose such liability without regard to whether the current or prior owner or tenant-operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence or release of such substances or materials. Moreover, the release of hazardous substances or materials, or the failure to properly remediate such substances or materials, may adversely affect the owner&#146;s or tenant&#146;s ability to lease, sell, develop or rent such healthcare facility or to borrow by using such healthcare facility as collateral. Persons who transport or arrange for the disposal or treatment of hazardous substances or other regulated materials may be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of such substances at a disposal or treatment facility, regardless of whether or not such facility is owned or operated by such person. 

Certain environmental laws impose compliance obligations on owners and tenant-operators of real property with respect to the management of hazardous substances and other regulated materials. For example, environmental laws govern the management and removal of asbestos-containing materials and lead-based paint. Failure to comply with these laws can result in penalties or other sanctions. If we are held liable under these laws, our business, financial condition and results of operations, our ability to make distributions to our stockholders and the trading price of our common stock may be adversely affected.

Medicare and Medicaid Programs 

Sources of revenue for our tenant-operators typically include the U.S. federal Medicare program, state Medicaid programs, private insurance payors and health maintenance organizations. Healthcare providers continue to face increased government and private payor pressure to control or reduce healthcare costs and significant reductions in healthcare reimbursement, including reduced reimbursements and changes to payment methodologies under the Affordable Care Act. The Congressional Budget Office, or CBO, estimates the reductions required by the Affordable Care Act in the future will include cuts to Medicare fee-for-service payments, the majority of which will come from hospitals, and that some hospitals will become insolvent as a result of the reductions. In some cases, private insurers rely on all or portions of the Medicare payment systems to determine payment rates which may result in decreased reimbursement from private insurers. The Affordable Care Act will likely increase enrollment in plans offered by private insurers who choose to participate in state-run exchanges, but the Affordable Care Act also imposes new requirements for the health insurance industry, including prohibitions upon excluding individuals based upon pre-existing conditions which may increase private insurer costs and, thereby, cause private insurers to reduce their payment rates to providers. At this time, it is difficult to predict the full effects of the Affordable Care Act and its impact on our business, our revenues and financial condition and those of our tenant-operators due to the law&#146;s complexity, lack of implementing regulations or interpretive guidance, gradual implementation and possible amendment. The Affordable Care Act could adversely affect the reimbursement rates received by our tenant-operators, the financial success of our tenant-operators and strategic partners and consequently us.

If the United States economy enters a recession or slower growth, this could negatively affect state budgets, thereby putting pressure on states to decrease spending on state programs including Medicaid. The need to control Medicaid expenditures may be exacerbated by the potential for increased enrollment in state Medicaid programs due to unemployment and declines in family incomes. Historically, states have often attempted to reduce Medicaid spending by limiting benefits and tightening Medicaid eligibility requirements. Potential reductions to Medicaid program spending in response to state budgetary pressures could negatively impact the ability of our tenant-operators to successfully operate their businesses. 

Efforts by payors to reduce healthcare costs will likely continue which may result in reductions or slower growth in reimbursement for certain services provided by some of our tenant-operators. A reduction in reimbursements to our tenant-operators from third-party payors for any reason could adversely affect our tenant-operators&#146; ability to make rent payments to us which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, our ability to make distributions to our stockholders and the trading price of our common stock.

Employees 

As of March 21, 2016, we had no employees. The Company is externally managed by the Advisor. The Advisor provides the services of the officers and other management personnel of the Company.

