 ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

Introduction 

Redwood Trust, Inc., together with its subsidiaries, focuses on investing in mortgage- and other real estate-related assets and engaging in mortgage banking activities. We seek to invest in real estate-related assets that have the potential to generate attractive cash flow returns over time and to generate income through our mortgage banking activities. During 2015, we operated our business in three segments: residential mortgage banking, residential investments, and commercial mortgage banking and investments. 

Our primary sources of income are net interest income from our investment portfolios and non-interest income from our mortgage banking activities. Net interest income consists of the interest income we earn on investments less the interest expense we incur on borrowed funds and other liabilities. Income from mortgage banking activities consists of the profit we seek to generate through the acquisition of loans and their subsequent sale or securitization. References herein to &#8220;Redwood,&#8221; the &#8220;company,&#8221; &#8220;we,&#8221; &#8220;us,&#8221; and &#8220;our&#8221; include Redwood Trust, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries, unless the context otherwise requires. 

Redwood Trust, Inc. has elected to be taxed as a real estate investment trust (&#8220;REIT&#8221;) under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the &#8220;Internal Revenue Code&#8221;), beginning with its taxable year ended December 31, 1994. We generally refer, collectively, to Redwood Trust, Inc. and those of its subsidiaries that are not subject to subsidiary-level corporate income tax as &#8220;the REIT&#8221; or &#8220;our REIT.&#8221; We generally refer to subsidiaries of Redwood Trust, Inc. that are subject to subsidiary-level corporate income tax as &#8220;our operating subsidiaries&#8221; or &#8220;our taxable REIT subsidiaries&#8221; or &#8220;TRS.&#8221; Our mortgage banking activities and investments in mortgage servicing rights ("MSRs") are generally carried out through our taxable REIT subsidiaries, while our portfolio of mortgage- and other real estate-related investments is primarily held at our REIT. We generally intend to retain profits generated and taxed at our taxable REIT subsidiaries, and to distribute as dividends at least 90% of the taxable income we generate at our REIT. 

Redwood Trust, Inc. was incorporated in the State of Maryland on April 11, 1994, and commenced operations on August 19, 1994. Our executive offices are located at One Belvedere Place, Suite 300, Mill Valley, California 94941. 

Financial information concerning our business, both on a consolidated basis and with respect to each of our segments, is set forth in Financial Statements and Supplementary Data &#32;as well as in Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations &#32;which are included in Part II, Items 8 and 7, respectively, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. &#32; 

Our Business Segments 

Our residential mortgage banking segment primarily consists of operating a mortgage loan conduit that acquires residential loans from third-party originators for subsequent sale, securitization, or transfer to our investment portfolio. We typically acquire prime, jumbo mortgages and the related mortgage servicing rights on a flow basis from our network of loan sellers and distribute those loans through our Sequoia private-label securitization program or to institutions that acquire pools of whole loans. We occasionally supplement our flow purchases with bulk loan acquisitions. This segment also includes various derivative financial instruments and interest only securities retained from our Sequoia securitizations that we utilize to manage certain risks associated with residential loans we acquire. 

During 2015, we also acquired conforming loans (defined as loans eligible for sale to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac (the "Agencies")) and the related servicing rights on a flow basis from our seller network. Conforming loans we acquired were generally sold to the Agencies. During the first quarter of 2016, as part of our ongoing evaluation of the efficiency and profitability of our businesses, we announced plans to restructure our conforming loan operations by discontinuing the acquisition and aggregation of conforming loans for resale to the Agencies, and instead focus on direct conforming-related investments in mortgage servicing rights and risk-sharing transactions. 

Our residential mortgage banking segment&#8217;s main source of revenue is income from mortgage banking activities, which includes valuation increases (or gains) on the sale or securitization of loans, and from hedges used to manage risks associated with these activities. Additionally, this segment may generate interest income on loans held pending securitization or sale. Funding expenses, direct operating expenses, and tax expenses associated with these activities are also included in this segment. 

Our residential investments segment includes a portfolio of investments in residential mortgage-backed securities retained from our Sequoia securitizations, as well as residential mortgage-backed securities issued by third parties. In addition, this segment includes a subsidiary of Redwood Trust that is a member of the Federal Home Loan Bank of Chicago ("FHLBC") and that utilizes attractive long-term financing from the FHLBC to make long-term investments directly in residential mortgage loans. Finally, this segment invests in MSRs associated with residential loans we have sold or securitized, as well as MSRs that we purchased from third parties. The residential investments segment&#8217;s main sources of revenue are interest income from investment portfolio securities and residential loans held-for-investment, as well as MSR income. Additionally, this segment may realize gains upon the sale of securities. Funding expenses, hedging expenses, direct operating expenses, and tax provisions associated with these activities are also included in this segment. 

During 2015, our commercial mortgage banking and investments segment consisted primarily of a mortgage loan conduit that originated senior commercial loans for subsequent sale to third-party CMBS sponsors or other investors. In addition to senior loans, during 2015 we offered complementary forms of commercial real estate financing directly to borrowers that included mezzanine loans, subordinate mortgage loans, and other financing solutions. We typically have held the mezzanine and other subordinate loans we originated in our commercial investment portfolio. During the first quarter of 2016, as part of our ongoing evaluation of the efficiency and profitability of our businesses, we announced plans to reposition our commercial business to focus solely on investing activities and discontinue commercial loan originations. During 2015, this segment&#8217;s main sources of revenue were mortgage banking income, which included valuation increases (or gains) on the sale of senior commercial loans and associated hedges, and net interest income from mezzanine or subordinate loans held in our investment portfolio. Funding expenses, direct operating expenses, and tax expenses associated with these activities are also included in this segment. 

Sponsored, Managed, and Consolidated Entities 

Throughout our history we have sponsored or managed other investment entities, including a private limited partnership fund that we managed, the Redwood Opportunity Fund, LP (the &#8220;Fund&#8221;), as well as Acacia securitization entities, certain of which we continue to manage. The Fund was primarily invested in residential securities and the Acacia entities are primarily invested in a variety of real estate-related assets. 

During the third quarter of 2011, we engaged in a transaction in which we resecuritized a pool of senior residential securities (the &#8220;Residential Resecuritization&#8221;) primarily for the purpose of obtaining permanent non-recourse financing on a portion of the residential securities we hold in our investment portfolio at the REIT. Similarly, during the fourth quarter of 2012, we engaged in a transaction in which we securitized a pool of commercial loans (the &#8220;Commercial Securitization&#8221;) primarily for the purpose of obtaining permanent non-recourse financing on a portion of the commercial loans we hold. 

Information Available on Our Website 

Our website can be found at www.redwoodtrust.com. We make available, free of charge through the investor information section of our website, access to our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as well as proxy statements, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (&#8220;SEC&#8221;). We also make available, free of charge, access to our charters for our Audit Committee, Compensation Committee, and Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee, our Corporate Governance Standards, and our Code of Ethics governing our directors, officers, and employees. Within the time period required by the SEC and the New York Stock Exchange, we will post on our website any amendment to the Code of Ethics and any waiver applicable to any executive officer, director, or senior officer (as defined in the Code). In addition, our website includes information concerning purchases and sales of our equity securities by our executive officers and directors, as well as disclosure relating to certain non-GAAP financial measures (as defined in the SEC&#8217;s Regulation G) that we may make public orally, telephonically, by webcast, by broadcast, or by similar means from time to time. The information on our website is not part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Our Investor Relations Department can be contacted at One Belvedere Place, Suite 300, Mill Valley, CA 94941, Attn: Investor Relations, telephone (866) 269-4976. 

Cautionary Statement 

This Annual Report on Form 10-K and the documents incorporated by reference herein contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements involve numerous risks and uncertainties. Our actual results may differ from our beliefs, expectations, estimates, and projections and, consequently, you should not rely on these forward-looking statements as predictions of future events. Forward-looking statements are not historical in nature and can be identified by words such as &#8220;anticipate,&#8221; &#8220;estimate,&#8221; &#8220;will,&#8221; &#8220;should,&#8221; &#8220;expect,&#8221; &#8220;believe,&#8221; &#8220;intend,&#8221; &#8220;seek,&#8221; &#8220;plan&#8221; and similar expressions or their negative forms, or by references to strategy, plans, or intentions. These forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, including, among other things, those described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K under the caption &#8220;Risk Factors.&#8221; Other risks, uncertainties, and factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected are described below and may be described from time to time in reports we file with the SEC, including reports on Forms 10-Q and 8-K. We undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. 

Statements regarding the following subjects, among others, are forward-looking by their nature: (i) statements we make regarding Redwood&#8217;s business strategy and strategic focus, including statements relating to our confidence in our overall market position, strategy and long-term prospects, and our belief in the long-term efficiency of private label securitization as a form of mortgage financing; (ii) statements related to our financial outlook and expectations for 2016, including with respect to: 2016 earnings, growth in portfolio net interest income, reductions in operating expenses associated with the repositioning of our conforming residential and commercial mortgage banking activities, nonrecurring severance payments and other charges related to this repositioning, MSR portfolio net income, residential mortgage banking income, gain on sales income related to the sale of securities, expected capital allocation among our investment portfolio and mortgage banking activities; (iii) expectations related to our residential mortgage banking activities, including our focus on whole-loan acquisitions and sales; (iv) statements we make regarding our outlook for debt markets and potential dislocations in those markets, opportunities that may result from such dislocations, and our expectations with respect to our capital, liquidity and short-term securities repurchase financing; (v) statements regarding our residential investment portfolio, including our expectations regarding investments held at our FHLB-member subsidiary and the financing for such investments; (vi) statements we make regarding our stock and debt repurchase authorizations and our approach in considering additional repurchase activity; (vii) statements relating to acquiring residential mortgage loans in the future that we have identified for purchase or plan to purchase, including the amount of such loans that we identified for purchase during the fourth quarter of 2015 and at December 31, 2015, and statements relating to expected fallout and the corresponding volume of residential mortgage loans expected to be available for purchase; (viii) statements relating to our estimate of our available capital (including that we estimate our capital available for investments at December 31, 2015 to be approximately $172 million and at February 19, 2016 to be in excess of $200 million); (ix) statements we make regarding our dividend policy, including our intention to pay a regular dividend of $0.28 per share per quarter in 2016; and (x) statements regarding our expectations and estimates relating to the characterization for income tax purposes of our dividend distributions, our expectations and estimates relating to tax accounting, tax liabilities and tax savings, and GAAP tax provisions, our estimates of REIT taxable income and TRS taxable income, and our anticipation of additional credit losses for tax purposes in future periods (and, in particular, our statement that, for tax purposes, we expect an additional $23 million of tax credit losses on residential securities we currently own to be realized over an estimated three- to five-year period). 

Important factors, among others, that may affect our actual results in 2016 include: interest rate volatility, changes in credit spreads, and changes in liquidity in the market for real estate securities and loans; changes in the demand from investors for residential mortgages and investments, and our ability to distribute an increased volume of residential mortgages through our whole-loan distribution channel; our ability to finance our investments in securities and our acquisition of residential mortgages with short-term debt; the availability of assets for purchase at attractive risk-adjusted returns and our ability to reinvest cash and the proceeds from the potential sale of securities and investments we hold; changes in the values of assets we own; higher than expected operating expenses due to delays or decreases in the realization of expected operating expense reductions related to the repositioning of our conforming mortgage banking activities and commercial loan origination activities, and other unforeseen expenses; general economic trends, the performance of the housing, commercial real estate, mortgage, credit, and broader financial markets, and their effects on the prices of earning assets and the credit status of borrowers; federal and state legislative and regulatory developments, and the actions of governmental authorities, including those affecting the mortgage industry or our business (including, but not limited to, the Federal Housing Finance Agency&#8217;s rules relating to FHLB membership requirements and the implications for our captive insurance subsidiary&#8217;s membership in the FHLB); developments related to the fixed income and mortgage finance markets and the Federal Reserve&#8217;s statements regarding its future open market activity and monetary policy; our exposure to credit risk and the timing of credit losses within our portfolio; the concentration of the credit risks we are exposed to, including due to the structure of assets we hold and the geographical concentration of real estate underlying assets we own; our exposure to adjustable-rate mortgage loans; the efficacy and expense of our efforts to manage or hedge credit risk, interest rate risk, and other financial and operational risks; changes in credit ratings on assets we own and changes in the rating agencies&#8217; credit rating methodologies; changes in interest rates; changes in mortgage prepayment rates; the ability of counterparties to satisfy their obligations to us; our involvement in securitization transactions, the profitability of those transactions, and the risks we are exposed to in engaging in securitization transactions; exposure to claims and litigation, including litigation arising from our involvement in securitization transactions; whether we have sufficient liquid assets to meet short-term needs; our ability to successfully compete and retain or attract key personnel; our ability to adapt our business model and strategies to changing circumstances; changes in our investment, financing, and hedging strategies and new risks we may be exposed to if we expand our business activities; our exposure to a disruption or breach of the security of our technology infrastructure and systems; exposure to environmental liabilities; our failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations; our failure to maintain appropriate internal controls over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures; the impact on our reputation that could result from our actions or omissions or from those of others; changes in accounting principles and tax rules; our ability to maintain our status as a REIT for tax purposes; limitations imposed on our business due to our REIT status and our status as exempt from registration under the Investment Company Act of 1940; decisions about raising, managing, and distributing capital; and other factors not presently identified. 

This Annual Report on Form 10-K may contain statistics and other data that in some cases have been obtained from or compiled from information made available by servicers and other third-party service providers. 

Certifications 

Our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have executed certifications dated February 26, 2016 , as required by Sections 302 and 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and we have included those certifications as exhibits to this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In addition, our Chief Executive Officer certified to the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) on June 8, 2015 that he was unaware of any violations by Redwood Trust, Inc. of the NYSE&#8217;s corporate governance listing standards in effect as of that date. 

Employees 

As of December 31, 2015 , Redwood employed 211 &#32;people. Following the announcements during the first quarter of 2016 of the restructuring of our conforming loan operations and repositioning of our commercial business, as of February 19, 2016, Redwood employed 153 people. 

