 Item 1.

BUSINESS 

We were incorporated in Nevada on January 23, 2004. On March 1, 2004, we filed a Registration Statement on Form 10SB with the SEC (File No.: 000-50612) and in September 2004, we filed a notice of election to be regulated as a business development company (&#147;BDC&#148;) under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (File No.: 814-00671) which made us a closed-end management investment company. Our goal was to provide investors with the opportunity to participate with a modest amount in venture capital investments that are generally not available to the public and that typically require substantially larger financial commitments. 

We were unable to raise the capital necessary to commence making investments as a BDC and have not generated any revenue. As a result, we had been a development stage company since inception. To date, all of our efforts have been limited primarily to organizational and business planning activities and preparation of documents to be filed with the SEC. All of our expenses incurred since inception relate to fees incurred for these purposes.

On July 13, 2008, our Board of Directors supported by the written consents of the holders of a majority of our outstanding shares of common stock elected to withdraw our election and we ceased being a BDC and in November 2008, we terminated our Section 12(g) registration and its reporting requirements under the Exchange Act of 1934 by filing the necessary Form 15 with the SEC. At that time, we decided to use the business connections of our then president and become a consulting business. Our goal is to obtain clients through our president&#146;s business contacts and then use subcontractors and independent contractors to provide strategic business planning and management consulting to these clients that are likely to be small domestic companies and to assist medium sized international companies trying to establish a business presence in the United States. All of our resources for the period ended January 31, 2009 were devoted to ending our election as a BDC and preparing related regulatory filings. During the year ended January 31, 2010, we started to work on preparing public filings and developing a new business plan.

In May 2011, our shareholders, based on the consents of the holders of a majority of outstanding shares of common stock, voted to Paul Tidwell as Chairman and appointed as President. 

In July 2008, we completed a 1 for 100 reverse split of shares of our common stock and issued 82,080,000 (which gives retroactive effect to a 19 for 1 forward split declared in February 2009) new shares to settle a substantial portion of our liabilities. In May 2011, holders of $20,000 of the Company&#146;s accrued expenses agreed to accept 2,000,000 of its newly-issued, restricted shares in full settlement of the amounts due to them and issued 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock to Paul Tidwell. Each share of preferred stock is convertible into 50 shares of common stock commencing on April 1, 2012. In January 2013 the Company issued 9,500,000 shares of common stock (including 3,000,000 to Paul Tidwell) to satisfy $20,000 in consulting fees due to an unaffiliated firm and unpaid costs incurred by Mr. Tidwell. Following these transactions, we had 106,500,000 shares of common stock issued and outstanding. All shares and per share amounts disclosed throughout this Report give retroactive effect to both of the splits. 

In May 2011, the Company entered into agreements with its new President who brought the Company a new business plan of finding and assisting in the salvage of sunken ships. Our new President, Paul Tidwell, devotes fulltime to implementing the new business plan. He has extensive experience in finding and salvaging sunken ships. Some of his activities have been filmed and shown on networks like the History Channel and Discovery Channel. To accomplish this new business plan, the Company will have to raise substantial debt or equity capital or conduct projects jointly with other parties who provide project funding since each project is likely to require several million dollars. Each project will require a surface vessel and crew, small submarine, salvage equipment and sophisticated cameras and filming equipment. 

Since May 2011, Paul Tidwell has been working fulltime identifying the specific projects that we will attempt to undertake initially and seek financing for those projects. As part of those plans we consider applicable maritime and international laws concerning the ownership of any recovered items. We also consider projects that may be attractive for the sale of video rights to the search and recovery efforts.

The Company is currently actively considering and negotiating several projects that have been extensively researched by its President. Several trips, including to Indonesia, Malaysia and the Philippines, have been taken or have been scheduled. The projects being discussed include:

&#183;

The right to assist in the sale or auction the existing Indonesian Government inventory of ancient Chinese Porcelain.

&#183;

The right to undertake an exploration to find the Flor de la Mar, a Portuguese ship that sank in 1511 with a rumored large cargo of treasures.

&#183;

The right to participate in the salvage of the contents of the Flor de la Mar.

&#183;

The right to sell or auction all or a portion of the contents salvaged from the Flor de la Mar.

&#183;

A program to salvage/recover shipwreck artifacts at various sites throughout Panay Island, Philippines.

&#183;

A program to salvage a Japanese submarine sunk during World War ll.

The contract/project discussions are being undertaken with a variety of people and entities, including Government officials outside the United States. Before any contract can be completed, the parties have to negotiate how the proceeds of any salvaged assets would be distributed. The likely outcome of these projects and discussions cannot be predicted at this time.

The likely outcome of these projects and discussions cannot be predicted at this time.

Competition 

There are a number of other entities that seek to salvage sunken vessels. These firms generally have greater resources than do we. We believe that our competitive advantage comes from the extensive research done over a long period of time by our President. This research gives us strong indications as to the specific location and possible contents of targeted sunken vessels. It also provides knowledge as to the likelihood of claims by Governments, insurance companies and others with respect to any contents that are recovered.

We cannot predict whether the competitive advantages that we believe exist will result in success of our operations.

Intellectual Property 

We have no patents or trademarks. 

Employees 

As of April 29, 2016, we had one employee, Paul Tidwell, our President, who devotes fulltime to us. Our president oversees all responsibilities in the areas of business plan development and execution. We do not have any other employees at this time. We plan on using subcontractors and independent consultants to work with us on all projects that we undertake.

