 Item 1. Business

&#160;

Overview

We are leaders in discovering and developing RNA-targeted therapeutics. We have created an efficient and broadly applicable drug discovery platform. Using this platform, we have developed a large, diverse and advanced pipeline of potentially first-in-class and/or best-in-class drugs that we believe can provide high value for patients with significant unmet medical needs. In this way, we believe that we are fundamentally changing medicine with the goal to improve the quality of and save lives.

We have discovered and are developing three potentially transformational drugs, nusinersen, IONIS-TTR Rx and volanesorsen, which we believe are close to commercialization. We designed each of these three drugs to treat patients with orphan diseases who have limited or no therapeutic options. In total, we are developing these three drugs for six different patient populations. In 2015, we completed target enrollment in the first pivotal Phase 3 study for each of these three drugs, and we anticipate reporting data from these studies in the first half of 2017. We designed nusinersen to treat patients with spinal muscular atrophy, or SMA, a severe motor-neuron disease that is the leading genetic cause of infant mortality. We designed IONIS-TTR Rx to treat patients with transthyretin amyloidosis, or TTR amyloidosis, a fatal disease in which patients experience progressive buildup of amyloid plaque deposits in tissues throughout the body, including peripheral nerves, heart, intestinal tract, kidney and bladder. We designed volanesorsen to treat patients with diseases associated with extremely high levels of triglycerides, including patients with two severe and rare genetic conditions called familial chylomicronemia syndrome, or FCS, and patients with familial partial lipodystrophy, or FPL. We anticipate that the data from our pivotal Phase 3 studies of these drugs, if positive, will support global regulatory filings for each drug. We believe that the significant unmet medical need and the severity of these diseases could warrant a rapid path to market. Already our partners for these programs, Biogen for nusinersen and GSK for IONIS-TTR Rx , are preparing to commercialize these drugs. Our wholly owned subsidiary, Akcea Therapeutics Inc., or Akcea, is preparing to commercialize volanesorsen. All three companies are engaging in pre-commercialization activities to understand the patient journey, build disease awareness with physicians and patients and develop their launch plans.

Nusinersen has the potential to be a transformational drug for infants and children with SMA. We are evaluating nusinersen in a broad development program designed to support marketing authorization for infants and children with this devastating disease. In our open-label studies, we have observed increases in the median event-free age in infants and increases in muscle function scores in infants and children with SMA. Although the studies are open-label with small numbers of patients, the totality of the data across these studies and multiple measures of activity suggest nusinersen could provide significant therapeutic benefit. Together with Biogen, we are conducting a broad development plan that supports a potentially rapid path to market for nusinersen.

IONIS-TTR Rx is potentially a first-in-class and best-in-class drug for the treatment of all forms of TTR amyloidosis. It is one drug, given as one subcutaneous injection, once a week. We and GSK are evaluating IONIS-TTR Rx in a broad development program designed to support marketing authorization of IONIS-TTR Rx for all forms of TTR amyloidosis: familial amyloid polyneuropathy, or FAP, and the cardiomyopathy form of TTR amyloidosis, which includes both familial amyloid cardiomyopathy, or FAC, and wild-type TTR, or wt-TTR. Together, these forms of TTR amyloidosis represent a large potential market for IONIS-TTR Rx . In our open-label extension study we have observed substantial TTR reductions in patients with FAP. In a Phase 2 open-label, investigator-initiated study, Dr. Merrill Benson, professor of pathology and lab medicine and molecular genetics at Indiana University School of Medicine, observed sustained reductions in TTR and evidence of disease stabilization in patients with the cardiomyopathy form of TTR amyloidosis.

Volanesorsen has the potential to significantly improve the lives of patients who, because of their severely elevated triglycerides, are at constant risk of pancreatitis, which can require hospitalization and can be life-threatening. In our Phase 2 clinical program, patients with elevated triglycerides treated with volanesorsen showed significantly improved lipid profiles with substantial reductions of triglycerides and other risk factors of cardiovascular disease. To maximize the value of volanesorsen and other earlier-stage drugs for serious cardiometabolic disorders, we formed Akcea Therapeutics to focus on developing and commercializing these drugs. Akcea&#8217;s pipeline includes volanesorsen, IONIS-APOCIII-L Rx , IONIS-APO(a)-L Rx and IONIS-ANGPTL3-L Rx . Moving these drugs into a company that we own and control allows us to retain substantial value from them and ensures Ionis&#8217; core focus remains on innovation. Akcea is building development and commercialization expertise in lipid and cardiometabolic diseases, including highly trained, specialized medical, marketing and sales teams, to successfully commercialize volanesorsen and the other lipid drugs in its pipeline.

In addition to our Phase 3 programs, we have a pipeline of drugs with the potential to be first-in-class and/or best-in-class drugs to treat patients with inadequately treated diseases. Our pipeline has over a dozen drugs in Phase 2 development, many of which we believe have the potential to be significant commercial opportunities. In particular, IONIS-FXI Rx and IONIS-APO(a)-L Rx are representative of the value we have created. IONIS-FXI Rx is the first antithrombotic in development that has shown it can decrease the risk of blood vessel obstruction caused by a blood clot without increasing bleeding risk. Given the unique profile of IONIS-FXI Rx , we believe that IONIS-FXI Rx has the potential to be an important therapy for the many patients who need an antithrombotic but cannot take currently available therapies due to the high risk of bleeding. Because of the significant commercial opportunities for this drug, we licensed it to Bayer HealthCare, a leader in developing and commercializing antithrombotics. Bayer plans to conduct a robust development program to maximize the commercial value of IONIS-FXI Rx . We are eligible to participate in this value through significant milestone payments and substantial royalties in the low-to-high 20 percent range on gross margins. IONIS-APO(a)-L Rx is the first and only drug in clinical development designed to selectively and robustly lower Lp(a), a key driver of cardiovascular disease. We believe that addressing Lp(a) is the next important horizon in lipid-focused cardiovascular disease treatment. In our clinical studies, we observed significant and sustained reductions in Lp(a) after only a single dose of IONIS-APO(a)-L Rx . With our support, Akcea has designed a broad development program to evaluate IONIS-APO(a)-L Rx in patients who are at significant cardiovascular risk due to their high Lp(a) levels. In addition to these two examples, our Phase 2 pipeline includes drugs to treat patients with diseases spanning numerous therapeutic areas, including severe and rare diseases, viral infections, ocular diseases, metabolic disorders and cardiovascular diseases. We plan to expand the therapeutic reach of our technology by adding three to five new drugs to our pipeline every year.

We believe that our technology is the most versatile and most efficient drug discovery technology today. We can develop drugs to act upon disease targets in many different tissues, including the liver, muscle, kidney, brain, lung, eye, tumors and others. Many of these disease targets are inaccessible with other types of drugs. Our drugs also work through numerous different cellular mechanisms, allowing us to develop drugs that can decrease or increase the production of a target protein involved in disease and remove disease-causing RNAs. In our clinical studies, we have demonstrated that we can administer our drugs by numerous different routes of administration, including oral, local, intrathecal and subcutaneous administration. The recent advances we have made in our technology have already translated into significant value in many of our newer drugs, which patients tolerate better and which are more potent than our earlier Generation 2 drugs. We continue to advance our RNA technology to create even better medicines and to expand the reach of our technology. We actively patent the advances we have made across all areas of our technology and the drugs we are developing. In this way, we have amassed a substantial intellectual property position that provides us with extensive protection for our drugs and our technology.

We have established alliances with a cadre of leading global pharmaceutical companies that are working alongside us in developing our drugs, advancing our technology and preparing to commercialize our products. Our partners bring resources and expertise that augment and build upon our internal capabilities. The depth of our knowledge and expertise with antisense technology provides us the flexibility to partner our drugs at what we believe is the optimal time to maximize the near- and long-term value of our drugs. We have distinct partnering strategies that we employ based on the specific program, therapeutic area and the expertise and resources our potential partners may bring to the collaboration. We have strategic partnerships with Biogen and AstraZeneca through which we can broadly expand our drug discovery efforts to new disease targets in specific therapeutic areas that are outside of our expertise or in which our partners can provide tools and resources to complement our drug discovery efforts. We also form early stage research and development partnerships that allow us to expand the application of our technology to new therapeutic areas. For example, we established a collaboration with Janssen, which brings together our RNA-targeted technology platform and Janssen&#8217;s expertise in autoimmune disorders and therapeutic formulation to discover and develop antisense drugs to treat autoimmune disorders in the gastrointestinal, or GI, tract. Additionally, we form development and commercialization partnerships that enable us to leverage our partner&#8217;s global expertise and resources needed to support large commercial opportunities. For example, we licensed IONIS-FXI Rx to Bayer to develop and commercialize IONIS-FXI Rx for the prevention of thrombosis. As a leader in the antithrombotic market, Bayer has the expertise, resources and commitment to broadly develop IONIS-FXI Rx . Lastly, we also work with a consortium of companies that can exploit our drugs and technologies outside our primary areas of focus. We refer to these companies as satellite companies.

Through our partnerships, we have created a broad and sustaining base of potential license fees, upfront payments, milestone payments, royalties, and earn out payments while controlling our drug development expenses. We have the potential to earn significant revenue from all of our partnerships. Since 2007, we have received more than $1.7 billion in cash from upfront and licensing fees, equity purchase payments, milestone payments and research and development funding from our partnerships. We have the potential to earn nearly $12 billion in future milestone payments and licensing fees from our current partnerships. We also have the potential to share in the future commercial success of our inventions and drugs resulting from our partnerships through earn out or royalty arrangements.

Corporate Highlights in 2015 and early 2016 

&#9679; We formed a wholly owned subsidiary, Akcea Therapeutics, to develop and commercialize our lipid drugs, volanesorsen, IONIS-APOCIII-L Rx , IONIS-APO(a)-L Rx and IONIS-ANGPTL3-L Rx . 

&#9679; We licensed IONIS-FXI Rx to Bayer to develop and commercialize IONIS-FXI Rx for the prevention of thrombosis. 

&#9679; We and AstraZeneca formed a strategic collaboration to discover and develop antisense therapies for treating cardiovascular and metabolic diseases, primarily focused on targets in the kidney, and renal diseases. 

&#9679; We formed an alliance with Janssen to discover and develop antisense drugs to treat autoimmune disorders of the gastrointestinal tract. 

&#9679; We received more than $320 million in payments from our partners in 2015. 

&#9679; We changed our name to Ionis Pharmaceuticals, Inc. in December 2015 and our stock now trades under the ticker symbol &#8220;IONS&#8221;. 

Drug Development Highlights in 2015 and early 2016 

&#9679; We continued to make significant advances in our pipeline and completed target enrollment for three pivotal phase 3 studies, including: 

&#9679; CHERISH, a Phase 3 study evaluating nusinersen in children with SMA. 

&#9679; NEURO-TTR, a Phase 3 study evaluating IONIS-TTR Rx in patients with FAP. 

&#9679; APROACH, a Phase 3 study evaluating volanesorsen in patients with FCS. 

&#9679; We and our partners reported positive data from 13 clinical studies. These data exemplify the broad applicability and potential for antisense drugs to provide therapeutic benefit for many different diseases. These data include: 

&#9679; Phase 2 data from two ongoing open-label studies in which infants and children with SMA treated with nusinersen experienced increases in muscle function scores. Additionally, there were no events of death or permanent ventilation reported in 2015 in nusinersen-treated infants in the ongoing Phase 2 clinical study. 

&#9679; Data from the ongoing open-label extension study of NEURO-TTR in which patients with FAP treated with IONIS-TTR Rx for at least three months experienced reductions in TTR protein of up to 92 percent with a mean maximum (nadir) reduction of 76 percent compared to baseline. 

&#9679; Phase 2 data from an ongoing open-label, investigator-initiated study in patients with FAC and patients with wt-TTR treated with IONIS-TTR Rx for 12 months preliminarily evidencing disease stabilization and sustained TTR reductions. 

&#9679; Phase 2 data in which patients with high lipoprotein(a), or Lp(a), treated with IONIS-APO(a) Rx experienced reductions in Lp(a) of up to 94 percent. 

&#9679; Phase 1/2 data in which patients with high Lp(a) treated with IONIS-APO(a)-L Rx experienced a greater than 30-fold increase in potency over IONIS-APO(a) Rx , the non-LICA Lp(a) drug. Patients also experienced dose-dependent reductions in Lp(a) of up to 97 percent and 99 percent after a single dose and multiple doses of IONIS-APO(a)-L Rx , respectively. 

&#9679; Clinical and preclinical data in patients with cancer, including advanced/metastatic hepatocellular carcinoma and diffuse large B cell lymphoma, treated with IONIS-STAT3-2.5 Rx evidencing antitumor activity. 

&#9679; Phase 2 data in which patients with type 2 diabetes treated with IONIS-PTP1B Rx experienced statistically significant mean reductions in body weight and HbA1c (0.7 percentage point). 

&#9679; Phase 1 results in which healthy volunteers dosed with IONIS-ANGPTL3 Rx experienced significant reductions of up to 93 percent in angiopoietin-like 3 protein, up to 63 percent in triglycerides and up to 46 percent in total cholesterol. 

&#9679; Phase 1 results in which healthy volunteers dosed with IONIS-PKK Rx experienced significant, dose-dependent reductions of prekallikrein of up to 95 percent. 

&#9679; Phase 3 data from the FOCUS FH study evaluating Kynamro in patients with severe heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia. This study met its primary endpoint with a statistically significant reduction of LDL-Cholesterol, or LDL-C. 

&#9679; We published clinical data from our novel lipid drugs, volanesorsen and IONIS-APO(a) Rx , in the New England Journal of Medicine and The Lancet, respectively. 

&#9679; The U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, granted volanesorsen orphan drug designation for the treatment of patients with FCS. 

&#9679; The European Medicines Agency, or EMA, granted IONIS-HTT Rx orphan drug designation for the treatment of patients with Huntington&#8217;s Disease. 

&#9679; We, together with our partners, continued to advance our pipeline of drugs, initiating 11 clinical studies, including one Phase 3 study and six Phase 2 studies. 

Drug Discovery and Development

&#160;

Introduction to Drug Discovery

&#160;

Proteins are essential working molecules in a cell. Almost all human diseases result from inappropriate protein production, improper protein activity or loss of a protein. Scientists use traditional drug discovery methods to design drugs to interact with the proteins in the body that are supporting or causing a disease. Antisense drugs are different from traditional small molecule drugs because antisense drugs can modify the production of proteins by targeting RNAs. In this way, antisense drugs can reduce the production of a disease-causing protein or increase the production of a protein that, when absent, causes disease. Antisense drugs also can treat disease by targeting and reducing RNAs that may be causing disease. RNAs are naturally occurring molecules in the body that primarily provide the information the cell needs to produce proteins. When our antisense drugs bind to the specific RNAs of a particular gene, they will ultimately alter the production of the protein encoded in the target gene or, in the case of disease-causing RNAs, degrade the RNA.

Our Development Projects

&#160;

We are the leader in the discovery and development of an exciting class of RNA-targeted drugs called antisense drugs. With our proprietary drug discovery platform, we can rapidly identify drugs from a wealth of potential targets to treat a broad range of diseases. We focus our efforts in therapeutic areas where our drugs will work best, efficiently screening many targets in parallel and carefully selecting the best drugs. By combining this efficiency with our rational approach to selecting disease targets, we have built a large and diverse portfolio of drugs we designed to treat a variety of health conditions, with an emphasis on cardiovascular, metabolic, severe and rare diseases, including neurological diseases, and cancer. We are developing antisense drugs for systemic, intrathecal and local delivery. We expect to continue to add new drugs to our pipeline, building a broad proprietary portfolio of drugs to treat many diseases and creating opportunities to generate substantial revenue. We also continue to improve our scientific understanding of our drugs, including how our drugs impact the biological processes of the diseases we target.

With our expertise in discovering and characterizing novel antisense drugs, our scientists can optimize the properties of our antisense drugs for use with particular targets. Our scientists have made significant advances in chemistries. Our Generation 2.0+ antisense drugs have increased potency and an improved side effect profile over our earlier generation drugs. Our scientists have further improved upon our second-generation chemistry with our Generation 2.5 chemistry, an advancement that further increases the potency of our drugs and broadens the tissues in which our drugs can work. We currently have four Generation 2.5 drugs in development, and we expect that some of our future drugs will also incorporate our Generation 2.5 chemistry. In addition to improving the chemical foundation of our drugs, we have also created LIgand-Conjugated Antisense, or LICA, technology, which we designed to enhance the delivery of our drugs to particular tissues. We believe that our LICA technology could further enhance the potency of our drugs. For example, our LICA technology directed toward liver targets produced a ten-fold increase in potency in preclinical studies in both our second-generation and our Generation 2.5 drugs. Our first clinical data from a LICA drug demonstrated an increase in potency that was more than 30-fold greater than what we observed with our non-LICA drug to the same target. We currently have eight second-generation LICA drugs in our pipeline, all of which we designed to inhibit targets in the liver. We expect we can also enhance some of our future drugs, including our Generation 2.5 drugs, with our LICA technology.

&#160;

We have utilized our chemistry advancements to expand the therapeutic and commercial opportunities of our pipeline. These advancements, along with the manufacturing and analytical processes that are the same for all of our drugs, shorten our timeline from initial concept to the first human dose when compared to small molecule drugs.

The above table lists our pipeline, including the disease indications, our development partner if the drug is partnered, and the development status of each drug. Typically, the names of our drugs incorporate the target of the drug, such as IONIS-TTR Rx . In this case, TTR is the target of the drug. Unless indicated otherwise, the majority of the drugs in our pipeline are Generation 2.0+ antisense drugs. We differentiate our Generation 2.5 drugs by adding a 2.5 notation at the end of the drug name, such as IONIS-DMPK-2.5 Rx . We differentiate our LICA drugs by adding an L at the end of the drug name, such as IONIS-APO(a)-L Rx . We also plan to add Generation 2.5 drugs that incorporate our LICA technology. We will identify these drugs by the addition of both the 2.5 and L into the drug name. As the drugs in our pipeline advance in clinical development, we will adopt nonproprietary names given to each drug from the United States Adopted Names Council. For example, nusinersen is a nonproprietary name that we obtained for ISIS-SMN Rx . Once we or our partners establish a brand name, we will adopt the brand name.

With a pipeline as large and advanced as ours, we have a number of clinical events each year as we initiate new clinical studies, complete and report data from clinical studies and add new drugs to our pipeline. In 2016, we plan to initiate multiple clinical studies, report data on multiple drugs and add three to five new drugs into development.

Our Phase 3 Drugs

We have three drugs for which we are conducting pivotal Phase 3 studies: nusinersen, IONIS-TTR Rx and volanesorsen. Each of these drugs has the potential to transform the treatment of patients with an orphan disease, and we believe all three of these drugs are close to commercialization. In 2015,we completed target enrollment in a Phase 3 study for each of these drugs. We expect to have Phase 3 data for all three drugs in the first half of 2017 and potentially file for marketing authorization in the 2017/2018 timeframe if the data are positive.

Nusinersen &#8211; Nusinersen is an antisense drug we and Biogen are developing to treat patients with spinal muscular atrophy, or SMA. SMA is a severe motor-neuron disease that is the leading genetic cause of infant mortality. SMA occurs from a deletion or mutation of a gene responsible for producing a protein critical for normal cellular function. We designed nusinersen to compensate for this underlying genetic defect by increasing the production of the protein from a closely related gene. In January 2012, we and Biogen entered into an alliance that provides Biogen with an option to develop and commercialize nusinersen. We discovered nusinersen in collaboration with Dr. Adrian R. Krainer at Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory.

SMA affects approximately 30,000 to 35,000 patients in the United States, Europe and Japan. One in 50 people, approximately six million people in the United States, carry the gene mutation that causes SMA. Carriers experience no symptoms and do not develop the disease. When both parents are carriers, however, there is a one in four chance their child will have SMA. SMA is caused by a loss of, or defect in, the survival motor neuron 1, or SMN1, gene leading to a decrease in the survival motor neuron, or SMN protein. SMN is critical to the health and survival of nerve cells in the spinal cord that are responsible for neuro-muscular growth and function. The severity of SMA correlates with the amount of SMN protein produced in motor neurons. Infants with Type I SMA, the most severe life-threatening form, produce very little SMN protein and have a significantly shortened life expectancy of less than two years according to natural history studies that researchers have conducted in patients with SMA. In a 2009 paper by Rudnik-Sch&#246;neborn, the median age for event-free survival in infants with Type I SMA was 6.2 months. In a contemporaneous study published in 2014 by the Pediatric Neuromuscular Clinical Research group, or PNCR, the median age for event-free survival in infants with two copies of SMN2 was 10.5 months. Children with Type II SMA generally have more copies of the SMN2 gene and have greater amounts of SMN protein than Type 1 infants but still have a shortened lifespan. Type II SMA patients are never able to walk. Children with Type III SMA have a normal lifespan but incur additional life-long physical disabilities as they grow.

We are evaluating nusinersen in a broad Phase 3 program. We have completed target enrollment in the Phase 3 study, CHERISH, in children with SMA and expect to complete enrollment in the Phase 3 study, ENDEAR, in infants with SMA in the second quarter of 2016. CHERISH is a randomized, international, double-blind, sham-procedure controlled fifteen month study in approximately 120 children with SMA who are non-ambulatory. We designed this study to support an application for marketing authorization of nusinersen in children with SMA. CHERISH is evaluating the efficacy and safety of a 12 mg dose of nusinersen with a primary endpoint of a change in the Hammersmith Functional Motor Scale-Expanded, or HFMSE, a validated method to measure changes in muscle function in children with SMA. We also included additional efficacy endpoints in the study. ENDEAR is a randomized, international, double-blind, sham-procedure controlled, thirteen month study in approximately 110 infants diagnosed with SMA. We designed this study to support an application for marketing authorization of nusinersen in infants with SMA. ENDEAR is evaluating the efficacy and safety of a 12 mg dose of nusinersen with a primary endpoint of survival or time to permanent ventilation. We also included additional efficacy endpoints in the study. We plan to report data from both ENDEAR and CHERISH in 2017.

The FDA has granted Orphan Drug Designation and Fast Track Status to nusinersen for the treatment of patients with SMA. The EMA has granted Orphan Drug Designation to nusinersen for the treatment of patients with SMA.

IONIS-TTR Rx &#8211; IONIS-TTR Rx is an antisense drug we and GSK are developing to treat patients with all forms of TTR amyloidosis. TTR amyloidosis is a severe, progressive and fatal disease. In all forms of TTR amyloidosis TTR protein forms amyloid deposits in various tissues and organs, including peripheral nerves, heart, intestinal tract, eyes, kidneys, central nervous system, thyroid and bone. The progressive accumulation of TTR amyloid deposits in these tissues and organs leads to organ failure and eventually death. Together with GSK, we are developing IONIS-TTR Rx as one drug with one product presentation, in one broad development plan for the treatment of patients with all forms of TTR amyloidosis. We designed IONIS-TTR Rx to be administered as one subcutaneous injection, once a week for all TTR amyloidosis patients.

TTR amyloidosis is a single disease that clinicians characterize into three forms that can have multiple overlapping clinical manifestations: FAP, FAC and wt-TTR. FAP affects approximately 10,000 patients worldwide. FAP patients primarily have TTR build up in the peripheral nervous system, but can also have significant TTR build up in multiple organs. FAP is a painful, fatal disease that ultimately leads to multi-organ failure and death within five to 15 years after symptom onset and diagnosis. FAC affects approximately 40,000 patients worldwide and wt-TTR amyloidosis affects approximately 200,000 patients worldwide. While both FAC and wt-TTR differ in the genetic cause of TTR amyloidosis, both diseases progress in similar ways. Patients with FAC and wt-TTR amyloidosis have TTR build up in the heart muscle and succumb to heart failure within three to five years after symptom onset and diagnosis. TTR amyloidosis is fatal and there are limited therapeutic options to treat patients with this disease.

We are evaluating IONIS-TTR Rx in a broad Phase 3 development program. We have completed target enrollment in the NEURO-TTR study which is a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, international, Phase 3 study of IONIS-TTR Rx in FAP patients. We plan to report data from this study in 2017. We designed this study to support an application for marketing authorization of IONIS-TTR Rx in patients with FAP. Our study is measuring the effects of IONIS-TTR Rx on neurological dysfunction and on quality-of-life. In 2016, our partner, GSK, plans to initiate a Phase 3 outcome study, CARDIO-TTR, in all forms of TTR amyloid cardiomyopathy, including both FAC and wt-TTR amyloidosis. In 2016, GSK is also planning to initiate a small Phase 3 study in Japan in patients with FAP to support Japanese regulatory filings.

The FDA has granted Orphan Drug Designation and Fast Track Status to IONIS-TTR Rx for the treatment of patients with FAP. The EMA has granted Orphan Drug Designation to IONIS-TTR Rx for the treatment of patients with all types of TTR amyloidosis.

Volanesorsen &#8211; Volanesorsen is an antisense drug we and Akcea are developing to treat patients with FCS and patients with FPL. We designed volanesorsen to reduce ApoC-III, a protein the liver produces that regulates triglyceride metabolism in the blood. Physicians associate higher levels of ApoC-III with a higher risk of cardiovascular disease. Akcea is responsible for developing and commercializing volanesorsen.

Both FCS and FPL are ultra-orphan diseases, each affecting an estimated 3,000 to 5,000 patients worldwide. FCS is often associated with triglyceride levels higher than 2,000 mg/dL. Because of their extremely high triglyceride levels, FCS patients are at significant risk of many serious health conditions, including frequent episodes of pancreatitis, which can require hospitalization and can be life-threatening. FPL is associated with the inability of a patient to store fat, resulting in high triglyceride levels that are often above 1,000 mg/dL and increased risk for pancreatitis. In addition, most patients with FPL have diabetes and other metabolic abnormalities. Current treatment options do not reduce triglyceride levels enough to reduce the risk of serious illness in patients with FCS or FPL. We believe that the robust triglyceride reduction and the improvements in glucose control we observed in our Phase 2 program support our evaluation of volanesorsen in both of these patient populations.

We are evaluating volanesorsen in a broad Phase 3 development program. We have completed target enrollment in the APPROACH study, which is a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, international Phase 3 study in patients with FCS. We are also evaluating volanesorsen in a Phase 3 study, BROADEN, in patients with FPL. BROADEN is a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, international study in patients with FPL. The primary endpoint of both APPROACH and BROADEN is percent change in fasting triglycerides from baseline after three months of dosing with volanesorsen.

The FDA and EMA have granted Orphan Drug Designation to volanesorsen for the treatment of patients with FCS.

Akcea Therapeutics: Our Wholly Owned Subsidiary to Develop and Commercialize Drugs for Cardiometabolic Disorders

Akcea Therapeutics, our wholly owned subsidiary, is a company focused on developing and commercializing potentially transformative medicines for people with serious cardiometabolic diseases caused by lipid disorders. This report includes financial information for this separate business segment in Note 7, Segment Information and Concentration of Business Risk, in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Since its formation in late 2014, Akcea has advanced its portfolio of development-stage drugs covering multiple targets and diseases. We believe each drug in the Akcea portfolio has the potential to treat several diseases with substantial overlap in the treating physician community, particularly among lipid disease thought leaders. Akcea is building expertise in lipids and cardiometabolic diseases which it can leverage across its entire portfolio.

Akcea plans to develop and successfully commercialize globally a portfolio of our cardiometabolic drugs. These drugs include volanesorsen, IONIS-APOCIII-L Rx , IONIS-APO(a)-L Rx and IONIS-ANGPTL3-L Rx . In 2015, Akcea enhanced its development and commercial capabilities by hiring several seasoned professionals whose collective experience includes multiple rare disease launches over two decades and deep clinical and commercial experience focused primarily on lipid disorders, cardiovascular disease and endocrinology.

Also in 2015, Akcea advanced the commercial development activities for volanesorsen in patients with FCS. These activities include:

&#9679;

Increasing the understanding of the patients and treating physicians who take care of these patients;

&#9679;

Increasing awareness of FCS;

&#9679;

Enhancing the speed and quality of diagnosis; and

&#9679;

Understanding the burden of disease.

Akcea plans to leverage these same commercialization activities across its portfolio to commercialize its drugs for rare populations. Akcea may establish relationships with large pharmaceutical companies to co-commercialize select Akcea drugs for large patient populations that require a substantial sales force.

In 2016, Akcea plans to prepare the regulatory filings for volanesorsen so it can file for marketing authorization as quickly as possible after reporting Phase 3 FCS data in 2017, assuming the data are positive. Akcea also plans to continue to build the development, regulatory, and commercial infrastructure required to commercialize volanesorsen, including a specialized clinical field force and physician and patient support teams. Akcea intends to build these functions in the United States and Europe first.

We granted Akcea exclusive rights to develop and commercialize volanesorsen, IONIS-APOCIII-L Rx , IONIS-APO(a)-L Rx , and IONIS-ANGPTL3-L Rx as part of its formation. Akcea is responsible for globally developing and commercializing these drugs. Ionis will provide business support services to Akcea and Akcea will compensate Ionis for providing such services. Below is Akcea&#8217;s product pipeline that includes the disease type, disease indication and the stage of development for each drug.

Akcea&#8217;s Cardiometabolic Disease Pipeline

Volanesorsen &#8211; Volanesorsen is an antisense drug we and Akcea are developing to treat patients with FCS and FPL. For more information on the development plan for volanesorsen see the drug description under Our Phase 3 Drugs.

IONIS-APO(a)-L Rx &#8211; IONIS-APO(a)-L Rx is a LICA drug we designed to reduce apolipoprotein(a) in the liver to offer a direct approach for reducing lipoprotein(a), or Lp(a). Lp(a) is an independent risk factor for cardiovascular disease. Physicians associate high levels of Lp(a) with an increased risk of atherosclerosis, coronary heart disease, heart attack and stroke. IONIS-APO(a)-L Rx is the first and only clinical program to selectively reduce Lp(a) in patients by inhibiting apo(a).

Unlike other cardiovascular risk factors, Lp(a) levels are genetically determined and remain constant throughout the life of the individual. This means that patients who have high Lp(a) levels have been exposed to high levels of Lp(a) for their entire life. The European Atherosclerosis Society recommends that Lp(a) be less than or equal to 50 mg/dL. Diet and lifestyle changes have little impact on Lp(a) levels and current therapies do not adequately reduce Lp(a) to acceptable levels in patients with elevated Lp(a). Even patients who can control their LDL-C remain at high-risk of cardiovascular events if they have high levels of Lp(a). As a result, there is a significant need for a highly specific drug that can lower Lp(a).

Physicians characterize calcific aortic valve stenosis, or CAVS, as the progressive restriction of a patient&#8217;s supply of oxygenated blood to the rest of the patient&#8217;s body due to calcium deposits on the aortic valve. Aortic valve replacement, or AVR, is the only option once CAVS progresses to a severe stage and/or the patient is symptomatic with fainting, shortness of breath, or congestive heart failure. Patients with elevated Lp(a) levels experience a faster progression of CAVS leading to the need for AVR. Therefore, an effective medical therapy to reduce the progression of CAVS and delay the need for AVR could potentially improve symptoms, enhance heart function and reduce mortality in patients with CAVS.

We completed a Phase 1/2 study for IONIS-APO(a)-L Rx in subjects with high Lp(a). We and Akcea plan to develop IONIS-APO(a)-L Rx in a broad program that addresses near, mid and long-term commercial opportunities that include patients with recurrent cardiovascular events and high Lp(a); patients with CAVS and high Lp(a); and patients with cardiovascular disease and high Lp(a).

IONIS-ANGPTL3-L Rx &#8211; IONIS-ANGPTL3-L Rx is a LICA drug we designed to reduce angiopoietin-like 3 protein, or ANGPTL3, an independent risk factor for cardiovascular disease. ANGPTL3 is a glycoprotein that is principally expressed in the liver and regulates lipid, glucose and energy metabolism. People with elevated levels of ANGPTL3 have high LDL-C and triglyceride levels, which physicians associate with an increased risk of premature heart attacks, increased arterial wall thickness and multiple metabolic abnormalities, such as insulin resistance. In contrast, people with lower levels of ANGPTL3 have lower LDL-C and triglyceride levels. We designed IONIS-ANGPTL3-L Rx to treat multiple dyslipidemias from rare lipid disorders to broader cardiometabolic disease, including mixed dyslipidemia. Akcea is responsible for developing and commercializing IONIS-ANGPTL3-L Rx .

Patients with mixed dyslipidemia often have elevated LDL-C, and triglyceride levels. These patients frequently also have low levels of HDL. A growing body of clinical data demonstrates an association between elevated cholesterol and triglycerides and increased cardiovascular risk. Further, the increasing obesity rates throughout the world have fueled the development of metabolic syndrome, a disorder characterized by dyslipidemia, loss in insulin sensitivity and increased fat accumulation in the liver.

Genome-wide association studies have confirmed the association of mutations in ANGPTL3 with improvements in lipid levels. Patients with dyslipidemia often have multiple cardiovascular and metabolic risk factors that remain challenging to treat. Despite existing therapies, there remains an unmet need for a therapy that could significantly decrease multiple cardiovascular risk factors, such as LDL-C and triglycerides. Our preclinical data suggests that reducing ANGPTL3 could improve lipid parameters, including LDL-C, triglycerides, and total cholesterol, as well as metabolic parameters, such as insulin sensitivity.

Akcea is evaluating IONIS-ANGPTL3-L Rx in a randomized, placebo-controlled, dose-escalation Phase 1/2 study in healthy volunteers with elevated triglycerides and in patients with familial hypercholesterolemia.

Cardiovascular Franchise

Cardiovascular disease is an area of focus for us. Our cardiovascular franchise includes the drugs Akcea is developing that we describe above and other drugs. The drugs in our cardiovascular franchise target all the key components of cardiovascular disease, including various atherogenic lipids, inflammation and thrombosis. Volanesorsen is our most advanced drug in this franchise.

IONIS&#8217; Cardiovascular Disease Pipeline

&#160;

IONIS-TTR Rx &#8211; IONIS-TTR Rx is an antisense drug we designed to reduce the production of TTR to treat patients with all forms of TTR amyloidosis, including the cardiomyopathy forms in which TTR protein accumulates in heart muscle leading to heart failure. For more information on the development plan for IONIS-TTR Rx see the drug description under Our Phase 3 Drugs.

IONIS-FXI Rx &#8211; IONIS-FXI Rx is an antisense drug we designed to reduce the production of Factor XI. Factor XI is important in the growth of blood clots. High levels of Factor XI increase the risk of thrombosis, which is the formation of a blood clot inside blood vessels. Thrombosis can cause heart attacks and strokes. People who are deficient in Factor XI have a lower incidence of these events with minimal increase in bleeding risk. Although currently available anticoagulants reduce the risk of thrombosis, physicians associate these anticoagulants with increased bleeding, which can be fatal. Given the mechanism of Factor XI inhibition, IONIS-FXI Rx has the potential for physicians to use it broadly as an antithrombotic in many different therapeutic settings for which there is a need for additional safe and well tolerated antithrombotic drugs.

In May 2015, we exclusively licensed IONIS-FXI Rx to Bayer. Bayer plans to evaluate the therapeutic profile of IONIS-FXI Rx in patients for whom currently available antithrombotics may not be used, such as in patients with a high risk of bleeding due to multiple co-morbidities. After successful completion of ongoing activities at Ionis, Bayer will assume all global development, regulatory and commercialization responsibilities for IONIS-FXI Rx .

We completed a Phase 2 open-label, comparator-controlled global study evaluating IONIS-FXI Rx in patients undergoing total knee replacement surgery. The study compared the safety and activity of IONIS-FXI Rx to enoxaparin. In this study patients treated with 300 mg of IONIS-FXI Rx experienced a seven-fold lower rate of venous thromboembolic events, such as blood clots in a deep vein or in a lung, compared to those patients treated with enoxaparin. The data from this study was published in the New England Journal of Medicine in December 2014.

We are currently evaluating IONIS-FXI Rx in a Phase 2 study in patients with end-stage renal disease on hemodialysis. We designed this study to further characterize the profile of IONIS-FXI Rx and to provide essential data for Bayer&#8217;s future clinical development program for IONIS-FXI Rx .

IONIS-APO(a)-L Rx &#8211; IONIS-APO(a)-L Rx is a LICA drug we designed to reduce apolipoprotein(a) in the liver to offer a direct approach for reducing Lp(a). We and Akcea are developing IONIS-APO(a)-L Rx for patients with high Lp(a). For more information on the development plan for IONIS-APO(a)-L Rx , see the drug description under Akcea Therapeutics.

IONIS-ANGPTL3-L Rx &#8211; IONIS-ANGPTL3-L Rx is a LICA drug we designed to reduce ANGPTL3, an independent risk factor for cardiovascular disease. We and Akcea are developing IONIS-ANGPTL3-L Rx for patients with mixed dyslipidemias. For more information on the development plan for IONIS-ANGPTL3-L Rx , see the drug description under Akcea Therapeutics.

Severe and Rare Disease Franchise

Our severe and rare disease franchise is the largest franchise in our pipeline. We are discovering and developing antisense drugs to treat patients with severe and rare and neurological diseases who need new treatment options. We believe our antisense technology could offer effective therapies for these patients. According to the National Institutes of Health, or NIH, there are approximately 5,000 to 8,000 rare diseases and more than 600 neurological diseases, many life-threatening or fatal. Unfortunately, patients with many of these severe and rare diseases have few effective therapies available. Since most of these diseases are genetic or have a genetic component, parents often pass the disease to their children, creating a legacy of the disease and resulting in profound effects on the family. We are evaluating nusinersen, the most advanced neurological drug in our pipeline, in two Phase 3 studies to treat infants and children with SMA.

Due to the severe nature of these diseases and the lack of available treatments, there is an opportunity for more flexible and efficient development paths to the market. This means that, in some cases, the studies necessary for us to demonstrate proof-of-concept with a particular drug may also be the studies that complete our marketing registration package, thereby providing us with a relatively rapid path to market for potential new treatments for these devastating and often fatal diseases.

IONIS&#8217; Severe and Rare Disease Pipeline

Kynamro &#8211; Kynamro &#160; (mipomersen sodium) injection is an oligonucleotide inhibitor of apolipoprotein B-100 synthesis indicated as an adjunct to lipid-lowering medications and diet, to reduce low density lipoprotein-cholesterol, or LDL-C, apolipoprotein B, total cholesterol, and non-high density lipoprotein-cholesterol in patients with HoFH. Kynamro is approved for use in patients with HoFH in the United States and several other countries.

Nusinersen &#8211; Nusinersen is an antisense drug we designed to treat patients with SMA. SMA is a severe motor-neuron disease that is the leading genetic cause of infant mortality. Together with Biogen, we are developing nusinersen to treat all forms of SMA. For more information on the development plan for nusinersen, see the drug description under Our Phase 3 Drugs.

IONIS-TTR Rx &#160; &#8211; IONIS-TTR Rx is an antisense drug we designed to treat all forms of TTR amyloidosis. TTR amyloidosis is a severe, progressive and fatal disease. For more information on the development plan for IONIS-TTR Rx see the drug description under Our Phase 3 Drugs.

Volanesorsen &#8211; Volanesorsen is an antisense drug we and Akcea are developing to treat patients with FCS and FPL. For more information on the development plan for volanesorsen see the drug description under Our Phase 3 Drugs.

IONIS-DMPK-2.5 Rx &#8211; IONIS-DMPK-2.5 Rx is an antisense drug we designed to reduce the toxic dystrophia myotonica-protein kinase, or DMPK, RNA to treat patients with myotonic dystrophy type 1, or DM1. Together with Biogen, we are developing IONIS-DMPK-2.5 Rx to treat patients with DM1.

DM1 is a genetic neuromuscular disease caused by a defect in the DMPK gene which causes the accumulation of toxic DMPK RNA. Physicians characterize DM1 by progressive muscle atrophy, weakness, disabling muscle spasms and prolonged muscle contractions. DM1 also affects many other organs within the body and patients can also experience insulin insensitivity, cataracts and infertility. Currently, there are no disease-modifying therapies for patients with DM1 and currently available treatments are intended only to manage symptoms.

We are evaluating IONIS-DMPK-2.5 Rx in a randomized, placebo-controlled, dose-escalation Phase 1/2 clinical study in patients with DM1.

The FDA has granted Orphan Drug Designation for IONIS-DMPK-2.5 Rx for the treatment of patients with DM1.

IONIS-HTT Rx &#8211; IONIS-HTT Rx is an antisense drug we designed to reduce the production of the huntingtin, or HTT, protein, which is the genetic cause of Huntington's disease, or HD. We are collaborating with Roche to develop IONIS-HTT Rx to treat patients with HD.

HD is a rare, genetic, progressive neurological disease resulting in deterioration in mental abilities and physical control. HD is a triplet repeat disorder and is one of a large family of genetic diseases in which the body mistakenly repeats certain gene sequences. The resulting HTT protein gradually damages neurons in the brain. Symptoms of HD usually appear between the ages of 30 to 50 years and continually worsen over a 10 to 25 year period. Ultimately, the weakened individual succumbs to pneumonia, heart failure or other complications. Presently, there is no effective disease-modifying treatment, and current approaches only focus on managing the severity of some disease symptoms.

We are evaluating IONIS-HTT Rx in a randomized, placebo-controlled, dose escalation, Phase 1/2 clinical study in patients with early stage HD.

The FDA and EMA have granted Orphan Drug Designation for IONIS-HTT Rx to treat patients with HD.

IONIS-SOD1 Rx &#8211; IONIS-SOD1 Rx is an antisense drug we designed to reduce the production of superoxide dismutase 1, or SOD1, which is the best understood genetic cause of familial amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, or ALS. We are collaborating with Biogen to develop IONIS-SOD1 Rx to treat patients with an inherited form of ALS, SOD1-ALS.

ALS is a rare, fatal neurodegenerative disorder. Patients with ALS suffer progressive degeneration of the motor neurons, which results in a declining quality of life and ultimately death. The second most common familial form of ALS is SOD1-ALS, in which patients have a mutation in the SOD1 gene that causes a progressive loss of motor neurons. As a result, patients with SOD1-ALS experience muscle weakness, loss of movement, difficulty in breathing and swallowing and eventually succumb to their disease. Currently, treatment options for patients with ALS are extremely limited with no drugs that significantly slow disease progression.

We are evaluating IONIS-SOD1 Rx in a randomized, placebo-controlled, dose escalation, Phase 1/2 clinical study in patients with ALS, including patients with SOD1-ALS.

IONIS-APO(a)-L Rx &#8211; IONIS-APO(a)-L Rx is a LICA drug we designed to reduce apolipoprotein(a) in the liver to offer a direct approach for reducing Lp(a). We and Akcea are developing IONIS-APO(a)-L Rx for patients with recurrent cardiovascular disease and high Lp(a). For more information on the development plan for IONIS-APO(a)-L Rx , see the drug description under Akcea Therapeutics.

IONIS-ANGPTL3-L Rx &#8211; IONIS-ANGPTL3-L Rx is a LICA drug designed to reduce ANGPTL3, an independent risk factor for cardiovascular disease. We and Akcea are developing IONIS-ANGPTL3-L Rx for patients with mixed dyslipidemias. For more information on the development plan for IONIS-ANGPTL3-L Rx , see the drug description under Akcea Therapeutics.

IONIS-PKK Rx &#8211; IONIS-PKK Rx is an antisense drug we designed to reduce the production of prekallikrein, or PKK, to treat patients with hereditary angioedema, or HAE. HAE is a rare genetic disease that is characterized by rapid and painful attacks of inflammation in the hands, feet, limbs, face, abdomen, larynx and trachea and can be fatal if swelling occurs in the larynx. PKK plays an important role in acute attacks of HAE. By inhibiting the production of PKK, IONIS-PKK Rx could be an effective prophylactic approach to preventing HAE attacks. In patients with frequent or severe attacks, doctors may use prophylactic treatment approaches to prevent and reduce the severity of HAE attacks. However, current prophylactic treatment approaches are very limited and have significant tolerability issues leaving patients with few therapeutic options.

We have completed a Phase 1 study evaluating IONIS-PKK Rx in healthy volunteers.

Cancer Franchise

&#160;

Cancer is an area of significant unmet medical need. Cancer is an extremely complex disease that involves a large number of targets. With our technology, we can evaluate a very broad and diverse range of targets and identify their involvement in different types of cancers. Using the information we gain early in research on each of these targets, we can quickly identify promising targets for anti-cancer drugs. We preferentially select anti-cancer targets that provide a multi-faceted approach to treating cancer.

Our cancer franchise consists of anti-cancer antisense drugs that act upon biological targets associated with cancer progression and/or treatment resistance. We have a strategic alliance with AstraZeneca, which includes an anti-cancer collaboration that expands our anti-cancer efforts and supports an aggressive and broad clinical development plan for IONIS-STAT3-2.5 Rx . AstraZeneca brings significant experience that enables the identification of novel genetic and epigenetic targets for cancer. Combining AstraZeneca&#8217;s expertise with our drug discovery technology, we plan to expand our cancer franchise with a number of promising new anti-cancer targets.

&#160;

Our Generation 2.5 chemistry enhances the potency and effectiveness of our antisense drugs, and potentially allows us to extend the applicability of our technology to cancers that are difficult to treat. For instance, data from a Phase 1/2 clinical study of IONIS-STAT3-2.5 Rx showed evidence of antitumor activity in patients with cancer, including advanced/metastatic hepatocellular carcinoma.

IONIS&#8217; Oncology Pipeline

IONIS-AR-2.5 Rx &#8211; IONIS-AR-2.5 Rx is an antisense drug we designed to treat patients with prostate cancer by reducing the production of all known forms of androgen receptor, or AR, including variants of the AR gene. Prostate cancer is the second leading cause of cancer deaths in American men. Prostate cancer growth, proliferation and progression are all androgen-dependent, and AR function is involved in disease progression at all stages of prostate cancer. For patients diagnosed with metastatic prostate cancer, current treatments largely involve opposing the action of androgens by blocking the AR or removing circulating androgens. Although androgen deprivation therapy approaches are initially effective in delaying disease progression, patients with metastatic prostate cancer will progress in their disease. Resistance to current therapies is frequent and can occur through a variety of mechanisms, including the activation of AR signaling in tumor cells through the amplification, over expression and mutation of the AR gene. Because IONIS-AR-2.5 Rx can inhibit the production of all known forms of AR, we believe that this drug has the potential to be useful in treating patients with all stages of prostate cancer, including those who are resistant to current therapies.

AstraZeneca completed an open-label, dose-escalation, Phase 1/2 clinical study of IONIS-AR-2.5 Rx in patients with advanced tumors for which the androgen receptor pathway is potentially a contributing factor. We plan to continue developing IONIS-AR-2.5 Rx , independent of AstraZeneca.

IONIS-STAT3-2.5 Rx &#8211; IONIS-STAT3-2.5 Rx , also referred to as AZD9150, is an antisense drug we designed to reduce the production of signal transducer and activator of transcription 3, or STAT3, to treat patients with cancer. IONIS-STAT3-2.5 Rx is a part of our collaboration with AstraZeneca to discover and develop anti-cancer drugs. We believe the significant potency we observed in our preclinical studies with IONIS-STAT3-2.5 Rx broadens the therapeutic opportunities for IONIS-STAT3-2.5 Rx into many different types of cancer where STAT3 is implicated.

STAT3 is a protein involved in the translation of key factors critical for tumor cell growth and survival. STAT3 is over-active in a variety of cancers, including brain, lung, breast, bone, liver and multiple myeloma. Physicians believe that overactivity in STAT3 prevents cancer cell death and promotes tumor cell growth.

We and AstraZeneca have evaluated IONIS-STAT3-2.5 Rx in patients with advanced metastatic hepatocellular carcinoma and advanced lymphoma. AstraZeneca is evaluating IONIS-STAT3-2.5 Rx in combination with MEDI4736, AstraZeneca's investigational anti-PD-L1 drug, in patients with head and neck cancer. AstraZeneca also plans to start an additional clinical study evaluating IONIS-STAT3-2.5 Rx in combination with MEDI4736 in patients with diffuse large B cell lymphoma.

Metabolic Franchise

&#160;

Metabolic disorders are chronic diseases that affect millions of people. There is a significant need for new therapies for these patients. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, diabetes affects more than 29 million people in the United States, or nine percent of the population, with type 2 diabetes constituting 90 to 95 percent of those cases.

&#160;

We designed the majority of our drugs in our metabolic disease franchise to be effective alone or when added to existing therapies to treat metabolic diseases, such as diabetes. One hurdle for traditional drug development is that most traditional drugs cannot selectively target a disease-causing protein without also affecting closely related proteins, which often results in unwanted side effects. We design our antisense drugs to target the gene responsible for producing the disease-causing protein while avoiding unwanted effects on closely related proteins, thereby reducing the risk of side effects.

&#160;

We have reported positive Phase 2 data from IONIS-GCGR Rx and IONIS-PTP1B Rx , the most advanced drugs in our metabolic franchise. We designed these two drugs and our third drug, IONIS-GCCR Rx , to act upon targets in the liver or fat tissue through a distinct mechanism to improve insulin sensitivity, reduce glucose production, or affect other metabolic aspects of this complex disease. In addition to our work in diabetes, we are also evaluating other metabolic syndromes, including obesity and nonalcoholic steatohepatitis, or NASH. Obesity has reached global epidemic proportions in both adults and children. According to the World Health Organization, in 2014, there were more than 600 million adults over the age of 18 who were obese and in 2013, there were 42 million children under the age of five who were overweight or obese. Obesity is a major risk factor for a number of chronic diseases, including type 2 diabetes, dyslipidemia, hypertension and cardiovascular diseases. Despite the growing epidemic, there are very few weight loss drugs that have been approved to treat patients with obesity. Although many anti-obesity drugs have entered development, most of them have not been approved due to their adverse effects in the CNS and/or heart. There is an unmet medical need for drugs that can cause weight loss by acting on peripheral tissues without causing cardiac or CNS related side effects. In 2015, we initiated a Phase 2 clinical study evaluating IONIS-FGFR4 Rx in patients who are obese. Currently, it is estimated that two to three percent of the general population have NASH. However, with the growing obesity epidemic, the number of patients with NASH should also continue to rise. About 20 percent of NASH patients are reported to develop cirrhosis, and 30 to 40 percent of patients with NASH cirrhosis experience liver-related death. IONIS-DGAT2 Rx is an antisense drug we designed to treat patients with NASH.

IONIS&#8217; Metabolic Disease Pipeline

IONIS-GCGR Rx &#8211; IONIS-GCGR Rx is an antisense drug we designed to reduce the production of glucagon receptors, or GCGR, to treat patients with type 2 diabetes. GCGR is a receptor for the hormone glucagon. Glucagon is a hormone that opposes the action of insulin and stimulates the liver to produce glucose, particularly in type 2 diabetes. We are developing IONIS-GCGR Rx to provide better glucose control for patients with type 2 diabetes. Given the unique mechanism of action, we believe that physicians could use IONIS-GCGR Rx in diabetic patients with severe hyperglycemia who are not controlled with current treatments and who could benefit from a drug that significantly decreases glucose levels and preserves pancreatic function.

Although glucose is an important source of energy for people&#8217;s bodies and is vital to people&#8217;s health, uncontrolled increases in glucose can lead to serious health problems, such as diabetes. In patients with advanced diabetes, uncontrolled glucagon action can lead to a significant increase in blood glucose level. In addition, reducing GCGR produces more active glucagon-like peptide, or GLP-1, a hormone that preserves pancreatic function and enhances insulin secretion.

We completed a double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled, Phase 2 study of IONIS-GCGR Rx in patients with type 2 diabetes who were poorly controlled on stable metformin therapy. We have initiated a second Phase 2 study of IONIS-GCGR Rx in patients with type 2 diabetes to identify the optimal dose and schedule to achieve glucose control with manageable glucagon receptor-related liver enzyme elevations.

IONIS-GCCR Rx - IONIS-GCCR Rx is an antisense drug we designed to reduce the production of glucocorticoid receptor, or GCCR, to treat patients with type 2 diabetes. Glucocorticoid hormones affect a variety of processes throughout the body, including the production of liver glucose and fat storage. Excessive GCCR activity in the liver and fat is associated with obesity, insulin resistance and glucose intolerance.

Physicians recognize that inhibiting GCCR is an attractive strategy for improving glycemic and lipid control in patients with type 2 diabetes. However, the side effects associated with systemic GCCR inhibition have challenged traditional drug developers. Targeted reduction of GCCR in the liver and fat tissues with antisense drugs is an attractive therapeutic approach because it can lower glucose and lipids without causing potential side effects associated with systemic GCCR inhibition.

We completed a Phase 2 study of IONIS-GCCR Rx in patients with type 2 diabetes.

IONIS-PTP1B Rx &#8211; IONIS-PTP1B Rx is an antisense drug we designed to reduce the production of protein tyrosine phosphatase-1B, or PTP-1B, to treat patients with type 2 diabetes. PTP-1B is a phosphatase that negatively regulates insulin receptor signaling and is responsible for turning off the activated insulin receptor. Reducing PTP-1B enhances insulin activity. We designed IONIS-PTP1B Rx to increase the body's sensitivity to the natural hormone, insulin, resulting in better glucose control for patients with type 2 diabetes. Because of its unique mechanism, IONIS-PTP1B Rx may help treat patients with type 2 diabetes without causing weight gain or hypoglycemia, also known as low blood sugar.

Scientists have long recognized PTP-1B as an attractive target for treating diabetes. However, efforts to develop drugs that target PTP-1B have been challenging due to the structural similarities among closely related protein phosphatases. Targeted reduction of PTP-1B with an antisense drug represents an ideal therapeutic approach because we design our drugs to specifically reduce the PTP-1B mRNA, without affecting mRNAs of other protein phosphatases. This approach eliminates the off-target side effects observed with traditional small-molecule drugs.

We believe that physicians may use IONIS-PTP1B Rx in combination with most of the other commonly used diabetes drugs, including insulin, GLP-1 agonists, and more traditional drugs like metformin, to treat patients with diabetes. The clinical development plan for IONIS-PTP1B Rx focuses on two types of diabetic patients. The first type are those who are inadequately controlled on insulin, helping them utilize insulin more efficiently and the second type are those who are beginning to fail oral therapies, extending the time they have before becoming dependent on insulin.

We have completed a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, Phase 2 study of IONIS-PTP1B Rx study in obese patients with type 2 diabetes taking metformin or metformin plus sulfonylurea.

IONIS-FGFR4 Rx &#8211; IONIS-FGFR4 Rx is an antisense drug we designed to reduce the production of fibroblast growth factor receptor 4, or FGFR4, to treat obese patients. FGFR4 is expressed in the liver and fat tissues, and plays an important role regulating fat burning and body weight. Reducing FGFR4 decreases the body's ability to store fat while it simultaneously increases fat burning and energy expenditure. Many anti-obesity drugs act in the brain to suppress appetite, commonly resulting in central nervous system, or CNS, side effects. However, IONIS-FGFR4 Rx does not distribute to the brain or CNS and therefore should not produce any CNS side effects. IONIS-FGFR4 Rx is the first drug in our metabolic franchise to treat obesity and utilizes technology we in-licensed from Verva Pharmaceuticals Ltd.

We completed a Phase 1 study of IONIS-FGFR4 Rx in healthy volunteers. We initiated a double blind, placebo-controlled, Phase 2 study of IONIS-FGFR4 Rx in obese patients in July 2015.

IONIS-DGAT2 Rx &#8211; IONIS-DGAT2 Rx is an antisense drug we designed to reduce the production of DGAT2, or diacylglycerol acyltransferase 2, to treat patients with NASH. NASH is a common liver disease characterized by excessive triglycerides in the liver with concurrent inflammation and cellular damage. As NASH progresses, scarring, or fibrosis, begins to accumulate in the liver. Ultimately, cirrhosis of the liver develops and the liver can no longer function normally. Currently, liver transplantation is the only treatment for advanced cirrhosis and liver failure. Because of the high prevalence of NASH, it has recently become the third most common indication for liver transplantation in the United States.

DGAT2 is an enzyme that catalyzes the final step in triglyceride synthesis in the liver. Reducing the production of DGAT2 should therefore decrease triglyceride synthesis in the liver. In animal models of obesity and fatty liver disease, antisense inhibition of DGAT2 significantly improved liver damage, lowered blood lipid levels and reversed diet-induced insulin resistance.

We are evaluating IONIS-DGAT2 Rx in a randomized, placebo-controlled, dose-escalation, Phase 1 study in healthy, overweight volunteers. We designed this study to give us valuable insights on the effects of IONIS-DGAT2 Rx in a patient population that is closely matched to patients with NASH.

Other Drugs in Development

Together with our partners, we continue to advance drugs in clinical development that are outside of our core therapeutic areas, such as the antiviral drugs we and GSK are developing. 

IONIS&#8217; Pipeline of Drugs in Development for Viral Infection or Ocular Disease

IONIS-GSK4-L Rx &#8211; IONIS-GSK4-L Rx is a LICA drug we designed to reduce an undisclosed ocular target. Together with GSK, we are developing IONIS-GSK4-L Rx to treat patients with an undisclosed ocular disease.

IONIS-HBV Rx and IONIS-HBV-L Rx &#8211; IONIS-HBV Rx and IONIS-HBV-L Rx &#160; are antisense drugs we designed to reduce the production of viral proteins associated with hepatitis B virus, or HBV. These include proteins associated with infection and replication, including the hepatitis B surface antigen, which is present in both acute and chronic infections and is associated with a poor prognosis in patients with chronic HBV infection. IONIS-HBV-L Rx is the first anti-infective drug in development that incorporates our LICA technology, which we designed to increase drug potency by enhancing drug delivery to target tissue. Together with GSK, we are evaluating IONIS-HBV Rx and IONIS-HBV-L Rx to treat HBV infection.

HBV infection is a serious health problem that can lead to significant and potentially fatal health conditions. Chronic HBV infection is one of the most common persistent viral infections in the world. Currently available therapies, including oral antiviral agents or injectable interferons, do not clear HBV and do not effectively clear HBV antigens from these patients. As a result, patients cannot fully control their HBV infection and therefore, achieve sustained disease remission. Many of these patients are at elevated risk for severe liver complications such as cirrhosis and primary liver cancer.

We have completed a randomized, placebo-controlled, dose-escalation, Phase 1 study of IONIS-HBV Rx in healthy volunteers. In January 2016, GSK initiated a Phase 1 study evaluating IONIS-HBV-L Rx in healthy volunteers. The Phase 1 study of IONIS-HBV-L Rx is a randomized, placebo-controlled, dose-escalation study in healthy volunteers. We have designed this study to evaluate the safety, tolerability, and pharmacokinetics of single and multiple doses of IONIS-HBV-L Rx .

Preclinical Drugs in Development

The efficiency and broad applicability of our technology provides us with nearly unlimited targets against which to develop drugs. Our goal is to add three to five new drugs into the pipeline every year. In 2015, we far exceeded this goal and added nine new drugs into development. Already in 2016, we have added two new drugs into development. On average, it takes 12 to 18 months to complete the preclinical studies necessary to support clinical development.

IONIS&#8217; Preclinical Pipeline

Satellite Company Drugs in Development

We have successfully developed novel drugs we designed to treat many different diseases. In therapeutic areas that are outside of our core areas of development, we have licensed our drugs to highly focused satellite companies that have the specific expertise and resources to continue developing the drugs. For our satellite company drugs, we refer to the drug by the partner&#8217;s own compound number, such as ATL1103 or RG-101. We have listed these drugs below in the Satellite Company pipeline.

IONIS&#8217; Satellite Company Pipeline

* Named Patient Supply (see below).

Alicaforsen &#8211; Alicaforsen is an antisense drug we designed to reduce the production of intercellular adhesion molecule 1, or ICAM-1. Ulcerative colitis, or UC, is an inflammatory bowel disease of the colon, a part of the large intestine, and pouchitis is an inflammation of the surgically constructed internal pouch created in UC patients who have had their diseased colons removed. In 2007, we licensed alicaforsen to Atlantic Pharmaceuticals for pouchitis, UC and other inflammatory diseases. Atlantic Pharmaceuticals is developing alicaforsen for the treatment of UC and currently supplies alicaforsen in response to physicians' requests under international Named Patient Supply regulations for patients with inflammatory bowel disease.

ATL1103 &#8211; ATL1103 is an antisense drug we designed to reduce the production of the growth hormone receptor, or GHr, to treat patients with acromegaly. Acromegaly is a serious chronic life threatening disease triggered by excess secretion of GHr by benign pituitary tumors. In 2001, we licensed ATL1103 to Antisense Therapeutics Limited, or ATL. In May 2015, ATL entered into an exclusive license agreement that provides Strongbridge Biopharma with development and commercialization rights to ATL1103 for endocrinology applications outside Australia and New Zealand.

RG-012 &#8211; RG-012 is an anti-miR, or an antisense oligonucleotide inhibitor of microRNA, targeting microRNA-21, or miR-21, to treat patients with Alport syndrome. Alport syndrome is a life-threatening genetic kidney disease with no approved therapy. While there is little known information on the progression of this disease, scientists believe that miR-21 plays a critical role because they have observed increased miR-21 levels in animal models of Alport syndrome and in patients with chronic kidney disease. Regulus is developing RG-012 in a strategic alliance with Genzyme, a Sanofi company, to treat Alport syndrome. In June 2015, Regulus initiated a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, single ascending dose Phase 1 study in healthy volunteers to evaluate the safety, tolerability and pharmacokinetics of RG-012.

Custirsen &#8211; Custirsen is an antisense drug we designed to improve survival in patients with advanced cancer. We and OncoGenex jointly discovered and conducted the initial development of custirsen. In July 2008, we and OncoGenex amended the co-development agreement pursuant to which OncoGenex became solely responsible for the costs, development and commercialization of custirsen as an adjunct therapy to enhance the effectiveness of chemotherapy. OncoGenex is evaluating custirsen in two Phase 3 studies, AFFINITY and ENSPIRIT. The AFFINITY study is evaluating custirsen in combination with cabazitaxel/prednisone as a second-line chemotherapy in men with CRPC. The ENSPIRIT study is evaluating custirsen as a second-line treatment in patients with NSCLC.

Apatorsen &#8211; Apatorsen is an antisense drug we designed to reduce the production of heat shock protein 27, or Hsp27, to treat patients with cancer. In January 2005, we entered into an agreement with OncoGenex to develop apatorsen. Under the terms of the agreement, OncoGenex is responsible for all development costs and activities. OncoGenex and collaborators are evaluating apatorsen in multiple Phase 2 studies in patients with cancer.

Plazomicin &#8211; Plazomicin is an aminoglycoside drug that Achaogen, Inc. is developing for the treatment of multi-drug resistant gram-negative bacterial infections. Aminoglycosides are a group of antibiotics that inhibit bacterial protein synthesis that physicians can use to treat serious bacterial infections. In 2006, we licensed our proprietary aminoglycoside program to Achaogen. Achaogen discovered plazomicin based on technology licensed from us. Achaogen is currently evaluating plazomicin in a Phase 3 study in patients with serious multi-drug resistant infection due to carbapenem-resistant Enterobacteriaceae, or CRE. In September 2014, Achaogen initiated a Phase 3 study, CARE, to evaluate the efficacy of plazomicin in patients with infections caused by CRE. Achaogen announced that it has a special protocol assessment, or SPA, with the FDA for this Phase 3 study. Achaogen plans to initiate a second Phase 3 study of plazomicin for the treatment of patients with complicated urinary tract infections.

ATL1102 &#8211; ATL1102 is an antisense drug we designed to reduce the production of CD49d, a subunit of Very Late Antigen-4, or VLA-4, for the treatment of patients with multiple sclerosis, or MS. Results from preclinical studies demonstrate that inhibition of VLA-4 could positively affect a number of inflammatory diseases, including MS. In 2001, we licensed ATL1102 to ATL. ATL is currently undertaking a chronic toxicology study in primates to support a potential Phase 2b trial of ATL1102 in patients with MS.

RG-101 &#8211; RG-101 is an anti-miR targeting microRNA-122, or miR-122, to treat patients with hepatitis C virus, or HCV. RG-101 is wholly owned by Regulus, but Regulus has entered into a clinical trial collaboration with GSK. Regulus is evaluating RG-101 as part of an HCV combination regimen with GSK&#8217;s investigational HCV compound. Regulus completed a Phase 1/2 study in patients with HCV and is evaluating RG-101 in a Phase 2 study in combination with direct acting antivirals in patients with HCV. Regulus is also evaluating RG-101 in a Phase 1 study in patients with severe renal insufficiency or end-stage renal disease.

RG-125 &#8211; RG-125, also referred to as AZD4076, is an anti-miR targeting microRNA-103/107, or miR-103/107, for the treatment of NASH in patients with type 2 diabetes/pre-diabetes. Regulus reported that inhibition of miR-103/107 with anti-miRs led to a sustained reduction in fasting glucose and fasting insulin levels in mouse models. RG-125 is part of the strategic alliance between Regulus and AstraZeneca to discover and develop microRNA therapeutics for cardiovascular diseases, metabolic diseases and oncology.

Regulus and AstraZeneca are evaluating RG-125 in a Phase 1 study for the treatment of NASH in patients with type 2 diabetes or pre-diabetes.

Antisense Technology

Our antisense technology is an innovative platform for discovering first-in-class or best-in-class drugs for treating disease. We believe this technology represents an important advance in the way we treat disease because, unlike most other drug technologies that target existing proteins in the body, antisense technology is an RNA-targeted drug technology. The unique properties of antisense drugs provide several advantages over traditional drug discovery technologies. These advantages include:

&#9679; Direct application to diseases at the genetic level by targeting RNA: antisense technology represents a direct route from gene to drug. The explosion in genomic information has led to the discovery of many new disease-causing proteins and RNAs, and has created new opportunities accessible to antisense technology. 

&#9679; Precise specificity: we design antisense drugs to target a single RNA, which minimizes or eliminates the possibility our drugs will bind to unintended targets which can cause unwanted side effects. 

&#9679; Good drug properties: antisense drugs distribute well throughout the body without the need for special formulations or vehicles. They also have a relatively long half-life of approximately two to four weeks, which means patients and/or healthcare providers can dose our drugs once a week. Antisense drugs using our more advanced technology also have the potential for patients and/or their healthcare providers to dose our drugs once a month, once a quarter or even less frequently. 

&#9679; Ability to combine with other drugs: because antisense drugs do not interact with the enzymes that metabolize or break down other drugs, physicians can use our drugs in combination with other drugs. 

&#9679; Broad applications to multiple disease targets, multiple tissues and multiple mechanisms: there are virtually no &#8220;undruggable&#8221; targets with antisense technology. 

&#9679; Efficient discovery and early development: because of the efficiency of our antisense technology, our drug discovery and early development costs and success rates compare favorably to small molecule or antibody drug discovery and development. 

We identify antisense drugs to treat diseases for which there is a large unmet medical need, including severe and rare diseases for which there are limited or no current treatments or in diseases for which we believe our drugs have a competitive advantage over existing therapies.

Technology Overview

We use our core technology platform to discover and develop drugs that affect targets in the body at the genetic level. Genes contain the information necessary to produce proteins. A gene is made up of nucleotides containing the nucleoside bases: adenine, thymine, guanine, and cytosine, commonly known as A, T, G and C, which are linked together to form a two-stranded structure that resembles a twisted ladder, known as deoxyribonucleic acid, or DNA. The nucleotides on one side of the ladder bind weakly to complementary nucleotides on the other strand according to specific rules; for example, A pairs with T and G pairs with C, creating the ladder&#8217;s rungs (figure 1). Scientists call this highly specific nucleotide pairing hybridization. The sequence or order of these nucleotides establishes the cell&#8217;s recipes for making proteins. Each protein&#8217;s instructions reside in a corresponding segment of DNA known as a gene. 

Figure 1: Illustration of DNA.

Figure 2: Transcription of information contained in a gene, or DNA, to mRNA.

The instructions for making a protein are transcribed from a gene, or DNA, into a different genetic molecule called messenger RNA. This process starts with the partial uncoiling of the two complementary strands of the DNA. One strand acts as a template and information stored in the DNA template strand is copied into a complementary RNA (figure 2). Messenger RNA, or mRNA, are mature, fully processed RNA that code for proteins. Ribosomes, the cell&#8217;s factories for manufacturing proteins, translate mRNA into proteins. The ribosome reads the encoded information, the mRNA&#8217;s nucleotide sequence, and in doing so, strings together amino acids to form a specific protein (figure 3).

Figure 3: Translation of the protein-coding information contained in mRNA to protein.

We primarily use our antisense technology to interrupt the cell&#8217;s protein production process by preventing the mRNA instructions from reaching the ribosome, thus inhibiting the production of the protein. The mRNA sequence of nucleotides that carries the information for protein production is called the &#8216;sense&#8217; strand. Scientists call the complementary nucleotide chain that binds specifically to the sense strand is called the &#8220;antisense&#8221; strand. We use the information contained in mRNA to design chemical structures, that we call antisense oligonucleotides or antisense drugs, which resemble DNA and RNA and are the complement of RNA. Our antisense drugs can selectively bind to an mRNA that codes for a specific protein and will not bind to closely related RNAs, providing a level of specificity that is better than traditional drugs. As a result, we can design antisense drugs that selectively inhibit the disease-causing member of the protein group without interfering with those members of the protein group necessary for normal bodily functions. This unique specificity means that antisense drugs may be less toxic than traditional drugs because we can design them to minimize the impact on unintended targets. We can also design antisense drugs to increase the production of beneficial proteins.

We have developed the majority of the drugs in our pipeline using our advanced screens to produce drugs with what we believe are the best possible safety and tolerability profiles. We refer to our drugs that have passed these advanced screens as Generation 2.0+ drugs. We continue to advance our antisense technology to create even more potent drugs that we can use in more tissues and against more targets. These advances allow us to expand the mechanisms through which we can use our drugs. These advancements provide us with greater opportunities to use our antisense drugs to treat a greater number of diseases and reach more patient populations. Today several of our early stage drugs and those entering our pipeline use our most advanced antisense technology, including our next generation chemistry, Generation 2.5, and our LICA technology.

Generation 2.5 chemistry is an advancement that we believe increases the potency of our drugs by up to 10-fold over our Generation 2+ drugs. This increase in potency enables our drugs to engage targets in a broader array of tissues. We have published data demonstrating that our Generation 2.5 drugs generally have enhanced potency over our Generation 2.0+ drugs and are broadly distributed throughout the body to multiple tissues including liver, kidney, lung, muscle, adipose, adrenal gland, peripheral nerves and tumor tissues. Our Generation 2.5 drugs constitute some of our recently added new drugs.

In addition to improving the chemical foundation of our drugs, we design our LICA technology to enhance the delivery of our drugs to particular tissues. This technology adds specific chemical structures or molecules, such as conjugates, onto antisense drugs to increase the efficiency of drug uptake in a particular tissue. We have demonstrated that our LICA technology can further enhance the potency of our drugs. For example, our LICA technology directed toward liver targets has produced a greater than thirty fold increase in potency in a Phase 1 study of IONIS-APO(a)-L Rx . We can combine our LICA technology with both our Generation 2.0+ and our Generation 2.5 drugs to increase the potency of these drugs. We designed these first LICA drugs to inhibit targets in the liver. We are also developing LICA conjugation technology that we can use to target other tissues. We expect that we can enhance some of our future drugs, including our Generation 2.5 drugs with our LICA technology.

Antisense Targets and Mechanisms

There are more than a dozen different antisense mechanisms that we can exploit with our antisense technology. The majority of the drugs in our pipeline bind to mRNAs and inhibit the production of disease-causing proteins. Our antisense technology is broadly applicable to many different antisense mechanisms, including RNA splicing, exon skipping, RNA interference, or RNAi, and enhancing protein translation to increase protein production. We have also recently published research showing that we can use our antisense technology with CRISPR/Cas9, a gene editing system. Our work in this area provides an important step toward development of a potential therapeutic application for CRISPR technology.

The antisense drugs we design to inhibit the production of disease-causing proteins or reduce harmful RNAs bind to the target RNA via highly specific nucleotide pairing, or hybridizing, and recruiting a cellular enzyme called ribonuclease H1, or RNase H1, to degrade the target RNA. The drug itself remains intact during this process, so it can remain active against additional target RNA molecules and repeatedly trigger their degradation (figure 4). Examples of our clinical development stage antisense drugs that use the RNase H1 mechanism to reduce disease protein production include, IONIS-TTR Rx , volanesorsen, IONIS-FXI Rx , IONIS-APO(a)-L Rx and others.

Figure 4: Antisense drug using the RNase H mechanism of action.

Nusinersen is an example of an antisense drug that modulates RNA splicing to increase protein production of the SMN protein (figure 5), which is critical to the health and survival of nerve cells in the spinal cord that are responsible for neuro-muscular function. The SMN protein is deficient in patients with SMA. There are a number of other diseases, including cystic fibrosis and Duchenne muscular dystrophy, which are the result of splicing disorders. These are diseases we could potentially treat using antisense modulation of splicing.

&#160;

Figure 5: Antisense drug altering splicing of the SMN2 mRNA.

Because there are many different types of RNA that exist within the body, our antisense technology is not limited to RNA sequences that translate into proteins. We can also develop drugs that target non-coding RNAs, such as toxic RNAs. For example, DM1 is a form of muscular dystrophy that is caused by an abnormally long, toxic RNA that accumulates in cells and prevents the production of proteins essential for normal cellular function. We designed IONIS-DMPK-2.5 Rx to target and reduce the toxic DMPK RNA that causes this disease. In a mouse model of the disease, we observed effective reductions of the toxic RNA that led to a sustained reversal of disease symptoms for up to one year.

Another RNA target for our antisense technology is microRNAs. To date, scientists have identified more than 700 microRNAs in the human genome, and have shown that the absence or presence of specific microRNAs in various cells is associated with specific human diseases, including cancer, viral infection, metabolic disorders and inflammatory disease. To fully exploit the therapeutic opportunities of targeting microRNAs, we co-founded Regulus Therapeutics as a company focused on the discovery, development and commercialization of microRNA-based therapeutics. Regulus has reported human proof-of-concept data for RG-101 in HCV patients. These data demonstrated that treatment with a single subcutaneous dose of RG-101 as a single agent resulted in significant and sustained reductions in HCV RNA in a varied group of patients.

We are also making progress in designing antisense drugs to target long, non-coding RNAs, or lncRNAs. These lncRNAs do not make proteins but may regulate other genes. In 2014, we published a paper in Nature in which we were the first to show that targeted reduction of an lncRNA with an antisense compound can ameliorate certain cognitive deficits in a mouse model of Angelman syndrome, or AS. Moreover, these studies demonstrate the potential therapeutic benefits of an antisense drugs for the treatment of AS.

Because the efficiency of our core technology platform can support multiple target-based antisense research programs without significantly increasing costs, we can develop antisense drugs to target a broad range of diseases, efficiently producing a large and broad proprietary portfolio of drugs. We are currently pursuing antisense drug discovery programs focused on various severe and rare, cardiovascular, neurologic and metabolic diseases, and cancer.

Collaborative Arrangements and Licensing Agreements

Overview

We are leaders in RNA-targeted therapeutics and we have established alliances with a cadre of leading global pharmaceutical companies that are working alongside us in developing our drugs, advancing our technology and preparing to commercialize our drugs. Our partners bring resources and expertise that augment and build upon our internal capabilities. The depth of our knowledge and expertise with antisense technology provides us the flexibility to partner our drugs at what we believe is the optimal time to maximize the near- and long-term value of our drugs. We have distinct partnering strategies that we employ based on the specific program, therapeutic area and the expertise and resources our potential partners may bring to the collaboration.

&#9679; We form strategic partnerships through which we can broadly expand our drug discovery efforts to new disease targets in specific therapeutic areas in which our partners can provide tools and resources to complement our drug discovery efforts. For instance, we established a broad strategic alliance with Biogen that pairs Biogen&#8217;s extensive resources and expertise in neurological diseases with our antisense technology. Together we are creating a franchise of novel potential drugs for neurological diseases that we believe will expand both our pipeline and Biogen&#8217;s pipeline with promising new drugs. 

&#9679; We form early stage research and development partnerships that allow us to expand the application of our technology to new therapeutic areas. For example, we established a collaboration with Janssen, which brings together our RNA-targeted technology platform and Janssen&#8217;s expertise in autoimmune disorders and therapeutic formulation to discover and develop antisense drugs to treat autoimmune disorders in the gastrointestinal, or GI, tract. 

&#9679; We form late stage development and commercialization partnerships that enable us to leverage our partner&#8217;s global expertise and resources needed to support large commercial opportunities. For example, we licensed IONIS-FXI Rx to Bayer to develop and commercialize IONIS-FXI Rx for the prevention of thrombosis. As a leader in the antithrombotic market, Bayer has the expertise, resources and commitment to broadly develop IONIS-FXI Rx . 

&#9679; We also work with a consortium of companies that can exploit our drugs and technologies outside our primary areas of focus. We refer to these companies as satellite companies. Through our satellite company collaborations, we expand the reach and potential of RNA-targeting therapeutics into disease areas that are outside of our core focus. 

Through our partnerships we have created a broad and sustaining base of potential license fees, upfront payments, milestone payments, royalties and earn out payments while controlling our drug development expenses. In all of our partnerships, we benefit from the expertise our partners bring to our drugs. By coupling our efficient drug discovery technology with the resources and expertise of our partners we believe we can maximize the value of our drugs and our technology.

Strategic Partnerships

AstraZeneca

Cardiometabolic and Renal Diseases Collaboration

In July 2015, we and AstraZeneca formed a strategic collaboration to discover and develop antisense therapies for treating cardiovascular and metabolic diseases primarily focused on targets in the kidney, and renal diseases. As part of the agreement, we granted AstraZeneca an exclusive license to a preclinical program and the option to license a drug for each target advanced under this research collaboration. Upon acceptance of a drug development candidate, AstraZeneca will be responsible for all further global development, regulatory and commercialization activities for such drug. Under the terms of the agreement, we received a $65 million upfront payment. We are eligible to receive license fees and substantive milestone payments of up to more than $4 billion. In addition, we are eligible to receive tiered royalties up to the low teens on sales from any product that AstraZeneca successfully commercializes under this collaboration agreement.

Oncology Collaboration

In December 2012, we entered into a collaboration agreement with AstraZeneca to discover and develop antisense drugs for cancer. As part of the agreement, we granted AstraZeneca an exclusive license to develop and commercialize IONIS-STAT3-2.5 Rx for the treatment of cancer and an option to license up to three anti-cancer drugs under a separate research program. AstraZeneca is responsible for all global development, regulatory and commercialization activities for IONIS-STAT3-2.5 Rx . &#160; We and AstraZeneca have evaluated IONIS-STAT3-2.5 Rx in patients with advanced metastatic hepatocellular carcinoma and advanced lymphoma. AstraZeneca is evaluating IONIS-STAT3-2.5 Rx in combination with MEDI4736, AstraZeneca's investigational anti-PD-L1 drug, in patients with head and neck cancer. For the research program, we are responsible for identifying a development candidate for each of the three anti-cancer research programs. AstraZeneca has the option to license drugs resulting from each of the three anti-cancer research programs, and if AstraZeneca exercises its option for a drug, it will be responsible for all further global development, regulatory and commercialization activities for such drug.

Under the terms of the agreement, we received $31 million in upfront payments. We are eligible to receive milestone payments and license fees from AstraZeneca as programs advance in development. In addition, we are eligible to receive tiered royalties up to the low to mid-teens on sales from any drugs resulting from these programs. If AstraZeneca successfully develops IONIS-STAT3-2.5 Rx and the three drugs under the research program, we could receive license fees and milestone payments of $750 million. From inception through February 2016, we have generated more than $70 million in payments under this oncology collaboration.

For additional details about our collaboration agreements with AstraZeneca, including other financial information and termination provisions, see Note 6, Collaborative Arrangements and Licensing Agreements, in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Biogen

We have established four strategic collaborations with Biogen focused on using antisense technology to advance the treatment of neurological and neuromuscular disorders. These collaborations combine our expertise in creating antisense drugs with Biogen's expertise in developing therapies for neurological disorders. We and Biogen are currently developing six drugs to treat neurological diseases under these collaborations, including nusinersen, IONIS-DMPK-2.5 Rx , IONIS-SOD1 Rx , formerly ISIS-BIIB3 Rx , and three drugs to treat undisclosed neurodegenerative diseases, IONIS-BIIB4 Rx , IONIS-BIIB5 Rx , &#160; and IONIS-BIIB6 Rx . In addition to these six drugs, we and Biogen are evaluating numerous additional targets for the development of drugs to treat neurological diseases.

Nusinersen

In January 2012, we entered into a collaboration agreement with Biogen to develop and commercialize nusinersen for the treatment of SMA. We are currently conducting a Phase 3 study evaluating nusinersen in infants with SMA, which we expect to be fully enrolled in the second quarter of 2016. We are also conducting a Phase 3 study evaluating nusinersen in children with SMA, for which we have completed target enrollment. In addition, we are evaluating nusinersen in two Phase 2 open-label studies, one in children with SMA and one in infants with SMA. Patients from all of these studies continue to have access to nusinersen through open-label extension dosing. We are responsible for completing the studies we are currently conducting. Biogen has the option to license nusinersen. If Biogen exercises its option, it will pay us a license fee and will assume all other global development, regulatory and commercialization responsibilities. Biogen may exercise this option upon completion of and data review of the first successful Phase 2/3 trial or completion of both Phase 2/3 trials. An amendment in December 2014 provided for additional opt-in scenarios, based on the filing or the acceptance of a new drug application or marketing authorization application with the FDA or EMA. Under the terms of the agreement, we received an upfront payment of $29 million and we are eligible to receive up to $346 million in a license fee and payments. We are also eligible to receive tiered royalties up to the mid-teens on any sales of nusinersen. From inception through February 2016, we have generated nearly $150 million in payments for advancing nusinersen, including a $2 million milestone payment we earned in February 2016 for further advancing the Phase 3 study of nusinersen in infants.

IONIS-DMPK-2.5 Rx 

In June 2012, we and Biogen entered into a second and separate collaboration agreement to develop and commercialize a novel antisense drug, IONIS-DMPK-2.5 Rx , targeting DMPK for the treatment of DM1. We are responsible for global development of the drug through the completion of the first Phase 2 clinical trial. We are currently evaluating IONIS-DMPK-2.5 Rx in a Phase 1/2 clinical study in patients with DM1. Biogen has the option to license the drug through the completion of the first Phase 2 trial. If Biogen exercises its option, it will assume all other global development, regulatory and commercialization responsibilities. Under the terms of the agreement, we received an upfront payment of $12 million. Over the term of the collaboration, we are eligible to receive up to $263 million in a license fee and substantive milestone payments. In addition, we are eligible to receive tiered royalties up to the mid-teens on any sales of IONIS-DMPK-2.5 Rx . From inception through February 2016, we have generated more than $35 million in payments for advancing IONIS-DMPK-2.5 Rx .

Neurology

In December 2012, we and Biogen entered into a third and separate collaboration agreement to develop and commercialize novel antisense drugs to up to three targets to treat neurological or neuromuscular diseases. We are responsible for the development of each of the drugs through the completion of the initial Phase 2 clinical study for such drug. Biogen has the option to license a drug from each of the three programs through the completion of the first Phase 2 study for each program. We are currently advancing IONIS-BIIB4 Rx under this collaboration. If Biogen exercises its option for a drug, it will assume all further global development, regulatory and commercialization responsibilities for that drug. Under the terms of the agreement, we received an upfront payment of $30 million. Over the term of the collaboration, we are eligible to receive up to $259 million in a license fee and substantive milestone payments per program. In addition, we are eligible to receive tiered royalties up to the mid-teens on sales from any drugs resulting from each of the three programs. From inception through February 2016, we have generated nearly $45 million in payments under this collaboration, including the $3 million milestone payment we earned in February 2016 for the continued development of IONIS-BIIB4 Rx .

Strategic Neurology

In September 2013, we and Biogen entered into a fourth and separate collaboration agreement, which is a long-term strategic relationship focused on applying antisense technology to advance the treatment of neurological diseases. As part of the collaboration, Biogen gained exclusive rights to the use of our antisense technology to develop therapies for neurological diseases and has the option to license drugs resulting from this collaboration. The exclusivity for neurological diseases will last through September 2019, and may be extended for any drug development programs being pursued under the collaboration. We will usually be responsible for drug discovery and early development of antisense drugs and Biogen will have the option to license antisense drugs after Phase 2 proof of concept. We are currently advancing three drugs, IONIS-SOD1 Rx , IONIS-BIIB5 Rx , and IONIS-BIIB6 Rx , under this collaboration. If Biogen exercises its option for a drug, it will assume all further global development, regulatory and commercialization responsibilities for that drug. Biogen will be responsible for all of the drug discovery and development activities for drugs using other modalities.

Under the terms of the agreement, we received an upfront payment of $100 million and are eligible to receive milestone payments, license fees and royalty payments for all drugs developed through this collaboration, with the specific amounts dependent upon the modality of the molecule advanced by Biogen. For each antisense molecule that is chosen for drug discovery and development under this collaboration, we are eligible to receive up to approximately $260 million in a license fee and substantive milestone payments. In addition, we are eligible to receive tiered royalties up to the mid-teens on sales from any antisense drugs developed under this collaboration. If other modalities are chosen, such as small molecules or monoclonal antibodies, we are eligible to receive up to $90 million in substantive milestone payments. In addition, we are eligible to receive tiered single-digit royalties on sales from any drugs using non-antisense modalities developed under this collaboration. From inception through February 2016, we have generated more than $140 million in payments under this collaboration.

For additional details about our collaboration agreements with Biogen, including other financial information and termination provisions, see Note 6, Collaborative Arrangements and Licensing Agreements, in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Research, Development and Commercialization Partners

Bayer

In May 2015, we entered into an exclusive license agreement with Bayer to develop and commercialize IONIS-FXI Rx for the prevention of thrombosis. We are responsible for completing our ongoing Phase 2 study of IONIS-FXI Rx in patients with end-stage renal disease on hemodialysis. Bayer is responsible for all other development and commercialization activities for IONIS-FXI Rx . Under the terms of the agreement, we are eligible to receive $155 million in near-term payments, including a $100 million upfront payment we received in the second quarter of 2015 and a $55 million milestone payment that we are eligible to receive upon advancement of the program following the Phase 2 study in patients with end-stage renal disease on hemodialysis. Over the term of the agreement, we are eligible to receive up to $375 million in license fees, substantive milestone payments and other payments. In addition, we are eligible to receive tiered royalties in the low-to-high 20 percent range on gross margins of IONIS-FXI Rx .

For additional details about our collaboration agreement with Bayer, including other financial information and termination provisions, see Note 6, Collaborative Arrangements and Licensing Agreements, in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Genzyme Corporation, a Sanofi company

In January 2008, we entered into an alliance with Genzyme focused on the licensing and co-development of Kynamro. The license and co-development agreement provided Genzyme with exclusive worldwide rights for all therapeutic purposes to our patents and know-how related to Kynamro. The transaction included a $175 million licensing fee and a $150 million equity investment by Genzyme in our stock. From inception through January 2016, we have generated $375 million in a license fee, milestone payments and an equity investment for advancing Kynamro in development. In January 2016, we terminated our license agreement with Genzyme.

GSK

In March 2010, we entered into an alliance with GSK using our antisense drug discovery platform to discover and develop new drugs against targets for rare and serious diseases, including infectious diseases and some conditions causing blindness. Our alliance currently comprises five drugs in development, including our Phase 3 drug, IONIS-TTR Rx . GSK has the exclusive option to license drugs resulting from this alliance at Phase 2 proof-of-concept for a license fee. If GSK exercises its exclusive option for any drugs resulting from this alliance, it will be responsible for all further global development, regulatory and commercialization activities for such drug. Under the terms of the agreement, we received $38 million in upfront and expansion payments.

In October 2012, we and GSK amended the original agreement to reflect an accelerated clinical development plan for IONIS-TTR Rx. We are currently evaluating IONIS-TTR Rx in a broad Phase 3 development program. We have completed target enrollment for our Phase 3 study in patients with FAP. In September 2015, we and GSK amended the development plan for IONIS-TTR Rx to support the Phase 3 cardiomyopathy study, which GSK plans to conduct. In addition to IONIS-TTR Rx , we have four drugs in development with GSK. We are developing two antisense drugs we designed to reduce the production of viral proteins associated with HBV infection; IONIS-HBV Rx and IONIS-HBV-L Rx , a follow-on drug using our LICA technology. We are also developing IONIS-GSK4-L Rx and IONIS-RHO-2.5 Rx, which are antisense drugs we designed to treat ocular diseases.

Under our agreement, if GSK successfully develops all five drugs for one or more indications and achieves pre-agreed sales targets, we could receive payments of more than $1.0 billion. From inception through February 2016, we have generated more than $150 million in payments under this alliance with GSK, including a $1.5 million payment we generated in January 2016 when GSK further advanced IONIS-HBV-L Rx . In addition, we are eligible to receive tiered royalties up to the mid-teens on sales from any product that GSK successfully commercializes under this alliance.

For additional details about our collaboration agreement with GSK, including other financial information and termination provisions, see Note 6, Collaborative Arrangements and Licensing Agreements, in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Janssen Biotech, Inc., a pharmaceutical company of Johnson &#38; Johnson

In December 2014, we entered into a collaboration agreement with Janssen Biotech, Inc. to discover and develop antisense drugs that can be locally administered, including oral delivery, to treat autoimmune disorders of the GI tract. Janssen has the option to license drugs from us through the designation of a development candidate for up to three programs. Prior to option exercise we are responsible for the discovery activities to identify a development candidate. If Janssen exercises an option for one of the programs, it will be responsible for the global development, regulatory and commercial activities under that program. Under the terms of the agreement, we received $35 million in upfront payments. We are eligible to receive nearly $800 million in milestone payments and license fees for these programs . In addition, we are eligible to receive tiered royalties up to the near teens on sales from any drugs resulting from this collaboration. 

For additional details about our collaboration agreement with Janssen, including other financial information and termination provisions, see Note 6, Collaborative Arrangements and Licensing Agreements, in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Roche

In April 2013, we formed an alliance with Hoffman-La Roche Inc. and F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd., collectively Roche, to develop treatments for HD based on our antisense technology. Roche has the option to license the drugs from us through the completion of the first Phase 1 trial. Under the agreement, we are responsible for the discovery and development of an antisense drug targeting HTT protein. We are currently evaluating a drug targeting HTT, IONIS-HTT Rx , in a Phase 1/2 clinical study in patients with early stage HD. If Roche exercises its option, it will be responsible for global development, regulatory and commercialization activities for any drug arising out of the collaboration. We are also working collaboratively with Roche on the discovery of an antisense drug utilizing Roche's "brain shuttle" program. Under the terms of the agreement, we received an upfront payment of $30 million in April 2013. We are eligible to receive up to $362 million in a license fee and milestone payments. In addition, we are eligible to receive up to $136.5 million in milestone payments for each additional drug successfully developed and up to $50 million in commercial milestones if a drug using Roche's proprietary brain shuttle technology is successfully commercialized. We are also eligible to receive tiered royalties up to the mid-teens on product sales from any drugs resulting from this alliance. From inception through February 2016, we have generated nearly $55 million in payments under this alliance with Roche.

For additional details about our collaboration agreement with Roche, including other financial information and termination provisions, see Note 6, Collaborative Arrangements and Licensing Agreements, in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Satellite Company Collaborations

Achaogen, Inc.

In 2006, we exclusively licensed to Achaogen, Inc. specific know-how, patents and patent applications relating to aminoglycosides. In exchange, Achaogen agreed to certain payment obligations related to aminoglycosides Achaogen developed. Achaogen is developing plazomicin, an aminoglycoside Achaogen discovered based on the technology we licensed to Achaogen. In connection with the license, Achaogen issued to us $1.5 million of Achaogen Series A Preferred Stock. If Achaogen successfully develops and commercializes two drugs under our agreement, we will receive payments totaling up to $49.3 million for the achievement of key clinical, regulatory and sales events. Through February 2016, we have earned $7 million in milestone payments from Achaogen, including a $4 million milestone payment we earned in September 2014 when Achaogen initiated a Phase 3 study of plazomicin in patients with serious multi-drug resistant, gram-negative bacterial infections. We are also eligible to receive royalties on sales of drugs resulting from the program. Achaogen is solely responsible for the continued development of plazomicin.

Alnylam Pharmaceuticals, Inc.

In March 2004, we entered into an alliance with Alnylam to develop and commercialize RNAi therapeutics. Under the terms of the agreement, we exclusively licensed to Alnylam our patent estate relating to antisense motifs and mechanisms and oligonucleotide chemistry for double-stranded RNAi therapeutics in exchange for a $5 million technology access fee, participation in fees from Alnylam&#8217;s partnering programs, as well as future milestone and royalty payments from Alnylam. For each drug Alnylam develops under this alliance, we may receive up to $3.4 million in milestone payments. We also have the potential to earn a portion of payments that Alnylam receives from licenses of our technology it grants to its partners plus royalties. We retained rights to a limited number of double-stranded RNAi therapeutic targets and all rights to single-stranded RNAi, or ssRNAi, therapeutics.

In turn, Alnylam nonexclusively licensed to us its patent estate relating to antisense motifs and mechanisms and oligonucleotide chemistry to research, develop and commercialize single-stranded antisense therapeutics, ssRNAi therapeutics, and to research double-stranded RNAi compounds. We also received a license to develop and commercialize double-stranded RNAi drugs targeting a limited number of therapeutic targets on a nonexclusive basis. If we develop or commercialize an RNAi-based drug using Alnylam&#8217;s technology, we will pay Alnylam up to $3.4 million in milestone payments for specified development and regulatory events, plus royalties. To date, we do not have an RNAi-based drug in development.

In 2015, we and Alnylam entered into an alliance in which we formed an intellectual property cross-license under which we and Alnylam each obtained exclusive license rights to four therapeutic programs. Alnylam granted us an exclusive, royalty-bearing license to its chemistry, RNA targeting mechanism and target-specific intellectual property for oligonucleotides against four targets. In exchange, we granted Alnylam an exclusive, royalty-bearing license to our chemistry, RNA targeting mechanism and target-specific intellectual property for oligonucleotides against four targets. Alnylam also granted us a royalty-bearing, non-exclusive license to new platform technology arising from May 2014 through April 2019 for single-stranded antisense therapeutics. In turn, we granted Alnylam a royalty-bearing, non-exclusive license to new platform technology arising from May 2014 through April 2019 for double-stranded RNAi therapeutics. Through February 2016, we have generated nearly $70 million from Alnylam.

&#160;

Antisense Therapeutics Limited 

&#160;

In 2001, we licensed ATL1102 and ATL1103 to ATL, an Australian company publicly traded on the Australian Stock Exchange. ATL is currently undertaking a chronic toxicology study in primates to support a potential Phase 2b trial of ATL1102 in patients with MS. In addition, ATL is currently developing ATL1103 for growth and sight disorders. We are eligible to receive royalties on sales of ATL1102 and ATL1103. We may also receive a portion of the fees ATL receives if it licenses ATL1102 or ATL1103.

Atlantic Pharmaceuticals Limited

In March 2007, we licensed alicaforsen to Atlantic Pharmaceuticals, a UK-based specialty pharmaceutical company founded in 2006. Atlantic Pharmaceuticals is developing alicaforsen for the treatment of UC and other inflammatory diseases. Atlantic Pharmaceuticals is initially developing alicaforsen for pouchitis, a UC indication, followed by UC and other inflammatory diseases. In exchange for the exclusive, worldwide license to alicaforsen, we received a $2 million upfront payment from Atlantic Pharmaceuticals in the form of equity. In 2010, Atlantic Pharmaceuticals began supplying alicaforsen under international named patient supply regulations for patients with IBD for which we receive royalties. Additionally, in 2013 we received an advance payment in the form of equity for the initial royalties that we will earn from Atlantic Pharmaceuticals. Under the agreement, we could receive milestone payments totaling up to $1.4 million for the achievement of regulatory milestones for multiple indications. 

OncoGenex Technologies Inc., a subsidiary of OncoGenex Pharmaceuticals Inc.

Custirsen

In November 2001, we established a drug development collaboration with OncoGenex, a biotechnology company committed to the development of cancer therapeutics for patients with drug resistant and metastatic cancers, to co-develop and commercialize custirsen, an anti-cancer antisense drug that targets clusterin. OncoGenex is currently evaluating custirsen in two Phase 3 studies. In July 2008, we and OncoGenex amended the co-development agreement pursuant to which OncoGenex became solely responsible for the costs, development and commercialization of custirsen. In exchange, OncoGenex agreed to pay us royalties on sales of custirsen and to share consideration it receives from licensing custirsen to a third party, except for consideration OncoGenex receives for the fair market value of equity and reimbursement of research and development expenses. Under the amended agreement, we assigned to OncoGenex our rights in the patents claiming the composition and therapeutic methods of using custirsen and granted OncoGenex a worldwide, nonexclusive license to our know-how and patents covering our core antisense technology and manufacturing technology solely for use with custirsen. In addition, we agreed that so long as OncoGenex or its commercialization partner is using commercially reasonable efforts to develop and commercialize custirsen, we will not research, develop or commercialize an antisense compound designed to modulate clusterin. The amended agreement will continue until OncoGenex or its commercialization partner is no longer developing or commercializing custirsen or until we terminate the agreement for OncoGenex&#8217;s uncured failure to make a payment required under the agreement.

OGX-225

In August 2003, we and OncoGenex entered into a second and separate agreement for the development of an antisense anti-cancer drug, OGX-225. OncoGenex is responsible for all development costs and activities. OncoGenex issued to us $0.8 million of OncoGenex securities as payment for an upfront fee. In addition, OncoGenex will pay us milestone payments totaling up to $3.5 million for the achievement of key development and regulatory milestones. In addition, we are eligible to receive royalties on future product sales of OGX-225.

Apatorsen

In January 2005, we entered into a third and separate agreement with OncoGenex to allow for the development of an additional antisense anti-cancer drug, apatorsen. OncoGenex and collaborators are evaluating apatorsen in multiple Phase 2 studies in patients with cancer. OncoGenex is responsible for all development costs and activities. OncoGenex will pay us milestone payments totaling up to $5.8 million for the achievement of key development and regulatory milestones. In addition, we are eligible to receive royalties on future product sales of the drug.

Regulus Therapeutics Inc.

In September 2007, we and Alnylam established Regulus as a company focused on the discovery, development and commercialization of microRNA-targeting therapeutics. We and Alnylam retain rights to develop and commercialize, on pre-negotiated terms, microRNA therapeutic products that Regulus decides not to develop either by itself or with a partner. Regulus is addressing therapeutic opportunities that arise from alterations in microRNA expression. Since microRNAs may act as master regulators of the genome, affecting the expression of multiple genes in a disease pathway, microRNA therapeutics define a new platform for drug discovery and development. MicroRNAs may also prove to be an attractive new tool for characterizing diseases. Regulus focuses its drug discovery and development efforts in numerous therapeutic areas, including cancer, fibrosis, and viral infections. Regulus currently has three drugs in clinical development. Regulus is evaluating RG-101 in a Phase 2 study in patients with HCV and in a Phase 1 study in patients with severe renal insufficiency or end-stage renal disease. Regulus is also evaluating RG-012 in a Phase 1 study to treat patients with Alport syndrome. Regulus and AstraZeneca are also evaluating RG-125 in a Phase 1 study for the treatment of NASH in patients with type 2 diabetes or pre-diabetes. We are eligible to receive royalties on any future product sales of these drugs.

For additional details about our satellite company arrangements, see Note 6, Collaborative Arrangements and Licensing Agreements, in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

External Project Funding

We are pursuing discovery and development projects that provide us with new therapeutic applications for antisense drugs. These programs represent opportunities for us and our technology. In some cases, we have funded these studies through support from our partners or disease advocacy groups and foundations. For example, we received external funding support for our ALS and Huntington&#8217;s disease programs.

CHDI Foundation, Inc.

Starting in November 2007, CHDI provided financial and scientific support to our Huntington&#8217;s disease drug discovery program through our development collaboration. In April 2013, we formed an alliance with Roche to develop treatments for Huntington&#8217;s disease. Under the terms of our agreement with CHDI, we will reimburse CHDI for a portion of its support of our Huntington&#8217;s disease program out of the payments we receive from Roche. We made payments of $5 million and $3 million to CHDI in 2015 and 2013, respectively, associated with the progression of our Huntington&#8217;s disease program. If we achieve pre-specified milestones under our collaboration with Roche, we will make additional payments to CHDI up to $4 million, upon which our obligation to CHDI will be complete.

The Ludwig Institute; Center for Neurological Studies

In October 2005, we entered into a collaboration agreement with the Ludwig Institute, the Center for Neurological Studies and researchers from these institutions to discover and develop antisense drugs for ALS and other neurodegenerative diseases. Under this agreement, we agreed to pay the Ludwig Institute and Center for Neurological Studies modest milestone payments and royalties on any antisense drugs resulting from the collaboration.

Intellectual Property Sale and Licensing Agreements

We have a broad patent portfolio covering our products and technologies. We believe our patent estate represents the largest and most valuable nucleic acid therapeutics-oriented patent estate in the pharmaceutical industry. While the principal purpose of our intellectual property portfolio is to protect our products and those of our partners described above, our intellectual property is a strategic asset that we are exploiting to generate near-term revenues and that we expect will also provide us with revenue in the future. We have an active intellectual property sales and licensing program in which we sell or license aspects of our intellectual property to companies. Through this program, we also license our non-antisense patents. To date, we have generated nearly $420 million from our intellectual property sale and licensing program that helps support our internal drug discovery and development programs.

Sales of Intellectual Property

Abbott Molecular Inc.

In January 2009, we sold our former subsidiary, Ibis Biosciences, to Abbott Molecular Inc., or AMI, pursuant to a stock purchase agreement for a total acquisition price of $215 million plus the earn out payments described below. Under the stock purchase agreement, we are eligible to receive earn out payments from AMI equal to a percentage of Ibis&#8217; revenue related to sales of Ibis systems, which AMI launched in 2014 as IRIDICA, including instruments, assay kits and successor products. Once cumulative net sales reach $140 million, and through December 31, 2025, we are eligible to earn out payments in any year that net sales exceed $50 million for the applicable year. The earn out payments will equal five percent of Ibis&#8217; cumulative net sales over $140 million and up to $2.1 billion, and three percent of Ibis&#8217; cumulative net sales over $2.1 billion. AMI may reduce these earn out payments from five percent to as low as 2.5 percent and from three percent to as low as 1.5 percent, respectively, upon the occurrence of certain events.

In-Licensing Arrangements

University of Massachusetts

We have a license agreement with the University of Massachusetts under which we acquired an exclusive license to the University of Massachusetts&#8217; patent rights related to nusinersen. If we successfully develop and commercialize a drug incorporating the technology we licensed from the University of Massachusetts, we will pay a milestone payment to the University of Massachusetts of $0.3 million for the achievement of a key regulatory milestone. In addition, we will pay the University of Massachusetts a portion of any sublicense revenue we receive in consideration for sublicensing its technology, and a royalty on sales of nusinersen in the United States if our product incorporates the technology we licensed from the University of Massachusetts.

Verva Pharmaceuticals Ltd.

We have a license agreement with Verva under which we acquired an exclusive license to Verva&#8217;s antisense patent rights related to IONIS-FGFR4 Rx . If we successfully develop and commercialize a drug incorporating the technology Verva licensed to us, we will pay milestone payments to Verva totaling up to $6.1 million for the achievement of key patent, clinical, and regulatory milestones. If we convert our license from an exclusive license to a nonexclusive license we could significantly reduce the milestone payments due to Verva. In addition, we will also pay royalties to Verva on sales of IONIS-FGFR4 Rx if our product incorporates the technology we licensed from Verva.

Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory

We have a collaboration and license agreement with the Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory under which we acquired an exclusive license to the Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory&#8217;s patent rights related to nusinersen. If we successfully develop and commercialize a drug incorporating the technology we licensed from the Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory, we will pay a portion of any sublicense revenue and post licensing milestone payments we receive in consideration for sublicensing the Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory&#8217;s technology up to $11.3 million and a royalty on sales of nusinersen if our product incorporates the technology we licensed from the Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory.

Manufacturing

&#160;

In the past, except for small quantities, it was generally expensive and difficult to produce chemically modified oligonucleotides like the antisense drugs we use in our research and development programs. As a result, we have dedicated significant resources to develop ways to improve manufacturing efficiency and capacity. Since we can use variants of the same nucleotide building blocks and the same type of equipment to produce our oligonucleotide drugs, we found that the same techniques we used to efficiently manufacture one oligonucleotide drug could help improve the manufacturing processes for many other oligonucleotide drugs. By developing several proprietary chemical processes to scale up our manufacturing capabilities, we have greatly reduced the cost of producing oligonucleotide drugs. For example, we have significantly reduced the cost of raw materials through improved yield efficiency, while at the same time increasing our capacity to make the drugs. Through both our internal research and development programs and collaborations with outside vendors we may achieve even greater efficiency and further cost reductions.

&#160;

Our drug substance manufacturing facility is located in a 28,700 square foot building in Carlsbad, California. We lease this building under a lease that has an initial term ending on December 31, 2031 with an option to extend the lease for up to four additional five-year periods. In addition, we have a 25,800 square foot building that houses support functions for our manufacturing activities. We lease this facility under a lease that has an initial term ending in June 2021 with an option to extend the lease for up to two additional five-year periods. Our manufacturing facility is subject to periodic inspections by the FDA to ensure that it is operating in compliance with current Good Manufacturing Practices, or cGMP, requirements.

As part of our collaborations we may agree to manufacture clinical trial materials and/or commercial supply for our partners. For example, in the past we have manufactured clinical supply materials for AstraZeneca, Bayer, Biogen, and GSK.

&#160;

We believe we have sufficient manufacturing capacity to meet our current internal research and development needs, including the Phase 3 clinical trials we have for IONIS-TTR Rx , nusinersen, and volanesorsen, as well as our current and future obligations under existing agreements with our partners for commercial, research and development needs. We believe that we have, or will be able to develop or acquire, sufficient supply capacity to meet our anticipated needs, including the initial launch supplies for nusinersen, and volanesorsen. GSK intends to provide the initial launch supplies for IONIS-TTR Rx . We also believe that with reasonably anticipated benefits from increases in scale and improvements in chemistry, we can manufacture antisense drugs at commercially competitive prices.

Patents and Proprietary Rights

&#160;

Our success depends, in part, on our ability to obtain patent protection for our products in the United States and other countries. As of February 10, 2016, we owned or exclusively licensed more than 1,300 issued patents worldwide. We focus our resources on patents and new patent applications that drive value for our company.

&#160;

We own or control patents that provide exclusivity for products in our pipeline and patents that provide exclusivity for our core technology in the field of antisense more generally. Our core technology patents include claims to chemically modified nucleosides and oligonucleotides as well as antisense drug designs utilizing these chemically modified nucleosides. These core claims are each independent of specific therapeutic target, nucleic acid sequence, or clinical indication. We also own a large number of patents claiming specific antisense compounds having nucleic acid sequences complementary to therapeutic target nucleic acids, independent of the particular chemical modifications incorporated into the antisense compound. Most importantly, we seek and obtain issued patent claims to specifically protect each of our drugs. For example, we file and seek to obtain claims covering each drug&#8217;s nucleic acid sequence and precise drug design. In sum, we maintain our competitive advantage in the field of antisense technology by protecting our core platform technology, which applies to most of our drugs, and by creating multiple layers of patent protection for each of our specific drugs in development.

Type of Patent Claim

&#160; &#160; Description

&#160; &#160; &#160; 1. Chemically Modified Nucleosides and Oligonucleotides

1. Antisense Drug Design Motifs

2. Therapeutic Methods

3. Antisense Sequence

4. Drug Composition

&#160;

1. Target and sequence independent

2. Sequence independent

3. Chemistry independent

4. Specific claim to drug candidates

&#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; 

Chemically Modified Nucleosides and Oligonucleotides

&#160;

The most broadly applicable of our patents are those that claim modified nucleosides and oligonucleotides comprising the modified nucleosides that we incorporate into our antisense drugs to increase their therapeutic efficacy. Nucleosides and chemically modified nucleosides are the basic building blocks of our antisense drugs, therefore claims that cover any oligonucleotide incorporating one of our proprietary modified nucleosides can apply to a wide array of antisense mechanisms of action as well as several therapeutic targets. Of particular note are our patents covering our proprietary 2&#8217;-O-(2-methoxy) ethyl modified nucleosides, incorporated into many of our development compounds, as well as our Generation 2.5 compounds, the constrained-ethyl nucleosides, or cEt nucleosides. 

The following are some of our patents in this category:

&#160;

Jurisdiction

&#160;

Patent No.

&#160;

Title

&#160;

Expiration

&#160;

Description of Claims

&#160;

&#160;

&#160;

&#160;

&#160;

&#160;

&#160;

&#160;

&#160;

United States

&#160;

7,101,993

&#160;

OLIGONUCLEOTIDES CONTAINING 2&#8217;O-MODIFIED PURINES

&#160;

&#160;

Covers certain MOE nucleosides and oligonucleotides containing these nucleotides.

United States

&#160;

7,399,845

&#160;

6-MODIFIED BICYCLIC NUCLEIC ACID ANALOGS

&#160;

&#160;

Covers our cEt nucleosides and oligonucleotides containing these nucleoside analogs.

United States

&#160;

7,741,457

&#160;

6-MODIFIED BICYCLIC NUCLEIC ACID ANALOGS

&#160;

&#160;

Covers our cEt nucleosides and oligonucleotides containing these nucleoside analogs.

United States

&#160;

8,022,193

&#160;

6-MODIFIED BICYCLIC NUCLEIC ACID ANALOGS

&#160;

&#160;

Covers our cEt nucleosides and oligonucleotides containing these nucleoside analogs.

United States

&#160; 7,569,686

&#160; COMPOUNDS AND METHODS FOR SYNTHESIS OF BICYCLIC NUCLEIC ACID ANALOGS

&#160; 2027

&#160; Covers methods of synthesizing our cEt nucleosides.

Europe

&#160; EP1984381

&#160; 6-MODIFIED BICYCLIC NUCLEIC ACID ANALOGS

&#160; 2027

&#160; Covers our cEt nucleosides and oligonucleotides containing these nucleoside analogs.

Antisense Drug Design Motifs

&#160;

MOE Gapmers

&#160;

Other Ionis patents claim oligonucleotides comprising specific antisense drug design motifs, or patterns of nucleoside modifications at specified positions in the oligonucleotide. Patent claims covering our antisense drug design motifs are independent of nucleic acid sequence, so they cover oligonucleotides having the recited motif, regardless of cellular target or clinical indication. The claimed motifs generally confer properties that optimize oligonucleotides for a particular antisense mechanism of action, such as ribonuclease H, or RNase H, RNAi, or splicing. We have designed oligonucleotides incorporating motifs, which we refer to as chimeric compounds or gapmers to exploit the RNase H mechanism to achieve target RNA reduction. Almost all of our drugs, including volanesorsen and IONIS-TTR Rx , contain this gapmer antisense drug design motif. In fact, we own a U.S. patent that covers each of our second generation gapmer antisense drugs until March of 2023. We also have issued patents covering other gapmer drug designs, and methods of lowering a target RNA in an animal with these gapmer compositions. The following patent is one example of our patents in this category.

Jurisdiction

&#160;

Patent/ Application No.

&#160;

Title

&#160;

Expiration

&#160;

Description of Claims

United States

&#160;

7,015,315

&#160;

GAPPED OLIGONUCLEOTIDES

&#160;

&#160;

Covers 2&#8217;-O-alkyl-O-alkyl gapmer oligonucleotides.

&#160;

Bicyclic Nucleoside Gapmer Oligonucleotides

&#160;

In addition, we have pursued patent claims to antisense drug design motifs incorporating bicyclic nucleoside analogs, which include locked nucleic acids, or LNAs. In Europe, we have granted claims drawn to short gapmer oligonucleotides with bicyclic nucleosides, which include locked nucleic acids, in the wings for the treatment of cardiovascular or metabolic disorders. We have also successfully obtained issued patent claims covering gapmer antisense drug design motifs that incorporate our cEt modified nucleosides. Santaris opposed granted patent EP2092065 and EP2410053 and in April 2015, the claims of EP2092065 were successfully upheld in amended form. We intend to vigorously defend EP2410053 in future proceedings. The following patents are some examples of our issued patents in this category:

Jurisdiction

&#160;

Patent/ Application No.

&#160;

Title

&#160;

Expiration

&#160;

Description of Claims

Europe

&#160;

EP2021472

&#160;

COMPOUNDS AND METHODS FOR MODULATING GENE EXPRESSION

&#160;

&#160;

Short gapmer oligonucleotides, 10 to 14 nucleotides in length, with bicyclic nucleosides, which includes cEt locked nucleic acids, in the wings for the treatment of cardiovascular or metabolic disorders

United States

&#160;

7,750,131

&#160;

6-MODIFIED BICYCLIC NUCLEIC ACID ANALOGS

&#160;

&#160;

Covers cEt containing gapmer compounds

Europe

&#160;

EP2092065

&#160;

ANTISENSE COMPOUNDS

&#160;

&#160;

Gapmer compounds having wings comprised of 2&#8217;-MOE and bicyclic nucleosides

Europe

&#160; EP2410053

&#160; ANTISENSE COMPOUNDS

&#160; 2027

&#160; Gapmer compounds having wings comprised of 2&#8217;-MOE and bicyclic nucleosides

Ligand-Conjugated Antisense (LICA) Technology

We have also pursued patent claims to new chemistries created to enhance targeting of antisense drugs to specific tissues and cells in order to improve a drug&#8217;s potency. Our N-acetyl-galactosamine (GalNAc) LICA drugs are designed to provide an increase in potency for targets in the liver. We have successfully obtained issued patent claims covering our primary GalNAc LICA (THA) conjugated to any modified oligonucleotide, including gapmers, double-stranded siRNA compounds, and fully modified oligonucleotides. The following patents are some examples of our issued patents in this category:

Jurisdiction

&#160;

Patent/ Application No.

&#160;

Title

&#160;

Expiration

&#160;

Description of Claims

United States

&#160;

9,127,276

&#160;

CONJUGATED ANTISENSE COMPOUNDS AND THEIR USE

&#160;

&#160;

Covers our primary THA LICA conjugate having any type of linker and conjugated to any group of nucleosides, including gapmers, double-stranded siRNA compounds, and fully modified oligonucleotides

United States

&#160;

9,181,549

&#160;

CONJUGATED ANTISENSE COMPOUNDS AND THEIR USE

&#160;

&#160;

Covers our primary THA conjugate having our preferred linker and cleavable moiety conjugated to any oligomeric compound or any nucleoside having a 2&#8217;-MOE modification or a cEt modification

Therapeutic Methods of Treatment and Antisense Drug Sequences

&#160;

In addition to our broad core patents, we also own hundreds of patents, worldwide, with claims to antisense sequences and compounds directed to particular therapeutically important targets or methods of achieving clinical endpoints using these antisense compounds. Target patents may also include claims reciting the specific nucleic acid sequences utilized by our products, independent of chemical modifications and motifs. In addition, our product specific patents typically include claims combining specific nucleic acid sequences with nucleoside modifications and motifs. In this way, we seek patent claims narrowly tailored to protect our products specifically, in addition to the broader core antisense patents described above.

&#160; Survival Motor Neuron and nusinersen 

&#160;

Nusinersen is protected by a suite of patents in the United States and in Europe from generic competition in the United States until at least 2030 and in Europe until 2026. These issued patents include: (i) the Bennett patent related to methods of altering mRNA processing (i.e., splicing) with a fully modified 2&#8217;MOE oligonucleotide, (ii) a patent licensed from the University of Massachusetts drawn to antisense compounds having the sequence of nusinersen, independent of chemical modification and uses of such compounds for treating SMA, and (iii) a joint patent with Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory claiming fully modified 2&#8217;MOE compositions targeting SMN2, including the precise composition of matter of nusinersen. Those patents should protect nusinersen from generic and antisense innovator competition in the United States until at least 2030 without patent term extension. The table below lists the key U.S. and European issued patents protecting nusinersen:

Jurisdiction

&#160;

Patent No.

&#160;

Title

&#160;

Expiration

&#160;

Description of Claims

United States

&#160;

6,210,892

&#160;

ALTERATION OF CELLULAR BEHAVIOR BY MODULATION OF MRNA PROCESSING

&#160;

&#160;

Broad claims of altering mRNA processing with a fully modified 2&#8217;MOE oligonucleotide.

United States

&#160;

8,361,977

&#160;

COMPOSITIONS AND METHODS FOR MODULATION OF SMN2 SPLICING

&#160;

&#160;

Sequence and chemistry (full 2&#8217;-MOE) of nusinersen

&#160;

Europe

&#160;

&#160;

COMPOSITIONS AND METHODS FOR MODULATION OF SMN2 SPLICING

&#160;

&#160;

Sequence and chemistry (full 2&#8217;-MOE) of nusinersen

&#160;

United States

&#160;

7,838,657

&#160;

SPINAL MUSCULAR ATROPHY (SMA) TREATMENT VIA TARGETING OF SMN2 SPLICE SITE INHIBITORY SEQUENCES

&#160;

&#160;

Oligonucleotides having sequence of nusinersen (chemistry independent)

United States

&#160;

8,110,560

&#160;

SPINAL MUSCULAR ATROPHY (SMA) TREATMENT VIA TARGETING OF SMN2 SPLICE SITE INHIBITORY SEQUENCES

&#160;

&#160;

Methods of using antisense oligonucleotides having sequence of nusinersen to alter splicing of SMN2 and/or to treat SMA

United States

&#160; 8,980,853

&#160; COMPOSITIONS AND METHODS FOR MODULATION OF SMN2 SPLICING IN A SUBJECT

&#160; 2030

&#160; Methods of administering nusinersen

&#160;

Transthyretin and IONIS-TTR Rx 

&#160;

We obtained issued claims covering IONIS-TTR Rx in the United States. The issued U.S. claims should protect IONIS-TTR Rx from generic competition in the United States until at least 2031. We are also pursuing additional patent applications designed to protect IONIS-TTR Rx in the United States and other foreign jurisdictions, including Europe and Japan. The table below lists the current issued U.S. patents protecting IONIS-TTR Rx :

&#160;

Jurisdiction

&#160;

Patent No.

&#160;

Title

&#160;

Expiration

&#160;

Description of Claims

United States

&#160;

8,101,743

&#160;

MODULATION OF TRANSTHYRETIN EXPRESSION

&#160;

&#160;

Antisense sequence and chemistry of IONIS-TTR Rx 

United States

&#160;

8,697,860

&#160;

DIAGNOSIS AND TREATMENT OF DISEASE

&#160;

&#160;

Composition of IONIS-TTR Rx 

United States

&#160; 9,061,044

&#160; MODULATION OF TRANSTHYRETIN EXPRESSION

&#160; 2031

&#160; Sodium salt composition of IONIS-TTR Rx 

&#160;

In some cases, the patent term can be extended to recapture a portion of the term lost during FDA regulatory review.

Apolipoprotein C-III and volanesorsen

&#160;

We have obtained patent claims in the United States drawn to the use of antisense compounds complementary to a broad active region of human Apo C-III including the site targeted by volanesorsen. Similar claims complementary to any site on human Apo C-III have granted in Australia. We obtained issued patent claims to the specific antisense sequence and chemical composition of volanesorsen in the United States, Australia, and Europe. The issued U.S. claims should protect volanesorsen from generic competition in the United States until at least 2023. In addition, we will seek additional patent term extension to recapture a portion of the term lost during FDA regulatory review, extending the term of this patent beyond 2023. We are also pursuing additional patent applications designed to protect the volanesorsen composition in Canada and additional methods of use in jurisdictions worldwide. The table below lists the key U.S, European and Australian issued patents:

&#160;

Jurisdiction

&#160;

Patent No.

&#160;

Title

&#160;

Expiration

&#160;

Description of Claims

United States

&#160;

7,598,227

&#160;

MODULATION OF APOLIPOPROTEIN C-III EXPRESSION

&#160;

&#160;

Methods of treating hyperlipidemia, lowering cholesterol levels and lowering triglyceride levels with an antisense compound comprising an antisense oligonucleotide 15-30 linked nucleosides specifically hybridizable within a nucleotide region of apoCIII targeted by volanesorsen

United States

&#160;

7,750,141

&#160;

MODULATION OF APOLIPOPROTEIN C-III EXPRESSION

&#160;

&#160;

Antisense sequence and chemistry of volanesorsen

&#160;

Europe

&#160;

EP1622597

&#160;

MODULATION OF APOLIPOPROTEIN C-III EXPRESSION

&#160;

&#160;

Antisense sequence and chemistry of volanesorsen

Australia

&#160;

&#160;

MODULATION OF APOLIPOPROTEIN C-III EXPRESSION

&#160;

&#160;

Compounds 12-50 nucleobases in length specifically hybridizable with SEQ ID 4 (apoCIII), the antisense sequence and chemistry of volanesorsen and methods of their use in treating hyperlipidemia, lowering cholesterol levels and lowering triglyceride levels

United States

&#160; 9,157,082

&#160; MODULATION OF APOLIPOPROTEIN CIII (APOCIII) EXPRESSION

&#160; 2032

&#160; Methods of using APOCIII antisense oligonucleotides for reducing pancreatitis and chylomicronemia and increasing HDL

&#160;

ApoB 100 and KYNAMRO

&#160;

In 2008, we obtained patent claims in the United States drawn to the use of both single-stranded and double-stranded antisense drugs complementary to any site of the mRNA of human apoB, regardless of chemistry or antisense mechanism of action. The patent provides broad protection of the apoB franchise, including KYNAMRO and potential future follow-on compounds. Similar claims granted in Australia and Japan in 2009 and 2010, respectively. Additional claims have granted in Europe covering the use 5-10-5 MOE gapmers targeting ApoB. We obtained issued claims to the specific antisense sequence and chemical composition of KYNAMRO in the United States, Australia, South Africa, India, Japan and the European Union. The issued U.S. claims should protect KYNAMRO from generic competition in the United States until at least 2025. We are also pursuing additional patent applications designed to protect KYNAMRO in these and other jurisdictions including Canada. The table below lists the key issued patent claims designed to protect KYNAMRO in the applicable jurisdiction:

&#160;

Jurisdiction

&#160;

Patent No.

&#160;

Title

&#160;

Expiration

&#160;

Description of Claims

United States

&#160;

7,407,943

&#160;

ANTISENSE MODULATION OF APOLIPOPROTEIN B EXPRESSION

&#160;

&#160;

Methods of inhibiting expression of apoB, decreasing serum cholesterol, decreasing lipoprotein levels, decreasing serum triglycerides in a human with an antisense compound 12 to 30 nucleotide in length and 100% complementary to human apoB wherein the compound is not a ribozyme.

Australia

&#160;

2002-326481

&#160;

ANTISENSE MODULATION OF APOLIPOPROTEIN B EXPRESSION

&#160;

&#160;

An isolated oligonucleotide compound 12 to 30 nucleobases in length 100% complementary to at least a 12-nucleobase portion of a nucleic acid molecule having nucleotides 151-12820 of SEQ ID 3 (apoB) which is not a ribozyme and use of such compound in therapy

Japan

&#160;

&#160;

ANTISENSE MODULATION OF APOLIPOPROTEIN B EXPRESSION

&#160;

&#160;

Use of an antisense oligonucleotide 12 to 30 nucleobases in length and 100% complementary to human apoB having one or more modifications and inhibiting expression of apoB by at least 90% in primary hepatocytes when present at a concentration of 300 nM for preparation of a medicament for decreasing serum cholesterol, and decreasing lipoprotein levels in a human

Europe

&#160; EP2174945

&#160; ANTISENSE MODULATION OF APOLIPOPROTEIN B EXPRESSION

&#160; 2022

&#160; Use of an antisense oligonucleotide 20 nucleobases in length and 100% complementary to human apoB having a 5-10-5 MOE motif for treating conditions associated with ApoB

United States

&#160;

7,511,131

&#160;

ANTISENSE MODULATION OF APOLIPOPROTEIN B EXPRESSION

&#160;

&#160;

Antisense sequence and composition of matter of Kynamro

Europe

&#160;

EP1569695

&#160;

ANTISENSE MODULATION OF APOLIPOPROTEIN B EXPRESSION

&#160;

&#160;

Antisense sequence and composition of matter of Kynamro

Europe

&#160;

EP2336318

&#160;

ANTISENSE MODULATION OF APOLIPOPROTEIN B EXPRESSION

&#160;

&#160;

Antisense sequence and composition of matter of Kynamro

India

&#160;

&#160;

ANTISENSE MODULATION OF APOLIPOPROTEIN B EXPRESSION

&#160;

&#160;

Antisense sequence and composition of matter of Kynamro

Australia

&#160;

&#160;

ANTISENSE MODULATION OF APOLIPOPROTEIN B EXPRESSION

&#160;

&#160;

Antisense sequence and composition of matter of Kynamro

South Africa

&#160;

2005/03690

&#160;

ANTISENSE MODULATION OF APOLIPOPROTEIN B EXPRESSION

&#160;

&#160;

Antisense sequence and composition of matter of Kynamro

Japan

&#160; 4986109

&#160; ANTISENSE MODULATION OF APOLIPOPROTEIN B EXPRESSION

&#160; 2023

&#160; Antisense sequence and composition of matter of Kynamro

Europe

&#160; EP2409713

&#160; ANTISENSE MODULATION OF APOLIPOPROTEIN B EXPRESSION

&#160; 2025

&#160; Kynamro for use in treating a human with hypercholesterolemia, wherein the oligonucleotide is administered at 200mg once per week by subcutaneous injection

Custirsen

&#160;

Issued patent claims have been obtained from an application jointly filed by Ionis and OncoGenex to protect the specific chemical composition of custirsen in the United States. The issued U.S. claims should protect custirsen from generic competition in the United States until at least 2021. The table below lists the U.S. issued patent:

&#160;

Jurisdiction

&#160;

Patent No.

&#160;

Title

&#160;

Expiration

&#160;

Description of Claims

United States

&#160;

6,900,187

&#160;

TRPM-2 ANTISENSE THERAPY USING AN OLIOGNUCLEOTIDE HAVING 2&#8217;-O-(2-METHOXY)ETHYL MODIFICATIONS

&#160;

&#160;

Antisense sequence and composition of custirsen

RNAi Motifs and Mechanisms - The Crooke Patents

&#160;

The Crooke Patents, which are the result of the early work by Dr. Crooke and co-workers exploring oligonucleotides that activate double-stranded ribonucleases, or dsRNases, cover chemically modified, RNA-containing oligonucleotides and methods for exploiting the RNAi pathway with these oligonucleotides until June 2016. We licensed the Crooke Patents to Alnylam for the development of double-stranded therapeutics and to Regulus for the development of microRNA-targeting therapeutics. Although these patents do not cover any of the drugs in our development pipeline, these patents are important in the field of ssRNAi compounds, in which we have made great strides to progress this approach toward a viable therapeutic platform. The following patents have issued out of the Crooke Patent family:

&#160;

Jurisdiction

&#160;

Patent No.

&#160;

Title

&#160;

Expiration

&#160;

Description of Claims

United States

&#160;

5,898,031

&#160;

OLIGORIBONUCLEOTIDES FOR CLEAVING RNA

&#160;

&#160;

Oligonucleotides comprising regions of RNA nucleosides and regions of nucleosides having stabilizing chemical modifications. Such oligonucleotides are suitable for use in single- and double-stranded applications.

United States

&#160;

6,107,094

&#160;

OLIGORIBONUCLEOTIDES AND RIBONUCLEASES FOR CLEAVING RNA

&#160;

&#160;

Compounds and methods that use oligonucleotides having both RNA nucleosides and chemically modified nucleosides, including methods that rely on a dsRNase to reduce target RNA and compounds having nucleosides with improved affinity and/or stability.

United States

&#160;

7,432,249

&#160;

OLIGORIBONUCLEOTIDES AND RIBONUCLEASES FOR CLEAVING RNA

&#160;

&#160;

Pharmaceutical compositions comprising a diluent or carrier and a single-stranded antisense oligonucleotide having a plurality of RNA nucleosides and at least one sugar modification.

United States

&#160;

7,432,250

&#160;

OLIGORIBONUCLEOTIDES AND RIBONUCLEASES FOR CLEAVING RNA

&#160;

&#160;

Methods for treating a patient by administering an antisense compound having a plurality of RNA nucleosides and at least one sugar modification.

United States

&#160;

7,629,321

&#160;

OLIGORIBONUCLEOTIDES AND RIBONUCLEASES FOR CLEAVING RNA

&#160;

&#160;

Methods for cleaving a target RNA in a cell by contacting the cell with a single-stranded antisense compound having a plurality of RNA nucleosides and at least one sugar modification.

United States

&#160;

7,695,902

&#160;

OLIGORIBONUCLEOTIDES AND RIBONUCLEASES FOR CLEAVING RNA

&#160;

&#160;

Methods of activating a dsRNase by contacting the dsRNase with a double-stranded antisense oligonucleotide where at least one strand has a plurality of RNA nucleosides and at least one sugar modification. The methods may be performed inside a cell.

Manufacturing Patents

&#160;

We also own patents claiming methods of manufacturing and purifying oligonucleotides. These patents claim methods for improving oligonucleotide drug manufacturing, including processes for large-scale oligonucleotide synthesis and purification. These methods allow us to manufacture oligonucleotides at lower cost by, for example, eliminating expensive manufacturing steps.

&#160;

We also rely on trade secrets, proprietary know-how and continuing technological innovation to develop and maintain a competitive position in antisense therapeutics.

Government Regulation

&#160;

Regulation by government authorities in the United States and other countries is a significant component in the development, manufacture and commercialization of pharmaceutical products and services. In addition to regulations enforced by the FDA and relevant foreign regulatory authorities, we are also subject to regulation under the Occupational Safety and Health Act, the Environmental Protection Act, the Toxic Substances Control Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act and other present and potential future federal, state and local regulations.

&#160;

Extensive regulation by United States and foreign governmental authorities governs our manufacture, development and potential sale of our drugs. In particular, pharmaceutical products are subject to nonclinical and clinical testing, as well as other approval requirements, by the FDA in the United States under the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act and other laws and by comparable agencies in those foreign countries in which we conduct business. Various federal, state and foreign statutes also govern or influence the manufacture, safety, labeling, storage, record keeping, marketing and quality of our drugs. State, local, and other authorities also regulate pharmaceutical manufacturing facilities and procedures.

&#160;

Our manufacturing facility is subject to periodic inspection by the FDA and other foreign equivalents to ensure that it is operating in compliance with current good manufacturing practices, or cGMP, requirements. Marketing authorization for each new drug will require a rigorous manufacturing pre-approval inspection by regulatory authorities.

&#160;

For any approved drug, domestic and foreign sales of the drug will depend, in part, on the availability and amount of reimbursement by third party payors, including governments and private health plans. Governments may regulate coverage, reimbursement and pricing of drugs to control cost or affect use of our drugs. Private health plans may also seek to manage cost and use by implementing coverage and reimbursement limitations. Within the European Union, or EU, a variety of payors pay for drugs, with governments being the primary source of payment. Governments may determine or influence reimbursement of drugs. Governments may also set prices or otherwise regulate pricing. Negotiating prices with governmental authorities can delay commercialization of a drug. These pricing and reimbursement procedures could impact our commercial partners&#8217;, including our wholly owned subsidiary, Akcea&#8217;s, ability to successfully commercialize our approved drugs.

Our operations may be directly, or indirectly through our customers, distributors, or other business partners, subject to various federal and state fraud and abuse laws, including, without limitation, anti-kickback statutes and false claims statutes. These laws may impact, among other things, our commercialization partners&#8217; proposed sales, marketing and education programs.

&#160;

The U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or FCPA, prohibits certain individuals and entities, including us, from promising, paying, offering to pay, or authorizing the payment of anything of value to any foreign government official, directly or indirectly, to obtain or retain business or an improper advantage. If we violate the FCPA, it could result in large civil and criminal penalties and could result in an adverse effect on our reputation, operations, and financial condition. We could also face collateral consequences such as debarment and the loss of export privileges.

Competition &#160;

Our Business in General

&#160;

Some of our drugs may compete with existing therapies for market share. In addition, there are a number of companies pursuing the development of oligonucleotide-based technologies and the development of pharmaceuticals utilizing these technologies. These companies include specialized pharmaceutical firms and large pharmaceutical companies acting either independently or together with biopharmaceutical companies. Our drugs are differentiated from traditional small molecule drugs by their chemistry, how they move in the body, how they act in the body, delivery technology, and formulations.

Our products under development address numerous markets. The diseases our drugs target for which we have or may receive marketing authorization will determine our competition. For some of our products, an important factor in competition may be the timing of market introduction of competitive products. Accordingly, the relative speed with which we can develop products, complete the clinical trials and marketing authorization processes and supply commercial quantities of the products to the market are important competitive factors. We expect to compete among products approved for sale based on a variety of factors, including, among other things, product efficacy, safety, mechanism of action, dosing convenience, marketing and sales strategy and tactics, availability, price, and reimbursement.

&#160;

The current key competition for our three Phase 3 drugs, nusinersen, IONIS-TTR Rx and volanesorsen, and our approved drug Kynamro is set forth below.

Nusinersen

We believe that the following drugs could compete with nusinersen:

Drug

Company

Drug Description

Phase

Admin/Dosing

Efficacy(1)

Safety(1)

AVXS-101

AveXis

Gene therapy that corrects the SMN1 gene using the

AAV9 Vector

Infusion

All 15 patients enrolled in the study were event free as of Dec 31, 2015. All patients experienced either improvement or stabilization in motor skills relative to their baseline measurement

&#160;

Well tolerated to date

RG7800

&#160;

PTC Therapeutics/ Roche/ SMA Foundation

&#160;

&#160;

&#160;

A small molecule drug that modulates splicing of the

SMN2 gene

&#160;

&#160;

&#160;

Oral

Up to three-fold increases in the ratio of full length SMN2 mRNA to SMN2&#916;7 mRNA and up to two-fold increases in SMN protein were observed in plasma versus baseline in SMA patients

RG7800 on clinical hold due to non-clinical safety finding

&#160;

RG7916

&#160;

PTC Therapeutics/ Roche/ SMA Foundation

&#160;

A small molecule drug that modulates splicing of the

SMN2 gene

Oral

None reported

None reported

LMI070

Novartis

A small molecule drug that modulates splicing of the

SMN2 gene

&#160;

1/2

Oral

None reported

None reported

(1)

Taken from public documents including respective company press releases, company presentations, and scientific presentations.

We believe that nusinersen&#8217;s closest competitor is AVXS-101. AVXS-101 is currently in a Phase 1 study for infants with Type 1 SMA. While the data released thus far on the AVXS-101 study is encouraging, it is still early in development. In addition, other gene therapies have had difficulty providing lasting therapeutic benefit. Also AveXis has stated it needs to scale its manufacturing capabilities to be able to manufacture larger quantities of AVXS-101. Further, no company has yet to successfully commercialize a gene therapy, which may create significant barriers for AVXS-101.

IONIS-TTR Rx 

We believe that the following drugs could compete with IONIS-TTR Rx :

Drug

Company

Drug Description

Phase

Admin/Dosing

Efficacy*

Safety*

Patisiran

Alnylam

An RNAi drug formulated with lipid nanoparticles to inhibit TTR mRNA

Infusion every 3 weeks with pre-treatment with steroids

~90% mean maximum reduction in TTR

Mild flushing (25.9%) and infusion-related reactions (18.5%) in Phase 2 OLE

Revusiran

Alnylam

An RNAi drug conjugated with GalNAC to inhibit TTR mRNA in liver cells

Weekly large volume subcutaneous injection

~87% mean maximum reduction in TTR

Injection site reactions (ISRs) reported in 44% of patients in the Phase 2 OLE, 3 patients discontinued OLE due to ISRs or diffuse rash

&#160;

Tafamidis

Pfizer

A small molecule drug to stabilize TTR Protein

3, Approved in the EU

Daily oral capsule

In 45% of patients taking Tafamidis, nerve function either improved or stabilized, compared with 30% of patients taking placebo

&#160;

Urinary tract infection, vaginal infection, upper abdominal pain and diarrhea

Diflunisal

N/A Generic

A non-steroid anti-inflammatory agent

Approved 

Daily oral capsule/doses

Improved nerve function as shown by lower Neuropathy Impairment Score plus 7 nerve tests, or NIS+7. The NIS+7 score increased by 25.0 points in the placebo group versus 8.7 points in the diflunisal group

In two studies repurposing diflunisal for use in TTR amyloidosis, drug-related adverse events that led to discontinuation were: gastrointestinal bleeding, low platelets, deterioration of renal function, congestive heart failure, glaucoma and nausea.

&#160;

Tolcapone

SOM Biotech

Small molecule repurposed generic drug

1/2

Daily oral dose

Shows binding and stabilization of TTR in humans

No drug related adverse events reported

ALN-TTRsc02

Alnylam

An RNAi drug conjugated with GalNAC to inhibit TTR mRNA in liver cells

Preclinical

Monthly or quarterly

No data in humans

No data in humans

(1)

Taken from public documents including respective company press releases, company presentations, and scientific presentations. Diflunisal efficacy and safety came from the published papers of two investigator sponsored studies, Berk JL, Suhr OB, Obici L, et al. Repurposing Diflunisal for Familial Amyloid Polyneuropathy: A Randomized Clinical Trial. JAMA. 2013;310(24):2658-2667 and Sekijima YS, Toja K, Morita H, et al. Safety and efficacy of long-term diflunisal administration in hereditary transthyretin (ATTR) amyloidosis. Amyloid. 2015;22(2):79-83.

We believe that of the drugs that are in development or on the market, IONIS-TTR Rx &#8217;s closest competitors are patisiran and revusiran. Alnylam is developing patisiran for the polyneuropathy form of TTR amyloidosis. Patisiran is an intravenously administered RNAi molecule that is formulated with lipid nanoparticles to enable delivery of the drug to the liver. It is administered via an infusion by a healthcare provider every three weeks. Patients receiving patisiran are pretreated with steroids to prevent infusion related reactions. Alnylam is also developing revusiran for the cardiomyopathy form of TTR amyloidosis. Revusiran is a subcutaneously administered RNAi molecule that is Alnylam's first generation GalNAc drug and is dosed at 500 mg per week as two subcutaneous injections. In early clinical studies, IONIS-TTR Rx , patisiran and revusiran produced similar TTR reductions in treated subjects. Because we have completed target enrollment in our fifteen month study, ahead of Alnylam's eighteen month study, we believe that IONIS-TTR Rx will be the first RNA-targeted drug on the market. We also believe that the overall product profile of IONIS-TTR Rx. as a single, once weekly, subcutaneous injection with no pretreatment is superior to the drugs detailed above. 

Volanesorsen

We believe that the following drugs could compete with volanesorsen:

Drug

Company

Drug Description

Phase

Admin/Dosing

Efficacy(1)

Safety(1)

Glybera

uniQure NV

Adeno-associated Virus Gene therapy

Approved in EU, Suspended development in the US

A single treatment involving multiple injections

Showed a reduction in blood fat levels after meals in some patients. There was also a reduction in the number of pancreatitis attacks in some patients.

&#160;

Common side effects include: leg pain following injection, headache, tiredness, high body temperature, bruising and potential damage to muscle tissue

Metreleptin

Aegerion

&#160;

A synthetic form of the hormone leptin

Reconstituted subcutaneous injection

44.4% mean reduction in triglycerides at 4 months in patients with abnormal triglyceride levels

&#160;

Anti-metreleptin antibodies, hypoglycemia, hypersensitivity, risk of T-cell lymphoma

(1)

Taken from public documents including respective company press releases, company presentations, and scientific presentations.

Glybera is approved only in the EU for a subset of FCS patients whose disease has been confirmed by genetic testing and who have detectable levels of a specific protein in their blood. UniQure NV has announced it is not pursuing marketing authorization in the United States. Metreleptin is being tested in FPL patients who also have NASH. Volanesorsen is currently in Phase 3 development to treat patients with FCS and patients with FPL. To date, volanesorsen has shown the highest percent of triglyceride reductions compared to existing treatments, such as fibrates, regardless of starting triglyceride levels prior to dosing with volanesorsen. Based on our broad Phase 2 data for the treatment of different patients including patients with FCS, we believe that volanesorsen will work equally well as a single agent or in combination with other triglyceride-lowering drugs on the market. 

Kynamro

Kynamro is currently approved in the United States and certain other countries to reduce LDL-C, apolipoprotein B, total cholesterol, and non-high density lipoprotein-cholesterol in patients with HoFH. We believe that the following drugs compete with Kynamro:

Drug

Company

Drug Description

Phase

Admin/Dosing

Efficacy(1)

Safety(1)

Lomitapide

Aegerion

A small molecule drug that inhibits microsomal triglyceride transfer protein

&#160;

Approved

Titrate up, 5-60 mg oral daily

40% reduction in LDL-C from baseline (change from mean 336 mg/dL LDL-C to 190 mg/dL LDL-C) at week 26 in Phase 3 study

&#160;

Hepatic steatosis, risk of steatohepatitis, transaminase abnormalities, risk for drug-induced liver injury, risk for deficiencies in fat-soluble vitamins and essential fatty acids

Evolocumab

Amgen

A monoclonal antibody drug that inhibits PCSK9 protein

&#160;

Approved

Monthly sub-q

TESLA (phase 2/3 in HOFH): 31% mean reduction in LDL-C from baseline

&#160;

nasopharyngitis, upper respiratory tract infections, influenza, arthralgia, and back pain

(1)

Taken from public documents including respective company press releases, company presentations, and scientific presentations

The primary competitor for Kynamro is lomitapide, an oral small molecule that blocks the absorption of fat in the digestive system. In the lomitapide label, concurrent use of lomitapide and common medications for HoFH patients who have cardiovascular disease, including simvastatin and warfarin, need to be closely monitored due to drug-drug interactions with potentially harmful outcomes. Kynamro has no restrictions with these medications or diet restrictions, which may be advantageous for HoFH patients who are on a broad range of therapies due to the severity of their disease. Evolocumab will not work in the HoFH patients that do not have LDL-receptor function and should have variable effect in patients that have variable levels of LDL-receptor activity. Kynamro works in HoFH patients regardless of LDL-receptor function. Kynamro sales could be affected if Kynamro&#8217;s product profile is not advantageous when compared to these other drugs, as some patients may prefer these other drugs over Kynamro.

Employees

&#160;

As of February 19, 2016, we employed 428 people, including 14 Akcea employees. A significant number of our management and professional employees have had prior experience with pharmaceutical, biotechnology or medical product companies. Collective bargaining agreements do not cover any of our employees, and management considers relations with our employees to be good.

Executive Officers of Ionis

&#160;

The following sets forth certain information regarding our executive officers as of February 19, 2016:

&#160;

Name

&#160;

Age

&#160;

Position

Stanley T. Crooke, M.D., Ph.D.

&#160;

&#160;

Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President

B. Lynne Parshall, J.D.

&#160;

&#160;

Director, Chief Operating Officer

C. Frank Bennett, Ph.D.

&#160;

&#160;

Senior Vice President, Antisense Research

Sarah Boyce

&#160; 44

&#160; Chief Business Officer

Richard S. Geary, Ph.D.

&#160;

&#160;

Senior Vice President, Development

Elizabeth L. Hougen

&#160;

&#160;

Senior Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer

Brett P. Monia, Ph.D.

&#160;

&#160;

Senior Vice President, Drug Discovery and Corporate Development

Patrick R. O&#8217;Neil, Esq.

&#160;

&#160;

Senior Vice President, Legal, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary

&#160;

STANLEY T. CROOKE, M.D., Ph.D.

&#160;

Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President

&#160;

Dr. Crooke is a founder of Ionis and has been Chief Executive Officer and a Director since January 1989. He was elected Chairman of the Board in February 1991. Prior to founding Ionis, from 1980 until January 1989, Dr. Crooke was employed by SmithKline Beckman Corporation, a pharmaceutical company, where his titles included President of Research and Development of SmithKline and French Laboratories.

&#160;

B. LYNNE PARSHALL, J.D.

&#160;

Director, Chief Operating Officer

&#160;

Ms. Parshall has served as a Director of Ionis since September 2000. She has been our Chief Operating Officer since December 2007 and previously served as our Chief Financial Officer from June 1994 to December 2012. She also served as our Corporate Secretary through 2014 and has served in various executive roles since November 1991. Prior to joining Ionis, Ms. Parshall practiced law at Cooley LLP, outside counsel to Ionis, where she was a partner from 1986 to 1991. Ms. Parshall is a member of the American, California and San Diego bar associations.

&#160;

C. FRANK BENNETT, Ph.D.

&#160;

Senior Vice President, Antisense Research

&#160;

Dr. Bennett was promoted to Senior Vice President, Antisense Research in January 2006. From June 1995 to January 2006, Dr. Bennett served as our Vice President, Research. From March 1993 to June 1995, he was Director, Molecular Pharmacology, and from May 1992 to March 1993, he was an Associate Director in our Molecular and Cellular Biology department. Prior to joining Ionis in 1989, Dr. Bennett was employed by SmithKline and French Laboratories in various research positions. He is an external member of the Scientific Advisory Board of Experimental Therapeutics Center in Singapore.

&#160;

SARAH BOYCE

&#160;

Chief Business Officer

&#160;

Ms. Boyce joined Ionis in January 2015 as our Chief Business Officer. Prior to joining Ionis, Ms. Boyce was Vice President, Head of International Business Strategy and Operations at Forest Laboratories, Inc. from 2012 to 2014. She was Vice President, Global Head Nephrology Therapeutics Area of Alexion Pharmaceuticals from 2010 to 2011. She held various positions at Novartis Group AG, including Vice President, Global Program Head, Pediatric and Specialty from 2000 to 2010. Prior to that, Ms. Boyce held positions at Bayer Pharmaceuticals and Roche.

RICHARD S. GEARY, Ph.D.

&#160;

Senior Vice President, Development

&#160;

Dr. Geary was promoted to Senior Vice President, Development in August 2008. From August 2003 to August 2008, Dr. Geary served as our Vice President, Preclinical Development. From November 1995 to August 2003, he held various positions within the Preclinical Development department. Prior to joining Ionis in 1995, Dr. Geary was Senior Research Scientist and Group Leader for the bioanalytical and preclinical pharmacokinetics group in the Applied Chemistry Department at Southwest Research Institute.

ELIZABETH L. HOUGEN

&#160;

Senior Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer

&#160;

Ms. Hougen was promoted to Senior Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer in January 2013. From January 2007 to December 2012, Ms. Hougen served as our Vice President, Finance and Chief Accounting Officer and from May 2000 to January 2007, she served as our Vice President, Finance. Prior to joining Ionis in 2000, Ms. Hougen was Executive Director, Finance and Chief Financial Officer for Molecular Biosystems, Inc., a public biotechnology company.

&#160;

BRETT P. MONIA, Ph.D.

&#160;

Senior Vice President, Drug Discovery and Corporate Development

&#160;

Dr. Monia was promoted to Senior Vice President, Drug Discovery and Corporate Development in January 2012. From February 2009 to January 2012, Dr. Monia served as our Vice President, Drug Discovery and Corporate Development and from October 2000 to February 2009, he served as our Vice President, Preclinical Drug Discovery. From October 1989 to October 2000 he held various positions within our Molecular Pharmacology department.

&#160;

PATRICK R. O&#8217;NEIL, Esq.

&#160;

Senior Vice President, Legal, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary

&#160;

Mr. O&#8217;Neil was promoted to Senior Vice President, Legal and General Counsel in January 2013. Starting in January 2015, Mr. O'Neil also serves as our Corporate Secretary. From September 2010 to January 2013, Mr. O&#8217;Neil served as our Vice President, Legal and General Counsel and from January 2009 to September 2010, he served as our Vice President, Legal and Senior Transactions Counsel. From October 2001 to January 2009 he held various positions within our Legal department. Prior to joining Ionis, Mr. O&#8217;Neil was an associate at Cooley LLP.

