 Item 1. 

Business. 

Background and Business Overview 

We are a leading global performance management company. The company provides to clients a comprehensive understanding of what consumers watch and what they buy and how those choices intersect. We deliver critical media and marketing information, analytics and manufacturer and retailer expertise about what and where consumers buy (referred to herein as &#8220;Buy&#8221;) and what consumers read, watch and listen to (consumer interaction across the television, radio, online and mobile viewing and listening platforms referred to herein as &#8220;Watch&#8221;) on a local and global basis. Our information, insights and solutions help our clients maintain and strengthen their market positions and identify opportunities for profitable growth. We have a presence in more than 100 countries and our services cover more than 90 percent of the globe&#8217;s GDP and population. We have significant investments in resources and associates all over the world, including in many emerging markets, and hold leading market positions in many of our services and geographies. Based on the strength of the Nielsen brand, our scale and the breadth and depth of our solutions, we believe we are the global leader in measuring and analyzing consumer behavior in the segments in which we operate. 

We help our clients enhance their interactions with consumers and make critical business decisions that we believe positively affect their sales and profitability. Our data and analytics solutions, which have been developed through substantial investment over many decades, are deeply embedded into our clients&#8217; workflow. Our long-term client relationships are made up largely of multi-year contracts and high contract renewal rates. The average length of relationship with our top ten clients, which include The Coca-Cola Company, NBC Universal, Nestle S.A., The Procter &#38; Gamble Company, Twenty-First Century Fox Inc. and the Unilever Group, is more than 30 years. Typically, before the start of each year, more than 70% of our annual revenue has been committed under contracts in our combined Buy and Watch segments. 

We align our business into two reporting segments, Buy (consumer purchasing measurement and analytics) and Watch (media audience measurement and analytics). Our Buy and Watch segments are built on an extensive foundation of proprietary data assets designed to yield essential insights for our clients to successfully measure, analyze and grow their businesses and manage their performance. The information from our Buy and Watch segments, when brought together, can deliver powerful insights into the effectiveness of branding, advertising and consumer choice by linking media consumption trends with consumer purchasing data to better understand behavior and better manage supply and demand as well as media spend, supply chain issues, and much more. We believe these integrated insights better enable our clients to enhance the return on both long-term and short-term investments. 

Our Buy segment provides retail transactional measurement data, consumer behavior information and analytics primarily to businesses in the consumer packaged goods industry. According to Deloitte, the aggregate retail revenue of the Top 250 global retailers approached $4.4 trillion in 2013. Our extensive database of retail and consumer information, combined with our advanced analytical capabilities, helps generate strategic insights that influence our clients&#8217; key business decisions. We track billions of sales transactions per month in retail outlets globally and our data is used to measure their sales and market share. We are the only company offering such extensive global coverage for the collection, provision and analysis of this information for consumer packaged goods. Our Buy services also enable our clients to better manage their brands, uncover new sources of demand, manage their supply chain issues, launch and grow new services, analyze their sales, improve their marketing mix and establish more effective consumer relationships. Within our Buy segment, we have two primary geographic groups, developed and emerging markets. Developed markets primarily include the United States, Canada, Western Europe, Japan, South Korea and Australia while emerging markets include Africa, Latin America, Eastern Europe, Russia, China, India and Southeast Asia. Our Buy segment represented approximately 54% of our consolidated revenues in 2015.

Our Watch segment provides viewership and listening data and analytics primarily to the media and advertising industries across the television, radio, online and mobile viewing and listening platforms. According to ZenithOptimedia, a leading global media services agency, total global spending on advertising including television, radio, online and mobile platforms is projected to reach $579 billion by end of 2016.

&#160;

Our Watc h data is used by our media clients to understand their audiences, establish the value of their advertising inventory and maximize the value of their content, and by our advertising clients to plan and optimize their spending. In our Watch segment, our rat ings are the primary metrics used to determine the value of programming and advertising in the U.S. total television advertising marketplace, which was approximately $69 billion in 2014 according to PwC . In addition to the United States, we measure televis ion viewing in 35 other countries. We also measure markets that account for nearly 80% of global TV ad spend and offer mobile measurement and analytic services in 60 countries, including the United States, where we are the market leader . The acquisition of Arbitron Inc. in 2013 provided us with measurement of an additional two hours a day per person of dynamic media consumption . This acquisition allows us to measure unmeasured areas that are important to the industries and clients we serve, like streaming a udio, out-of-home measurements for television consumption and deeper measurement of multicultural audiences in the U.S. Our Watch segment represented approximately 46 % of our consolidated revenue in 201 5 . 

Our Company was founded in 1923 by Arthur C. Nielsen, Sr., who invented an approach to measuring competitive sales results that made the concept of &#8220;market share&#8221; a practical management tool. For over 90 years, we have advanced the practice of market research and media audience measurement to provide our clients a better understanding of their consumers. Our Company, originally incorporated in the Netherlands, was purchased on May 24, 2006 by a consortium of private equity firms (collectively, the &#8220;Sponsors&#8221;). In January 2011, our Company consummated an initial public offering of our common stock and our shares started trading on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol &#8220;NLSN&#8221;. On August 31, 2015, Nielsen N.V., a Dutch public company listed on the New York Stock Exchange, merged with Nielsen Holdings plc, by way of a cross-border merger under the European Cross-Border Merger Directive, with Nielsen Holdings plc being the surviving company (the &#8220;Merger&#8221;). The Merger effectively changed the place of incorporation of Nielsen&#8217;s publically traded parent holding company from the Netherlands to England and Wales, with no changes made to the business being conducted by Nielsen prior to the Merger. As of December 31, 2015, the Sponsors that held equity interests in Nielsen at the time of the January 2011 initial public offering had disposed of such interests.

Services and Solutions 

What Consumers Buy 

Our Buy segment provides retail transactional measurement data, consumer behavior information and analytics primarily to businesses in the consumer packaged goods industry. Within our Buy segment, in 2015, 69% of revenues came from Developed markets and 31% came from Emerging markets. For the year ended December 31, 2015, revenues from our Buy segment represented approximately 54% of our consolidated revenues. This segment has historically generated stable revenue streams that are characterized by multi-year contracts and high contract renewal rates. At the beginning of each year, over 60% of the segment&#8217;s revenue base for the upcoming year is typically committed under existing agreements. Our top five segment clients represented approximately 20% of our segment revenues for the year ended December 31, 2015 and the average length of relationship with these same clients is over 30 years. No single client accounted for 10% or more of our Buy segment revenues in 2015. 

Retail Measurement Services 

We are a global leader in retail measurement services. Our purchasing data provides market share, competitive sales volumes, and insights into such activities as distribution, pricing, merchandising and promotion. By combining this detailed information with our in-house expertise and professional consultative services, we produce valuable insights that help our clients improve their manufacturing, marketing and sales decisions and grow their market share. 

Depending on the sophistication of each country&#8217;s retailer systems, we collect retail sales information from stores using electronic point-of-sale technology and/or teams of local field auditors. Stores within our worldwide retail network include grocery, drug, convenience, discount and eCommerce retailers, who, through various cooperation arrangements, share their sales data with us. The electronic retail sales information collected by stores through checkout scanners is transmitted directly to us. In certain emerging markets where electronic retail sales information is unavailable, we utilize field auditors to collect information through in-store inventory and price checks. For eCommerce retailers where electronic retail sales information is unavailable, we are increasingly using consumer sourced data to collect information by leveraging proven expertise developed in our Consumer Panel business. For all information we collect, our stringent quality control systems validate and confirm the source data. The data is then processed into databases that clients access using our proprietary software that allows them to query the information, conduct customized analysis and generate reports and alerts. 

Consumer Panel Measurement 

We conduct consumer panels around the world that help our clients understand consumer purchasing dynamics at the household level. Among other things, this information offers insight into shopper behavior such as trial and repeat purchase for new products and likely substitutes, as well as customer segmentation. In addition, our panel data augments our retail measurement information providing blinded but detailed household demographics and can provide data in circumstances where we do not collect data from certain retailers. 

&#160;

Our consumer panels collect data from more than 250,000 household pa nelists across 26 countries that use in-home scanners to record purchases from each shopping trip . In the United States, for example, approximately 100,000 selected households, constituting a demographically balanced sample, participate in the panels. Data received from household panels undergo a quality control process including UPC verification and validation, before being processed into databases and reports. Clients may access these databases to perform analyses . 

Analytical Services 

Utilizing our foundation of consumer purchasing information, we provide a wide and growing selection of consumer intelligence and analytical services that help clients make smarter business decisions throughout their product development and marketing cycles. We draw actionable insights from our retail and consumer panel measurement data sets, our online behavioral information, as well as a variety of other proprietary data sets. 

We use consumer trends and comprehensive data analysis to advise our clients across their innovation process and apply a demand-driven approach to identify unmet consumer needs so they can develop breakthrough products. We use intelligence from comprehensive retail and consumer data analysis to inform client decisions on marketing spend for media, price, promotion and assortment. We help clients influence purchase decisions that shoppers make whether pre-store, in-store or online, and provide insights on how to market effectively along a shopper&#8217;s path to purchase. We also help clients drive profitable growth using demand-driven strategies that close the gap between consumer demand and sales, aligning what people want to what people buy. 

What Consumers Watch 

Our Watch segment provides viewership and listening data and analytics primarily to the media and advertising industries across the television, radio, digital and mobile viewing and listening platforms. For the year ended December 31, 2015, revenues from our Watch segment represented approximately 46% of our consolidated revenues. This segment has historically generated stable revenue streams that are characterized by multi-year contracts and high contract renewal rates. At the beginning of each year, over 85% of the segment&#8217;s revenue base for the upcoming year is typically committed under existing agreements. Our top five clients represented approximately 24% of segment revenues for the year ended December 31, 2015 and the average length of relationship with these same clients is more than 30 years. No customer accounted for 10% or more of our Watch segment revenues in 2015. 

Television Audience Measurement Services 

We are the global leader in television audience measurement. In the United States, which is by far the world&#8217;s largest market for television programming, broadcasters and cable networks use our television audience ratings as the primary currency to establish the value of their airtime and more effectively schedule and promote their programming. Advertisers use this information to plan television advertising campaigns, evaluate the effectiveness of their commercial messages and negotiate advertising rates. 

We provide two principal television ratings services in the United States: measurement of national television audiences and measurement of local television audiences in all 210 designated local television markets. We use various methods to collect the data from households including electronic meters, which provide minute-by-minute viewing information for next day consumption by our clients, and written diaries. These households are meticulously identified using the U.S. Census as a model in order to properly and accurately model our national and local ratings. These methods enable us to collect not only television device viewing data but also the demographics of the audience (i.e., who in the household is watching), from which we calculate statistically reliable and accurate estimates of total television viewership. We have made significant investments over decades to build an infrastructure that can accurately and efficiently track television audience viewing, a process that has become increasingly complex as the industry has converted to digital transmission and integrated new technologies allowing for developments such as time-shifted viewing. 

Our measurement techniques are constantly evolving to account for new television viewing behavior, increased fragmentation and new media technologies. For example, to help advertisers and programmers understand time-shifted viewing behavior, we created the Average Commercial Minute (ACM) ratings, which is a measure of how many people watch commercials during live and time-shifted viewing, both through 3 days ("C3") and through 7 days ("C7"). The C3 rating has become the primary metric for buying and selling advertising on national broadcast television. We are expanding our television audience measurement to incorporate viewing of video-on-demand and from connected devices such as gaming consoles. We are developing and testing ways to measure how consumers watch video on tablets and other devices, to help advertising and programmers incorporate this viewing behavior into their programming and advertising plans. In the U.S., we utilize a single-source TV and PC panel to provide information to clients about simultaneous usage of more than one screen (e.g., if a consumer uses Facebook while watching a TV program), unduplicated reach (i.e., total audience net of duplication across platforms), cause and effect analysis (e.g., if a TV advertisement spurs a consumer to view a specific website online) and program viewing behavior (e.g., what platforms consumers use to view certain programming). 

&#160;

Nielsen has also been working wit h clients and partners to better measure online and mobile viewers, like asking TV networks to install software in their digital video players, websites, and apps to track their digital audiences, and striking data deals with partners like Facebook to coll ect the anonymous demographics of the more than 180 million American Facebook users who watch those digital videos or use those websites and apps ). 

We are also working with Twitter to establish a measurement of consumer interaction with television programming and social media to address the growing interest in social TV among advertisers and media players. 

We measure television viewing in 35 countries outside the United States, including Australia, Indonesia, Italy and South Korea. The international television audience measurement industry operates on a different model than in the United States. In many international markets, a joint industry committee of broadcasters in each individual country selects a single official audience measurement provider, which is designated the &#8220;currency&#8221; through an organized bidding process that is typically revisited every several years. We have strong relationships in these countries and see a significant opportunity to expand our presence into additional countries around the world. 

Audio Audience Measurement Services 

We provide independent measurement and consumer research primarily servicing radio, advertisers and advertising agencies in the audio industry. We estimate the size and composition of radio audiences in local markets and of audiences to network radio programming and commercials in the U.S. We refer to our local and network radio audience ratings services, collectively, as our &#8220;syndicated radio ratings services.&#8221; We provide our syndicated radio ratings services in local markets in the United States to radio broadcasters, advertising agencies, and advertisers. Our national services estimate the size and demographic composition of national radio audiences and the size and composition of audiences of network radio programs and commercials. Broadcasters use our data primarily to price and sell advertising time, and advertising agencies and advertisers use our data in purchasing advertising time. 

In addition to the services described above, we also provide qualitative information about consumers, including their lifestyles, shopping patterns, and use of media in local markets and across the United States. Generally referred to as &#8220;qualitative services,&#8221; we market these services to customers of our syndicated radio ratings services who wish to demonstrate the value of their advertising propositions. We also market our quantitative and qualitative audience and consumer information to customers outside of our traditional base, such as the advertising sales organizations of local cable television companies, national cable and broadcast television networks, and out-of-home media sales organizations. 

We provide software applications allowing our customers to access our proprietary databases of media and marketing information. These applications enable our customers to analyze this information more effectively for sales, management, and programming purposes. Some of our software applications also allow our customers to access data owned by third-parties, provided the customers have a separate license to use such third-party data. 

We have developed our electronic Portable People MeterTM (&#8220;PPM&#174;&#8221;) technology, which we deploy across many of our customer offerings and have licensed to other media information services companies to use in their media audience ratings services in countries outside of the United States. We have commercialized our PPM ratings service in 48 of the largest radio markets in the United States. 

Digital Audience Measurement Services 

We are a global provider of digital media and market research, audience analytics and social media measurement. We employ a variety of measurement offerings to provide digital publishers, internet and media companies, marketers and retailers with metrics to better understand the behavior of online audiences. Through a combination of patented panel and census data collection methods, we measure and study the internet surfing, online buying, and video viewing (including television content) of digital audiences. In addition to measuring overall internet usage, Nielsen is the only company that has a Media Ratings Council (&#8220;MRC&#8221;) accredited age and gender measurement across its U.S. Digital Ad Ratings and U.S. television ratings services. Nielsen&#8217;s Digital Ad Ratings are now in 17 countries with 8 more markets planned in 2016. Those 17 current Digital Ad Ratings markets account for about 85% of global digital ad spend.

Since 2010, Nielsen has been providing innovative census measurement through third party data enrichment providers such as Facebook. Through such partnerships, Nielsen has privacy-protected and anonymous access to demographic data on over 1.5 billion user profiles. We provide critical advertising metrics such as audience demographics, page and ad views, and time spent. As newer forms of digital media such as video advertising, social media and applications become a greater proportion of consumer behavior, we are transitioning our portfolio of digital services, including discontinuation of certain legacy services in certain markets and the launch of other services, to address the evolving requirements of measuring digital audiences and better serve our clients. Nielsen Social is 

&#160;

the leading provider of social TV measurement, analytics and audience engagement solutions for TV ne tworks, agencies and advertisers, helping the industry measure, understand and act on the activity and reach of TV-related conversation on Twitter. Nielsen Social uses Gracenote US TV data as the foundation of its measurement for linear TV. Using Gracenot e&#8217;s definition of a television network today we measure 1 5 Broadcast, 184 Cable-National, and 39 Cable &#8211; Regional Sports channels. We als o measure programming from 6 streaming providers and 8 TV syndication groups. In total that is 2 52 programming networks . In terms of brands, Nielsen Social manually enters brands into our Brand Tracking System and once entered the Twitter activity around each brand is measured on a 24/7 basis. Currently there are 2,097 brands in our database that are being tracked . Throu gh our exclusive agreement with Twitter we produce Nielsen Twitter TV Ratings, the first-ever measure of the total activity and reach, as well as demographics, of TV-related conversation on Twitter. 

Along with tracking Twitter TV conversation around linear airtimes, we are also now tracking Twitter TV conversation in the U.S. on a 24/7 basis for over 650 series programs, including linear and over-the-top programming such as Netflix and Hulu. 

Nielsen Social is also available in Italy, Australia, and Mexico and uses local TV data as the foundation for its measurement (Gracenote in Australia and Mexico and Rovi in Italy). In Australia we measure 19 Free to Air and 82 Subscription TV channels. In Italy we measure 45 Free to Air and 76 Subscription TV channels. In Mexico we measure 11 Free to Air and 85 Subscription TV channels. In total that is 318 TV networks. In terms of brands, each territory uses their own install of the Brand Tracking System. Currently there are 552 brands in Mexico, 563 brands in Italy and 691 brands in Australia. In total that is 1,806 brands.

Mobile Measurement Services 

We provide independent measurement and consumer research for telecom and media companies in the mobile telecommunications industry. Clients, principally mobile carriers and device manufacturers, rely upon our data to make consumer marketing, competitive strategy and resource allocation decisions. In the United States, our metrics are a leading indicator for market share, customer satisfaction, device share, service quality, revenue share, content audience and other key performance indicators. We also benchmark the end-to-end consumer experience to pinpoint problem areas in the service delivery chain, track key performance metrics for mobile devices and identify key market opportunities (e.g., demand tracking for device features and services). To address the rapid growth of mobile internet consumption, we have deployed a combination of panel and census based measurement to capture internet, video and other media on mobile, smartphone, and tablet devices. In the U.S., Nielsen has deployed our mobile software development kit (SDK) to offer a comprehensive mobile advertising and content measurement for our media clients. In addition, our census demographic measurement uses the world's largest mobile demographic data set through our data enrichment providers. We offer mobile measurement and analytic services in 60 countries worldwide, including the United States, where we are a leader in the market for mobile audience measurement, and are focused on expanding our presence in other markets

Marketing Effectiveness 

We provide a range of solutions to major advertisers, whether they are consumer packaged goods manufacturers, retailers, media companies, or other verticals such as automotive, telecom or financial services, to help validate and optimize their advertising spend. We quantify the effectiveness of advertising by reporting behavioral observations, attitudinal changes and actual offline purchase activity. We offer services specific to television, digital and social marketing to determine &#8220;resonance&#8221; or impact of specific campaigns, by measuring objectives such as breakthrough, brand recall, purchase intent and effect on product and brand loyalty. These services can also help clients determine which elements of their advertising campaigns are more or less effective, including frequency of repetition, length of commercial and context. As part of these efforts, we collect and analyze more than 21 million surveys annually to measure consumer engagement and recall of advertisements across television and online to provide important insights on advertising and content effectiveness. 

We also combine intelligence on what consumers watch and buy to inform client decisions on their advertising spend. We integrate data from our Buy segment and other third party sources, including our Nielsen Catalina Solutions business, with Watch data on audience exposure to help assess the effect of an advertising campaign on purchase activity. We believe these and other offerings of consumer behavior data and marketing insights can provide value to advertisers as well as media content owners and distributors, and help these clients answer some of their most important marketing questions. 

&#160;

Competitive Advanta ges 

We are faced with a number of competitors in the markets in which we operate. Some of our competitors in each market may have substantially greater financial, marketing and other resources than we do and may benefit from other competitive advantages. See &#8220;Competitive Landscape&#8221; and &#8220;Risk Factors&#8221;. We face competition, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. Notwithstanding the challenges presented by the competitive landscape, we believe that we have several competitive advantages, including the following: 

Global Scale and Brand. We provide a breadth of information and insights about consumers covering approximately 90 percent of all population and GDP globally. In our Buy segment, we track billions of sales transactions per month in retail outlets in more than 100 countries around the world. We also have approximately 250,000 household panelists across 26 countries. In our Watch segment, our ratings are the primary metrics used to determine the value of programming and advertising in the U.S. total television advertising marketplace, which was approximately $69 billion in 2014 according to PwC. We believe our footprint, independence, credibility and leading market positions will continue to contribute to our long-term growth and strong operating margins as the number and role of multinational companies expand. Our scale is supported by our global brand, which is defined by the original Nielsen code created by our founder, Arthur C. Nielsen, Sr.: impartiality, thoroughness, accuracy, integrity, economy, price, delivery and service. 

Strong, Diversified Client Relationships. Many of the world&#8217;s largest brands rely on us as their information and analytics provider to create value for their business. We maintain long-standing relationships and multi-year contracts with high renewal rates due to the value of the services and solutions we provide. In our Buy segment, our clients include the largest consumer packaged goods and merchandising companies in the world such as The Coca-Cola Company, Kraft Foods and The Procter &#38; Gamble Company, as well as leading retail chains such as Carrefour, Kroger, Safeway, Tesco, Walgreens and Wal-Mart Stores. In our Watch segment, our client base includes leading broadcast, radio, cable and internet companies such as CBS, Clear Channel Media, Disney/ABC, Facebook, Google, Microsoft, NBC Universal/Comcast, Twenty-First Century Fox, Inc., Time Warner, Twitter, Univision and Yahoo!; leading advertising agencies such as WPP, IPG, Omnicom, and Publicis; leading telecom companies such as AT&#38;T, Verizon, Vodafone, and Nokia; and leading automotive companies such as Chrysler, Ford and Toyota. The average length of relationship with our top 10 clients across both our Buy and Watch segments is more than 30 years. In addition, due to our growing presence in emerging markets, we have cultivated strong relationships with local market leaders that can benefit from our services as they expand globally. Our strong client relationships provide both a foundation for recurring revenues as well as a platform for growth. 

Enhanced Data Assets and Measurement Science. Our extensive portfolio of transactional and consumer behavioral data across our Buy and Watch segments enables us to provide critical information to our clients. For decades, we have employed advanced measurement methodologies that yield statistically accurate information about consumer behavior while having due regard for their privacy. Our particular expertise in panel measurement includes a proven methodology to create statistically accurate research insights that are statistically representative of designated audiences. This expertise is a distinct advantage as we extrapolate more precise insights from emerging large-scale census databases to provide greater granularity and segmentation for our clients. We continue to enhance our core competency in measurement science by improving research approaches and investing in new methodologies. We have also invested significantly in our data architecture to enable the integration of distinct large-scale census data sets including those owned by third parties. We believe that our expertise, established standards and increasingly granular and comprehensive data assets provide us with a distinct advantage as we deliver more precise insights to our clients. 

Innovation. We have focused on innovation to deepen our capabilities, expand in new and emerging forms of measurement, enhance our analytical offerings and capitalize on industry trends. For example, we are investing in Total Audience measurement, bringing together audiences across digital and television platforms for both ad campaigns (Total Ad Ratings) and content (Total Content Ratings). These measurement offerings allow content providers and advertisers to understand their true reach across and among all platforms using a combination of Nielsen's gold standard panels and census-based measurement. 

We are also working with our clients to help maximize the value of the data we give to them by allowing them to evaluate new distribution options (e.g. the Apple TV, Roku, Game Console breakout) as well as understanding the true impact and audiences of their content when sent to Subscription Video on Demand (&#8220;SVOD&#8221;). 

We have also made investments in providing cross platform data aggregation and audience activation via the acquisition of eXelate. Its data management platform and big data infrastructure enabled unified consumer mapping and targeting across multiple media platforms. 

We have further enhanced our information and analytics delivery platform, Nielsen Answers on Demand, to enable the management of consumer loyalty programs for retailers. The continued expansion of our Nielsen Campaign Ratings service provides &#8220;reach&#8221; metrics for TV and digital campaign ratings, and can offer advertisers and media companies a unique measurement of unduplicated audiences for their advertising and programming across television and online viewing. 

&#160;

Our ability to deliver marketing effectiveness results in "real time" in a more scalable fashion , and with a broader series of data points (demo+) is expected to expand by leveraging the bi g data infrastructure and data marketplace acquired through the eXelate acquisition. Nielsen has also created the first currency-quality, respondent level planning dataset and software solution for Total Audience media planning, Media Impact . 

Scalable Operating Model. Our global presence and operating model allow us to scale our services and solutions rapidly and efficiently. We have a long track record of establishing leading services that can be quickly expanded across clients, markets and geographies. Our global operations and technology organization enables us to achieve faster, higher quality outcomes for clients in a cost-efficient manner. Our flexible architecture allows us to incorporate leading third-party technologies as well as data from external sources, and enables our clients to use our technology and solutions on their own technology platforms. In addition, we work with leading technology partners such as IBM, Tata Consultancy Services, Amazon and TIBCO, which allows for greater quality in client offerings and efficiency in our global operations. 

Industry Trends 

We believe companies, including our clients, require an increasing amount of data and analytics to set strategy and direct operations. This has resulted in a large market for business information and insight which we believe will continue to grow. Our clients are media, advertising and consumer packaged goods companies in the large and growing markets. We believe that significant economic, technological, demographic and competitive trends facing consumers and our clients will provide a competitive advantage to our business and enable us to capture a greater share of our significant market opportunity. We may not be able to realize these opportunities if these trends do not continue or if we are otherwise unable to execute our strategies. See &#8220;Risk Factors &#8211; We may be unable to adapt to significant technological change which could adversely affect our business&#8221; and &#8220;Risk Factors &#8211; Our international operations are exposed to risks which could impede growth in the future.&#8221; 

Emerging markets present significant expansion opportunities. Brand marketers are focused on attracting new consumers in emerging countries as a result of the fast-paced population growth of the middle class in these regions. In addition, the retail trade in these markets is quickly evolving from small, local formats toward larger, more modern formats with electronic points of sale, a similar evolution to what occurred in developed markets over the last several decades. We provide established measurement methodologies to help give consumer packaged goods companies, retailers and media companies an accurate understanding of local consumers to allow them to harness growing consumer buying power in markets like Brazil, India and China. 

Demographic shifts and changes in spending behavior are altering the consumer landscape. Consumer demographics and related trends are constantly evolving globally, leading to changes in consumer preferences and the relative size and buying power of major consumer groups. Shifts in population size, age, racial composition, family size and relative wealth are causing marketers continuously to re-evaluate and reprioritize their consumer marketing strategies. We track and interpret consumer demographics that help enable our clients to engage more effectively with their existing consumers as well as forge new relationships with emerging segments of the population. 

The media landscape is dynamic and changing. Consumers are rapidly changing their media consumption patterns. The growing availability of the internet, and the proliferation of new formats and channels such as mobile devices, social networks and other forms of user-generated media have led to an increasingly fragmented consumer base that is more difficult to measure and analyze. In addition, simultaneous usage of more than one screen is becoming a regular aspect of daily consumer media consumption. We have effectively measured and tracked media consumption through numerous cycles in the industry&#8217;s evolution &#8211; from broadcast to cable, from analog to digital, from offline to online and from live to time-shifted and Video On Demand/Subscription Video On Demand. We believe our distinct ability to provide independent audience measurement and metrics across television, radio, online and mobile platforms helps clients better understand, adapt to and profit from the continued transformation of the global media landscape. 

Consumers are more connected, informed and in control. More than three-quarters of the world&#8217;s homes have access to television, there are approximately 3.1 billion internet users around the globe, and mobile penetration rates have reached 96% globally. Advances in technology have given consumers a greater level of control of when, where and how they consume information and interact with media and brands. They can compare products and prices instantaneously and have new avenues to learn about, engage with and purchase products and services. These shifts in behavior create significant complexities for our clients. Our broad portfolio of measurement and analytical services enables our clients to engage consumers with more impact and efficiency, influence consumer purchasing decisions and actively participate in and shape conversations about their brands. 

&#160;

Increasing amounts of consumer information are leading to new marketing approaches. The advent of the internet and other digital platforms has created rapid growth in consumer data that is expected to intensify as more entertainment and co mmerce are delivered across these platforms. As a result, companies are looking for real-time access to more granular levels of data to understand growth opportunities more quickly and more precisely. This presents a significant opportunity for us to work with companies to effectively manage, integrate and analyze large amounts of information and extract meaningful insights that allow marketers to generate profitable growth. 

Consumers are looking for greater value . Economic and social trends have spurred consumers to seek greater value in what they buy as exemplified by the rising demand for &#8220;private label&#8221; (store branded) products. This increased focus on value is causing manufacturers, retailers and media companies to re-evaluate brand positioning, pricing and loyalty. We believe companies will increasingly look to our broad range of consumer purchasing insights and analytics to more precisely and effectively measure consumer behavior and target their products and marketing offers at the right place and at the right price. 

Our Growth Strategy 

We believe we are well-positioned for growth worldwide and have a multi-faceted strategy that builds upon our brand, strong client relationships and integral role in measuring and analyzing the global consumer. Our growth strategy is also subject to certain risks. For example, we may be unable to adapt to significant technological changes such as changes in the technology used to collect and process data or in methods of television viewing. In addition, consolidation in our customers&#8217; industries may reduce the aggregate demand for our services. See &#8220;Risk Factors.&#8221; 

Continue to grow in emerging markets 

Emerging markets (measured in our Buy segment) comprised approximately 31% of our 2015 Buy segment revenues (17% of our 2015 consolidated revenues) and represent a significant long-term opportunity for us given the growth of the middle class and the rapid evolution and modernization of the retail trade in these regions. Currently, the middle class is expanding significantly each year on a global basis, with Africa, Brazil, Russia, India and China currently contributing nearly half of all global consumption growth. Key elements of our strategy include: 

&#160;

&#183; 

Continuing to grow our existing services in local markets while simultaneously introducing into emerging markets new services drawn from our global portfolio; 

&#160;

&#183; 

Partnering with existing clients as they expand their businesses into emerging markets and providing the high-quality measurement and insights to which they are accustomed; and 

&#160;

&#183; 

Building relationships with local companies that are expanding beyond their home markets by capitalizing on the global credibility and integrity of the Nielsen brand. 

Continue to develop innovative services 

We intend to continue emerging our service portfolio to provide our clients with comprehensive and advanced solutions. Key elements of our strategy include: 

&#160;

&#183; 

Further developing our analytics offerings across all facets of our client base to provide a more comprehensive offering and help our clients think through their most important challenges; 

&#160;

&#183; 

Continuing to grow our leadership in measurement and insight services related to television, radio, digital and mobile and expanding our services in growth areas including social media to help our media clients more effectively reach their target audiences and better understand the value of their content; and 

&#160;

&#183; 

Continuing to expand our Marketing Effectiveness offering, which integrates our proprietary data and analytics from both the Buy and Watch segments, by emerging powerful tools to help clients better understand the effectiveness of advertising and the impact of advertising spend on consumer purchasing behavior. 

Continue to attract new clients and expand existing relationships 

We believe that substantial opportunities exist to both attract new clients and to increase our revenue from existing clients. Building on our deep knowledge and the embedded position of our Buy and Watch segments, we expect to sell new and innovative solutions to our new and existing clients, increasing our importance to their decision making processes. 

&#160;

Continue to pursue strategic acquisitions to complement our leadership positions 

We have increased our capabilities through investments and acquisitions in the areas of retail measurement, U.S. and international audience measurement, and advertising effectiveness for digital and social media campaigns. Going forward, we will consider select acquisitions of complementary businesses that enhance our product and geographic portfolio and can benefit from our scale, scope and status as a global leader. 

Technology Infrastructure 

We operate with an extensive data and technology infrastructure utilizing 9 primary data centers in six countries around the world. We also use AWS from Amazon for cloud based infrastructure. Our global database has the capacity to house approximately 54 petabytes of information, with our Buy segment processing approximately 9.5 billion purchasing data points each month in 2015, our Watch segment processing approximately 200 billion tuning and viewing records (across panel and census data) each month in 2015 and our eXelate platform processing 300 billion events each month in 2015. Our technology infrastructure plays an instrumental role in meeting service commitments to global clients and allows us to quickly scale our services across practice areas and geographies. Our technology platform utilizes an open approach that facilitates integration of distinct data sets, interoperability with client data and technology, and partnerships with leading technology companies such as IBM, Tata Consulting Services, TIBCO and Amazon.

Intellectual Property 

Our patents, trademarks, trade secrets, copyrights and all of our other intellectual property are important assets that afford protection to our business. Our success depends to a degree upon our ability to protect and preserve certain proprietary aspects of our technology and our brand. To ensure that objective, we control access to our proprietary technology. Our employees and consultants enter into confidentiality, non-disclosure and invention assignment agreements with us. We protect our rights to proprietary technology and confidential information in our business arrangements with third parties through confidentiality and other intellectual property and business agreements. 

We hold a number of third-party patent and intellectual property license agreements that afford us rights to third-party patents, technology and other intellectual property. Such license agreements most often do not preclude either party from licensing our patents and technology to others. Such licenses may involve one-time payments or ongoing royalty obligations, and we cannot ensure that future license agreements can or will be obtained or renewed on acceptable terms, or at all. 

Employees 

As of December 31, 2015, we employed approximately 43,000 people worldwide. Approximately 20% of our employees are covered under collective bargaining agreements and an additional 17% are covered under works council agreements in Europe. We may become subject to additional agreements or experience labor disruptions which may result in higher operating costs over time. We actively invest in our employee relations and believe they are solid. Nielsen is committed to treating employees in a way that respects and protects their human rights everywhere we operate around the world.

Competitive Landscape 

There is no single competitor that offers all of the services we offer in all of the markets in which we offer them. We have many competitors worldwide that offer some of the services we provide in selected markets. While we maintain leading positions in many markets in which we operate, our future success will depend on our ability to enhance and expand our suite of services, provide reliable and accurate measurement solutions and related information, drive innovation that anticipates and responds to emerging client needs, strengthen and expand our geographic footprint, and protect consumer privacy. See &#8220;Risk Factors &#8211; We face competition, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow.&#8221; We believe our global presence and integrated portfolio of services are key assets in our ability to effectively compete in the marketplace. A summary of the competitive landscape for each of our segments is included below: 

&#160;

What Consumers Buy 

While we do not have one global competitor in our Buy segment, we face numerous competitors in various areas of our service in different markets throughout the world. Competition includes companies specializing in marketing research, in-house research departments of manufacturers and advertising agencies, retailers that sell information directly or through brokers, information management and software companies, and consulting and accounting firms. In retail measurement, our principal competitor in the United States is Information Resources, Inc., which is also present in some European and Asia/Pacific markets. Our retail measurement service also faces competition in individual markets from local companies. Our consumer panel services and analytics services have many direct and/or indirect competitors in all markets around the world including in selected cases GfK, Ipsos, Kantar and local companies in individual countries. 

What Consumers Watch 

While we do not have one global competitor in our Watch segment, we face numerous competitors in various areas of our operations in different markets throughout the world. We are the clear market leader in U.S. television audience measurement; however, there are many emerging players and technologies that will increase competitive pressure. Numerous companies such as, Rentrak and TiVo are attempting to provide alternative forms of television audience measurement using, inter alia, set-top box data and panel-based measurement. Our principal competitor in television audience measurement outside the United States is Kantar, with companies such as GfK and Ipsos also providing competition in select individual countries. 

Our primary competitor in the digital audience and campaign measurement solutions in the United States is comScore. Globally (including the United States), we face competition from additional companies that provide digital measurement and analytics services such as Oracle, Google Analytics, Adobe Analytics and IBM Digital Analytics as well as in the small but growing space of social measurement. In 2016 Rentrak merged into a wholly-owned subsidiary of comScore and the combined companies will focus on cross platform measurement. We are the market leader in the U.S. audio audience measurement. Our principal competitors include Triton and Kantar, which are developing technologies similar to our PPM ratings service.

Regulation 

Our operations are subject to and affected by data protection laws in many countries. These laws pertain primarily to personal data (i.e . , information relating to an identified or identifiable individual), constrain whether and how we collect personal data, how that data may be used and stored, and whether, to whom and where that data may be transferred. What constitutes &#8220;personal data&#8221; varies from country to country and region to region and continues to evolve. Data collection methods that may not always be obvious to the data subject, like the use of cookies online, or that present a higher risk of abuse, such as collecting data directly from children, tend also to be more highly regulated, and products that rely on these technologies may require re-engineering to comply with new laws. In addition, these data transfer constraints can impact multinational access to a central database and cross-border data transfers. 

Some of the personal data we collect may be considered &#8220;sensitive&#8221; by the laws of many jurisdictions because they may include certain demographic information and consumption preferences. Sensitive personal data typically are more highly regulated than non-sensitive data. Generally, this means that for sensitive data the data subject&#8217;s consent should be more explicit and fully informed and security measures surrounding the storage of the data should be more rigorous. The greater constraints that apply to the collection and use of sensitive personal data increase the administrative and operational burdens and costs of panel recruitment and management. 

The attention privacy and data protection issues attract can offer us a competitive advantage. Because we recognize the importance of privacy to our panelists, our customers, consumers in general, and regulators, we devote dedicated resources to enhancing our privacy and security practices in our product development plans and other areas of operation, and participate in privacy policy organizations and &#8220;think tanks.&#8221; We do this to improve both our practices and the perception of Nielsen as a leader in this area. 

Recent Developments

On February 18, 2016, our Board declared a cash dividend of $0.28 per share on our common stock. The dividend is payable on March 17, 2016 to stockholders of record at the close of business on March 3, 2016.

Financial Information about Segments and Geographic Areas 

See Note 17 to our consolidated financial statements &#8211; &#8220;Segments,&#8221; for further information regarding our operating segments and our geographic areas. 

&#160;

Available Information 

Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to these reports will be made available free of charge on our website at http://www.nielsen.com as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such reports with, or furnish them to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (&#8220;SEC&#8221;). Information on our website is not incorporated by reference herein and is not a part of this report. 

From time to time, Nielsen may use its website and social media outlets as channels of distribution of material company information. Financial and other material information regarding the company is routinely posted and accessible on our website at http://www.nielsen.com/investors , our Twitter account at http://twitter.com/NielsenIR and our iPad App, NielsenIR, available on the App Store.

&#160;

&#160;

