 ITEM 1. &#160; BUSINESS 

Company History

Global Fashion Technologies, Inc. ("GFTI", 'We" or the "Company") was incorporated in Nevada on March 25, 2005 as Premier Publishing Group, Inc. Originally formed as a publishing company, the Company ceased its publishing operations in or around 2007.

After ceasing the publishing operations of the former management, the Company's operations consisted solely of utilizing the expertise of our Board Members and outside agents to further the efforts our advisory services business plan through a wholly-owned subsidiary known as Trident Merchant Group, Inc.

In addition, during the fourth quarter of 2013, the Company became involved in the manufacturing and global distribution of ladies apparel. However, in 2014 the Company stopped developing a footprint in the apparel business due to cash restraints and logistics and ceased agreements with all third-parties to distribute their products into SE Asia and China.

&#160;

&#160;

Current Overview of the Company

Global Fashion Technologies Inc. Is currently a development stage rejuvenation technology company which will be offering branded fabrics, apparel and uniforms to the corporate, hotel, hospital and military markets. We will achieve this by utilizing a patented and proprietary process for rejuvenating textile waste into high quality fabrics and apparel. In addition, we will also be offering branded apparel into both online and brick and mortar environments. This will initially be through a license we signed with EMME&#174;, a former Ford Supermodel, for the purposes of marketing and manufacturing the EMME&#174; brand of Activewear to the vastly under-served curvy/plus size market.

The Women's Apparel Segment

On March 15, 2015 the Company entered into a trademark license agreement with True Beauty, LLC which controls the trademark EMME&#174; . EMME&#174; is a market pioneer and trusted voice of the "Full-Figured" market. Under this licensing agreement the Company will design, produce and market the EMME&#174; Activewear Collection.

As of November 1, 2016, the Company has completed the design of the Spring 2017 line and has received quotes from contract manufacturers. Samples for fitting have been requested from the selected vendors. The Fall 2017 line concept has been created and is now ready to enter into design phase.

The Rejuvenated Uniform Segment

In April 2015, we entered into a joint venture and license agreement with Pure Systems International, Ltd. to produce and market garments and other accessories for the commercial uniform marketplace and other market verticals by utilizing Pure Systems International, Ltd.'s patented processes to up-cycle pre-consumer textile waste into reusable fiber of equal or better quality than the original fabric. (the "Rejuvenated Fiber")

In May of 2015, the Company created a new limited liability company, Pure361, LLC ("Pure361") of which the Company owns 51% and Pure Systems International, Ltd. owns 49%. Pure361 has the exclusive licensee to use Pure System International Ltd.'s patented Rejuvenated Fiber in conjunction with the commercial uniform marketplace and other market verticals.

The Rejuvenated Cardboard Segment

In conjunction with its focus on rejuvenated technologies, the Company is exploring the possibility of also manufacturing a rejuvenated cardboard product, and is in the early stages of exploring this potential opportunity.

Trident Merchant Group, Inc.

Trident Merchant Group, Inc. is an operating subsidiary which is a "value added" strategic advisory services company specializing in rendering expertise in the areas of capital planning and procurement, licensing and branding as well as financial engineering and restructuring of its client company's balance sheet and going public process.

