 ITEM 1. BUSINESS. 

General

We are a Texas corporation formed in 1984 that is engaged in developing biologics for the treatment of human and animal diseases. Our current focus is research aimed at the treatment of human disease indications, particularly influenza, hepatitis C, thrombocytopenia, and other indications using natural human interferon alpha that is administered in a proprietary low dose oral form.

We currently own or license two issued patents related to the low-dose oral delivery of interferon and we own one issued patent on our dietary supplement, Maxisal &#174; . We currently have one pending patent which applies low dose oral interferon to the treatment of Thrombocytopenia. In our history, we have completed more than 100 pre-clinical (animal) and human studies on the safety and efficacy of low-dose orally administered interferon. On October 31, 2013, Amarillo Biosciences, Inc., (ABI) filed a voluntary petition in the Bankruptcy Court for the Northern District of Texas, for protection under Chapter 11 of Title 11 of the U.S. code. The purpose of the filing was to give the Company time to restructure organizationally and financially.

In addition to the core technology discussed in the first paragraph of this section, ABI is currently working at instituting new revenue streams along with the core technology thus expanding the Company's current focus into a diversified business portfolio.

Current Status

The Company exited bankruptcy on January 23, 2015 when the Final Decree was signed by Robert L. Jones, Bankruptcy Judge for the Northern District of Texas. The Case was administratively closed on February 13, 2015.

In accordance with Accounting Standards Codification Topic 852, Reorganizations, the Company adopted fresh start accounting upon emergence from Chapter 11 bankruptcy. The recorded amounts of assets and liabilities were adjusted to reflect their estimated fair values on the Effective Date.

Upon the adoption of fresh start accounting, the Company became a new entity for financial reporting purposes. References to "Successor" or "Successor Company" relate to the financial position of the reorganized Company as of and subsequent to November 20, 2014 and results of operations for the period ended December 31, 2015. References to "Predecessor" or "Predecessor Company" refer to the financial position of the Company prior to November 20, 2014 and the results of operations through November 20, 2014. As a result of the application of fresh start accounting and the effects of the implementation of the Plan of Reorganization, the financial statements on or after November 20, 2014 are not comparable with the financial statements prior to that date.

Core Technology 

Injectable interferon is FDA-approved to treat some neoplastic, viral and autoimmune diseases. Many patients experience moderate to severe side effects, causing them to discontinue injectable interferon therapy. Our core technology is a natural human interferon alpha that is delivered into the oral cavity as a lozenge in low (nanogram) doses. The lozenge dissolves in the mouth where interferon binds to surface (mucosal) cells in the mouth and throat, resulting in stimulation of immune mechanisms. Orally delivered interferon has been shown to activate hundreds of immune system genes in the peripheral blood. Human studies have shown that oral interferon is safe and effective against viral and autoimmune diseases. Oral interferon is given in concentrations 10,000 times less than that usually given by injection. The Company's low dose formulation results in almost no side effects, in contrast to high dose injectable interferon, which causes adverse effects in at least 50% of recipients.

The Company also has a dietary supplement product, Maxisal &#174; that is useful in the symptomatic relief of dry mouth.

Governmental or FDA approval is required for low dose oral interferon. Our progress toward approval is discussed under each specific indication, below.

We believe that our technology is sound and can be commercialized. Due to occurrences in the interferon market over the past several years, we have been unsuccessful at such commercialization.

Interferon Supply

Hayashibara Biochemical Laboratories, Inc. ("HBL") ceased to produce natural human interferon in December of 2012. Historically, the research and development was conducted by ABI using this unique form of natural human interferon supplied by HBL. Their departure from the Interferon market left ABI without a current source of interferon with which to conduct clinical trials and ultimately commercialize a product. Additionally, this interferon no longer provides a competitive edge insomuch as the industry as a whole is rapidly moving toward the use of recombinant interferon rather than natural human interferon. The Company is exploring its options and is talking with alternate suppliers of interferon.

ABI's thirty years of data has been generated from the numerous studies performed using natural human interferon. Since human interferon is virtually impossible to obtain, those studies will have to be repeated using recombinant interferon. Repeating the studies will be both costly and time consuming. While the pharmaceutical industry is creating and marketing new and effective anti-viral medications, ABI believes that there is still sufficient time to develop and commercialize low dose interferon for treatment of such diseases as Influenza, Chronic Cough in COPD, Hepatitis B, C, and D, and Thrombocytopenia caused by other diseases and as a side effect of treatment of other diseases.

Strategic Alliance with CytoPharm

On May 15, 2013, the Company entered into a CIT Patents Agreement with CytoPharm, Inc. (CP) a former licensee for oral IFN technology in Taiwan and China. This agreement establishes the ownership, inventorship, prosecution, maintenance, use and commercialization of a patent regarding treatment of thrombocytopenia with oral IFN that developed out of a study conducted by CP under a previous License and Supply Agreement.

Strategic Alliance with Intas Pharmaceuticals

On January 7, 2010, the Company entered into a License and Supply Agreement with Intas Pharmaceuticals Ltd., an India-based pharmaceutical company with three decades of experience in the healthcare industry and a global presence in 42 countries worldwide. Given the problems associated with the natural human interferon supply, it is likely that the agreement with Intas will be terminated as the Company can no longer supply them with natural human IFN produced by Hayashibara.

Patents and Proprietary Rights

Since inception, the Company has worked to build an extensive patent portfolio for low-dose orally administered interferon. This portfolio consists of patents with claims that encompass method of use or treatment, and/or composition of matter and manufacturing. As listed below, we presently own or license three issued patents, including one patent on our dietary supplement. Additionally, ABI has one patent pending as shown below.

Patents with Method of Treatment Claims for Interferon Alpha

1. "TREATMENT OF FIBROMYALGIA WITH LOW DOSE INTERFERON" as described and claimed in U.S. Patent No. 6,036,949 issued March 2000, Owned. Expiration: March 2018.

Patents with Formulation Claims

2. "INTERFERON DOSAGE FORM AND METHOD THEREFOR" as described and claimed in U.S. Patent No. 6,372,218 B1 issued April 2002, Licensed. Expiration: April 2019.

3. "COMPOSITION AND METHOD FOR PROMOTING ORAL HEALTH" as described and claimed in U.S. Patent No. 6,656,920 B2 issued December 2003, Owned. Expiration: April 2021.

Patent Pending

4. "Treatment of Thrombocytopenia Using Orally Administered Interferon" as described and claimed on U.S. Patent Application Serial No. 14/398647.

There are no current patent litigation proceedings involving us.

Cost of Compliance with Environmental Regulations

We incurred no costs to comply with environment regulations in 2015.

Competition

The pharmaceutical industry is an expanding and rapidly changing industry characterized by intense competition. We believe that our ability to compete will be dependent in large part upon our ability to successfully operate the newly reorganized business, bring in new business lines, continue recapitalization, redevelop and test our products and continually enhance and improve our products and leverage our core technologies. In order to do so, we must effectively utilize and expand our research and development capabilities and, once developed, expeditiously convert new technology into products and processes, which can be commercialized. Competition is based primarily on scientific and technological superiority, technical support, availability of patent protection, access to adequate capital, the ability to develop, acquire and market products and processes successfully, the ability to obtain governmental approvals and the ability to serve the particular needs of commercial customers. Corporations and institutions with greater resources than us, therefore, have a significant competitive advantage. Our potential competitors include entities that develop and produce therapeutic agents for treatment of human and animal disease. These include numerous public and private academic and research organizations and

pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies pursuing production of, among other things, biologics from cell cultures, genetically engineered drugs and natural and chemically synthesized drugs. Almost all of these potential competitors have substantially greater capital resources, research and development capabilities, manufacturing and marketing resources and experience than us. Our competitors may succeed in developing products or processes that are more effective or less costly than any that may be developed by us or that gain regulatory approval prior to our products. We also expect that the number of competitors and potential competitors will increase as more interferon alpha products receive commercial marketing approvals from the FDA or analogous foreign regulatory agencies. Any of these competitors may be more successful than us in manufacturing, marketing and distributing its products. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully.

United States Regulation

Before products with health claims can be marketed in the United States, they must receive approval from the FDA. To receive this approval, any drug must undergo rigorous preclinical testing and clinical trials that demonstrate the product candidate's safety and effectiveness for each indicated use. This extensive regulatory process controls, among other things, the development, testing, manufacture, safety, efficacy, record keeping, labeling, storage, approval, advertising, promotion, sale, and distribution of pharmaceutical products.

In general, before any ethical pharmaceutical product can be marketed in the United States, the FDA will require the following process:

&#8226;

preclinical laboratory and animal tests;

&#8226;

submission of an investigational new drug application, or IND, which must become effective before human clinical trials may begin;

&#8226;

adequate and well-controlled human clinical trials to establish the safety and efficacy of the proposed drug for its intended use;

&#8226;

pre-approval inspection of manufacturing facilities and selected clinical investigators;

&#8226;

Submission of a New Drug Application (NDA) to the FDA; and

&#8226;

FDA approval of an NDA, or of an NDA supplement (for subsequent indications or other modifications, including a change in location of the manufacturing facility).

Substantial financial resources are necessary to fund the research, clinical trials, and related activities necessary to satisfy FDA requirements or similar requirements of state, local, and foreign regulatory agencies. At such time as ABI undertakes to commercialize any of its products, all necessary preclinical testing, clinical trials, data review, and approval steps will be judiciously executed to insure that the product satisfies all regulatory requirements at all levels.

505(b)(2) 

ABI has historically followed and will continue to follow the traditional approval process for New Drugs as set out in Section 505(b)(1) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act. If an alternative path to FDA approval for new or improved formulations of previously approved products is scientifically and economically feasible and beneficial to the Company and the public, ABI may choose to follow this alternative path as established by section 505(b)(2) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act. This section of the Act permits the applicant to rely on certain preclinical or clinical studies conducted for an approved product as some of the information required for approval and for which the applicant has not obtained a right of reference. The process of approval under 505(b)(2) will be followed as judiciously as 505(b)(1) or any regulation.

Orphan Drug Designation

Under the Orphan Drug Act, the FDA may grant orphan drug designation to drugs intended to treat a rare disease or condition, which is generally a disease or condition that affects fewer than 200,000 individuals in the United States. ABI may choose to seek approval for a product satisfying the definition of and Orphan Drug if that product can be used to treat such an indication. Orphan drug designation does not convey any advantage in or shorten the duration or rigidity of the regulatory review and approval process.

Foreign Regulation

In addition to regulations in the United States, a variety of foreign regulations govern clinical trials and commercial sales and distribution of products in foreign countries. Whether or not the Company obtains FDA approval for a product, the Company must obtain approval of a product by the comparable regulatory authorities of foreign countries before the Company can commence clinical trials or market the product in those countries. The approval process varies from country to country, and the time may be longer or shorter than that required for FDA approval. The requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials, product licensing, pricing and reimbursement vary greatly from country to country.

The policies of the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities may change and additional government regulations may be enacted which could prevent or delay regulatory approval of investigational drugs or approval of new diseases for existing products and could also increase the cost of regulatory compliance. It is not possible to predict the likelihood, nature or extent of adverse governmental regulation that might arise from future legislative or administrative action, either in the United States or abroad.

Research and Development

During the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014, the Company incurred research and development expenses of $nil and $15,270, respectively. An integral part of the reorganization process has been to refocus and realign research and development activities. If a satisfactory replacement source of interferon is located and will serve the goals of the Company, adequate funds to conduct research and development will be allocated. These research activities include revitalization of the Company's core technology. Additionally, any number of other attractive technologies might be investigated.

Employees

The Company has 3 full-time employees and 1 part-time employee. Of these employees, 2 are executive officers and 2 work in administrative and research and development capacities. Consultants in business and research development are also engaged as needed.

