 ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

Overview 

American Homes 4 Rent is an internally managed Maryland real estate investment trust ("REIT") focused on acquiring, renovating, leasing and operating single-family homes as rental properties. We commenced operations in November 2012 to continue the investment activities of AH LLC, which was founded by our chairman, B. Wayne Hughes, in 2011 to take advantage of the dislocation in the single-family home market. Mr. Hughes has over 40 years of experience in the real estate business and a successful track record as co-founder and former chairman and chief executive officer of Public Storage, a REIT listed on the New York Stock Exchange ("NYSE"). We completed our initial public offering on the NYSE in August 2013. 

As of December 31, 2015 , we owned 38,780 &#32;single-family properties in 22 &#32;states and had an additional 12 &#32;properties in escrow that we expect to acquire, subject to customary closing conditions, for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $1.7 million . As of December 31, 2015 , 36,403 , or 93.9% &#32;of our properties were leased. We have an integrated operating platform that consists of 781 &#32;personnel dedicated to property management, acquisitions, construction, marketing, leasing, financial and administrative functions. 

From our formation through June 10, 2013, we were externally managed and advised by American Homes 4 Rent Advisor, LLC (the "Advisor") and the leasing, managing and advertising of our properties was overseen and directed by American Homes 4 Rent Management Holdings, LLC (the "Property Manager"), both of which were subsidiaries of AH LLC. Until December 10, 2014, our acquisition and renovation functions were performed by AH LLC, to whom we previously paid an acquisition and renovation fee. We internalized the management and advisory functions in June 2013 (the "Management Internalization") and the acquisition and renovation functions in December 2014. See "Item 2&#8212;Properties" for more detailed information about our properties and markets. 

We believe we have become a leader in the single-family home rental industry by aggregating a geographically diversified portfolio of high quality single-family homes and developing "American Homes 4 Rent" into a nationally recognized brand that is well-known for quality, value and tenant satisfaction and is well respected in our communities. In addition to single-family properties, we also may seek to invest in condominium units, townhouses and real estate-related debt investments. Our investments may be made directly or through investment vehicles with third-party investors. In addition to individual property purchases, we may pursue bulk acquisitions from financial institutions, government agencies and competitors. Our objective is to generate attractive, risk-adjusted returns for our shareholders through dividends and capital appreciation. 

We believe that we have been organized and operate in conformity with the requirements for qualification and taxation as a REIT under U.S. federal income tax laws, for each of our taxable years commencing with our taxable year ended December 31, 2012, and we expect to satisfy the requirements for qualification and taxation as a REIT under the U.S. federal income tax laws for our taxable year ending December 31, 2016 , and subsequent taxable years. 

Our principal executive office is located at 30601 Agoura Road, Suite 200, Agoura Hills, California 91301. Our main telephone number is (805) 413-5300. Our website address is www.americanhomes4rent.com. The information contained on our website is not part of or incorporated by reference in this report. 

Our Business and Growth Strategies 

Our primary objective is to generate attractive risk-adjusted returns for our shareholders through dividends and capital appreciation by acquiring, renovating, leasing and operating single-family homes as rental properties. We believe we can achieve this objective by pursuing the following strategies: 

&#8226; 

Secure early-mover advantage and position us as a dominant owner/operator of single-family rental properties. Historically, the single-family home rental market has been extremely fragmented, comprised primarily of private and individual property investors in local markets. Until recently, there have been no large-scale, national market owners/operators primarily due to the challenge of efficiently scaling the acquisition and management of many individual homes. With an opportunity to continue acquiring homes at attractive prices, we intend to continue to leverage our expertise and experience in rapidly building an institutional-quality, professionally managed business. We believe that being one of the first in our industry to do so on a large scale has provided us the "early-mover" advantage to continue aggregating a large, geographically diversified portfolio of high quality properties at prices that provide attractive potential yields and capital appreciation. 

&#8226; 

Employ a disciplined property acquisition process. We are focused on acquiring homes with a number of key property characteristics, including: (i) construction after 1990; (ii) three or more bedrooms; (iii) two or more bathrooms; (iv) a range of $100,000 estimated minimum valuation to $400,000 maximum bid price; and (v) estimated renovation costs not in excess of 25% of estimated value. We target areas with above average median household incomes, well-regarded school districts and access to desirable lifestyle amenities. We believe that homes in these areas will attract tenants with strong credit profiles, produce high occupancy and rental rates and generate long-term property appreciation. Not all of the homes we acquire meet all of these criteria, especially if acquired as part of a bulk purchase. We have an established acquisition and renovation platform to acquire high quality single-family homes. To date, we have primarily acquired properties at foreclosure auctions and through broker sales (primarily multiple listing service ("MLS") and short sales) and, more recently, through bulk portfolio purchases. In the future, we may source a larger proportion of our property acquisitions through portfolio (or bulk) sales from government agencies, financial institutions and competitors. Historically through December 10, 2014, our acquisition and renovation activities were handled by AH LLC. We paid AH LLC a fee equal to 5% of the sum of the purchase price and initial renovation costs of each property that we acquired and AH LLC paid all expenses related to acquisition and renovation personnel, including all internal and third-party costs related to the investigation of properties not acquired by us. In December 2014, we internalized these functions and employed all of AH LLC's acquisition and renovation personnel and we no longer pay the 5% fee to AH LLC. 

&#8226; 

Assemble a geographically diversified portfolio. We monitor and manage the diversification of our portfolio in order to reduce the risks associated with adverse developments affecting a particular market. We currently are focusing on acquiring single-family homes in selected sub-markets of metropolitan statistical areas ("MSAs") within 22 &#32;states, with an emphasis on achieving critical mass within each target market. We continually evaluate potential new markets where we may invest and establish operations as opportunities emerge. We select our markets based on steady population growth, strong rental demand and a desirable level of distressed sales of homes that can be acquired below replacement cost, providing for attractive potential yields and capital appreciation. In addition, if we are unable to gain desired critical mass within a market to operate efficiently, then we may pursue ways to exit those markets in a manner designed to maximize shareholder value. 

&#8226; 

Efficiently manage and operate properties. Building on the experience at Public Storage of our executive team and our significant in-house property management capabilities, we believe we have created a leading, comprehensive single-family home property management business. As was the case with the self-storage industry, we believe the key to efficiently managing a large number of relatively low-cost properties is to strike the appropriate balance between centralization and decentralization. We believe that in-house property management enables us to optimize rental revenues, effectively manage expenses, realize significant economies of scale, standardize brand consistency and maintain direct contact with our tenants. Our property management platform has local leasing agents and property managers in each of our markets. Corporate-level functions are centralized, including management, accounting, legal, marketing and call centers to handle leasing calls and maintenance calls. These centralized services allow us to provide all markets with the benefits of these functions without the burden of staffing each function in every market. In addition, by having a national property management operation, we have the ability to negotiate favorable terms on services and products with many of our contractors and vendors, including national contractors and vendors. We have completed the internalization of 100% of our property management functions, which we believe provides us with consistency of service, control and branding in the operation of our properties. 

&#8226; 

Establish a nationally recognized brand. We continue to strive toward establishing "American Homes 4 Rent" as a nationally recognized brand because we believe that establishing a brand well-known for quality, value and tenant satisfaction will help attract and retain tenants and qualified personnel, as well as support higher rental rates. Based on our executive team's experience at Public Storage, we believe that creating brand awareness will facilitate the growth and success of our company. We have established a toll-free number serviced by our call center and a website to provide a direct portal to reach potential tenants and to drive our brand presence. We believe our brand has gained recognition within a number of our markets. 

&#8226; 

Optimize capital structure. We may use leverage to increase potential returns to our shareholders, but we will seek to maintain a conservative and flexible balance sheet. We believe that preferred shares provide an attractive source of permanent capital. We also completed three asset-backed securitization transactions during 2014 and two asset-backed securitization transactions during 2015. We also may participate in investment vehicles with third-party investors as an alternative source of equity to grow our business. Our executive officers have substantial experience organizing and managing investment vehicles with third-party investors. 

Recent Developments 

On December 3, 2015, we, American Residential Properties, Inc. (&#8220;ARPI&#8221;) and certain of our and their subsidiaries entered into a definitive Agreement and Plan of Merger (the &#8220;Merger Agreement&#8221;). Subject to the terms and conditions of the Merger Agreement, ARPI will merge with and into a wholly owned subsidiary of us in a stock-for-stock transaction, with our subsidiary continuing as the surviving entity (the "Merger"), which was unanimously approved by the members of our board of trustees present at the meeting and by the board of directors of ARPI. If the Merger is completed, each holder of ARPI common stock will receive 1.135 of our Class A common shares for each share of ARPI common stock and each holder of limited partnership interests in ARPI&#8217;s operating partnership will receive 1.135 Class A units of our operating partnership. The exchange ratio is fixed and will not be adjusted to reflect changes in the price of our Class A common shares or the price of ARPI common stock occurring prior to the completion of the Merger. It is anticipated that we will issue approximately 36,553,308 Class A common shares and 1,370,626 Class A units in connection with the Merger, representing approximately 12.7% of the total pro forma Class A common shares, Class B common shares and units of our operating partnership, collectively. The proposed Merger, which was approved by the stockholders of ARPI on February 26, 2016, is subject to customary closing conditions. We anticipate the transaction to close on February 29, 2016. 

Our Business Activities 

Property Acquisition, Renovation, Leasing and Property Management 

&#8226; 

Property Acquisition. We have a disciplined acquisition platform that is capable of deploying large amounts of capital across all acquisition channels and in multiple markets simultaneously. Our acquisition process begins with an analysis of housing markets. Target markets are selected based on steady population growth, strong rental demand and a desirable level of distressed sales of newer homes that can be acquired below replacement cost, providing for attractive potential yields and potential capital appreciation. Our target markets currently include selected sub-markets of MSAs in 22 &#32;states. Within our target markets, our system allows us to screen broadly and rapidly for potential acquisitions and is designed to identify highly targeted sub-markets at the neighborhood and street levels. 

We purchase properties through a variety of acquisition channels, including foreclosure auctions, broker sales and portfolio (bulk) sales, and may acquire homes following the acquisition and disposition of non-performing mortgage loans. To date, foreclosure auctions and broker sales (primarily MLS and short sales) have presented the most attractive channels to access a significant supply of quality homes at attractive prices. We have developed an efficient process for bidding on a large number of homes at auctions consistent with local and state laws, which has contributed to our significant pace of capital deployment. Properties become available at auction when a party with a lien on the property forecloses on the lien. The property is then sold at auction, either by a court or trustee, in order to satisfy the debt owed to the lien holder. Auction processes vary significantly between jurisdictions driven by differences in state and local laws. While properties acquired at foreclosure auctions have a limited time frame for due diligence, we have developed a proprietary process that rigorously focuses on the material issues that we believe will affect potential yields before determining a maximum bid amount. Significant issues considered in underwriting homes going through the trustee sale process include an evaluation of our acquisition parameters, as well as the property's location. This evaluation includes a drive-by inspection of the property. Potential eviction and renovation costs are estimated, as well as expected rents and expenses. The property is also researched for the existence of any senior liens. Our local teams have experience in evaluating homes in foreclosure, conducting due diligence and bidding at auctions, which we believe positions us to bid effectively against other competitors. In addition, we underwrite acquisition candidates and have implemented an efficient bid management system and closing and transfer processes that we believe result in properties acquired at an attractive total investment. 

We have and will continue to source property acquisition opportunities through broker sales (including traditional MLS, real estate owned ("REO") sales and short sales) and portfolio (or bulk) sales from government agencies, financial institutions and competitors. In particular, we have developed an extensive network of real estate brokers that facilitate a large volume of acquisitions through broker sales. We have a team dedicated to identifying opportunities for homes sold in bulk by institutions or competitors. Acquisitions through these channels generally allow more time for underwriting to determine the expected rents, expenses and renovation costs, obtain title insurance and review local covenant conditions and restrictions. 

&#8226; 

Existing Occupant Transition. Upon acquisition, we often must interact with and replace existing occupants of the homes acquired, whether they are prior homeowners or existing tenants. Our primary objective in this process is to quickly transition these occupants to our tenants, and, if that is not possible, to arrange for them to voluntarily vacate the home promptly. Occasionally, we may offer a modest incentive to existing occupants to vacate. Such a cost is viewed as appropriate in relation to the value gained from accelerating our access to the home to begin renovation. As a last resort, 

the existing occupants will be evicted. We have attorneys on staff familiar with the laws of the locales of our properties to handle this process. 

Existing occupants who are tenants sometimes have a bona fide lease under state and federal regulations that must be honored. In these instances, we will honor such leases, while continuing to work with the tenants to transition them to a lease under our form and rental structure at the conclusion of the existing lease. Renovations are typically not conducted in these instances. 

&#8226; 

Property Renovation. We have a team of dedicated personnel to oversee the renovation process. This team focuses on maximizing the benefit of our investment in property renovation. Once a home is acquired, if it is not occupied, we promptly begin the renovation process, during which each property is thoroughly evaluated. Any resulting work is presented for bid to approved contractors in each of our markets. We have negotiated substantial quantity discounts in each of our markets for products that we regularly use during the renovation process, such as paint, window blinds, carpet and flooring. By establishing and enforcing best practices and quality consistency, we believe that we are able to reduce the costs of both materials and labor. We have found that a rapid response to renovating our homes improves our relationship with the local communities and homeowners' associations ("HOAs") enhancing the "American Homes 4 Rent" brand recognition and loyalty. For homes that are occupied, property renovation is generally delayed. In general, property renovations are completed within approximately 60 &#32;to 70 days after gaining initial access to a property and properties are typically leased approximately 20 &#32;to 30 days after completing the renovation process. If a home that is acquired remains occupied, the renovation process may be postponed. However, an assessment is made of potential renovation work that must be addressed once the property can be accessed. 

&#8226; 

Property Management. We have developed an extensive in-house property management infrastructure, with modern systems, dedicated personnel and local offices in certain of our target markets. In these markets, property managers employed by us execute all property management functions. We directly manage all of our properties without the engagement of a third party manager. 

&#8226; 

Marketing and Leasing. We are responsible for establishing rental rates, marketing and leasing properties (including screening prospective tenants) and collecting and processing rent. We establish rental rates based on analysis by the local property management teams in each market. Factors considered in establishing the rental rates include a competitive analysis of rents, the size and age of the house, and many qualitative factors, such as neighborhood characteristics and access to quality schools, transportation and services. We advertise the available properties through multiple channels, including our website, Craigslist, MLS, yard signs and local brokers. In some markets, we utilize a network of local real estate agents to show homes to prospective tenants. We believe that utilizing local agents makes the process more efficient and creates an additional marketing channel for properties under management. 

Prospective tenants may submit an application through our website, Craigslist posting or in person. We evaluate prospective tenants in a standardized manner. Our application and evaluation process includes obtaining appropriate identification, a thorough evaluation of credit and household income, a review of the applicant's rental history, and a background check for criminal activity. Although we require a minimum household Fair Isaac Corporation ("FICO") score and income to rent ratio, all factors are taken into consideration during the tenant evaluation process, including an emphasis on rental payment history. On average, household FICO scores and income to rent ratios of approved applicants are significantly in excess of our minimum requirements. We are generally able to complete our application and evaluation process the same day the prospective tenant submits a rental application. We collect the majority of rent electronically via Automated Clearing House transfer or direct debit to the tenant's checking account via a secure tenant portal on our website. An auto-pay feature is offered to facilitate rent payment. Tenants' charges and payment history are available to tenants online through the tenant portal. Tenants who do not pay rent by the late payment date (typically within five calendar days of the due date) will receive notification and are assessed a late fee. Eviction is a last resort, and the eviction process is managed in compliance with local and state regulations. The eviction process is documented through a property management system with all correspondence and documentation stored electronically. 

&#8226; 

Tenant Relations and Property Maintenance. We also are responsible for property repairs and maintenance and tenant relations. We offer a 24/7 emergency line to handle after hours issues, and our tenants can contact us through our local property management office or call center. As part of our ongoing property management, we conduct routine repairs and maintenance as appropriate to maximize long-term rental income and cash flows from our portfolio. In addition, our local property managers are involved in periodic visits to our properties to help foster positive, long-term relationships with our tenants, to monitor the condition and use of our homes and to ensure compliance with HOA rules and regulations. 

&#8226; 

Systems and Technology. Effective systems and technology are essential components of our process. Significant investments have been made in our lease management, accounting and asset management systems. They have been designed to be scalable to accommodate continued growth in our portfolio of homes. Our website is fully integrated into the tenant accounting and leasing system. From the website, which is accessible from mobile devices, prospective tenants can browse homes available for rent, request additional information and apply to rent a specific home. Through the tenant portal existing tenants can set up automatic payments. The system is designed to handle the accounting requirements of residential property accounting, including accounting for security deposits and paying property-level expenses. The system also interfaces with the credit agency, Experian, expediting evaluations of prospective tenant rental applications. We have worked with a search engine optimization firm to ensure we place high in search engine lists and will continue to monitor our placement on search engines. In addition, sponsored key words are generally purchased in selected markets as needed. 

Other Business Activities 

In September 2013, we announced the formation of AMIP Management, LLC ("AMIP"), a joint venture between us and Johnson Capital Residential Investments, LLC ("JCRI"), an investment entity formed and capitalized by a group of mortgage servicing and real estate finance professionals. AMIP was formed to manage multiple investment funds focused on the acquisition and resolution of distressed residential mortgage assets in the United States. As of December 31, 2015 , AMIP held 265 &#32;residential mortgages. We do not currently plan to pursue additional acquisitions of residential mortgage assets and may consider exiting this investment in the future. 

Risk Management 

We face various forms of risk in our business ranging from broad economic, housing market and interest rate risks, to more specific factors, such as credit risk related to our tenants, re-leasing of properties and competition for properties. We believe that the systems and processes developed by our experienced executive team since commencing our operations in November 2012 allow us to monitor, manage and ultimately navigate these risks. 

Insurance 

We maintain property, liability and corporate level insurance coverage related to our business, including crime and fidelity, property management errors and omissions, trustees' and officers' errors and omissions, cyber liability, employment practice liability and workers' compensation. We believe the policy specifications and insured limits under our insurance program are appropriate and adequate for our business and properties given the relative risk of loss, the cost of the coverage and industry practice. However, our insurance coverage is subject to substantial deductibles and carveouts, and we will be self-insured up to the amount of such deductibles and carveouts. See "Risk Factors&#8212;Risks Related to Our Business&#8212;We are self-insured against many potential losses, and uninsured or underinsured losses relating to properties may adversely affect our financial condition, operating results, cash flows and ability to make distributions on our preferred and common shares." 

Competition 

We face competition from different sources in each of our two primary activities: acquiring properties and renting our properties. We believe our primary competitors in acquiring our target properties through individual acquisitions are individual investors, small private investment partnerships looking for one-off acquisitions of investment properties that can either be rented or restored and sold, and larger investors, including private equity funds and other REITs, that are seeking to capitalize on the same market opportunity that we have identified. Our primary competitors in acquiring portfolios include large and small private equity investors, public and private REITs and other sizeable private institutional investors. These same competitors may also compete with us for tenants. Competition may increase the prices for properties that we would like to purchase, reduce the amount of rent we may charge at our properties, reduce the occupancy of our portfolio and adversely impact our ability to achieve attractive yields. However, we believe that our acquisition platform, our extensive in-house property management infrastructure and market knowledge in markets that meet our selection criteria provide us with competitive advantages. 

Regulation 

General 

Our properties are subject to various covenants, laws and ordinances, and certain of our properties are also subject to the rules of the various HOAs where such properties are located. We believe that we are in material compliance with such covenants, laws, 

ordinances and rules, and we also require that our tenants agree to comply with such covenants, laws, ordinances and rules in their leases with us. 

Fair Housing Act 

The Fair Housing Act ("FHA") and its state law counterparts, and the regulations promulgated by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development ("HUD") and various state agencies, prohibit discrimination in housing on the basis of race or color, national origin, religion, sex, familial status (including children under the age of 18 living with parents or legal custodians, pregnant women and people securing custody of children under the age of 18), handicap or, in some states, financial capability. We believe that our properties are in substantial compliance with the FHA and other regulations. 

Environmental Matters 

As a current or prior owner of real estate, we are subject to various federal, state and local environmental laws, regulations and ordinances, and we could be liable to third parties as a result of environmental contamination or noncompliance at our properties, even if we no longer own such properties. See "Risk Factors&#8212;Risks Related to Our Business&#8212;Contingent or unknown liabilities could adversely affect our financial condition, cash flows and operating results." 

REIT Qualification 

We have elected to be taxed as a REIT, which commenced with our first taxable year ended December 31, 2012. Our qualification as a REIT, and maintenance of such qualification, will depend upon our ability to meet, on a continuing basis, various complex requirements under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"), relating to, among other things, the sources of our gross income, the composition and values of our assets, our distributions to our shareholders and the concentration of ownership of our equity shares. We believe that, commencing with our initial taxable year ended December 31, 2012, we have been organized in conformity with the requirements for qualification and taxation as a REIT. 

As a REIT, we generally will not be subject to U.S. federal income tax on our REIT taxable income that we currently distribute to our shareholders, but taxable income generated by any taxable REIT subsidiary ("TRS") that we may form or acquire will be subject to federal, state and local income tax. Under the Code, REITs are subject to numerous organizational and operational requirements, including a requirement that they distribute annually at least 90% of their REIT taxable income to their shareholders. If we fail to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year and do not qualify for certain statutory relief provisions, our income would be subject to U.S. federal income tax, and we would likely be precluded from qualifying for treatment as a REIT until the fifth calendar year following the year in which we fail to qualify. Even if we qualify as a REIT, we may still be subject to certain U.S. federal, state and local taxes on our income and assets and to U.S. federal income and excise taxes on our undistributed income. 

Investment Company Act of 1940 

We intend to conduct our operations so that neither we nor any of our subsidiaries are required to register as an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, or the 1940 Act. 

Employees 

As of December 31, 2015 , we have 781 &#32;dedicated full-time personnel. None of our personnel are covered by a collective bargaining agreement. 

Seasonality 

We believe that our business and related operating results will be impacted by seasonal factors throughout the year. In particular, we have experienced higher levels of tenant move-outs during the summer months, which impacts both our rental revenues and related turnover costs. Further, our property operating costs are seasonally impacted in certain markets for expenses such as snow removal and heating during the winter season and HVAC repairs and expenses during the summer season. 

Available Information 

Our website address is www.americanhomes4rent.com. We make available free of charge on or through our website our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file the report with or furnish it to the SEC. This information is also available in print to any shareholder who requests it, with any such requests addressed to Investor Relations, American Homes 4 Rent, 30601 Agoura 

Road, Suite 200, Agoura Hills, CA 91301. We also make available free of charge on our website our Corporate Governance Guidelines, our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and the charters of our Audit Committee, Compensation Committee and Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee of our board of trustees. We intend to disclose on our website any changes to, or waivers from, our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics. The information contained on our website shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into this or any other report we file with, or furnish to, the SEC. 

