 ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

GENERAL

Our company was founded in 1990 and is a Delaware corporation. e Plus inc. is sometimes referred to in this Annual Report on Form 10-K as &#8220;we,&#8221; &#8220;our,&#8221; &#8220;us,&#8221; &#8220;ourselves,&#8221; or &#8220; e Plus.&#8221;

Our operations are conducted through two business segments. Our technology segment sells information technology hardware products, third-party software and maintenance contracts, our own and third-party advanced professional and managed services, and our proprietary software. Our financing segment operations primarily consist of the financing of information technology equipment, software and related services. Both segments sell to commercial entities, state and local governments, government contractors, and educational institutions. See Note 15, &#8220;Segment Reporting&#8221; in the consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this report.

e Plus inc. does not engage in any business other than serving as the parent holding company for the following operating companies:

Technology

&#183; e Plus Technology, inc.; 

&#183; e Plus Systems, inc.; 

&#183; e Plus Content Services, inc.; 

&#183; e Plus Document Systems, inc.; 

&#183; e Plus Technology Services, inc. 

&#183; e Plus Cloud Services, inc., and 

&#183; IGXGlobal UK, Limited 

Financing

&#183; e Plus Group, inc.; 

&#183; e Plus Government, inc.; 

&#183; e Plus Canada Company; 

&#183; e Plus Capital, inc.; 

&#183; e Plus Jamaica, inc.; 

&#183; e Plus Iceland, inc., and 

&#183; IGX Capital UK, Ltd. 

We began using the name e Plus inc. in 1999 after changing our name from MLC Holdings, Inc. e Plus Technology, inc. conducts our technology sales and services business. e Plus Systems, inc. and e Plus Content Services, inc. were incorporated on May 15, 2001 and provide consulting services and proprietary software for enterprise supply management. e Plus Capital, inc. owns 100 percent of e Plus Canada Company, which was created on December 27, 2001 to transact business within Canada. e Plus Government, inc. was incorporated on September 17, 1997 to transact business with governmental contractors servicing the federal government marketplace and other state and local governments. e Plus Document Systems, inc. was incorporated on October 15, 2003 and provides proprietary software for document management, ePlus Technology Services, inc. was incorporated on May 17, 2010 to provide professional and management services and IGXGlobal UK, Limited was acquired in December 2015.

&#160;

OUR BUSINESS

We are a leading provider of information technology (IT) solutions which enable organizations to optimize their IT environment and supply chain processes. We deliver and integrate world-class IT products and software from top vendors, and provide private, hybrid, and public cloud solutions to meet customers&#8217; evolving needs. We also provide consulting, professional and managed services and complete lifecycle management services including flexible financing solutions. We have been in the business of selling, leasing, financing, and managing information technology and other assets for more than 26 years. 

Our primary focus is to deliver secure, integrated technology solutions for our customers&#8217; data center, network, security, maintenance, and collaboration needs, including hosted, on-premise, hybrid and cloud infrastructures. These solutions may encompass the full lifecycle of IT and include consulting, assessments, architecture, design, testing, implementation, and ongoing managed services and periodic consultative business reviews. We offer security, storage, cloud, mobility, hyper-converged infrastructure, and other advanced technologies. We design, implement and provide an array of IT solutions from multiple leading IT vendors. We are an authorized reseller from over 1,000 vendors, but primarily from approximately 100 vendors, including Check Point, Cisco Systems, Dell, EMC, FireEye, F5 Networks, Hewlett-Packard, Juniper, McAfee, NetApp, Nimble, Oracle, Palo Alto Networks, Pure Storage, VMware, among many others. We possess top-level engineering certifications with a broad range of leading IT vendors that enable us to offer multi-vendor IT solutions that are optimized for each of our customers&#8217; specific requirements. Our hosted, proprietary software solutions are focused on giving our customers more control over their IT supply chain, by automating and optimizing the procurement and management of their assets.

Our size and strong financial results have enabled us to invest in the engineering and technology resources required to stay current with emerging technology trends and deliver leading edge IT solutions. We believe we are a trusted IT advisor to our customers, delivering turn-key IT solutions that incorporate hardware, software, security and both managed and professional services. In addition, we offer a wide range of leasing and financing options for technology and other capital assets. We believe our lifecycle approach offering of integrated IT products, services, financing, and our proprietary supply chain software, is unique in the industry. It allows us to offer a customer service strategy that spans the continuum from fast delivery of competitively priced products, services, subsequent management and upkeep, through to end-of-life disposal services. This selling approach also permits us to grow with our customers and solidify our relationships through hands-on engagement and understanding of their needs.

We focus exclusively on middle market and large enterprises. For the year ended March 31, 2016, the percentage of revenue by customer end market within our technology segment includes state and local government, and educational institutions 22%, technology industry 23%, telecommunications, media and entertainment 14%, financial services 12%, and healthcare 10%. The majority of our sales were generated within the United States, however, we have the ability to support our customers nationally and internationally and this year we acquired our first international subsidiary which is located in the U.K. Our technology segment accounts for 97% of our net sales, and 84% of our operating income, while our financing segment accounts for 3% of our net sales, and 16% of our operating income for the year ended March 31, 2016.

OUR INDUSTRY BACKGROUND AND MARKET OPPORTUNITY

We participate in the large and growing United States IT market which, according to Gartner, Inc. is estimated to generate sales of over $1.15 trillion in 2016, and is expected to grow at a compound annual rate of approximately 2.1% for 2015 through 2019 1 . 

&#160;

1 &#160; Gartner, &#8220;Market Databook, 1Q16 Update,&#8221; 2014-2020 End-User Spending on IT Products and Services, March 28, 2016 (U.S.). 

&#160;

We are focused on and have identified several specific trends that we believe will create higher growth than the broader U.S. IT market:

&#183; Increasing sophistication and incidences of IT security breaches and cyber-attacks. Over the last decade, cyber-attacks have become more sophisticated, more prevalent and difficult to safeguard against. We believe our customers are focused on all aspects of cyber security, including intellectual property, data and business processes, as well as compliance with an increasing number of general and industry-specific government regulations. In order to meet current and future security threats, enterprises must implement solutions that are fully-integrated and capable of monitoring, detecting, containing and remediating security threats and attacks. 

&#183; Rapidly evolving technologies are creating complexity and challenges for customers and vendors. Historically, customers could procure and implement disparate hardware and software solutions to satisfy their IT needs. However, the emergence of complex IT offerings such as software defined infrastructure, cloud computing, converged and hyper-converged infrastructures, big data analytics, and flash storage, has made it difficult for customers to effectively design, procure, implement and manage their own IT systems. Moreover, increased budget pressures, fewer internal resources, a fragmented vendor landscape and fast time-to-value expectations make it challenging for customers to design, implement and manage secure, efficient and cost-effective IT environments. 

&#183; Customer IT decision making is shifting from IT departments to line-of- business personnel. As IT consumption shifts from legacy, on-premise infrastructure to agile &#8216;on-demand&#8217; and &#8216;as-a-service&#8217; solutions, customer procurement decisions are being shifted from traditional IT personnel to lines-of-business personnel, which is changing the customer engagement model and types of consultative services required to fulfill customer needs. In addition, many of the services create recurring revenue streams paid over time, rather than upfront revenue. 

&#183; Lack of sufficient internal IT resources at mid-sized and large enterprises, and scarcity of IT personnel in certain high-demand disciplines . We believe that IT departments at mid-sized and large enterprises are facing pressure to deliver emerging technologies and business outcomes without having properly trained personnel and an inability to hire personnel in high demand disciplines such as security and data analytics. At the same time the prevalence of security threats, increased use of cloud computing, proliferation of mobile devices, bring-your-own-device (BYOD) policies, and complexity of multi-vendor solutions, have made it difficult for IT departments to implement high-quality IT solutions. 

&#183; Reduction in the number of IT solutions providers . We believe that customers are seeking to reduce the number of vendors they do business with to improve supply chain and internal efficiencies, enhance accountability, improve supplier management practices and reduce costs. As a result, customers are required to select IT solutions providers that are capable of delivering complex multi-vendor IT solutions. 

&#183; Increasing need for third-party services. We believe that customers are relying on third-party service providers to manage significant aspects of their IT environment, from design, implementation, pre- and post-sales support, maintenance, engineering, cloud management, security operations, and other services. 

COMPETITION

The market for IT sales and professional services is competitive, subject to economic conditions and rapid change, and significantly affected by new product introductions and other market activities of industry participants. We expect to continue to compete in all areas of our business against local, regional, national and international firms, including: vendors other direct marketers, national and regional resellers, and regional, national, and international services providers. Many of our competitors commoditize products which places downward pressure on product pricing. In addition, many IT vendors may sell or lease directly to our customers, and our continued ability to compete effectively may be affected by the policies of such vendors. We face indirect competition from potential customers&#8217; internal development efforts and have to overcome potential customers&#8217; reluctance to move away from legacy systems and processes. As IT consumption shifts from IT personnel and legacy infrastructure to line-of-business based outcomes utilizing off-premise, on-demand, and cloud solutions, the legacy resale model is shifting from upfront sales to recurring revenue model.

&#160;

The leasing market is also competitive and subject to changing economic conditions and market activities of leading industry participants. We expect to continue to compete against local, regional, national and international firms, including banks, specialty finance companies, vendors' captive finance companies, and third-party leasing companies. Banks and other large financial services companies sell directly to business customers, particularly larger enterprise customers, and may provide other financial or ancillary services that we do not provide. Vendor captive leasing companies may utilize internal transfer pricing to effectively lower lease rates and/or bundle equipment sales and leasing to provide highly competitive packages to customers. Third-party leasing companies may have deep customer relationships with contracts in place that are difficult to displace. However, these competitors typically do not provide the breadth of product, service, and software offerings that we provide to our customers.

In all of our markets, some of our competitors have longer operating histories and greater financial, technical, marketing, and other resources than we do. In addition, some of these competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or changing opportunities, technologies, and customer requirements. Many current and potential competitors also have greater name recognition and engage in more extensive promotional marketing and advertising activities, offer more attractive terms to customers, and adopt more aggressive pricing policies than we do.

OUR SOLUTIONS

Technology Segment

&#160; &#8226; IT Sales: Our offerings consist of hardware, software, maintenance, software assurance and services. We believe that our customers view technology purchases as integrated solutions, rather than discrete product and service categories, and the majority of our sales are derived from integrated solutions involving our customers&#8217; data center, network, and collaboration infrastructure. We hold various technical and sales related certifications that authorize us to market their products and enable us to provide advanced professional services. We actively engage with emerging vendors to offer their technologies to our customers. Our flexible platform and customizable catalogs facilitate the addition of new vendors&#8217; products with minimal incremental effort. 

&#8226; Advanced Professional and Managed Services: We provide a range of advanced professional and managed services to help our customers improve productivity, profitability and revenue growth while reducing operating costs. Our solutions and services include the following: 

&#160; &#8226; Data center solutions enable customers to streamline operations, reduce complexity and costs, and simplify vendor management; 

&#8226; Network services aim to improve network performance for our customers; 

&#8226; Collaboration and mobility services facilitate engagement between customer personnel and third-parties. 

Security solutions help safeguard our customers&#8217; IT infrastructure through environment analysis, risk identification and the implementation of security solutions and processes;

&#8226; Managed services enable customers to reduce costs and burdens of their day-to-day IT tasks while monitoring availability, reliability and performance; 

&#160; &#8226; Staff augmentation services provide customers with flexible headcount options while allowing them to access talent, fill specific technology skill gaps, or provide short-term or long-term IT professional help, which also includes services, such as Virtual Chief Information Officer (vCIO) and Virtual Chief Information Security Officer (vCISO), used to help complement existing personnel and build three to five year IT roadmaps; 

&#8226; Server and desktop support provides outsourcing services to respond to our customers&#8217; business demands while minimizing overhead; 

&#8226; Professional services focused on cloud infrastructure, unified communications, collaboration, networking, storage, hyper-converged infrastructure, virtual desktop infrastructure, supported by security and managed services solutions; and 

&#8226; Project management services enhance productivity and collaboration to enable successful implementations. 

&#160;

&#8226; Proprietary Software: Our line of proprietary software products is called OneSource&#174; and consists of the following products: 

&#8226; OneSource&#174;IT is an online web based software portal for customers purchasing IT equipment, software, and services from us; OneSource&#174;IT+ is an online web based software portal for customers purchasing IT products from other suppliers and/or from us; 

&#183; OneSource&#174; Procurement is a complete web-based software tool to facilitate procurement of any type of asset; 

&#8226; OneSource&#174; Asset Management is a software platform for managing and tracking corporate assets including vendor maintenance contracts; and 

&#8226; OneSource&#174; DigitalPaper is a document management software application. 

Financing Segment

&#160; &#8226; Leasing and Financing: We specialize in financing arrangements, including direct financing, sales-type and operating leases; notes receivable, and consumption-based financing arrangements; and underwriting and management of IT equipment and assets. Our financing operations include sales, pricing, credit, contracts, accounting, risk management and asset management. 

We primarily finance IT equipment including accessories and software, communication-related equipment, and medical equipment. We may also finance industrial machinery and equipment, office furniture and general office equipment, transportation equipment, and other general business equipment. We offer our solutions both directly and through vendors.

We offer enhanced financing solutions for our customers, and our business process services approach automates a significant portion of the IT procurement process and reduces our customers&#8217; cost of doing business. The solution incorporates value-added services at every step in the process, including:

&#183; Front-end processing, such as eProcurement, order aggregation, order automation, vendor performance measurement, ordering, reconciliation, and payment; 

&#183; Lifecycle and asset ownership services, including asset management, change management, and property tax filing; and 

&#183; End-of-life services such as equipment audit, removal, and disposal. 

OUR COMPETITIVE STRENGTHS

Large Addressable Market with Substantial Growth Opportunities Driven by Increasing IT Complexity

We participate in the large and growing IT market with specific focus on the data center, network, cloud, security, virtualization and mobility segments of the industry, facilitated by our professional and managed service solutions. We believe we are well positioned in the complex high-growth IT solutions segment and can achieve outsized growth relative to the overall IT market.

We focus exclusively on enterprises, primarily large and middle market companies as well as state, local and educational entities. Our products and services are targeted at the approximately 50,000 middle market companies, state and local governmental organizations and educational institutions in the United States. We believe IT organizations within these companies are facing pressure to deliver higher service levels with fewer resources, increasing their reliance on third parties who can provide complex, multi-vendor technology solutions, such as our company.

Broad and Diverse Customer Base across a Wide Range of End Markets

We have a broad and diverse customer base of over 3,100 customers across a wide range of end markets. We serve a wide range of end markets, including education, financial services, healthcare, media and entertainment, state and local government, technology and telecommunications.

&#160;

Differentiated Business Model Serving Entire IT Lifecycle &#8211; Solutions, Services, Software, Financing

We believe we are a trusted IT advisor, delivering differentiated products and services to enable our customers to meet increasingly complex IT requirements. We are able to provide complete, turn-key solutions serving the entire IT lifecycle &#8211; products, services, software and financing. We provide upfront assessments, configuration capabilities, installation and implementation, and ongoing services to support our customers&#8217; solutions.

Deep Expertise in Advanced Technology to Address Emerging Data Center and IT Infrastructure Trends

We believe our customers choose us for their complex IT infrastructure needs based on our track record of delivering best-of-breed solutions, value-added services and close relationships with both established and emerging vendors.

Strategic Ability to Design and Integrate Cloud Solutions Across Multiple Vendors

We believe our relationships with vendors focused on the design and integration of cloud systems allows us to provide differentiated, market-leading cloud offerings. We have developed long standing, strategic partnerships with leading cloud systems vendors, including Cisco Systems, EMC, Hewlett Packard Enterprise, NetApp, and VMware.

Our vendor agnostic approach allows us to provide the best customer-specific solutions. Our experienced professionals are trained in various product lines across vendors and have achieved top-level certifications with multiple strategic partners. In addition to providing initial products, our vendor certifications allow us to contract the assumption of many of the day-to-day maintenance and servicing functions for these products.

Proven Track Record of Successfully Integrating Acquisitions and Accelerating Growth

We view acquisitions as an important factor in our strategic growth plan. Since 1997, we have successfully identified and integrated 19 acquisitions. Most recently, we have been active in tuck-in acquisitions to broaden our product offerings, sector reach and geographic footprint, with recent acquisitions including:

&#183; IGX Acquisition Global, LLC , and IGX Support, LLC, including IGX Acquisition&#8217;s wholly-owned subsidiary, IGXGlobal UK Limited (collectively, "IGX") &#8211; Expansion of sales presence in New York and New England, as well as an operating branch in London that serves United Kingdom and global customers. 

&#160;

&#183; Granite Business Solutions, Inc. (&#8220;Evolve&#8221;)&#8211; West Coast operations expansion and broadened SLED customer base 

&#160;

&#183; AdviStor &#8211; Upstate New York operations expansion and broadened storage offerings and expertise 

&#160;

&#183; pbm (Pacific Blue Micro)&#8211; Expansion of West Coast operations 

&#160;

&#183; Vanticore &#8211; Northern New England operations expansion, gained municipal contracts and customer contact center expertise 

&#160;

&#183; NCC Networks &#8211; Midwest operations expansion and broadened security expertise. 

&#160;

We seamlessly integrate acquired firms into the ePlus platform, which allows us to maintain customers and vendor relationships and retain key employees from acquired firms, and accelerate growth.

We continue to review new acquisition opportunities to grow our global footprint and expand our offerings.

Financial Performance Characterized by Growth and Profitability

We have focused on achieving top-line revenue growth while maintaining industry-leading gross margins &#8211; with a compound annual growth rate of 10.9% on net sales and 10.7% for consolidated gross profit, respectively, from April 1, 2011 to March 31, 2016.

Through our organic expansion as well as acquisitions, we have increased our employee base by 48% from April 1, 2011 to March 31, 2016 while increasing revenue per employee by approximately 13%. Our increase in our employee base has largely been in customer facing roles.

&#160;

GROWTH STRATEGY

Our goal is to continue to grow as a leading provider of technology solutions. The key elements of our strategy include the following:

Be Our Customers&#8217; Partner of Choice for IT Solutions, Which May Include Services, and Financing Needs

We seek to become the primary provider of IT solutions for each of our customers by delivering IT solutions whether on-premise, cloud, or managed services-based. We provide excellent customer service, pricing, availability, and advanced professional and managed services in an efficient manner. We believe the increasing complexity of the IT ecosystem and the emergence of new technologies and vendors are factors that will lead to a growing demand from existing customers. We continue to focus on improving our sales efficiency by providing on-going training and targeted incentive compensation, as well as implementing better automation processes to reduce costs and improve productivity. Our account executives are trained on our broad solutions capabilities and to sell in a consultative manner that increases the likelihood of cross-selling our solutions. We believe that our bundled offerings are an important differentiating factor from our competitors. We also have experienced pre-sales engineers and inside sales representatives to support our outside sales representatives.

We focus on gaining top-level engineering certifications and professional services expertise in advanced technologies of strategic vendors. This expertise helps our customers develop their cloud capabilities including private, public, and hybrid infrastructures. We are providing virtual desktop infrastructure, unified communications, collaboration, networking, security, storage, big-data, mobility, converged and hyper-converged infrastructures, and managed services offerings, all of which remain in high demand. We believe our ability to deliver advanced professional services provides benefits in two ways. First, we gain recognition and mindshare of our strategic vendor partners and become the &#8220;go-to&#8221; partner in selected regional markets as well as the national market. This significantly increases direct and referral sales opportunities for our products and services, and allows us to offer competitive pricing levels. Second, within our existing and potential customer base, our advanced professional services are a key differentiator against competitors who cannot provide services or advanced services for these key technologies or across multiple vendor product lines.

We continuously offer best-of-breed solutions to provide our clients with next generation capabilities. During the last fiscal year, we have expanded our managed services offerings to include Managed Flashstack, hybrid IT monitoring services, and managed video services.

Build Our Geographic Footprint

We intend to increase our direct sales and targeted marketing efforts in each of our geographic areas. We actively seek to acquire new account relationships through face-to-face field sales, electronic commerce (especially OneSource&#174;), leveraging our partnerships with vendors, and targeted direct marketing to increase awareness of our solutions. We also seek to broaden our customer base, expand our geographic reach, improve our technical expertise, and scale our existing operating structure through acquisitions.

Recruit, Retain and Develop Employees

Based on our prior experience, capital structure, and business systems and processes, we believe we are well positioned to take advantage of hiring experienced sales people and engineers, and make strategic acquisitions that broaden our customer base, expand our geographic reach, scale our existing operating structure, and/or enhance our product and service offerings. Part of our growth strategy is to hire purposefully, and evaluate strategic hiring opportunities if and when they become available. During the year ended March 31, 2016, as part of our expansion strategy, our customer facing sales and professional services team grew from 712 to 799.

Improve Operational Efficiencies

We continue to invest in our internal technology infrastructure and software platforms to optimize our operations, and to engage in process re-engineering efforts to become more streamlined and cost effective.

&#160;

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT

We incur software development costs associated with maintaining, enhancing or upgrading our proprietary software, which may be performed by internal IT development resources or by an offshore software-development company that we use to supplement our internal development team.

SALES AND MARKETING

We focus our sales and marketing efforts on becoming the primary provider of IT solutions for each of our customers and by seeking to acquire new account relationships through face-to-face field sales and leveraging our partnerships with manufacturers and targeted direct marketing to increase awareness of our solutions. We target enterprises, primarily middle market companies with annual revenues between $20 million and $2.5 billion and large companies. We believe there are over 50,000 potential customers in the middle market and we currently have over 3,100 customers. We undertake direct marketing campaigns to target certain markets in conjunction with our primary vendor partners, who may provide financial reimbursement, outsourced services, and personnel to assist us in these efforts.

Our sales representatives are compensated by a combination of salary and commission, with commission becoming the primary component of compensation as the sales representatives gain experience. To date, we acquired a majority of our customers through the efforts of our direct sales force. We market to different areas within a customer&#8217;s organization depending on the products or services. We also market to customers through our telesales group, which consists of experienced telesales sales professionals and engineers. This group is focused on marketing to existing and new customers primarily within the geographic reach of our existing service areas.

As of March 31, 2016, our sales force consisted of 457 sales, marketing and sales support personnel organized regionally in 32 office locations throughout the United States.

INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS

Our success depends in part upon proprietary business methodologies and technologies that we have licensed and modified. We own certain software programs or have entered into software licensing agreements to provide services to our customers. We rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks, service marks, trade secret protection, confidentiality and nondisclosure agreements and licensing arrangements to establish and protect intellectual property rights. We seek to protect our software, documentation and other written materials under trade secret and copyright laws, which afford only limited protection.

For example in the United States we have six catalog management patents, three image transmission management patents, a patent for collaborative editing of electronic documents over a network, a hosted asset information management patent, and an eCatalog supplier portal patent, among others. The three image transmission patents are scheduled to expire in 2018; the earliest of the catalog management patents is scheduled to expire in 2024; and the patent for collaborative editing of electronic documents over a network is scheduled to expire in 2025, provided that all maintenance fees are paid in accordance with USPTO regulations. We also have certain patent rights in some European forums, Japan, and Canada. We cannot provide assurance that any patents, as issued, will prevent the development of competitive products or that our patents will not be successfully challenged by others or invalidated through the administrative process or litigation.

Our trademarks in the United States include ePlus&#174;, eCloud &#174;, Procure+&#174;, Manage+&#174;, Docpak&#174;, Viewmark&#174;, OneSource&#174;, and Where Technology Means More &#174;. We intend to use and protect these and our other marks, as we deem necessary. We believe our trademarks have significant value and are an important factor in the marketing of our products. In addition to our trademarks, we have over 20 registered copyrights and additional common-law trademarks and copyrights.

Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. Policing unauthorized use of our products is difficult and can be expensive, and while we are unable to determine the extent to which piracy of our software products exists, software piracy could be expected to be a persistent problem. Our means of protecting our proprietary rights may not be adequate and our competitors may independently develop similar technology, duplicate our products or design around our proprietary intellectual property.

&#160;

FINANCIAL AND RISK MANAGEMENT ACTIVITIES

Inventory Management : We have drop-shipment arrangements with many of our vendors and distributors, which permit us to offer products to our customers without having to take physical delivery of the equipment. Arrow Enterprises, Ingram Micro, and Tech Data are the largest distributors we utilize. Using the distribution systems available, we frequently sell products that are shipped from the vendors or distributors directly to our customers&#8217; location, which allows us to keep our inventory of any product and shipping expenses to a minimum. For the year ended March 31, 2016, our largest distributors accounted for 34% of our purchases related to our technology segment net sales.

Sales of products manufactured by Cisco Systems, HPE, and NetApp, whether purchased directly from these vendors or through distributors, represented 49%, 7%, and 5%, respectively, of our technology segment net sales for the year ended March 31, 2016. Our flexible platform and customizable catalogs facilitate the addition of new vendors with minimal incremental effort.

Risk Management and Process Controls : We use and maintain conservative underwriting policies and disciplined credit approval processes in both our technology and financing segments. We have an executive management review process and other internal controls in place to evaluate the transactions&#8217; potential risk.

In our technology segment, we manage our risk by using conservative credit quality analysis and periodic monitoring of customer financial results or third-party risk evaluation tools; monitoring customer accounts receivable balances and payment history; proactively pursuing delinquent accounts; ensuring we have appropriate contractual terms and conditions; perfecting purchase money security interest when appropriate; requiring prepayment or deposits if indicated; performing fraud checks for new accounts; and evaluating general economic as well as industry specific trends. Our systems automatically decrease trade credit lines based on assigned risk ratings.

In our financing segment, we manage our risk in assets we finance by assigning the contractual payments due under the financing arrangement to third parties. We also use agency purchase orders to procure equipment for lease to our customers and otherwise take measures to minimize our inventory of financed assets. When our technology segment is the supplier of the assets being financed, we maintain certain procurement risks. Our financing arrangements with our customers are generally fixed-rate.

Credit Risk Loss Experience : During the fiscal year ended March 31, 2016, we decreased our reserves for credit losses by $272 thousand, incurred actual credit losses of $188 thousand and had recoveries of $30 thousand. During the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015, we increased our reserves for credit losses by $125 thousand, incurred actual credit losses of $257 thousand and had recoveries of $3 thousand. During the fiscal year ended March 31, 2014, we increased our reserves for credit losses by $750 thousand, incurred actual credit losses of $127 thousand, and had no recoveries.

BACKLOG

We rely on our vendors or distributors to fulfill a large majority of our shipments to our customers. As of March 31, 2016, we had open orders of $109.4 million and deferred revenue of $20.2 million. As of March 31, 2015, we had open orders of $74.9 million and deferred revenues of $37.3 million. We expect that the open orders as of March 31, 2016 will be recognized within ninety days of that date. We also expect that 91% of the deferred revenues as of March 31, 2016 will be recognized within the next twelve months.

EMPLOYEES

As of March 31, 2016, we employed 1,074 employees who operated through 32 office locations, home offices and customer sites. No employees are represented by a labor union and we believe that we have good relations with our employees. The functional areas of our employees are as follows:

&#160; &#160; March 31,

&#160; &#160; &#160; 2016

&#160; &#160; 2015

&#160; Sales and Marketing

&#160; &#160; 457

&#160; &#160; &#160; 404

&#160; Professional Services

&#160; &#160; 342

&#160; &#160; &#160; 308

&#160; Administration

&#160; &#160; 195

&#160; &#160; &#160; 188

&#160; Software Development and Internal IT

&#160; &#160; 73

&#160; &#160; &#160; 78

&#160; Executive Management

&#160; &#160; 7

&#160; &#160; &#160; 8

&#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; 1,074

&#160; &#160; &#160; 986

&#160; 

&#160;

U.S. SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION REPORTS

Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to those reports, filed with or furnished to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (&#8220;SEC&#8221;), are available free of charge through our Internet website, www.eplus.com , as soon as reasonably practical after we have electronically filed such material with, or furnished it to, the SEC. The public may read and copy any materials filed by us with the SEC at the SEC&#8217;s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Room 1580, Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-202-551-8300. The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at www.sec.gov . The contents on or accessible through, these websites are not incorporated into this filing. Further, our references to the URLs for these websites are intended to be inactive textual references only.

&#160;

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS

The following table sets forth the name, age and position of each person who was an executive officer of e Plus on March 31, 2016. There are no family relationships between any directors or executive officers of e Plus.

Name 

Age 

Position 

&#160; &#160; &#160; Phillip G. Norton

Director, Chairman of the Board of Directors, President and Chief Executive Officer

&#160; &#160; &#160; Mark P. Marron

Chief Operating Officer

&#160; &#160; &#160; Elaine D. Marion

Chief Financial Officer

&#160; &#160; &#160; Steven J. Mencarini

Senior Vice President of Business Operations

The business experience of each executive officer of e Plus is described below:

Phillip G. Norton &#160; joined the Company in March 1993 and has served since as its Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer. Since September 1, 1996, Mr. Norton has also served as President of the Company. Mr. Norton had extensive leasing experience prior to joining ePlus. With over thirty years of senior management experience in the equipment leasing and equipment sales markets, Mr. Norton brings leadership, vision, and extensive business, operating, and financing experience to the Company. He has tremendous knowledge of our markets, and since joining the Company in 1993, he has guided the expansion of our business lines and revenues. Today, we are a provider of advanced technology solutions, leasing, and software with $1.2 billion in revenues, as compared to our initial businesses of equipment leasing and brokerage with revenues of $40 million when the Company went public in 1996. As CEO, Mr. Norton has led several successful capital raising initiatives, including our IPO and secondary offerings and two private equity rounds; multiple accretive acquisitions in three different business lines; the hiring and retention of numerous highly qualified personnel; the successful litigation of multiple patent infringement lawsuits protecting our patent rights; and the development of strong industry relationships with key technology partners.

He was founder, Chairman of the Board of Directors, President and Chief Executive Officer of Systems Leasing Corporation, an equipment leasing and equipment brokerage company which he founded in 1978 and sold to PacifiCorp, Inc., a large Northwest utility, in 1986. From 1986 to 1990, Mr. Norton served as President and CEO of PacifiCorp Capital, Inc., the leasing entity of PacifiCorp, Inc., which had over $650 million of leased assets. From 1990 until 1993, Mr. Norton coached high school basketball and invested in real estate. From 1970-1975, he worked in various sales and management roles for Memorex Corporation, a vendor of storage and communication equipment and from 1975-1978, he was Vice President of Federal Leasing Corporation, a provider of financing and logistics to federal, state, and local governments. In June 2011, Mr. Norton began serving on the Board of Directors of The Northern Virginia Technology Council, the largest membership and trade association for technology in the United States. Mr. Norton is a 1966 graduate of the U.S. Naval Academy, with a Bachelor&#8217;s of Science degree in engineering, and served in the U.S. Navy from 1966-1970 as a Lieutenant in the Supply Corps.

Mark P. Marron , joined us in 2005 as Senior Vice President of Sales. Mr. Marron was appointed as Chief Operating Officer of ePlus inc. and President of ePlus Technology, inc. in 2010. Prior to joining us, from 2001-2005, Mr. Marron served as senior vice president of worldwide sales and services of NetIQ. Prior to joining NetIQ, Mr. Marron served as senior vice president and general manager of worldwide channel sales for Computer Associates International Inc. Mr. Marron has a Bachelor&#8217;s of Science degree in Computer Science from Montclair State University.

Elaine D. Marion joined us in 1998. Ms. Marion became our Chief Financial Officer on September 1, 2008. From 2004 to 2008, Ms. Marion served as our Vice President of Accounting. Prior to that, she was the Controller of ePlus Technology, inc., a subsidiary of ePlus, from 1998 to 2004. Ms. Marion is a graduate of George Mason University, where she earned a Bachelor&#8217;s of Science degree in Business Administration with a concentration in Accounting.

Steven J. Mencarini , joined us in June 1997. On September 1, 2008, he became our Senior Vice President of Business Operations. Prior to that, he served as our Chief Financial Officer. Prior to joining us, Mr. Mencarini was Controller of the Technology Management Group of Computer Sciences Corporation (CSC). Mr. Mencarini joined CSC in 1991 as Director of Finance and was promoted to Controller in 1996. Mr. Mencarini is a graduate of the University of Maryland and received a Masters of Taxation from American University in 1985.

&#160;

