 ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

General 

FleetCor is a leading independent global provider of fuel cards, commercial payment and data solutions, lodging and transportation management services, stored value solutions, and workforce payment products and services to businesses, retailers, commercial fleets, major oil companies, petroleum marketers and government entities in countries throughout North America, Latin America, Europe, Australia and New Zealand. Our payment programs enable our customers to better manage and control their commercial payments, card programs, and employee spending and provide card-accepting merchants with a high volume customer base that can increase their sales and customer loyalty. We also provide a suite of fleet related and workforce payment solution products, including mobile telematics services, fleet maintenance management and employee benefit and transportation related payments. In 2015, we processed approximately 1.9 billion transactions on our proprietary networks and third-party networks (which includes approximately 1.3 billion transactions related to our SVS product, acquired with Comdata, Inc. (&#147;Comdata&#148;)). We believe that our size and scale, geographic reach, advanced technology and our expansive suite of products, services, brands and proprietary networks contribute to our leading industry position. 

We provide our payment products and services in a variety of combinations to create customized payment solutions for our customers and partners. In order to deliver our payment programs and services and process transactions, we own and operate proprietary &#147;closed-loop&#148; networks through which we electronically connect to merchants and capture, analyze and report customized information. We also use third-party networks to deliver our payment programs and services in order to broaden our card acceptance and use. To support our payment products, we also provide a range of services, such as issuing and processing, as well as specialized information services that provide our customers with value-added functionality and data. Our customers can use this data to track important business productivity metrics, combat fraud and employee misuse, streamline expense administration and lower overall workforce and fleet operating costs. 

We market our fleet payment products directly to a broad range of commercial fleet customers, oil companies, petroleum marketers and government entities. Among these customers, we provide our products and services to commercial fleets of all sizes. These fleets include small and medium commercial fleets, which we believe represent an attractive segment of the global commercial fleet market given their relatively high use of less efficient payment products, such as cash and general purpose credit cards. We also manage commercial fleet card programs for major oil companies, such as British Petroleum (BP) (including its subsidiary Arco), Chevron and Shell, and over 900 petroleum marketers. 

We distribute our commercial payment solutions through direct and indirect channels to businesses of all sizes and types across a broad number of industry verticals, including retail, healthcare, construction and hospitality. Our indirect channel includes a broad range of value-added resellers (VARs) and other referral partners. 

We refer to these major oil companies, leasing companies, petroleum marketers, VARs and other referral partners with whom we have strategic relationships as our &#147;partners.&#148; These partners collectively maintain hundreds of thousands of end-customer relationships with commercial fleets, commercial payment solutions customers and other businesses. 

FleetCor&#146;s predecessor company was organized in the United States in 1986. 

Our products and services 

We collectively refer to our suite of product offerings as workforce productivity enhancement products for commercial businesses. We sell a range of customized fleet and lodging payment programs directly and indirectly to our customers through partners, such as major oil companies, leasing companies and petroleum 

&#160;

marketers. We provide our customers with various card products that typically function like a charge card to purchase fuel, lodging, food, toll, transportation and related products and services at participating locations. We support these cards with specialized issuing, processing and information services that enable us to manage card accounts, facilitate the routing, authorization, clearing and settlement of transactions, and provide value-added functionality and data, including customizable card-level controls and productivity analysis tools. Depending on our customers and partners needs, we provide these services in a variety of outsourced solutions ranging from a comprehensive &#147;end-to-end&#148; solution (encompassing issuing, processing and network services) to limited back office processing services. 

Our broad suite of commercial payment solutions with vertical-specific applications enable our corporate customers to manage and control electronic payments across their enterprise, optimize corporate spending and offer innovative services that increase employee efficiency and customer loyalty. Our commercial payment solutions offer integrated components that create a powerful combination of robust payment functionality, deep business insights and comprehensive technical capabilities and support services. 

In addition, we offer a telematics solution that combines global positioning, satellite tracking and other wireless technology to allow fleet operators to monitor the capacity utilization and movement of their vehicles and drivers. We also provide a vehicle maintenance service offering that helps fleet customers to better manage their vehicle maintenance, service, and repair needs in the U.K. In Mexico, we offer primarily prepaid fuel and food vouchers and cards that may be used as a form of payment in restaurants, grocery stores and gas stations. We market these payment products to small, medium and large businesses, which provide these cards and vouchers to their employees as benefits, as well as a tool to manage fuel expenses. We offer a similar workforce payment product in Brazil related to public transportation and toll vouchers. Additionally in Brazil, we have designed proprietary equipment which, when installed at the fueling site and on the vehicle and combined with our processing system, significantly reduces the likelihood of unauthorized and fraudulent transactions. We offer this product to over-the-road trucking fleets, shipping fleets and other operators of heavily industrialized equipment, including sea-going vessels, mining equipment, agricultural equipment, and locomotives. Other than our fuel card products and services, no other products or services accounted for 10% or more of consolidated revenues in any of the last three fiscal years. 

Networks 

In order to deliver our payment programs and services, we own and operate proprietary closed-loop networks in North America and internationally. We also utilize the networks of our major oil and petroleum marketer partners in certain markets. Our networks have well-established brands in local markets and proprietary technology that enable us to capture, transact, analyze and report value-added information pertinent to managing and controlling employee spending. Examples of our networks include: 

North America proprietary closed-loop networks 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Fuelman network &#151;our primary proprietary fleet card network in the United States. We have negotiated card acceptance and settlement terms with over 11,000 individual merchants, providing the Fuelman network with approximately 56,000 fueling sites and over 29,000 maintenance sites across the country. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Comdata Network &#151;our network of truck stops and fuel merchants for the over-the-road trucking industry. We have negotiated card acceptance and settlement terms at over 6,900 truck stops and fuel merchants across the United States and Canada. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Corporate Lodging Consultants network (CLC) &#151;our proprietary lodging network in the United States and Canada. The CLC Lodging network includes approximately 17,400 hotels. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Commercial Fueling Network (CFN) &#151;our &#147;members only&#148; fueling network in the United States and Canada. The CFN network is composed of over 2,500 fueling sites, each of which is owned by a CFN 

&#160;

&#160; member, and the majority of which are unattended cardlock facilities. The CFN network provides fuel card authorization, transaction processing and cardlock site branding for over 230 independent petroleum marketers. Through a CFN affiliation, petroleum marketers can offer commercial fleets an integrated fuel card solution with access to over 56,000 locations via FleetCor&#146;s Fuelman network. 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Marcus &#151;our proprietary fleet management telematics solution serving customers primarily in the United States and Canada. The Marcus solution provides fleet management services to more than 100,000 devices across North America. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Pacific Pride Fueling Network (PacPride) &#151;our branded fueling network in the United States composed of over 1,000 fueling sites, each of which is franchisee owned. Our franchisees join PacPride to provide network access to their fleet customers and benefit from fleet card volume generated by our other franchisees&#146; fleet customers fueling at their locations. In 2015, PacPride launched the PrideAdvantage fleet card providing fleet customers of franchisees access to over 56,000 locations via FleetCor&#146;s Fuelman network. International proprietary closed-loop networks 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Allstar network &#151;our proprietary fleet card network in the United Kingdom. We have negotiated card acceptance and settlement terms with approximately 2,600 individual merchants, providing this network with over 7,600 fueling sites. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Keyfuels network &#151;our proprietary fleet card network in the United Kingdom. We have negotiated card acceptance and settlement terms with more than 480 individual merchants, providing the Keyfuels network with over 2,600 fueling sites. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; CCS network &#151;our primary proprietary fleet card network in the Czech Republic and Slovakia. We have negotiated card acceptance and settlement terms with several major oil companies on a brand-wide basis, including Agip, Benzina, OMV and Shell, and with approximately 1,300 other merchants, providing the CCS network with over 2,400 fueling sites and over 1,100 other sites accepting our cards. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Petrol Plus Region (PPR) network &#151;our primary proprietary fleet card network in Russia, Poland, Ukraine, Belarus, Kazakhstan and Moldova. We have negotiated card acceptance and settlement terms with over 650 individual merchants, providing the PPR network with approximately 11,200 fueling sites across the region. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Efectivale network &#151;our proprietary fuel and food card and voucher networks in Mexico. We have negotiated acceptance and settlement terms with over 44,000 individual merchants, providing the Mexican network with over 4,000 fueling sites, 36,000 food locations and 4,000 restaurants. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; CTF network &#151;our proprietary fuel controls network in Brazil. We have partnerships with BR Distribuidora (Petrobas) and Ipiranga Distribuidora, retail oil distributors, as well as other fuel providers, in Brazil. CTF&#146;s processing system works at over 1,700 highway fueling sites through these partnerships and is integrated with two main banks, Banco Bradesco and Banco Itau. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; 1link service network &#151;our proprietary maintenance and repair network in the United Kingdom. The 1link network processes transactions for fleet customers through more than 9,000 service centres across the United Kingdom. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; RODOCRED network &#151;our proprietary toll network in Brazil. The RODOCRED network processes toll transactions for more than 65,000 customers on all toll roads across Brazil. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; VB Distribution system &#151;our proprietary distribution network in Brazil for transportation cards, meal/grocery cards, and fuel cards. The VB distribution network distributes cards for more than 26,000 clients and negotiates with more than 1,300 public transportation agencies across Brazil. &#160;

Third-Party networks 

In addition to our proprietary &#147;closed-loop&#148; networks, we also utilize various third-party networks to deliver our payment programs and services. Examples of these networks include: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; MasterCard network &#151;In the United States and Canada, we issue corporate cards that utilize the MasterCard payment network, which includes over 176,000 fuel sites and 522,000 maintenance locations. Our co-branded MasterCard corporate cards, virtual card corporate payment solution, purchasing cards, T&#38;E cards and multi-use cards have additional purchasing capabilities and can be accepted at over 10.3 million locations throughout the United States and Canada. We market these cards to customers who require card acceptance beyond our proprietary merchant locations. The MasterCard network delivers the ability to capture value-added transaction data at the point-of-sale and allows us to provide customers with fleet controls and reporting comparable to those of our proprietary fleet card networks. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Major oil and fuel marketer networks &#151;The proprietary networks of branded locations owned by our major oil and petroleum marketer partners in both North America and internationally are generally utilized to support the proprietary, branded card programs of these partners. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; UTA network &#151;UNION TANK Eckstein GmbH &#38; Co. KG (UTA) operates a network of over 52,000 points of acceptance in 40 European countries, including more than 37,000 fueling sites. The UTA network is generally utilized by European transport companies that travel between multiple countries. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; DKV network &#151;DKV operates a network of over 58,500 fleet card-accepting locations across more than 40 countries throughout Europe. The DKV network is generally utilized by European transport companies that travel between multiple countries. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Carnet networks &#151;In Mexico, we issue fuel cards and food cards that utilize the Carnet payment network, which includes over 11,000 fueling sites, over 31,000 food locations and over 500,000 restaurants across the country. Customers and distribution channels 

We provide our fleet products and services primarily to trucking companies, commercial fleet customers and our major oil company and petroleum marketer partners. Our commercial fleet customers are businesses that operate fleets comprised of one or more vehicles, including small fleets (1-10 vehicles), medium fleets (11-150 vehicles), large fleets (over 150 vehicles), and government fleets (which are owned and operated by governments). We also provide services through strategic relationships with our partners, ranging in size from major oil companies, such as British Petroleum (BP) (including its subsidiary, Arco), Chevron and Shell, to smaller petroleum marketers with as little as a single fueling location. While we refer to companies with whom we have strategic relationships as &#147;partners,&#148; our legal relationships with these companies are contractual, and do not constitute legal partnerships. 

We distribute our fleet products and services directly to trucking companies and commercial fleet customers as well as through our major oil company and petroleum marketer partners. We provide comprehensive &#147;end-to-end&#148; support for our direct card programs that include issuing, processing and network services. We manage and market the fleet card programs of our partners under our partners&#146; own brands. We support these programs with a variety of business models ranging from fully outsourced card programs, which include issuing, processing and network services, to card programs where we may only provide limited back office processing services. These supporting services vary based on our partners&#146; needs and their own card program capabilities. 

We primarily provide issuing, processing and information services to our major oil company partners, as these partners utilize their proprietary networks of branded locations to support their card programs. In addition, we provide network services to those major oil company partners who choose to offer a co-branded MasterCard as 

&#160;

part of their card program. Our agreements with our major oil company partners typically have initial terms of five to ten years with current remaining terms ranging from two to seven years. No single partner represented more than 10% of our consolidated revenue in 2015, 2014 or 2013. 

We provide similar fleet products and services to government fleet customers as we provide to other commercial fleet customers. Our government fleet customers generally constitute local, state or federal government-affiliated departments and agencies with vehicle fleets, such as police vehicle fleets and school bus fleets. We provide food, fuel, toll and transportation cards and vouchers to commercial businesses, fleets and governmental agencies. 

We distribute our commercial payment solutions through direct and indirect channels to businesses of all sizes and types across a broad number of industry verticals. We serve customers across numerous industry verticals, such as retail, healthcare, construction and hospitality as well as general commercial payment services in energy, entertainment, insurance and trade finance. We provide our commercial payment solutions under contracts with our customers. Terms such as exclusivity, mandatory minimum contract payments and pricing terms vary based on scope of use, usage volumes, incentives and contract duration. When our commercial payment solutions include short term credit, our contracts for those solutions contain credit and collection terms. Contracts for our commercial stored value solutions include a description and pricing for our services and deliverables associated with those solutions. 

For a description of our financial information by our North America and International segments and geographical areas, see &#147;Note 15&#151;Segments.&#148; 

Sales and marketing 

We market our products and services to fleet operators and businesses in North America and internationally through multiple channels including field sales, telesales, direct marketing, point-of-sale marketing and the internet. We also leverage the sales and marketing capabilities of our strategic relationships with over 900 oil companies, petroleum marketers, card marketers, leasing companies, VARs and other referral partners. We employ sales and marketing employees worldwide that are focused on acquiring new customers for all of our direct business card programs, select card programs for oil companies, petroleum marketers and other services to fleets. We also utilize tradeshows, advertising and other awareness campaigns to market our products and services. 

In marketing our products and services, we emphasize the size and reach of our acceptance networks, the benefits of our purchasing controls and reporting functionality and a commitment to high standards of customer service. 

We utilize proprietary and third-party databases to develop our prospect universe, and segment those prospects by various characteristics, including industry, geography, fleet size and credit score, to identify potential customers. We develop customized offers for different types of potential customers and work to deliver those offers through the most effective marketing channel. We actively manage prospects across our various marketing channels to optimize our results and avoid marketing channel conflicts. 

Our primary means of acquiring new customers include: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Field sales &#151;Our direct sales team includes field sales representatives, who conduct face-to-face sales presentations and product demonstrations with prospects, assist with post-sale program implementation and training and provide in-person account management. Field sales representatives also attend and manage our marketing at tradeshows. Our field sales force is dedicated to fleet products and other services and generally targets fleets with more than 15 vehicles or cards. Our field sales force for corporate payment solutions targets large and mid-sized businesses primarily in the United States. We also have small field sales teams targeting large and medium sized retailers as prospective customers of our stored value products in the Americas, Asia-Pacific and Europe. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Telesales &#151;We have telesales representatives handling inbound and outbound sales calls. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Our inbound call volume is primarily generated as a result of marketing activities, including, direct marketing, point-of-sale marketing and the web. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Our outbound phone calls typically target fleets that have expressed an initial interest in our services or have been identified through database analysis as prospective customers. Our telesales teams generally target fleets with 15 or fewer vehicles or cards. We also leverage our telesales channel to cross-sell additional products to existing customers. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; For corporate payment solutions, our direct channel telesales group targets smaller businesses, provides cross-sale support and runs our vendor enrollment program that targets our commercial payment customer&#146;s supply-chain partners. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Direct marketing &#151;We market directly to potential fleet customers via mail and email. We test various program offers and promotions, and adopt the most successful features into subsequent direct marketing initiatives. We seek to enhance the sales conversion rates of our direct marketing efforts by coordinating timely follow-up calls by our telesales teams. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Point-of-sale marketing &#151;We provide marketing literature at the point-of-sale within our proprietary networks and those of major oil companies and petroleum marketers. Literature may include &#147;take-one&#148; applications, pump-top advertising and in-store advertising. Our point-of-sale marketing leverages the branding and distribution reach of the physical merchant locations. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Internet marketing &#151;We manage numerous marketing websites around the world and purchase both banner and pay-per-click advertisements. Our marketing websites tend to fall into two categories: product-specific websites and marketing portals. Our Web advertisements focus on key words and sites frequently used by our target customers. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Product-specific websites &#151;Our product-specific websites, including fuelman.com, cfnnet.com, checkinncard.com and keyfuels.co.uk, focus on one or more specific products, provide the most in-depth information available online regarding those particular products, allow prospects to apply for cards online (where appropriate) and allow customers to access and manage their accounts online. We manage product-specific websites for our own proprietary card programs as well as card programs of select oil companies and petroleum marketers. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Marketing portals &#151;Our marketing portals, including fleetcardsUSA.com and fuelcards.co.uk, serve as information sources for fleet operators interested in fleet card products. In addition to providing helpful information on fleet management, including maintenance, tax reporting and fuel efficiency, these websites allow fleet operators to research card products, compare the features and benefits of multiple products, and identify the card product which best meets the fleet manager&#146;s needs. Our exclusive FleetMatch&#153; technology matches an operator&#146;s information, including fleet size, geographic span of operations and fuel type usage, to the benefits and features of our various fleet card products and provides a customized product recommendation to the fleet manager. As part of our internet marketing strategy, we monitor and modify our marketing websites to improve our search engine rankings and test our advertising keywords to optimize our pay-per-click advertising spend among the major internet search firms such as Google and Yahoo. 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Strategic relationships &#151;We have developed and currently manage relationships with over 900 oil companies, independent petroleum marketers, card marketers and leasing companies. Our major oil company and petroleum marketer relationships offer our payment processing and information management services to their fleet customers in order to establish and enhance customer loyalty. Our card programs for major oil companies and petroleum marketers carry their proprietary branding and may or may not be accepted in one of our merchant networks. We benefit from the marketing efforts of major oil companies and petroleum marketers with whom we have strategic relationships to attract customers to their fueling locations. We manage the fleet card sales and marketing efforts for several major oil companies across the full spectrum of channels, including field sales, telesales, direct marketing, point-of-sale marketing and internet marketing. In these cases, we establish dedicated sales 

&#160;

&#160; and marketing teams to focus exclusively on marketing the products of major oil companies and petroleum marketers. Our major oil company relationships include some of the world&#146;s largest oil companies such as BP, Chevron and Shell. Through our leasing company relationships, we offer our payment processing, vehicle maintenance and information management services to their fleet customers as part of the leasing company&#146;s broader package of fleet services. Our leasing company relationships all reside outside of North America, and we view these relationships as an important strategic growth area. 

Our indirect channel includes a broad range of VARs and other referral partners that expand our reach into smaller businesses, new industry verticals and new geographies faster and at a significantly lower cost. We provide our commercial payment solutions, third-party processing services and other fleet services to these partners who offer our services under our brands or their own brands on a &#147;white-label&#148; basis. For example, we provide healthcare payment solutions through healthcare networks, corporate payment solutions through software and services providers and payroll card solutions through payroll service providers. 

Account management 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Customer service, account activation, account retention. We provide account management and customer service to our customers. Based in dedicated call centers across our key markets, these professionals handle transaction authorizations, billing questions and account changes. Customers also have the opportunity to self-service their accounts through interactive voice response and online tools. We monitor the quality of the service we provide to our customers by adhering to industry standard service levels with respect to abandon rates and answer times and through regular agent call monitoring. We also conduct regular customer surveys to ensure customers are satisfied with our products and services. In addition to our base customer service support, we provide the following specialized services: &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Implementation and activation &#151;We have dedicated implementation teams that are responsible for establishing the system set-up for each customer account. These teams focus on successful activation and utilization of our new customers and provide training and education on the use of our products and services. Technical support resources are provided to support the accurate and timely set-up of technical integrations between our proprietary processing systems and customer systems (e.g., payroll, enterprise resource planning and point-of-sale). Larger accounts are provided dedicated program managers who are responsible for managing and coordinating customer activities for the duration of the implementation. These program managers are responsible for the successful set-up of accounts to meet stated customer objectives. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Strategic account management &#151;We assign designated account managers who serve as the single point of contact for our large accounts. Our account managers have in-depth knowledge of our programs and our customers&#146; operations and objectives. Our account managers train customer administrators and support them on the operation and optimal use of our programs, oversee account setup and activation, review online billing and create customized reports. Our account managers also prepare periodic account reviews, provide specific information on trends in their accounts and work together to identify and discuss major issues and emerging needs. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Account retention &#151;We have proprietary, proactive strategies to contact customers who may be at risk of terminating their relationship with us. Through these strategies we seek to address service concerns, enhance product structures and provide customized solutions to address customer issues. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Customer service &#151; Day-to-day servicing representatives are designated for customer accounts. These designated representatives are responsible for the daily service items and issue resolution of customers. These servicing representatives are familiar with the nuanced requirements and specifics of a customer&#146;s program. Service representatives are responsible for customer training, fraud disputes, card orders, card maintenance, billing, etc. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Merchant network services &#151;Our representatives work with merchants such as fuel and vehicle maintenance providers to enroll them in one of our proprietary networks, install and test all network and terminal software and hardware and train them on the sale and transaction authorization process. In addition, our representatives provide transaction analysis and site reporting and address settlement issues. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Call center program administrator &#151;Off-hour call center support is provided to customers to handle time-sensitive requests and issues outside of normal business hours. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Management tools &#151; We offer a variety of online servicing tools that enable companies to identify and provide authority to program administrators to self-service their accounts. Additionally, we provide cardholder support for individuals utilizing our payment tools, such as fleet, T&#38;E, gift cards, and stored value payroll cards. This support enables cardholders the ability to activate cards, check balances, and resolve issues in a timely and effective fashion. Cardholder support is conducted 24-hours a day, seven-days per week in multiple languages utilizing telephony, web and call center technologies to deliver comprehensive and cost effective servicing. We have rigorous operational metrics in place to increase cardholder responsiveness to corporate and customer objectives. 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Credit underwriting and collections. We follow detailed application credit review, account management, and collections procedures for all customers of our payment solutions. We use multiple levers including billing frequency, payment terms, spending limits and security to manage risk in our portfolio. For the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014, our bad debt expense was $24.6 million and $24.4 million, respectively. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; New account underwriting . We use a combination of quantitative, third-party credit scoring models and judgmental underwriting to screen potential customers and establish appropriate credit terms and spend limits. Our underwriting process provides additional scrutiny for large credit amounts and we utilize tiered credit approval authority among our management. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Prepaid and secured accounts . We also offer products and services on a prepaid or fully-secured basis. Prepaid customer accounts are funded with an initial deposit and subsequently debited for each purchase transacted on the cards issued to the customer. Fully-secured customer accounts are secured with cash deposits, letters of credit and/or insurance bonds. The security is held until such time as the customer either fails to pay the account or closes its account after paying outstanding amounts. Under either approach, our prepaid and fully-secured offerings allow us to market to a broader universe of prospects, including customers who might otherwise not meet our credit standards. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Monitoring and account management. We use fraud detection programs, including both proprietary and third party solutions, to monitor transactions and prevent misuse of our products. We monitor the credit quality of our portfolio periodically utilizing external credit scores and internal behavior data to identify high risk or deteriorating credit quality accounts. We conduct targeted strategies to minimize exposure to high risk accounts, including reducing spending limits and payment terms or requiring additional security. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Collections . As accounts become delinquent, we may suspend future transactions based on our risk assessment of the account. Our collections strategy includes a combination of internal and outsourced resources which use both manual and dialer-based calling strategies. We use a segmented collection strategy which prioritizes higher risk and higher balance accounts. For severely delinquent, high balance accounts we may pursue legal remedies. Competition 

We face considerable competition in our business. The most significant competitive factors in our business are the breadth of product and service features, network acceptance size, customer service and account management 

&#160;

and price. We believe that we generally compete favorably with respect to each of these factors. However, we may experience competitive disadvantages with respect to each of these factors from time to time as potential customers prioritize or value these competitive factors differently. As a result, a specific offering of our products and service features, networks and pricing may serve as a competitive advantage with respect to one customer and a disadvantage for another based on the customers&#146; preferences. 

We compete with independent fleet card providers, providers of card and employee benefit outsourcing services and major financial services companies as well as major oil companies and petroleum marketers that issue their own fleet cards. We also compete with providers of alternative payment mechanisms, such as financial institutions that issue corporate and consumer credit cards, and merchants offering house accounts as well as other forms of credit. Our largest independent fleet card and workforce productivity solutions competitors include WEX Inc., U.S. Bank Voyager Fleet Systems Inc., Electronic Funds Source LLC, World Fuel Services Corporation, Embratec, Edenred, Sodexo, Inc., Alelo, Ebbon-Dacs, Fleet on Demand, Radius, STP and GoodCard. 

Our corporate payments business competes with large financial institutions and American Express. Such entities will often offer extended payment terms as well as more broadly packaged treasury management services. In highly competitive situations, we differentiate our business primarily based upon the utilization of both open and proprietary payment networks, integrated process flows and aggressive vendor enrollment programs which all in turn allow for faster and deeper accounts payable penetration and greater savings on accounts payable spend. Our business competes on ease of program integration, reporting and data, customer rebates, cardholder features, payment terms and network acceptance. 

The competitive landscape for open-loop stored value cards is fragmented with entities playing different roles and going to market with different distribution strategies. Program managers include companies such as First Data Corporation, Fidelity National Information Services, Inc., Global Cash Card, Unirush and Skylight Financial, which is owned by Total System Services, Inc. Payroll companies offering stored value solutions include companies such as Automatic Data Processing, Inc., Paychex, Inc. and Heartland Payment Systems, Inc. Additionally, financial institutions offer stored value products as part of a broader suite of treasury management services or as direct-to-consumer replacements for traditional credit or debit cards (referred to as general purpose reloadable products). Such institutions include Bank of America, Citibank, J.P. Morgan Chase, PNC Bank, U.S. Bank and Wells Fargo Bank. We do not offer a consumer funded general purpose reloadable card, but rather focus on corporate customers utilizing payroll cards to ease their administration and provide a value-added benefit to their employees. 

We primarily compete with a number of national companies in providing closed-loop gift cards, the largest of which include First Data Corporation and Vantiv, Inc. We also compete with businesses that rely on in-house solutions. We compete for stored value solutions business on the basis of breadth of services, systems, technology, customer service and price. 

We also compete with a number of companies in the telematics space, the largest of which include Fleetmatics, Omnitracs, Trimble, Danaher, Zonar, Verizon, TomTom, Digicore, Transics and Fleetlogic. 

Technology 

Our technology provides continuous authorization of transactions, processing of critical account and client information and settlement between merchants, issuing companies and individual commercial entities. We recognize the importance of state-of-the-art, secure, efficient and reliable technology in our business and have made significant investments in our applications and infrastructure. In 2015, we spent more than $100 million in capital and operating expenses to operate, protect and enhance our technology and expect to continue the build out of our proprietary processing platform in Europe and Asia, as well as the integration of our recently acquired businesses. 

&#160;

Our technology function is based in the United States, Europe and Brazil and has expertise in the management of applications, transaction networks and infrastructure. We operate application development centers in the United States, United Kingdom, Netherlands, Russia, Czech Republic, Brazil and New Zealand. Our distributed application architecture allows us to maintain, administer and upgrade our systems in a cost-effective and flexible manner. We integrate our systems with third-party vendor applications for certain products, sales and customer relationship management and back-office support. Our technology organization has undertaken and successfully executed large scale projects to develop or consolidate new systems, convert oil company and petroleum marketer systems and integrate acquisitions while continuing to operate and enhance existing systems. 

Our technology infrastructure is supported by best-in-class, highly-secure data centers, with redundant locations. We operate six primary data centers, located in Atlanta, Georgia, Brentwood, Tennessee, Prague, Czech Republic, Las Vegas, Nevada, Louisville, Kentucky and Moscow, Russia. We use only proven technology and have no foreseeable capacity limitations. Our systems align with industry standards for security with multiple industry certifications. Our network is configured with multiple layers of security to isolate our databases from unauthorized access. We use security protocols for communication among applications, and our employees access critical components on a need-only basis. As of December 31, 2015, we have not experienced any data security breaches. 

We maintain disaster recovery and business continuity plans. Our telecommunications and internet systems have multiple levels of redundancy to ensure reliability of network service. In 2015, we experienced 99.99% up-time for authorizations. 

Proprietary processing systems 

We operate several proprietary processing systems that provide the features and functionality to run our card programs and product offerings, including our card issuing, processing and information services. Our processing systems also integrate with our proprietary networks, which provide brand awareness and connectivity to our acceptance locations that enables the &#147;end-to-end&#148; card acceptance, data capture and transaction authorization capabilities of our card programs. Our proprietary processing systems and aggregation software are tailored to meet the unique needs of the individual markets they serve and enable us to create and deliver commercial payment solutions and stored value programs that serve each of our industry verticals and geographies. Our technology platforms are primarily comprised of four key components, which were primarily developed and are maintained in-house: (1) a core processing platform; (2) specialized software; (3) integrated network capabilities; and (4) a cloud based architecture with proprietary APIs. 

Intellectual property 

Our intellectual property is an important element of our business. We rely on trademark, copyright, trade secret, patent and other intellectual property laws, confidentiality agreements, contractual provisions and similar measures to protect our intellectual property. Our employees involved in technology development in some of the countries in which we operate, including the United States, are required to sign agreements acknowledging that all intellectual property created by them on our behalf is owned by us. We also have internal policies regarding the protection, disclosure and use of our confidential information. Confidentiality, license or similar agreements or clauses are generally used with our business partners and vendors to control access, use and distribution of our intellectual property. Unauthorized persons may attempt to obtain our intellectual property despite our efforts and others may develop similar intellectual property independently. We own trade names, service marks, trademarks and registered trademarks supporting a number of our brands, such as FleetCor, Fuelman, FleetNet, Global FleetNet, FleetCards USA, Comdata, Comchek , SVS, CFN, NexTraq, CrewView, and Mannatec in the United States. We also own trademarks and registered trademarks in various foreign jurisdictions for a number of our brands, such as Keyfuels, The Fuelcard Company, CCS, iMonitor, Transit Card, Allstar, Epyx, 1link, PPR, NKT, CTF, CardLink, and Efectivale. We hold a number of patents and pending applications relating to payment card, fuel tax returns and telematics inventions. 

&#160;

Acquisitions 

Since 2002, we have completed over 65 acquisitions of companies and commercial account portfolios. Acquisitions have been an important part of our growth strategy, and it is our intention to continue to seek opportunities to increase our customer base and diversify our service offering through further strategic acquisitions. For a discussion of recent acquisitions, see &#147;Management&#146;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Conditions and Results of Operations&#151;Acquisitions&#148;. 

Regulatory 

A substantial number of laws and regulations, both in the United States and in other jurisdictions, apply to businesses offering payment cards to customers or processing or servicing for payment cards and related accounts. These laws and regulations are often evolving and sometimes ambiguous or inconsistent, and the extent to which they apply to us is at times unclear. Failure to comply with regulations may result in the suspension or revocation of licenses or registrations, the limitation, suspension, or termination of services, and/or the imposition of civil and criminal penalties, including fines. Certain of our services are also subject to rules set by various payment networks, such as MasterCard, as more fully described below. 

The following, while not exhaustive, is a description of several federal and state laws and regulations in the United States that are applicable to our business. The laws and regulations of other jurisdictions also affect us, and they may be more or less restrictive than those in the United States and may also impact different parts of our operations. In addition, the legal and regulatory framework governing our business is subject to ongoing revision, and changes in that framework could have a significant effect on us. 

Money Transmission and Payment Instrument Licensing Regulations 

We are subject to various U.S. laws and regulations governing money transmission and the issuance and sale of payment instruments relating to certain aspects of our business. In the United States, most states license money transmitters and issuers of payment instruments. Through our subsidiaries, we are licensed in 46 states. Many states exercise authority over the operations of our services related to money transmission and payment instruments and, as part of this authority, subject us to periodic examinations, which may include a review of our compliance practices, policies and procedures, financial position and related records, privacy and data security policies and procedures, and other matters related to our business. Some state agencies conduct periodic examinations and issue findings and recommendations as a result of which we make changes to our operations, such as improving our reporting processes, detailing our intercompany arrangements, and implementing new or revising existing policies and procedures such as our anti-money laundering and OFAC compliance program and complaints management process, and improvements to our documentation processes. 

As a licensee, we are subject to certain restrictions and requirements, including net worth and surety bond requirements, record keeping and reporting requirements, requirements for regulatory approval of controlling stockholders, and requirements to maintain certain levels of permissible investments in an amount equal to our outstanding payment obligations. Many states also require money transmitters and issuers of payment instruments to comply with federal and/or state anti-money laundering laws and regulations. Many states require prior approval for an indirect change of control of the licensee and certain other corporate events. 

Government agencies may impose new or additional requirements on money transmission and sales of payment instruments, and we expect that compliance costs will increase in the future for our regulated subsidiaries. 

Privacy and Information Security Regulations 

We provide services that may be subject to privacy laws and regulations of a variety of jurisdictions. Relevant federal privacy laws include the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999, which applies directly to a broad range of financial institutions and indirectly, or in some instances directly, to companies that provide services to financial institutions. These laws and regulations restrict the collection, processing, storage, use and disclosure of personal 

&#160;

information, require notice to individuals of privacy practices and provide individuals with certain rights to prevent the use and disclosure of protected information. These laws also impose requirements for safeguarding and proper destruction of personal information through the issuance of data security standards or guidelines. In addition, there are state laws restricting the ability to collect and utilize certain types of information such as Social Security and driver&#146;s license numbers. Certain state laws impose similar privacy obligations as well as obligations to provide notification of security breaches of computer databases that contain personal information to affected individuals, state officers and consumer reporting agencies and businesses and governmental agencies that own data. To the extent that we offer our services outside the United States, we are also required to comply with various foreign laws and regulations relating to privacy and information security, some of which are more stringent than the laws in the United States. 

Certain of our products that access payment networks require compliance with Payment Card Industry (&#147;PCI&#148;) standards. Our subsidiary, Comdata Inc., is PCI 2.0 compliant and its Attestation of Compliance is listed on MasterCard&#146;s compliant service provider listing. Failure to maintain compliance with updates to PCI data security standards including having effective technical and administrative safeguards and policies and procedures could result in fines and assessments from payment networks and regulatory authorities, as well as litigation. 

Federal Trade Commission Act 

All persons engaged in commerce, including, but not limited to, us and our bank sponsors and customers are subject to Section 5 of the Federal Trade Commission Act prohibiting unfair or deceptive acts or practices, and certain products are subject to the jurisdiction of the CFPB regarding the prohibition of unfair, deceptive, or abusive acts and practices (both, collectively, UDAAP). Various federal and state regulatory enforcement agencies including the Federal Trade Commission (&#147;FTC&#148;), Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (&#147;CFPB&#148;) and the state attorneys general have authority to take action against businesses, merchants and financial institutions that engage in UDAAP or violate other laws, rules and regulations. If we violate such laws, rules and regulations, we may be subject to enforcement actions and as a result, may incur losses and liabilities that may impact our business. A number of state laws and regulations also prohibit unfair and deceptive business practices. 

Truth in Lending Act 

The Truth in Lending Act, or TILA, was enacted to increase consumer awareness of the cost of credit and is implemented by Regulation Z. Most provisions of TILA and Regulation Z apply only to the extension of consumer credit, but a limited number apply to commercial cards as well. One example where TILA and Regulation Z are generally applicable is a limitation on liability for unauthorized use, although a business that acquires 10 or more credit cards for its personnel can agree to more expansive liability. Our cardholder agreements generally provide for these business customers to waive, to the fullest extent possible, all limitations on liability for unauthorized card use. 

Credit Card Accountability, Responsibility, and Disclosure Act of 2009 

The Credit Card Accountability, Responsibility, and Disclosure Act of 2009 amended provisions of TILA that affect consumer credit and also directed the Federal Reserve Board to study the use of credit cards by small businesses and to make legislative recommendations. The report concluded that it is not clear whether the potential benefits outweigh the increased cost and reduced credit availability if the disclosure and substantive restrictions applicable to consumer cards were to be applied to small business cards. Legislation has been introduced, from time to time, to increase the protections afforded to small businesses that use payment cards. If legislation of this kind were enacted, our products and services for small businesses could be adversely impacted. 

Equal Credit Opportunity Act 

The Equal Credit Opportunity Act, or ECOA, together with Regulation B prohibit creditors from discriminating on certain prohibited bases, such as an applicant&#146;s sex, race, nationality, age and marital status, and further requires that creditors disclose the reasons for taking any adverse action against an applicant or a customer seeking credit. 

&#160;

The Fair Credit Reporting Act 

The Fair Credit Reporting Act, or FCRA, regulates consumer reporting agencies and the disclosure and use of consumer reports. We may obtain consumer reports with respect to an individual who guarantees or otherwise is obligated on a commercial card. 

FACT Act 

The Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act of 2003 amended FCRA and requires creditors to adopt identity theft prevention programs to detect, prevent and mitigate identity theft in connection with covered accounts, which can include business accounts for which there is a reasonably foreseeable risk of identity theft. 

Anti-Money Laundering and Counter Terrorist Regulations 

The Currency and Foreign Transactions Reporting Act (the BSA), which is also known as the Bank Secrecy Act and which has been amended by the USA PATRIOT Act of 2001, contains a variety of provisions aimed at fighting terrorism and money laundering. Our business in Canada is also subject to Proceeds of Crime (Money Laundering) and Terrorist Financing Act, or the PCTFA, which is a corollary to the BSA. Among other things, the Bank Secrecy Act and implementing regulations issued by the U.S. Treasury Department require financial-services providers to establish anti-money laundering programs, to not engage in terrorist financing, to report suspicious activity, and to maintain a number of related records. 

Through certain subsidiaries, we are registered money services businesses. As a result, we have established anti-money laundering compliance programs that include: (i) internal policies and controls; (ii) designation of a compliance officer; (iii) ongoing employee training; and (iv) an independent review function. We have developed and implemented compliance programs comprised of policies, procedures, systems and internal controls to monitor and address various legal requirements and developments. 

In addition, provisions of the BSA known as the Prepaid Access Rule issued by the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network of the U.S. Department of the Treasury (FinCEN) impose certain obligations, such as registration and collection of consumer information, on &#147;providers&#148; of certain prepaid access programs, including the stored value products issued by our sponsor banks for which we serve as program manager. FinCEN has taken the position that, where the issuing bank has principal oversight and control of such prepaid access programs, no other participant in the distribution chain would be required to register as a provider under the Prepaid Access Rule. Despite this position, we have opted to register as a provider of prepaid access through our subsidiary, Comdata Inc. We are also subject to certain economic and trade sanctions programs that are administered by the Treasury Department&#146;s Office of Foreign Assets Control, or OFAC, that prohibit or restrict transactions to or from or dealings with specified countries, their governments and, in certain circumstances, their nationals, narcotics traffickers, and terrorists or terrorist organizations. 

Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act 

The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010, or the Dodd-Frank Act, effected comprehensive revisions to a wide array of federal laws governing financial institutions, financial services, and financial markets. Among its most notable provisions is the creation of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau or CFPB, which is charged with regulating consumer financial products or services and which is assuming much of the rulemaking authority under TILA, ECOA, FCRA, and other federal laws affecting the extension of credit. In addition to rulemaking authority over several enumerated federal consumer financial protection laws, the CFPB is authorized to issue rules prohibiting UDAAP by persons offering consumer financial products or services and their service providers, and has authority to enforce these consumer financial protection laws and CFPB rules. The CFPB has not defined what is a consumer financial product or service but has indicated informally that, in some instances, small businesses may be covered under consumer protection. 

&#160;

As a service provider to certain of our bank sponsors, we are subject to direct supervision and examination by the CFPB, in connection with certain of our products and services. CFPB rules, examinations and enforcement actions may require us to adjust our activities and may increase our compliance costs. 

In addition, the Durbin Amendment to the Dodd-Frank Act provided that interchange fees that a card issuer or payment network receives or charges for debit transactions will now be regulated by the Federal Reserve and must be &#147;reasonable and proportional&#148; to the cost incurred by the card issuer in authorizing, clearing and settling the transaction. Payment network fees may not be used directly or indirectly to compensate card issuers in circumvention of the interchange transaction fee restrictions. In July 2011, the Federal Reserve published the final rules governing debit interchange fees. Effective in October 2011, with certain exemptions debit interchange rates are capped at $0.21 per transaction with an additional component of five basis points of the transaction&#146;s value to reflect a portion of the issuer&#146;s fraud losses plus, for qualifying issuing financial institutions, an additional $0.01 per transaction in debit interchange for fraud prevention costs. In March 2014, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia overturned the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia&#146;s July 2013 ruling that held the Federal Reserve&#146;s regulations implementing the Durbin Amendment invalid. While the Court of Appeals upheld most of the Federal Reserve&#146;s implementing regulations, the Court has remanded to the Federal Reserve for further explanation of its regulations regarding transactions-monitoring costs. Regardless of the outcome of the litigation, the cap on interchange fees is not expected to have a material direct impact on our results of operations because we qualify for an exemption for the majority of our debit transactions. 

The implementation of the Dodd-Frank Act is ongoing, and as a result, its overall impact remains unclear. Its provisions, however, are sufficiently far reaching that it is possible that we could be further directly or indirectly impacted. 

Anti-Bribery Regulations 

The FCPA prohibits the payment of bribes to foreign government officials and political figures and includes anti-bribery provisions enforced by the Department of Justice and accounting provisions enforced by the SEC. The statute has a broad reach, covering all U.S. companies and citizens doing business abroad, among others, and defining a foreign official to include not only those holding public office but also local citizens affiliated with foreign government-run or -owned organizations. The statute also requires maintenance of appropriate books and records and maintenance of adequate internal controls to prevent and detect possible FCPA violations. 

Payment card industry rules 

Partner banks issuing payment cards bearing the MasterCard brand, and FleetCor to the extent that we provide certain services in connection with those cards and fleet customers acting as merchants accepting those cards, must comply with the bylaws, regulations and requirements that are promulgated by MasterCard and other applicable payment-card organizations, including the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard developed by MasterCard and VISA, the MasterCard Site Data Protection Program and other applicable data-security program requirements. A breach of such payment card network rules could subject us to a variety of fines or penalties that may be levied by the payment networks for certain acts or omissions. The payment networks routinely update and modify their requirements. Our failure to comply with the networks&#146; requirements or to pay the fines they impose could cause the termination of our registration and require us to stop processing transactions on their networks. 

We are also subject to network operating rules promulgated by the National Automated Clearing House Association relating to payment transactions processed by us using the Automated Clearing House Network. 

&#160;

Escheat Regulations 

Certain of our subsidiaries are subject to unclaimed or abandoned property (escheat) laws in the United States that require them to turn over to certain government authorities the property of others they hold that has been unclaimed for a specified period of time such as payment instruments that have not been presented for payment and account balances that are due to a customer following discontinuation of its relationship with such subsidiaries. Certain of our subsidiaries are subject to audit by individual U.S. states with regard to their escheatment practices. 

Prepaid Card Regulations 

Prepaid card programs managed by us are subject to various federal and state laws and regulations, in addition to those identified above, including the Credit Card Accountability Responsibility and Disclosure Act of 2009 and the Federal Reserve&#146;s Regulation E, which impose requirements on general-use prepaid cards, store gift cards and electronic gift certificates. These laws and regulations are evolving, unclear and sometimes inconsistent and subject to judicial and regulatory challenge and interpretation, and therefore the extent to which these laws and rules have application to, and their impact on us, is in flux. At this time we are unable to determine the impact that the clarification of these laws and their potential application and future interpretations, as well as new laws, may have on us in a number of jurisdictions. The CFPB is expected to promulgate additional regulations regarding general-purpose prepaid cards. The substance and implementation dates of such additional rulemaking may result in additional compliance obligations and expense for our business. 

State usury laws 

Extensions of credit under many of our card products may be treated as commercial loans. In some states, usury laws limit the interest rates that can be charged not only on consumer loans but on commercial loans as well. To the extent that these usury laws apply, we are limited in the amount of interest that we can charge and collect from our customers. Because we have substantial operations in multiple jurisdictions, we utilize choice of law provisions in our cardholder agreements as to the laws of which jurisdiction to apply. In addition, the interest rates on certain of our card products are set based upon the usury limit of the cardholder&#146;s state. With respect to card products where we work with a partner or issuing bank, the partner bank may utilize the law of the jurisdiction applicable to the bank and &#147;exports&#148; the usury limit of that state in connection with cards issued to residents of other states or we may use our choice of law provisions. 

Other 

We are subject to examination by our sponsor banks&#146; regulators, and must comply with certain regulations to which our sponsor banks are subject, as applicable. We are subject to audit by certain sponsor banks. 

The Housing Assistance Tax Act of 2008 requires information returns to be made for each calendar year by merchants acquiring entities and third-party settlement organizations with respect to payments made in settlement of electronic payment transactions and third-party payment network transactions occurring in that calendar year. Reportable transactions are also subject to backup withholding requirements. We are required to comply with these requirements for the merchants in our Comdata network. We could be liable for penalties if our information return is not in compliance with these regulations. 

Employees and labor relations 

As of December 31, 2015, we employed approximately 5,330 employees, approximately 2,660 of whom were located in the United States. We consider our employee relations to be good and have never experienced a work stoppage. 

&#160;

Additional Information 

Our website address is www.fleetcor.com . You may obtain free electronic copies of our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to such reports required to be filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, at our website under the headings &#147;Investor Relations&#151;SEC Filings.&#148; 

&#160;

ITEM X. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT 

The following table sets forth certain information regarding our executive officers, with their respective ages as of December 31, 2015. Our officers serve at the discretion of our board of directors. There are no family relationships between any of our directors or executive officers. 

&#160;

Name 

&#160; Age 

&#160; &#160; Position(s) 

Ronald F. Clarke &#160; &#160; 60 &#160; &#160; Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board of Directors Eric R. Dey &#160; &#160; 56 &#160; &#160; Chief Financial Officer Kurt Adams &#160; &#160; 46 &#160; &#160; President&#151;Comdata Corporate Payments Andrew R. Blazye &#160; &#160; 57 &#160; &#160; President&#151;International Corporate Development John S. Coughlin &#160; &#160; 48 &#160; &#160; Executive Vice President&#151;Global Corporate Development Timothy J. Downs &#160; &#160; 58 &#160; &#160; President&#151;Corporate Lodging Consultants Charles Freund &#160; &#160; 43 &#160; &#160; Executive Vice President&#151;Global Sales Alexey Gavrilenya &#160; &#160; 39 &#160; &#160; President&#151;Continental Europe Todd W. House &#160; &#160; 44 &#160; &#160; President&#151;North America Direct Issuing, U.S. Telematics and Efectivale David D. Maxsimic &#160; &#160; 56 &#160; &#160; President&#151;North America Partners Armando Netto &#160; &#160; 47 &#160; &#160; President&#151;Brazil John A. Reed &#160; &#160; 61 &#160; &#160; Global Chief Information Officer Gregory Secord &#160; &#160; 53 &#160; &#160; President&#151;Comdata North America Trucking Ronald F. Clarke has been our Chief Executive Officer since August 2000 and was appointed Chairman of our board of directors in March 2003. From 1999 to 2000, Mr. Clarke served as President and Chief Operating Officer of AHL Services, Inc., a staffing firm. From 1990 to 1998, Mr. Clarke served as chief marketing officer and later as a division president with Automatic Data Processing, Inc., a computer services company. From 1987 to 1990, Mr. Clarke was a principal with Booz Allen Hamilton, a global management consulting firm. Earlier in his career, Mr. Clarke was a marketing manager for General Electric Company, a diversified technology, media, and financial services corporation. 

Eric R. Dey has been our Chief Financial Officer since November 2002. From October 2000 to October 2002, Mr. Dey served as Chief Financial Officer of NCI Corporation, a call center company. From July 1999 to October 2000, Mr. Dey served as Chief Financial Officer of Leisure Time Technology, a software development/manufacturing company. From 1994 to 1999, Mr. Dey served as Corporate Controller with Excel Communications, a telecommunications service provider. From 1984 to 1994, Mr. Dey held a variety of financial and accounting positions with PepsiCo, Inc., a global beverage, snack and food company. 

Kurt Adams joined us in September 2015 as our President&#151;Comdata Corporate Payments. Prior to joining us, Mr. Adams was most recently President, Corporate Payments Solutions for U.S. Bancorp. Prior to that, Mr. Adams led strategy and planning for NOVA Information Systems (now Elavon &#150; a U.S. Bancorp subsidiary) in Europe. Prior to his career in payments, Mr. Adams enjoyed a successful investment banking career with Piper Jaffray. 

Andrew R. Blazye has served as our President&#151;International Corporate Development since 2012. From July 2007 to May 2012, Mr. Blazye served as our Chief Executive Officer&#151;FleetCor Europe. From April 2006 to June 2007, Mr. Blazye was a Group Director for Dunnhumby Ltd., a research firm. From September 1980, to March 2006, Mr. Blazye held various positions with Shell International Ltd., a subsidiary of Royal Dutch Shell plc, a global energy company, including Global Payments General Manager. 

John S. Coughlin has served as our Executive Vice President&#151;Global Corporate Development since September 2010. From 2007 to 2010, Mr. Coughlin served as a Managing Director at PCG Capital Partners, a private equity firm. From 2005 to 2006, Mr. Coughlin served as Chief Executive Officer of NCDR LLC, a private equity owned national dental practice management company. From 1994 to 2005, Mr. Coughlin was with The Parthenon 

&#160;

Group, a strategic advisory and principal investment firm, where he was a Senior Partner and the founder and head of the firm&#146;s San Francisco office. From 1990 to 1992, Mr. Coughlin was an investment banker with Credit Suisse First Boston.

Timothy J. Downs joined us as President&#151;Corporate Lodging Consultants in connection with our acquisition of CLC Group, Inc. in April 2009. Prior to joining us, Mr. Downs held various positions with Corporate Lodging Consultants, including Vice President Technology from May 1999 to September 2004 and as Executive Vice President Operations from September 2004 to April 2009. 

Charles Freund was named our Executive Vice President&#151;Global Sales in January 2016 and has been with us since 2000. Prior to his current role, Mr. Freund was serving as our Executive Vice President &#151;Corporate Strategy since December 2014. From December 2010 to December 2014, Mr. Freund served as our President&#151;Emerging Markets. From January 2009 to December 2010, Mr. Freund served as our Senior Vice President&#151;Corporate Strategy. From June 2006 to December 2008, Mr. Freund served as our Managing Director&#151;The Fuelcard Company UK Limited. Prior to June 2006, Mr. Freund served as our Vice President of Business Development. 

Alexey Gavrilenya was named President&#151;Continental Europe in February 2016, adding to his responsibilities as President&#151;Central/Eastern Europe announced in January 2016. Mr. Gavrilenya has been President, Eastern Europe since May 2011, where he has been responsible for PPR and NKT. From March 2009 to April 2011, Mr. Gavrilenya served as our Executive Vice President Strategy and Finance, Eastern Europe. Prior to joining us, Mr. Gavrilenya was CFO of Matarex, Ltd. 

Todd W. House has been our President&#151;North America Direct Issuing, U.S. Telematics and Efectivale since November 2015. Prior to this, Mr. House served as the president for several of our businesses throughout North America and Mexico, after joining us in April 2009 as our Chief Operating Officer. From 2007 to 2009, Mr. House held various positions, including Chief Financial Officer with Axiant, LLC, a provider of financial services and recovery management solutions. From 2005 to 2007, Mr. House was Vice President and Chief Credit Officer with Carmax, Inc., an automobile retailer. Mr. House was at Capital One from 1993-2004 in a variety of leadership roles, most recently VP Credit Risk Management. 

David D. Maxsimic was named President&#151;North America Partners in November 2015. Mr. Maxsimic joined us in January 2015 as our Group CEO&#151;UK and Australasia. Prior to joining us, Mr. Maxsimic held various positions at WEX (also known as Wright Express) from 1997 to 2014, including President International, executive vice president of sales and marketing, senior vice president of sales, and vice president and general manager for Wright Express Direct Card. Prior to WEX, Mr. Maxsimic served as senior sales executive for several major fleet service companies, including U.S. Fleet Leasing, GE Capital Fleet Services, and PHH Fleet America. Mr. Maxsimic has over 25 years of experience in sales, marketing and managing customer relationships, in addition to managing and executing sales of complex financial services. 

Armando Netto joined us in June 2014 as our President&#151;Brazil. Prior to joining us, Mr. Netto led IT Services for TIVIT, an IT and BPO services company, from 2006 to 2014, where he led the integration of functional areas into the business unit, focused on onboarding new clients and ensured service quality. Prior to TIVIT, Mr. Netto held various leadership roles with Unisys and McKinsey, where he gained international experience in Europe supporting clients in the UK, France, Austria, Portugal and the Netherlands. 

John A. Reed has been our Global Chief Information Officer over product development and IT operations since 2013. From 2000 to 2009, Mr. Reed served various technology leadership roles at MBNA/Bank of America, Zurich Insurance and Unisys. From 1997 to 2000, Mr. Reed was the President and Managing Director for Business Innovations Inc., a financial services technology consulting company. 

Gregory Secord joined us in July 2015 as our President&#151;Comdata North America Trucking. Prior to joining us, Mr. Secord worked with ADP, where he was President&#151;ADP Canada operations. Prior to his 20 year career with ADP, Mr. Secord held sales and marketing management roles with Canon and Xerox. 

&#160;

