 Item 1. Business. 

Overview

We are a clinical-stage pharmaceutical company focused on discovering and developing novel small molecule oncology drugs directed against tumor and immune cell targets that control key metabolic pathways in the tumor microenvironment. Tumor metabolism and immuno-oncology have emerged as promising new fields for cancer drug discovery, and recent clinical successes with therapeutic agents in each field have demonstrated the potential to create fundamentally new therapies for cancer patients. We are developing agents that take advantage of the unique metabolic requirements of tumor cells and cancer-fighting immune cells such as cytotoxic T-cells. Our lead product candidate, CB-839, is an internally discovered, first-in-class oral inhibitor of glutaminase, a critical enzyme in tumor cells. CB-839 has been shown to have activity in animals alone and, when given in combination, to enhance the activity of both conventional approved therapies and recently approved immuno-oncology agents. We are currently evaluating CB&#8209;839 in three Phase 1 clinical trials in solid and hematological tumors. CB-839 administered as a single agent has resulted in clinical responses in renal cell cancer and acute myeloid leukemia and clinical benefit in several other tumor types. We are currently enrolling patients in a series of combination drug Phase 1b cohorts in specific solid tumor types and AML. We are also planning to evaluate the immune-enhancing activity of CB-839 in a separate Phase 1/2 trial beginning in 1H16. Our second product candidate, CB-1158, is a first-in-class oral inhibitor of arginase, an enzyme that depletes the amino acid arginine, a key metabolic nutrient for T-cells. A Phase 1 clinical trial with CB-1158 will be initiated in the second half of 2016, following the filing of an Investigational New Drug, or IND, application in mid-year. We also have ongoing research efforts that are focused on discovering additional product candidates against novel tumor metabolism and immunology targets.

Our lead product candidate, CB-839, takes advantage of the pronounced dependency many cancers have on the nutrient glutamine for growth and survival. CB-839 inhibits glutaminase, an enzyme required by cancer cells to utilize glutamine effectively. In preclinical studies, CB-839 demonstrated broad antitumor activity in tumor cell lines, inhibited the growth of human tumors in animal models and was well tolerated in toxicity studies. CB-839 was also synergistic with several approved cancer therapeutics that are part of the current standard of care.

Inhibition of glutaminase also results in accumulation of glutamine, the substrate of glutaminase, in tumors. Glutamine, which is frequently depleted in the tumor microenvironment due to avid uptake by tumor cells, has been shown to be an important nutrient for T-cell growth. Administration of CB-839 to tumor-bearing animals substantially enhances the anti-tumor activity of checkpoint inhibitors, potentially by restoring the levels of glutamine in the tumor microenvironment and thereby enabling T-cells to proliferate. Checkpoint inhibitors, including the approved agents nivolumab (marketed as Opdivo) and pembrolizumab (marketed as Keytruda), are a class of immuno-oncology (I-O) agents directed against programmed death protein-1 (PD-1) or programmed death ligand-1 (PD-L1) that promote the activation and tumor-killing properties of the patient&#8217;s own immune cells, such as cytotoxic T-cells. CB-839 

&#160;

could potentially have a &#8220;one-two punch&#8221; in the treatment of cancer by first starving the tumor cell and second facilita ting the activation of T-cells in the nutrient-deprived tumor microenvironment. 

We are currently conducting three Phase 1 clinical trials of CB-839 in the United States in patients with solid tumors, leukemia, non-Hodgkin&#8217;s lymphoma and multiple myeloma. The purpose of these trials is to evaluate the safety of CB-839 both as a single agent and in combination with approved therapies and to seek preliminary evidence of efficacy. CB-839 has been well tolerated across all three Phase 1 studies when administered twice-daily (BID). An initial observation of Grade 3/4 increases in liver function enzymes was reduced to a rate of &#60;2% with the current regimen. Single agent objective responses have been observed in two patients, one with metastatic renal cell cancer (a Partial Response, or PR) and one with acute myeloid leukemia (a Complete Response with incomplete recovery of peripheral blood counts, or CRi). Furthermore, 60% of patients with renal cell cancer have had stable disease or better, with several patients remaining on study. Stable disease in renal cell cancer patients has often been long lasting, ranging from 63 days to more than 17 months. We have initiated enrollment of patients receiving CB-839 in expansion cohorts in combination with approved standard of care therapies in a number of solid and hematological malignancies. These have been selected based on strong preclinical data showing significantly improved activity of these compounds in combination with CB-839 in vitro and in vivo . Preclinical data of CB-839 in combination with anti-PD-1 and anti-PD-L1 has led to the design of a Phase 1/2 study with a checkpoint inhibitor to begin in 1H16. Pending input from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or the FDA, on the results of our Phase 1 trials, we plan to initiate one or more randomized, placebo-controlled Phase 2 clinical trials, likely in 2017, to study CB-839 in combination with approved conventional therapies and/or checkpoint inhibitors.

We believe CB-839 has the potential to be an important new therapeutic agent with a novel mechanism of action for the treatment of a broad range of cancers and is the only selective glutaminase inhibitor currently in clinical trials. Our clinical program seeks to identify cancers that will be most sensitive to CB-839 to allow the greatest benefit for patients and to pursue the most efficient path to regulatory approval. We currently retain all commercial rights to CB-839 and have been granted a U.S. patent which includes composition of matter coverage for CB-839 through 2032. 

Our second product candidate, CB-1158, is a potent and selective orally bioavailable inhibitor of the enzyme arginase. Arginase depletes arginine, a nutrient that is critical for the activation and proliferation of the body&#8217;s cancer-fighting immune cells, such as cytotoxic T-cells and natural killer (NK)-cells. During normal activation of the immune system, arginase, which is expressed by suppressive myeloid immune cells, plays an important role in halting T-cell proliferation. But in many tumors, including lung, gastrointestinal, bladder, renal cancer and acute myeloid leukemia, arginase-expressing myeloid cells accumulate and maintain an immunosuppressive environment, blocking the ability of T-cells and NK-cells to kill cancer cells. We believe that inhibitors of arginase can promote an anti-tumor immune response by restoring arginine levels, thereby allowing activation of the body&#8217;s own immune cells, including cytotoxic T-cells and NK-cells. In December 2014, we entered into an exclusive global license agreement with Mars Symbioscience granting Calithera rights to research, develop and commercialize Symbioscience&#8217;s portfolio of arginase inhibitors. Calithera has developed an orally bioavailable small molecule, CB-1158, which is a potent inhibitor of arginase. The compound has single agent activity in animals that is mediated by T-cells and NK cells of the immune system and it enhances the activity of other I-O agents in vivo in animal studies. 

We have a third program directed towards the development of inhibitors of the tumor metabolism target hexokinase II. A defining characteristic of most cancer cells is their increased uptake of glucose. Cancer cells use glucose in a different manner than normal cells, but an obligate first step in all glucose utilizing pathways is phosphorylation of glucose by the enzyme hexokinase. Due to their higher glucose needs, cancer cells frequently increase the level of this critical enzyme, specifically the isoform hexokinase II. We believe inhibitors of hexokinase II will significantly impede the ability of cancer cells to survive and proliferate and may lead to new approaches in treating cancer . Our new program in hexokinase II inhibitors was in-licensed from TransTech Pharma and we seek to identify and advance a drug candidate into clinical development. We will provide additional details on our development plans and timelines in the near future as we undertake pre-clinical studies to profile our portfolio of hexokinase II inhibitors.

Our Strategy

Our goal is to build a leading independent biopharmaceutical company. We intend to leverage our expertise to discover, develop and commercialize cancer therapies targeting tumor and immune cell metabolism pathways to treat patients with unmet medical needs. We intend to achieve our goal by:

Pursuing a clinical development program for CB-839 that takes advantage of its unique mechanism of action and its ability to combine with approved therapies including immuno-oncology therapies. CB-839 is an inhibitor of glutaminase, a tumor metabolism target that, based on our preclinical studies with cancer cell lines and animal tumor models, has been shown to be important for growth and survival of tumors across a broad range of tumor types. Due to CB-839&#8217;s novel mechanism of action, preclinical synergistic activity with existing anti-cancer agents, responses in renal cell cancer and AML and favorable clinical safety profile to date, we believe CB-839 has the potential to treat various cancers when used in combination with approved therapies. We plan to pursue a broad development program for CB-839 focused on three distinct and significant opportunities: 

&#160;

&#160;

&#183; 

CB-839 in combination with conventional approved agents in triple-negative breast cancer, renal cell, lung and colorectal cancers, &#160;

&#160;

&#183; 

CB-839 in combination with azacitidine in acute myeloid leukemia and 

&#160;

&#183; 

CB-839 in combination with a checkpoint inhibitor in renal cell cancer, lung cancer and melanoma. 

Each of the combinations we are testing has strongly supportive preclinical data and pre-established go/no go criteria. Several of the combination agents have very low expected response rates on their own in the patient population being tested; therefore, it is anticipated that these trials will inform the design of subsequent Phase 2 or 3 randomized, placebo-controlled trials with conventional or I-O agents. We will select indications for further clinical development of CB-839 with the goal of obtaining regulatory approvals in the United States and the European Union. We believe this broad product development program provides the best opportunity to maximize the commercial value of CB-839.

Pursuing efficient clinical development programs to enable rapid regulatory approval of CB-839. We are currently conducting three Phase 1 trials of CB-839 in solid and hematological tumors, with a fourth trial in renal cell cancer, non-small cell lung cancer and melanoma beginning in 1H16. We are evaluating CB-839 together with conventional or I-O agents in specific tumor types that we believe may be most sensitive based on the results of our preclinical studies. Some of these tumor types may offer the potential for rapid development pathways. In addition, we have identified certain biomarkers that may predict which patients will be sensitive to treatment with CB-839 in combination with specific agents. 

Maximizing the commercial value of CB-839. We currently retain full global development, marketing and commercialization rights for CB-839 and we expect to maintain those rights in the near future. As we further develop CB-839, we may seek partners to maximize the commercial opportunity of CB&#8209;839 outside the United States. 

Advancing CB-1158, our first-in-class arginase inhibitor, into Phase 1. We plan to file an IND in mid-2016 to enable a Phase 1 study of CB-1158 alone and in combination with checkpoint inhibitors. Arginase is an enzyme that depletes arginine, which is a naturally occurring amino acid that is critical for the activation and proliferation of the body&#8217;s cancer-fighting cytotoxic T-cells and NK cells. By inhibiting arginase with CB-1158, we can prevent the depletion of arginine and enhance the tumor killing activity of cytotoxic T-cells and NK-cells. 

Advancing our first-in-class hexokinase II inhibitor into clinical development. We have expanded our portfolio of pre-clinical programs and further leveraged our expertise in tumor metabolism with the licensing of inhibitors of hexokinase II, which we believe is the first and rate-limiting enzyme in the pathway that enables cancer cells to convert glucose to energy and building blocks that feed cancer cell growth. We believe we can rapidly advance hexokinase II inhibitors into the clinic to become our third potential first-in-class therapy for cancer patients. 

Further developing our pipeline by leveraging our expertise in tumor biology, drug discovery and clinical development. Our team has significant expertise in the discovery, development and approval of small molecule oncology drugs. In addition, we have accumulated significant experience and understanding of tumor metabolism and tumor immunology and are applying our medicinal chemistry capabilities to identify small molecules that exploit these pathways. We plan to continue to leverage our expertise to discover and develop additional product candidates, advance those product candidates through clinical testing, and, if approved, ultimately commercialize meaningful therapies for patients with cancer. 

&#160;

Our Research and Development Programs 

The following table summarizes our ongoing and planned clinical trials through 2016 for our lead programs in tumor metabolism and tumor immunology. We also intend to develop additional product candidates from our research and discovery efforts in these fields. 

The Evolution of Cancer Therapeutic Agents

Cancer is characterized by the uncontrolled growth of aberrant cells in the body, leading to the invasion of essential organs and often death. Unlike normal cells, which grow only in response to carefully regulated signals from the body, cancer cells are able to proliferate largely without external signals. Cancer cells have gained this ability as the result of genetic alterations that change protein expression or function. Invasive tumors, also known as metastatic tumors, which are the greatest threat to patients, typically have multiple mutations, deletions or amplifications of genes encoding key proteins that regulate cell growth. These alterations allow the cancer cell to grow, invade other tissues, and avoid recognition and destruction by the body&#8217;s immune system.

Initially, the pharmacological treatment of cancer utilized non-specific cytotoxic agents that targeted all rapidly dividing cells, including normal cells. These non-specific cytotoxic agents have anti-tumor effects but their use is often limited by severe toxicities. As the understanding of the proteins and pathways that enable cancer cells to thrive has evolved, newer more targeted agents have been developed that block specific proteins that are activated in cancer cells. Targeted therapies are often highly effective for cancers that are driven by a single mutated protein, known as a driver mutation. However, use of targeted agents for tumors bearing multiple deleterious mutations has been less successful. Furthermore, certain proteins such as Ras and Myc, which are frequently mutated or activated in cancer and are clear driver mutations, are targets for which a drug has yet to be developed. This has created a need to identify additional fundamental differences between cancer cells and normal cells in order to find new drugs that broadly affect critical growth and survival mechanisms in cancer cells.

Tumor metabolism and tumor immunology represent two emerging fields for the development of therapeutics that can address the challenges presented in treating cancers with multiple mutations or with mutations that are difficult to inhibit. Certain fundamental changes in the metabolic pathways of cancer cells are observed in many cancer types with different mutational backgrounds. Therapeutic agents that can take advantage of these changes in metabolism have the potential to act broadly against many cancers. Similarly, genetically diverse tumor types have developed mechanisms to escape destruction by the body&#8217;s immune system. Pharmacological activation of the immune system with agents such as ipilimumab (marketed as Yervoy) and nivolumab (marketed as Opdivo), has resulted in favorable outcomes in melanoma, non-small cell lung cancer and renal cell cancer. Long-term, durable responses have been seen in many patients. We believe additional opportunities exist to develop novel therapeutics that can further enhance the cancer-fighting ability of the immune system, either as single agents, or in combination with approved therapeutics.

Rationale for Targeting Tumor Cell Metabolism

Cancer cells acquire the ability to grow rapidly and spread to new sites in the body by accumulating genetic alterations in important genes that control growth and survival. These same genetic changes also result in altered metabolic pathways within the cancer cells that fuel the high demand for energy and the production of new proteins, lipids, RNA and DNA needed for rapid 

&#160;

proliferation. We and others have observed that many types of cancer cells develop a unique dependence on specific metabolic pa thways upon which normal cells are not reliant. Accordingly, when these metabolic pathways are blocked, cancer cells are essentially starved of critical nutrients and stop growing or die, whereas normal cells are largely unaffected. 

Alterations in the fundamental metabolic pathways of tumors often cause a dramatic rise in the uptake of the nutrients glucose and glutamine as shown in the diagram below. This has been directly demonstrated in cancer patients by the use of glucose and glutamine-related tumor imaging agents. Uptake of these agents is often significantly greater in tumor tissue than in surrounding normal tissue. We believe this enhanced uptake of glucose and glutamine by tumors occurs because of their greater need for these nutrients for growth and survival.

The primary goal of drugs targeting tumor metabolism pathways is to take advantage of cancer-specific nutrient dependencies to block cancer growth. Changes in cellular metabolism are remarkably consistent across many tumor types, yet fundamentally different from normal cells, providing the potential to develop broadly applicable agents that target these altered pathways, but have less toxicity than standard cytotoxic agents.

Rationale for Targeting Immune Cell Metabolism

The immune system has evolved in higher organisms to recognize self from non-self. Immune surveillance is the process whereby the body identifies pathogens as well the abnormal cells that are infected with viruses or have become cancerous. The immune system has a number of mechanisms that recognize differences between cell surface components on abnormal cells that are new or are modified from those of normal cells. Upon recognition of &#8220;foreign&#8221; cells, a number of processes are activated to allow the direct attack and clearance of abnormal cells. However, excessive or inappropriate activation of the immune system can have negative consequences such as autoimmune disease, inflammation, and rejection of a fetus. Compensatory inhibitory mechanisms have evolved to control excessive inflammatory activity by dampening the immune stimulation. These immunostimulatory and immunoinhibitory mechanisms provide a constant balance that is thought to result, under most circumstances, in the identification and clearance of infected or cancerous cells without excessive stimulation. Mutated cells that successfully evade immune surveillance do so, in part, by blocking or reducing immunostimulatory and/or enhancing immunoinhibitory activities. Immuno-oncology therapies are in development that interfere with mechanisms that tumors have used to evade immune surveillance. Immune checkpoint proteins including PD&#8209;1, PD-L1 and CTLA-4 are specific molecules on tumor cells and T-cells that reduce the ability of T-cells to accomplish cytotoxic killing of tumor cells. Antibodies to PD-1, PD-L1 and CTLA-4, known as checkpoint inhibitors, block these molecules and allow T&#8209;cells to become activated and to kill tumor cells. These agents have allowed substantial, long-term benefit to a subset of patients. 

Activated T-cells have specific nutritional requirements that are often not available within the tumor microenvironment including, in specific tumors, tryptophan, glutamine, and arginine, as shown in the diagram below. Each of these nutrients is depleted within the microenvironment by a different mechanism. Tryptophan is depleted by the action of indolamine dioxygenase, or IDO, an enzyme found in dendritic cells, certain other immune cells, and occasionally in tumors themselves. Glutamine depletion results from the avid uptake of this amino acid by tumor cells that have a very high requirement of this nutrient for growth and survival. Arginine 

&#160;

is cleared directly from the tumor environment by arginase secreted from myeloid-derived suppressor cells, or MDSCs, and n eutrophils. The end result of each of these mechanisms has been shown to be loss of T-cell or NK-cell activation and/or proliferation, resulting in the blunting of the immune response to tumor cells. 

Calithera is developing agents that are aimed at supporting the nutritional needs of T-cells and NK cells for glutamine and arginine, allowing the proliferation and activation of quiescent T-cells. This program is analogous to the effect of IDO on the availability of tryptophan in the tumor microenvironment. We plan to evaluate both CB-839 and CB-1158 in combination with immune therapies during clinical development. 

&#160;

Our Programs

Our Glutaminase Program&#8212;a Dual Tumor Metabolism and Immuno-Oncology Target 

It has been understood for more than 50 years that most cancer cells require glutamine to thrive. Removal of glutamine leads to a substantial reduction in cell growth or induces cell death in glutamine-dependent cancer cells. Normal cells do not show this pronounced dependence on glutamine. This contrast has prompted significant interest in discovering and developing novel anti-cancer agents that can inhibit glutamine utilization.

Our preclinical studies, as well as those conducted by other researchers, have identified the enzyme glutaminase as a critical choke point in the utilization of glutamine by cancer cells. We have shown in our preclinical studies that the cell lines most sensitive to glutamine withdrawal are also the most sensitive to glutaminase inhibitors. Glutaminase is highly expressed in glutamine-dependent cancer cells and is more highly expressed in many human tumors than in normal tissues. 

Glutaminase converts glutamine to glutamate, an amino acid required by cells for several essential functions. Many cancer cells, unlike normal cells, are dependent upon the enzyme glutaminase to make sufficient amounts of glutamate to grow and survive. This higher dependency upon the glutaminase pathway is likely due to an alternate use of the tricarboxylic acid, or TCA, cycle in cancer cells. The TCA cycle, which is sometimes referred to as the Krebs cycle, is a set of chemicals and chemical reactions that cells use to generate energy. As shown in the diagram above, normal cells primarily use glucose to feed the TCA cycle. In contrast, cancer cells divert many glucose-derived metabolites and several of the chemicals of the TCA cycle to make cellular building blocks to fuel their rapid growth. This depletes chemicals in the TCA cycle and requires the cancer cell to supply more glutamate into the TCA cycle, through a molecule called alpha-ketoglutarate, or &#945;-KG, to replenish these chemicals. Glutaminase inhibition in tumors implanted in animals leads to marked reduction in downstream metabolic intermediates including amino acids, nucleotides and glutathione. This supports our hypothesis that inhibitors of glutaminase can selectively target tumor cells by virtue of their increased dependence on glutaminase to convert glutamine to glutamate to resupply the TCA cycle, which is necessary to support growth and survival.

Dysregulated growth factor receptors and associated downstream signaling pathways in tumor cells are known to act in part to increase glucose utilization. Since these pathways are the targets of a number of approved targeted cancer therapeutic agents, we believe it is possible to rationally combine such agents with a glutaminase inhibitor to block the two main nutrients that promote cancer cell growth, thereby providing an enhanced therapeutic benefit.

As part of the mechanism for mounting an effective immune response, activated T-cells switch their metabolism to enable rapid proliferation. During this period of expansion, T-cell metabolism resembles the metabolism of cancer cells, and the need for both glucose and glutamine increases markedly. The expression of the checkpoint PD-1 on T-cells following activation inhibits the uptake and utilization of glucose and blocks rapid proliferation. The checkpoint inhibitors that block PD-L1 or PD-1 restore the ability of T-cells to utilize glucose. However, T-cells require both glucose and glutamine to proliferate. When tumor-bearing animals 

&#160;

are treated with CB-839, there is a 4-8-fold increase in tumor levels of glutamine. We believe that this accumulation of glutamine has the indirect effect of supplying T-cells and NK cells with a much needed nutrient. Since T-cell proliferation, unlike cancer cell proliferation, is not strongly inhibited by CB-839, we believe that combining CB-839 with inhibitors of the PD-L1/PD-1 checkpoint will support the full activat ion and expansion of cytotoxic immune cells in the nutrient-deprived tumor microenvironment and enhance anti-tumor responses. 

Our Glutaminase Inhibitor CB-839 

CB-839 is a potent, selective, reversible and orally bioavailable inhibitor of human glutaminase. CB-839 binds to a unique site on glutaminase that is distinct from the site that binds glutamine, thereby reducing the potential for undesirable side effects due to inhibition of other enzymes and receptors that bind glutamine. In our preclinical studies, CB-839 has been shown to halt the growth of or kill cancer cells across a range of tumor types. The compound has demonstrated antitumor activity in several different tumor models in animals. In addition, CB-839 has shown strong synergy with immunomodulatory agents and several kinase inhibitors that target growth factor pathways. In preclinical toxicology studies, CB-839 was well tolerated in animals at doses above those shown to inhibit tumor growth. CB-839 has been well-tolerated in Phase 1 studies when administered as a single agent and has shown objective responses in renal cell cancer and acute myeloid leukemia. We believe that CB-839 is the only selective glutaminase inhibitor currently in clinical trials.

Preclinical Activity of CB-839

In our preclinical studies, CB-839 demonstrated antiproliferative and cell killing activity across a panel of tumor cell lines. This same panel of cell lines was also tested for growth or cell death when glutamine was removed from the incubation medium. There was a strong correlation between the response to CB-839 and the effect of glutamine withdrawal. We believe that these results provide evidence for the critical role of glutaminase in the utilization of glutamine to drive tumor cell growth and survival. We also evaluated the metabolic changes that resulted from inhibition of glutaminase in the same panel of cell lines. In the glutamine-dependent cancer cells treated with CB-839, the conversion of glutamine to glutamate was blocked, leading to the accumulation of glutamine and the depletion of glutamate. The loss of cellular glutamate further results in a reduction in downstream metabolites that provide energy and building blocks for the cell, including TCA cycle intermediates, amino acids, and the antioxidant glutathione. We believe that the reduction of the level of these and other metabolites is responsible for the anti-tumor activity observed with CB-839. In tumors implanted in animals, we also observed a 4-8-fold increase in the tumor concentration of glutamine, the substrate of glutaminase. Because many tumor cells consume large quantities of glutamine, an important nutrient for T-cells and NK cells, the tumor microenvironment is thought to be severely depleted of this nutrient. We believe that T-cells and NK cells benefit indirectly from treatment with CB-839 by the increased availability of glutamine in the tumor microenvironment.

At plasma concentrations of CB-839 of 300 nM or above, maximal effects on glutamine and glutamate levels in tumors were observed. In contrast, normal tissues in the same animals showed only small changes in the levels of glutamine and glutamate, despite exposure to high levels of CB-839. We believe that normal cells and tissues can utilize other pathways to produce glutamate, whereas most tumor cells have been genetically re-wired to be highly reliant on glutaminase as their principal source of glutamate. This provides a potential explanation for why high doses of CB-839 are well-tolerated in animals.

In addition to showing single agent activity across a wide range of cells from different tumor types, CB-839 also acted synergistically when combined with drugs that target the Ras/Raf and PI3K/mTOR branches of growth factor signaling pathways. The two agents acting together have a greater effect on the growth and survival of tumor cells than either agent used separately. CB-839 was synergistic with the epidermal growth factor receptor, or EGFR, inhibitor erlotinib (marketed as Tarceva) in NSCLC cells, with the multikinase inhibitors sunitinib (marketed as Sutent), sorafenib (marketed as Nexavar), trametinib (marketed as Mekinist), selumetinib (in development) and pazopanib (marketed as Votrient) and the mTOR inhibitors everolimus (marketed as Afinitor) and temsirolimus (marketed as Toricel) in renal cell carcinoma, or RCC, cells, and with the MEK inhibitor trametinib (marketed as Mekinist) and the AKT inhibitor MK-2206 (in development by Merck) in multiple cancer cell types. We believe these synergistic activities likely result from the fact that, as depicted in the diagram below, growth factor pathways control tumor metabolism and ultimately tumor cell dependence on glutamine and glucose.

&#160;

CB-839 also acted synergistically when combined with I-O drugs that inhibited the PD-1/PD-L1 immune cell checkpoint. CB-839 significantly increased the number of tumor regressions observed in syngeneic mice bearing CT-26 colorectal tumors when used in combination with an anti-PD-1 checkpoint inhibitor, as shown in the figure below. Similar activity was observed when an anti-PD-L1 checkpoint inhibitor was used in combination with CB-839. These results are consistent with in vitro studies on T-cells indicating that high levels of both glucose and glutamine are required for full activation and proliferation of T-cells. Anti PD-1 is known to increase glucose utilization in T-cells, and we believe that CB-839, by blocking tumor consumption of glutamine, increases the concentration of glutamine in the tumor microenvironment to further activate and stimulate the proliferation of T-cells and NK cells.

In IND-enabling toxicity studies in rats and monkeys, CB-839 was well tolerated in both species, with no dose limiting toxicities observed in either study. The plasma concentration of CB-839 measured at the highest dose in rats in these studies was greater than ten-fold above the 300 nM concentration required in mice to achieve maximal effects on glutamine and glutamate levels in tumors and suppress tumor growth. In independent studies, CB-839 was shown to distribute broadly to all tissues except the brain, indicating that glutaminase could be strongly inhibited in normal tissues without causing any major toxicological effects.

Phase 1 Clinical Trials with CB-839

Trial Design

In February 2014, we initiated three Phase 1 clinical trials to assess the safety and tolerability of CB-839 in patients with solid and hematological tumors. CX-839-001 enrolled patients with solid tumors, CX-839-002 enrolled patients with multiple myeloma or non-Hodgkin&#8217;s lymphoma, and CX-839-003 enrolled patients with acute myeloid or acute lymphocytic leukemia. Each 

&#160;

trial had a dose escalation stage, to identify the optimal dose of CB-839, an d an expansion stage, in which cohorts of additional patients with specific tumor types were enrolled to further evaluate the safety of CB-839 and to seek preliminary evidence of efficacy. In addition to single agent cohorts, in 2015 we also initiated enro llment in six Phase 1b combination cohorts, one in which CB-839 is being combined with paclitaxel in patients with triple-negative breast cancer, a second in which CB-839 is combined with everolimus (marketed as Afinitor) in renal cell cancer (RCC), a thir d in which CB-839 is combined with erlotinib (marketed as Tarceva) in patients with EFGR-mutated non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), a fourth in which CB-839 is combined with dexamethasone in patients with multiple myeloma, a fifth in which CB-839 is combi ned with pomalidomide (marketed as Pomalyst) and dexamethasone in patients with multiple myeloma, and a sixth in which CB-839 is combined with azacitidine (marketed as Vidaza) in front-line acute myeloid leukemia. Initial data from our single agent trials and from our combination trial in multiple myeloma were presented in 2015 and we expect to provide additional data from our combination trials in mid-2016. A Phase 1/2 trial, CX-839-004 will be initiated in 1H16 allowing treatment of CB-839 in combination with nivolumab in renal cell cancer, melanoma, and non-small cell lung cancer patients. An investigator sponsored trial at Case Western Reserve University is also planned to start in 2016 and will be enrolling colorectal cancer patients with a PIK3CA mut ation for treatment with a combination of CB-839 and capecitabine. The CB &#8209;839 combination studies are summarized in the table below. 

&#160;

&#160;

CB-839 Phase 1 Trial Status

As of the third quarter of 2015, we enrolled a total of 155 patients across the three ongoing trials, including 138 patients who received CB-839 as a single agent and 17 patients who received CB-839 in combination with other agents. Most patients in these trials were relapsed and refractory to multiple approved therapies. During the dose escalation stage of these trials, CB-839 was administered orally on a TID (three times a day) schedule and monitored the blood levels of CB-839 and the extent of glutaminase inhibition in blood platelets and tumors. Drug concentration generally increased with dose, and increasing concentrations of CB-839 in blood were correlated with increasing inhibition of glutaminase in blood platelets. The half-life of CB-839 in blood was approximately four hours and dosing with food enabled the dose schedule to be modified to a BID (twice-daily) regimen. Pharmacodynamic assays indicated that most of the patients on the 600 mg BID and higher dose level maintained drug exposures sufficient to allow continuous platelet glutaminase inhibition in excess of 90%, a degree of inhibition sufficient for maximal inhibition of tumor growth in animal models. Inhibition of glutaminase activity in tumor biopsy samples from patients in early dose cohorts during dose escalation also demonstrated strong inhibition (75-96%). Based upon the successful pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic evaluation of twice-daily dosing in the solid tumor trial, the 600 mg BID dose was chosen for evaluation in the single agent and combination expansion cohorts on all three studies. The dose of 800mg BID is being further evaluated as a monotherapy and in combinations.

CB-839 has been generally well tolerated across all three studies using doses up to 1000 mg TID or BID. A maximum tolerated dose has not been defined to date on any of the studies. The primary treatment-related toxicities with monotherapy CB-839 that have been observed to date on the CX-839-001 study (N=98) include fatigue, gastrointestinal events (nausea, vomiting, and constipation), elevations in liver function tests (LFTs) and photophobia. The majority of these adverse events have been mild to 

&#160;

moderate (Grade 1/2) in severity. Treatment-related elevations in LFTs have generally been asymptomatic and rapidly reversible upon holding study treatment; the frequency of Grade 3 or greater occurrences have been reduced following the implementation of BID administration (1.5%; N=66) compared to the TID schedule (16%, N=32) . A similar safety profile has been observed on the CX-839-002 and -003 t rials with the exception of a greater incidence of treatment emergent hematological toxicities, generally not considered treatment related. 

CB-839 Phase 1b Expansion Cohorts in Specific Tumor Types

We chose to focus enrollment of single agent and combination expansion cohorts in renal cell carcinoma, triple-negative breast cancer, non-small cell lung cancer, acute myelogenous leukemia, multiple myeloma, and several rare cancers with mutations in TCA cycle enzymes. These tumor types represent areas with significant unmet medical needs, and, based on our preclinical mechanism of action and efficacy studies as single agent and in therapeutic combinations, we believe that they may be particularly attractive indications for further development. The enrollment status of the single agent expansion cohorts is depicted in the diagram below.

Recently, we also agreed to support an investigator-sponsored Phase 1b study in colorectal cancer patients bearing a PIK3CA mutation to be led by Drs. Jennifer Eads, Alok Khorana and Neal Meropol at Case Western Reserve University. 

&#160;

&#160;

Renal Cell Carcinoma (RCC)

According to the National Cancer Institute, renal cell carcinoma is diagnosed in approximately 61,560 people each year in the United States. Approximately 50% of renal cell carcinoma patients will require chemotherapy at some point to treat their metastatic disease.

Most patients with clear cell RCC lack the tumor suppressor gene VHL. Preclinical studies by academic researchers have shown that VHL-deficient cell lines have an increased requirement for glutamine due to a loss of ability to make fatty acids from glucose. Accordingly, we believe that most patients with RCC tumors will have increased susceptibility to inhibition of glutaminase with CB&#8209;839. In RCC cell lines and in animal studies with human RCC tumors implanted in immunocompromised mice, we have demonstrated both single agent activity of CB-839 and activity in combination with approved multi-kinase inhibitors and mTOR inhibitors. CB-839 itself also induces suppression the nutrient-sensing mTOR pathway, likely due to a reduction in cellular amino acids and other key nutrients. 

We are currently evaluating single agent CB-839 in an RCC cohort in the dose expansion stage of our solid tumor Phase 1 clinical trial CX-839-001. As of November 1, 2015, 15 efficacy-evaluable RCC patients were treated with single agent CB-839 on the BID dosing schedule. One patient achieved a Partial Response (PR) with a substantial decrease in target lesions (32%), including a dramatic improvement in the patient&#8217;s extensive lymphadenopathy. A total of 9 patients (60%) showed Stable Disease or better. The 

&#160;

median time to progression in all RCC patients treated was 3.8 months with several patients remaining on study. We are currently enrolli ng a separate cohort of patients who are receiving CB-839 in combination with the mTOR inhibitor everolimus. We expect to report initial data from this cohort in 2016. 

Triple-Negative Breast Cancer (TNBC)

According to the American Cancer Society, over 230,000 new cases of invasive breast cancer will be diagnosed in the United States and approximately 40,000 women will die from the disease in 2016. Between 10% and 20% of newly diagnosed cases of breast cancer are classified as triple-negative breast cancer. TNBC is a subset of breast cancer that lacks the estrogen receptor, the progesterone receptor, and the HER2 receptor. TNBC patients have relatively few treatment options since they lack expression of the targets for hormone- and HER2-based therapeutics. TNBC tends to have a higher rate of metastasis, recurs sooner following first line treatment and has a poorer prognosis and a lower overall survival rate than other subtypes of breast cancer. 

Our preclinical data support the development of CB-839 in TNBC either as a single agent or in combination with standard of care taxanes. The majority of TNBC tumor cell lines we tested underwent cell death in response to CB-839 whereas ER- and HER2-positive breast cancer cell lines were relatively resistant. Sensitivity to CB-839 in TNBC cells was directly correlated with the level of glutaminase expression, making glutaminase expression a potential companion diagnostic in the clinic. CB-839 had anti-tumor activity as a single agent against human breast cancer tumors implanted in animals and in combination with paclitaxel, CB-839 enhanced activity and prevented the re-growth of the tumor following discontinuation of paclitaxel dosing.

In the Phase 1 trial CX-839-001, we enrolled an expansion cohort of refractory TNBC patients treated with CB-839 as a single agent. One patient showed a 23% decrease in target lesions and has remained on study for over 15 months. Of 19 efficacy-evaluable TNBC patients treated with single agent CB-839, 3 patients (15%) maintained Stable Disease lasting over 4 months. We are enrolling a separate cohort of patients who are receiving CB-839 in combination with paclitaxel. We expect to report initial data from this cohort in 2016.

Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC)

According to the American Cancer Society, an estimated 221,200 new cases of lung cancer will be diagnosed in the United States in 2016. Lung cancer typically presents relatively late in its clinical course, when locally directed therapy, such as surgery and radiation, is not curative. The treatment of locally advanced and metastatic lung cancer is a significant unmet medical need.

Most primary NSCLC tumors have been shown to have elevated glutaminase expression and the majority of NSCLC cell lines that we have evaluated were sensitive to the anti-proliferative or cell-killing effects of CB-839. NSCLC cell lines expressing KRAS and EGFR mutations were found to be particularly sensitive to the effects of CB-839 administered as a single agent. We also observed synergistic activity with erlotinib in EGFR-mutated NSCLC cell lines and a combination of CB-839 and erlotinib in EGFR-mutated NSCLC tumors implanted in mice completely suppressed tumor growth. We are currently evaluating single agent CB-839 in NSCLC patients with KRAS-mutant tumors. We are also evaluating the combination of CB-839 and erlotinib in a cohort of NSCLC patients with EGFR-mutated tumors who have failed ongoing therapy with erlotinib. We also plan to enroll NSCLC patients in the combination study of CB-839 and the anti-PD-1 agent nivolumab (see below).

Tumors with TCA Cycle Driver Mutations

There are rare tumors with driver mutations that inactivate two different TCA cycle enzymes, fumarate hydratase (mutated in rare renal cancers) and succinate dehydrogenase (mutated in rare GIST, renal, and pheochromocytomas), leading to accumulation of abnormally high levels of fumarate and succinate. In addition to FH and SDH, there are rare tumors with activating mutations in the enzyme isocitrate dehydrogenase (IDH, mutated in some chondrosarcoma, cholangiocarcinoma AML and glioma tumors)) that lead to the accumulations of 2-hydroxyglutarate. Fumarate, succinate and 2-hydroxyglutarate are drivers of tumor formation when they accumulate at abnormally high levels. Published third-party studies indicate that glutamine metabolism is important in the synthesis of fumarate, succinate and 2-hydroxyglutarate. Therefore, we enrolled patients with tumors carrying one of these mutations on a single agent cohort to test the potential efficacy of CB-839.

As of November 1, 2015, 14, 5 and 4 patients with IDH, SDH and FH mutations, respectively, received CB-839 as a single agent on the BID dosing schedule in the solid tumor trial. Four of 11, 2 of 3, and 2 of 4 evaluable patients in each group, respectively, had Stable Disease lasting up to 9, 4 and 4 months, with some patients still on study. Future development in these rare patient populations is challenging as there are no approved therapies for these tumor types, making it difficult to formulate a combination therapy for further development. 

&#160;

Acute Myelogenous Leukemia (AML) 

The American Cancer Society estimates that approximately 18,860 new cases of AML, most of which will be in adults, will be diagnosed in the United States in 2014. AML is a cancer of the myeloid white blood cells in the bone marrow that in most cases quickly moves into the blood. The incidence of AML dramatically increases after the age of 55, and given the shift in demographics in the population in the Western hemisphere, it is likely that an increased number of elderly individuals will be diagnosed with this form of cancer. About 40% of AML patients are young enough and fit enough to undergo bone marrow transplantation for their AML, half of whom will experience complete remission. Those that are not cured, and the 60% of AML patients who are elderly or unfit for transplant, have a very poor prognosis. 

The median survival for elderly patients with AML is less than a year and worsens continuously with advancing age to as low as one month for those who are older than 85 years of age. Complications, hospitalizations and deaths from cytopenias, or reductions in the number of certain blood cells, are common among the elderly with AML. Over the past two decades, many compounds have been evaluated in elderly patients with AML, but due to significant toxicities and/or lack of efficacy, none has been approved to date. 

Single agent CB-839 has anti-proliferative and pro-apoptotic activity against a set of AML cell lines with diverse genetics, and enhances the activity of azacitidine when used as a combination therapy. 

As of November 9, 2015, 26 relapsed and refractory leukemia patients (25 with AML, 1 with ALL) received CB-839 as a single agent on the Phase 1 CX-839-003 trial. The median age of the AML patients was 75 years. Two AML patients had evidence of blast reductions, with one of the patients, who had been on study for over 15 months, achieving a CRi. Five patients remained on study for at least 4 cycles. We are currently enrolling a combination study of CB-839 and azacitidine in frontline elderly patients who are not eligible for transplant or high-dose chemotherapy.

Multiple Myeloma

Multiple myeloma is a hematological malignancy characterized by the proliferation of monoclonal plasma cells in the bone marrow, the presence of monoclonal immunoglobulin, or M protein, in the blood and/or urine, as well as bone disease, kidney disease, and immunodeficiency. The American Cancer Society estimates that there will be approximately 26,850 new cases of myeloma diagnosed in the United States in 2015.

CB-839 has anti-proliferative activity and induces cell death in a subset of myeloma cell lines. This activity was enhanced when CB-839 was combined with lenalidomide (marketed as Revlimid) or pomalidomide (marketed as Pomalyst), two approved immunomodulatory drugs used to treat myeloma. CB-839 has single agent anti-tumor activity in mice bearing myeloma tumors and, when combined with either lenalidomide or pomalidomide, had long-lasting efficacy that led to complete suppression of myeloma tumor growth. 

Patients with myeloma were evaluated in the dose escalation and expansion stage of the CX-839-002 Phase 1 trial. In the dose escalation and expansion stages of this trial, 9 myeloma patients were treated with increasing doses of single agent CB-839 and in the expansion phase, 5 patients were treated with CB-839 and dexamethasone, and 4 patients were treated with CB-839 and pomalidomide and dexamethasone. Three of the monotherapy patients remained on study for longer than three months with one of those patients remaining on study for longer than 7 months with Stable Disease. One of the heavily pre-treated patients receiving CB-839 with pomalidomide and dexamethasone had a clinically significant reduction in myeloma markers, including serum free light chain and urine M-protein.

After evaluating the patients we have treated to date, in the context of other new therapies being developed in a highly competitive environment, myeloma is currently not a priority indication for further development of CB-839.

PIK3CA-mutated Colorectal Carcinoma (CRC)

The oncogene PIK3CA, which encodes the p110&#945; catalytic subunit of phosphatidylinositol-3-kinase &#945;, is one of the most frequently mutated oncogenes in human cancers. Mutations in PIK3CA are found in approximately 10-20% CRC, which will result in between 13,000 and 26,000 new cases diagnosed in the United States in 2016.

An academic research group at Case Western Reserve University demonstrated that single agent CB-839 inhibits the growth of CRCs with PIK3CA mutations in immunocompromised mice, but CRC tumors with a normal PIK3CA gene were not inhibited. Remarkably, the combination of CB-839 with 5-florouracil induced complete and long-lasting tumor regressions in animals bearing PIK3CA mutant CRC tumors, but not tumors with normal PIK3CA, suggesting that this combinational therapy may be a unique and effective approach in the clinic. These investigators are planning to initiate an Investigator-sponsored clinical trial in 1H16 to be overseen by Drs. Jennifer Eads, Alok Khorana and Neal Meropol and at Case Western.

&#160;

Immuno-Oncology Evaluation of CB-839 with Nivolumab 

Cell lines and tumors that are treated with CB-839 in vitro or in vivo , respectively, have been shown to have a substantial increase in the content of glutamine. We believe that inhibition of glutaminase in the tumor results in a substantial increase in the concentration of glutamine in the tumor microenvironment and that this glutamine supports the growth and proliferation of cytotoxic T-cells and NK cells that reside within the tumor. Combination of CB-839 with anti-PD-1 or anti-PD-L1 in mice results in a doubling of the number of animals with complete tumor regressions. 

CX-839-004 is a Phase 1/2 clinical trial of CB-839 in combination with the PD-1 inhibitor nivolumab which will be initiated in 1H16 in patients with RCC, melanoma, and NSCLC. In this trial, we will be evaluating patients who are currently receiving checkpoint inhibitor therapy but have an inadequate response to ongoing therapy as well as patients who are na&#239;ve to checkpoint inhibitor therapy. 

Our Arginase Inhibitor Program

Tumors have evolved a number of strategies to avoid recognition and destruction by the immune system. One key mechanism is through suppression of cytotoxic T-cells that would otherwise attack and kill the cancer cells. Arginine is an amino acid that is fundamental to the function of cytotoxic T-cells. Without arginine, tumor specific cytotoxic T-cells fail to activate, proliferate, and mount an effective anti-tumor response.

In response to tumor-secreted factors, myeloid-derived suppressor cells, or MDSCs, and neutrophils accumulate in the tumor and secrete the enzyme arginase, resulting in depletion of arginine from the tumor microenvironment. Depletion of systemic arginine due to elevated levels of arginase has been observed by other researchers in renal cell carcinoma and acute myeloid leukemia. In addition, significant infiltration by arginase-expressing myeloid cells has been observed in many solid tumor types including lung, colorectal and other tumor types. We have confirmed that arginase-expressing MDSCs are found by immunohistochemistry, or IHC, in a wide range of tumor types including non-small cell lung (both adenocarcinoma and squamous types), gastrointestinal and bladder cancers as shown in the diagram below. Arginase enzyme levels are elevated 3- to 30-fold in the plasma of cancer patients across a wide range of malignancies. 

We believe that arginase inhibitors can promote an anti-tumor immune response by restoring arginine levels, thereby allowing activation of the body&#8217;s cytotoxic T-cells. A similar process exists whereby cytotoxic T-cells are blocked from activation through depletion of the amino acid tryptophan. Indoleamine 2,3-dioxygenase, or IDO, a tryptophan metabolizing enzyme, depletes tryptophan from the tumor microenvironment resulting in suppression of T-cell function. Several clinical trials of IDO inhibitors are currently ongoing and early clinical results with epacodostat (an IDO inhibitor from Incyte Corporation) have demonstrated combination activity with ipilimumab (anti CTLA-4) and anti-PD-1 antibodies.

&#160;

&#160;

&#160;

CB-1158: Our Arginase Inhibitor 

We have identified CB-1158 and a portfolio of other small molecule arginase inhibitors that show high potency and oral bioavailability. CB-1158 inhibits arginase 1 and 2 with IC 50 values of 100 and 275 nM, respectively. In our preclinical studies, we have shown that CB&#8209;1158 reverses the anti-proliferative activity that is observed with human T-cells when they are co-cultured with purified human neutrophils or cancer patient-derived MDSCs. CB&#8209;1158 has no cytotoxic activity on cancer cells and does not directly affect the proliferation of T-cells or NK cells in culture.

CB-1158 has single agent anti-tumor activity in syngeneic mouse tumor models that has been demonstrated to act through an immune mechanism. The compound reduces the growth rate of mouse melanoma and lung tumors in immunocompetent mice when administered as a single agent. This effect can be partially blocked by treating mice with antibodies that clear CD8 + T-cells or NK cells (or when tumors are grown in immunocompromised SCID mice). Tumor reduction in mice is associated with increases in tumor levels of cytokines and chemokines that suggest a shift to a pro-inflammatory state.

CB-1158 also enhances the activity of checkpoint inhibitors in the mouse breast cancer 4T1 model. In this model, checkpoint inhibitors including anti-PD-1 and anti-CTLA-4 have no effect even when administered together. CB-1158 has anti-tumor activity in this model when added to a combination of anti-PD-1 and anti-CTLA-4; furthermore, we observed a 75% decrease in the number of lung metastases that were observed when CB-1158 was added to this regimen. We believe that these results support the hypothesis that the checkpoint inhibitors are inactive in this model due in part to lack of arginine supply and not to inherent tumor resistance. 

In preclinical toxicology studies, CB-1158 was well tolerated in rats and monkeys at doses and drug exposures that are well above those which provide maximal inhibition of tumor growth. In mid-2016, we plan to submit an IND application to the FDA to enable the initiation of Phase 1 trials in patients with solid tumors both as a single agent and in combination with a checkpoint inhibitor(s). We believe that CB-1158 is the only arginase inhibitor in preclinical development.

Arginase License Agreement 

In December 2014, we entered into an exclusive license agreement, or the Arginase License Agreement, with Mars, Inc., by and through its Mars Symbioscience division, or Symbioscience, under which we have been granted the exclusive, worldwide license rights to develop and commercialize Symbioscience&#8217;s portfolio of arginase inhibitors for use in human healthcare. Under the Arginase License Agreement, we are responsible for the worldwide development and commercialization of the licensed products at our cost, are required to use commercially reasonable efforts with respect to such development and commercialization activities, and must meet certain general diligence obligations. We hold the first right to prosecute and to enforce all licensed rights under the Arginase Licenses Agreement throughout the world, and Symbioscience will retain certain step-in enforcement rights. Under the exclusivity provisions of the Arginase License Agreement, each party agrees not to develop any other arginase inhibitors for use in human healthcare outside of the scope of the Arginase License Agreement. 

Our Second Program in Tumor Metabolism: Hexokinase II

Hexokinase II- An essential pathway in the cancer cell utilization of glucose. A defining characteristic of most cancer cells is their increased uptake of glucose. This phenomenon forms the basis for the widely used tumor imaging procedure known as 18 F-2-deoxyglucose (FDG)/PET. Tumors take up more FDG, a radioactive glucose analog, than the surrounding normal tissue and this differential can be visualized with PET imaging. 

Not only do tumors take up more glucose, but they also utilize the nutrient in a unique way. Tumors convert glucose into lactic acid in a process known as aerobic glycolysis, or the &#8220;Warburg effect&#8221;, a route rarely utilized in normal cells. This unique uptake and processing of glucose by tumors relative to normal tissue creates an opportunity to selectively target tumors by cutting off their ability to use this fuel. 

Hexokinase is the first enzyme in the pathway that enables cancer cells to convert glucose to energy to fuel cancer cell growth. Due to their higher glucose needs, cancer cells frequently increase the level of this critical enzyme, specifically the isoform hexokinase II. Overexpression of hexokinase II is associated with more aggressive and invasive tumors. Pre-clinical studies in mice have confirmed that the reduction of hexokinase II activity through genetic deactivation (siRNA knockdown studies) results in a significant reduction of tumor growth. We believe inhibitors of hexokinase II will significantly impede the ability of cancer cells to survive and proliferate.

Hexokinase License Agreement

In March 2015, we entered into a License and Research agreement, or the Hexokinase License Agreement, with High Point Pharmaceuticals, LLC and TransTech Pharma LLC, or collectively, TransTech, under which we obtained an exclusive, worldwide license to develop and commercialize TransTech&#8217;s hexokinase II inhibitors. Except for the research program funded by us at TransTech, we are responsible for the worldwide development and commercialization of the licensed products at our cost, are required to use commercially reasonable efforts with respect to such development and commercialization activities, and must meet certain 

&#160;

specified diligence obligations. We hold the first right to prosecute and to enforce all licensed patents under the Hexokinase License Agreeme nt throughout the world, and TransTech will retain certain step-in enforcement rights. 

Intellectual Property

Our commercial success depends in large part on our ability to obtain and maintain intellectual property protection for our product candidates, including CB-839 and our preclinical compounds, and our core technologies. Our policy is to seek to protect our intellectual property position by, among other methods, filing U.S. and foreign patent applications related to the technology, inventions and improvements that are important to the development and implementation of our business strategy. We also rely on trade secrets, know-how and continuing technological innovation to develop and maintain our proprietary position.

We file patent applications directed to our product candidates, preclinical compounds and related technologies to establish intellectual property positions on these compounds and their uses in disease. We are seeking patent protection for the use of biomarkers to identify patients most likely to benefit from treatment with our product candidates. As of December 31, 2015, we own two issued U.S. patents and approximately 64 pending U.S. and foreign patent applications in the following foreign jurisdictions: Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Canada, China, the Eurasian Patent Organization, Europe, Hong Kong, India, Israel, Japan, Mexico, New Zealand, Singapore, South Africa, South Korea and Taiwan. We expect that these patents and patent applications, if issued, would expire between April 2031 and October 2036.

As of December 31, 2015, the intellectual property portfolio for our glutaminase inhibitor program, which includes CB-839, included two issued U.S. patents, both of which expire in 2032, claiming compositions of matter and methods of treating cancer with CB-839. We also have ten pending U.S. patent applications and 52 corresponding pending PCT and foreign patent applications directed to compositions of matter for CB-839 and related chemical compounds, as well as methods of using these compounds. These pending patent applications also include three pending U.S. patent applications relating to methods for measuring various biomarkers in cancer patients to identify patients suitable for treatment with glutaminase inhibitors. We expect that these patents and patent applications, if issued, would expire between November 2032 and October 2036.

The intellectual property portfolio for our arginase inhibitor program, which includes CB-1158, includes issued patents and pending patent applications that we have exclusively licensed from Symbioscience as well as pending patent applications that we own. This portfolio includes 4 issued U.S. patents, 5 pending U.S. patent applications, 45 corresponding pending foreign patent applications, and four issued foreign patents directed to various arginase inhibitors and therapeutic methods of using the compounds. We expect that these patents and patent applications, if issued, would expire between April 2031 and October 2036.

In March 2015, we exclusively licensed from TransTech the intellectual property portfolio for our hexokinase II inhibitor program. This portfolio comprises one pending patent application directed to compositions of matter for hexokinase II inhibitors and therapeutic methods of using the compounds. We expect that the patent applications, if issued, would expire in June 2036.

Manufacturing

We do not own or operate, and currently have no plans to establish, any manufacturing facilities. We currently rely, and expect to continue to rely, on third parties to manufacture clinical supplies of CB-839. CB-839 is an organic compound of low molecular weight. Our third-party contract manufacturers are currently producing CB-839 for use in our clinical trials utilizing reliable and reproducible synthetic processes and common manufacturing techniques. We obtain our supplies from manufacturers on a purchase order basis and do not have any long-term arrangements. In addition, we do not currently have arrangements in place for bulk drug substance or drug product services of CB-839. We intend to identify and qualify additional manufacturers to provide bulk drug substance and drug product services prior to submission of a new drug application to the FDA if necessary to ensure sufficient commercial quantities of CB-839. We also intend to rely upon third-party contract manufacturers to provide us with clinical supplies for our arginase and hexokinase II inhibitor programs and for our other research and discovery programs.

Research and Development

We have and will continue to make substantial investments in research and development. Our research and development expenses totaled $23.7 million, $16.4 million, and $9.9 million in 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively.

In the ordinary course of business, we enter into agreements with third parties, such as contract research organizations, medical institutions, clinical investigators and contract laboratories, to conduct our clinical trials and aspects of our research and preclinical testing. These third parties provide project management and monitoring services and regulatory consulting and investigative services.

&#160;

Competition 

The pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries are characterized by rapidly advancing technologies, intense competition and a strong emphasis on proprietary products. While we believe that our technology, development experience and scientific knowledge provide us with competitive advantages, we face potential competition from many different sources, including major pharmaceutical, specialty pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, academic institutions and governmental agencies and public and private research institutions. Any product candidates that we successfully develop and commercialize will compete with existing therapies and new therapies that may become available in the future.

Our principal competitors in the field of tumor metabolism include Advanced Cancer Therapeutics, LLC, Aeglea Biotherapeutics, Inc., Agios Pharmaceuticals, Inc., AstraZeneca plc, Bayer Pharma AG, Celgene Corporation, Cornerstone Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Eli Lilly and Company, Forma Therapeutics Holdings, LLC, GlaxoSmithKline plc, Merck KGaA, Novartis International AG, Pfizer Inc., Quantum Pharmaceuticals, 3-V Biosciences, Inc., Rhizen Pharmaceuticals SA, Roche Holdings, and its subsidiary Genentech Inc., Sprint Biosciences, and Takeda Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd. Our principal competitors in the field of tumor immunology include AstraZeneca plc, Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH, Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, CureTech Ltd., Eli Lilly and Company, Merck KGaA,, Fortress Biotech, Inc., GlaxoSmithKline plc, Incyte Corporation, iTeos Therapeutics SA, Merck &#38; Co., NewLink Genetics Corporation, Novartis International AG, Ono Pharmaceuticals, Co., Ltd, Pfizer Inc., Roche Holdings AG, Sanofi-aventis Groupe, Takeda Company Limited, and TG Therapeutics, Inc.

The most common methods of treating patients with cancer are surgery, radiation and drug therapy, including chemotherapy, hormone therapy and targeted drug therapy. There are a variety of available drug therapies marketed for cancer. In many cases, these drugs are administered in combination to enhance efficacy. Any product candidates we develop will compete with many existing drug and other therapies. To the extent they are ultimately used in combination with or as an adjunct to these therapies, our product candidates will not be competitive with them. Some of the currently approved drug therapies are branded and subject to patent protection, and others are available on a generic basis. Many of these approved drugs are well established therapies and are widely accepted by physicians, patients and third-party payors. In general, although there has been considerable progress over the past few decades in the treatment of cancer and the currently marketed therapies provide benefits to many patients, these therapies all are limited to some extent in their efficacy and frequency of adverse events, and none are successful in treating all patients. As a result, the level of morbidity and mortality from cancer remains high.

In addition to currently marketed therapies, there are also a number of therapeutics in late stage clinical development to treat cancer. These therapeutics in development may provide efficacy, safety, convenience and other benefits that are not provided by currently marketed therapies. As a result, they may provide significant competition for any product candidate for which we may obtain market approval.

Many of our competitors may have significantly greater financial resources and expertise in research and development, manufacturing, preclinical testing, conducting clinical trials, obtaining regulatory approvals and marketing approved therapeutics than we do. Mergers and acquisitions in the pharmaceutical, biotechnology and diagnostic industries may result in even more resources being concentrated among a smaller number of our competitors. These competitors also compete with us in recruiting and retaining qualified scientific and management personnel and establishing clinical trial sites and patient registration for clinical trials, as well as in acquiring technologies complementary to, or necessary for, our programs. Smaller or early stage companies may also prove to be significant competitors, particularly through collaborative arrangements with large and established companies.

The key competitive factors affecting the success of CB-839 and any future product candidates we develop, if approved, are likely to be their efficacy, safety, synergy with other approved therapies, convenience, price and the availability of reimbursement from government and other third-party payors.

Our competitors may develop and commercialize therapeutics that are safer, more effective, have fewer or less severe side effects, are more convenient or are less expensive than any therapeutics that we may develop. Our competitors also may obtain FDA or other regulatory approval for their therapeutics more rapidly than we may obtain approval for ours, which could result in our competitors establishing a strong market position before we are able to enter the market. In addition, our ability to compete may be affected in many cases by insurers or other third-party and government programs seeking to control healthcare costs.

Government Regulation

Government authorities in the United States, at the federal, state and local level, and in other countries extensively regulate, among other things, the research, development, testing, manufacture, including any manufacturing changes, packaging, storage, recordkeeping, labeling, advertising, promotion, distribution, marketing, post-approval monitoring and reporting, import and export of pharmaceutical products, such as those we are developing.

&#160;

United States Drug Approval Process 

In the United States, the FDA regulates drugs under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, or FDCA, and implementing regulations. The process of obtaining regulatory approvals and the subsequent compliance with appropriate federal, state, local and foreign statutes and regulations requires the expenditure of substantial time and financial resources. Failure to comply with the applicable United States requirements at any time during the product development process, approval process or after approval, may subject an applicant to a variety of administrative or judicial sanctions, such as the FDA&#8217;s refusal to approve pending applications, withdrawal of an approval, imposition of a clinical hold, issuance of warning letters and untitled letters, product recalls, product seizures, total or partial suspension of production or distribution injunctions, fines, refusals of government contracts, restitution, disgorgement of profits or civil or criminal penalties.

The process required by the FDA before a drug may be marketed in the United States generally involves the following:

&#160;

&#183; 

contract manufacturing expenses, primarily for the production of clinical supplies; 

&#160;

&#183; 

completion of preclinical laboratory tests, animal studies and formulation studies in compliance with the FDA&#8217;s good laboratory practice, or GLP, regulations; 

&#160;

&#183; 

submission to the FDA of an IND, which must become effective before human clinical trials may begin; 

&#160;

&#183; 

approval by an independent institutional review board, or IRB, at each clinical site before each trial may be initiated; 

&#160;

&#183; 

performance of adequate and well-controlled human clinical trials in accordance with good clinical practices, or GCP, to establish the safety and efficacy of the proposed drug for each indication; 

&#160;

&#183; 

submission to the FDA of a new drug application, or NDA; 

&#160;

&#183; 

satisfactory completion of an FDA inspection of the manufacturing facility or facilities at which the product is produced to assess compliance with current good manufacturing practices, or cGMP, requirements and to assure that the facilities, methods and controls are adequate to preserve the drug&#8217;s identity, strength, quality and purity; and 

&#160;

&#183; 

FDA review and approval of the NDA. 

Preclinical Studies and IND

Preclinical studies include laboratory evaluation of product chemistry and formulation, as well as in vitro and animal studies to assess the potential for adverse events, and in some cases, to establish a rationale for therapeutic use. The conduct of preclinical studies is subject to federal regulations and requirements, including GLP regulations for safety/toxicology studies. An IND sponsor must submit the results of the preclinical tests, together with manufacturing information, analytical data, any available clinical data or literature and plans for clinical trials, among other things, to the FDA as part of an IND. Some long-term preclinical testing, such as animal tests of reproductive adverse events and carcinogenicity, may continue after the IND is submitted. An IND automatically becomes effective 30 days after receipt by the FDA, unless before that time, the FDA raises concerns or questions related to one or more proposed clinical trials and places the trial on clinical hold. In such a case, the IND sponsor and the FDA must resolve any outstanding concerns before the clinical trial can begin. As a result, submission of an IND may not result in the FDA allowing clinical trials to commence.

Clinical Trials

Clinical trials involve the administration of the investigational new drug to human subjects under the supervision of qualified investigators in accordance with GCP requirements, which include, among other things, the requirement that all research subjects provide their informed consent in writing before their participation in any clinical trial. Clinical trials are conducted under written study protocols detailing, among other things, the objectives of the study, the parameters to be used in monitoring safety and the effectiveness criteria to be evaluated. A protocol for each clinical trial and any subsequent protocol amendments must be submitted to the FDA as part of the IND. In addition, an IRB at each institution participating in the clinical trial must review and approve the plan for any clinical trial before it commences at that institution, and the IRB must conduct continuing review. The IRB must review and approve, among other things, the study protocol and informed consent information to be provided to study subjects. An IRB must operate in compliance with FDA regulations. Information about certain clinical trials must be submitted within specific timeframes to the National Institutes of Health for public dissemination at www.clinicaltrials.gov. Human clinical trials are typically conducted in three sequential phases, which may overlap or be combined:

&#160;

&#160;

&#183; 

Phase 1 : The drug is initially introduced into healthy human subjects or pat ients with the target disease or condition and tested for safety, dosage tolerance, absorption, metabolism, distribution, excretion and, if possible, to gain an early indication of its effectiveness. &#160;

&#160;

&#183; 

Phase 2 : The drug is administered to a limited patient population to identify possible adverse effects and safety risks, to preliminarily evaluate the efficacy of the product for specific targeted diseases and to determine dosage tolerance and optimal dosage. 

&#160;

&#183; 

Phase 3 : The drug is administered to an expanded patient population in adequate and well-controlled clinical trials to generate sufficient data to statistically confirm the efficacy and safety of the product for approval, to establish the overall risk-benefit profile of the product and to provide adequate information for the labeling of the product. 

Progress reports detailing the results of the clinical trials must be submitted at least annually to the FDA and, more frequently, if serious adverse events occur. Phase 1, Phase 2 and Phase 3 clinical trials may not be completed successfully within any specified period, or at all. Furthermore, the FDA or the sponsor may suspend or terminate a clinical trial at any time on various grounds, including a finding that the research subjects are being exposed to an unacceptable health risk. Similarly, an IRB can suspend or terminate approval of a clinical trial at its institution if the clinical trial is not being conducted in accordance with the IRB&#8217;s requirements or if the drug has been associated with unexpected serious harm to patients.

Marketing Approval

Assuming successful completion of the required clinical testing, the results of the preclinical studies and clinical trials, together with detailed information relating to the product&#8217;s chemistry, manufacture, controls and proposed labeling, among other things, are submitted to the FDA as part of an NDA requesting approval to market the product for one or more indications. Under federal law, the submission of most NDAs is additionally subject to a substantial application user fee, and the sponsor of an approved NDA is also subject to annual product and establishment user fees, which fees are typically increased annually.

The FDA conducts a preliminary review of all NDAs within the first 60 days after submission before accepting them for filing to determine whether they are sufficiently complete to permit substantive review. The FDA may request additional information rather than accept an NDA for filing. In this event, the application must be resubmitted with the additional information. The resubmitted application is also subject to review before the FDA accepts it for filing. Once the submission is accepted for filing, the FDA begins an in-depth substantive review. The FDA has agreed to specified performance goals in the review of NDAs. Under these goals, the FDA has committed to review most such applications for non-priority products within 10 months, and most applications for priority review products, that is, drugs that the FDA determines represent a significant improvement over existing therapy, within six months. The review process may be extended by the FDA for three additional months to consider certain information or clarification regarding information already provided in the submission. The FDA may also refer applications for novel drugs or products that present difficult questions of safety or efficacy to an advisory committee, typically a panel that includes clinicians and other experts, for review, evaluation and a recommendation as to whether the application should be approved. The FDA is not bound by the recommendations of an advisory committee, but it considers such recommendations carefully when making decisions.

Before approving an NDA, the FDA typically will inspect the facility or facilities where the product is manufactured. The FDA will not approve an application unless it determines that the manufacturing processes and facilities are in compliance with cGMP requirements and adequate to assure consistent production of the product within required specifications. In addition, before approving an NDA, the FDA will typically inspect one or more clinical sites to assure compliance with GCP and integrity of the clinical data submitted.

The testing and approval process requires substantial time, effort and financial resources, and each may take many years to complete. Data obtained from clinical activities are not always conclusive and may be susceptible to varying interpretations, which could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. The FDA may not grant approval on a timely basis, or at all. We may encounter difficulties or unanticipated costs in our efforts to develop our product candidates and secure necessary governmental approvals, which could delay or preclude us from marketing our products.

After the FDA&#8217;s evaluation of the NDA and inspection of the manufacturing facilities, the FDA may issue an approval letter or a complete response letter. An approval letter authorizes commercial marketing of the drug with specific prescribing information for specific indications. A complete response letter generally outlines the deficiencies in the submission and may require substantial additional testing or information in order for the FDA to reconsider the application. If and when those deficiencies have been addressed to the FDA&#8217;s satisfaction in a resubmission of the NDA, the FDA will issue an approval letter. The FDA has committed to reviewing such resubmissions in two or six months depending on the type of information included. Even with submission of this additional information, the FDA ultimately may decide that the application does not satisfy the regulatory criteria for approval and refuse to approve the NDA. Even if the FDA approves a product, it may limit the approved indications for use for the product, require that contraindications, warnings or precautions be included in the product labeling, require that post-approval studies, including phase 4 clinical trials, be conducted to further assess a drug&#8217;s safety after approval, require testing and surveillance programs to monitor the 

&#160;

product after commercialization, or impose other conditions, including distribution restrictions or other risk management mechanisms, including Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategies, or REMs, which can materially affect the pote ntial market and profitability of the product. The FDA may prevent or limit further marketing of a product based on the results of post-market studies or surveillance programs. After approval, some types of changes to the approved product, such as adding n ew indications, manufacturing changes and additional labeling claims, are subject to further testing requirements and FDA review and approval. 

Fast Track Designation

The FDA is required to facilitate the development and expedite the review of drugs that are intended for the treatment of a serious or life-threatening condition for which there is no effective treatment and which demonstrate the potential to address unmet medical needs for the condition. Under the fast track program, the sponsor of a new product candidate may request the FDA to designate the product for a specific indication as a fast track product concurrent with or after the submission of the IND for the product candidate. The FDA must determine if the product candidate qualifies for fast track designation within 60 days after receipt of the sponsor&#8217;s request.

In addition to other benefits, such as the ability of the sponsor to use surrogate endpoints in the evaluation of the pivotal clinical trials and have more frequent interactions with the FDA, the FDA may initiate review of sections of a fast track product&#8217;s NDA before the application is complete. This rolling review is available if the applicant provides and the FDA approves a schedule for the submission of the remaining information and the applicant pays applicable user fees. However, the FDA&#8217;s time period goal for reviewing a fast track application does not begin until the last section of the NDA is submitted. In addition, the fast track designation may be withdrawn by the FDA if the FDA believes that the designation is no longer supported by data emerging in the clinical trial process.

Priority Review

Under FDA policies, a product candidate may be eligible for priority review, or review generally within a six-month time frame from the time a complete application is received. Products regulated by the FDA&#8217;s Center for Drug Evaluation and Research, or CDER, are eligible for priority review if they provide a significant improvement compared to marketed products in the treatment, diagnosis or prevention of a disease. A fast track designated product candidate would ordinarily meet the FDA&#8217;s criteria for priority review.

Accelerated Approval

Under the FDA&#8217;s accelerated approval regulations, the FDA may approve a drug for a serious or life-threatening illness that provides meaningful therapeutic benefit to patients over existing treatments based upon a surrogate endpoint that is reasonably likely to predict clinical benefit. In clinical trials, a surrogate endpoint is a measurement of laboratory or clinical signs of a disease or condition that substitutes for a direct measurement of how a patient feels, functions or survives. Surrogate endpoints can often be measured more easily or more rapidly than clinical endpoints. A product candidate approved on this basis is subject to rigorous post-marketing compliance requirements, including the completion of Phase 4 or post-approval clinical trials to confirm the effect on the clinical endpoint. Failure to conduct required post-approval trials, or confirm a clinical benefit during post-marketing studies, would allow the FDA to withdraw the drug from the market on an expedited basis. All promotional materials for drug candidates approved under accelerated regulations are subject to prior review by the FDA.

Breakthrough Therapy Designation

Under the provisions of the Food and Drug Administration Safety and Innovation Act, or FDASIA, enacted in 2012, a sponsor can request designation of a product candidate as a &#8220;breakthrough therapy.&#8221; A breakthrough therapy is defined as a drug that is intended, alone or in combination with one or more other drugs, to treat a serious or life-threatening disease or condition, and preliminary clinical evidence indicates that the product candidate may demonstrate substantial improvement over existing therapies on one or more clinically significant endpoints, such as substantial treatment effects observed early in clinical development. Drugs designated as breakthrough therapies are also eligible for accelerated approval. The FDA must take certain actions, such as holding timely meetings and providing advice, intended to expedite the development and review of an application for approval of a breakthrough therapy. Even if a product candidate qualifies for one or more of these programs, the FDA may later decide that the product candidate no longer meets the conditions for qualification or decide that the time period for FDA review or approval will not be shortened.

&#160;

Orphan Drugs 

Under the Orphan Drug Act, the FDA may grant orphan drug designation to drugs intended to treat a rare disease or condition, which is generally defined as a disease or condition that affects fewer than 200,000 individuals in the United States. Orphan drug designation must be requested before submitting an NDA. After the FDA grants orphan drug designation, the generic identity of the drug and its potential orphan use are disclosed publicly by the FDA. Orphan drug designation does not convey any advantage in, or shorten the duration of, the regulatory review and approval process. The first NDA applicant to receive FDA approval for a particular active ingredient to treat a particular disease with FDA orphan drug designation is entitled to a seven-year exclusive marketing period in the United States for that product, for that indication. During the seven-year exclusivity period, the FDA may not approve any other applications to market the same drug for the same orphan indication, except in limited circumstances, such as a showing of clinical superiority to the product with orphan drug exclusivity in that it is shown to be safer, more effective or makes a major contribution to patient care. Orphan drug exclusivity does not prevent the FDA from approving a different drug for the same disease or condition, or the same drug for a different disease or condition. Among the other benefits of orphan drug designation are tax credits for certain research and a waiver of the NDA application user fee.

Pediatric Exclusivity and Pediatric Use

Under the Best Pharmaceuticals for Children Act (BPCA) certain drugs may obtain an additional six months of exclusivity, if the sponsor submits information requested in writing by the FDA (a Written Request) relating to the use of the active moiety of the drug in children. The FDA may not issue a Written Request for studies on unapproved or approved indications or where it determines that information relating to the use of a drug in a pediatric population, or part of the pediatric population, may not produce health benefits in that population.

In addition, the Pediatric Research Equity Act (PREA) requires a sponsor to conduct pediatric studies for most drugs and biologics, for a new active ingredient, new indication, new dosage form, new dosing regimen or new route of administration. Under PREA, original NDAs, biologics license application and supplements thereto, must contain a pediatric assessment unless the sponsor has received a deferral or waiver. Unless otherwise required by regulation, PREA does not apply to any drug for an indication where orphan designation has been granted. The required assessment must assess the safety and effectiveness of the product for the claimed indications in all relevant pediatric subpopulations and support dosing and administration for each pediatric subpopulation for which the product is safe and effective. The sponsor or FDA may request a deferral of pediatric studies for some or all of the pediatric subpopulations. A deferral may be granted for several reasons, including a finding that the drug or biologic is ready for approval for use in adults before pediatric studies are complete or that additional safety or effectiveness data needs to be collected before the pediatric studies begin. After April 2013, the FDA must send a non-compliance letter to any sponsor that fails to submit the required assessment, keep a deferral current or fails to submit a request for approval of a pediatric formulation.

As part of the FDASIA, the U.S. Congress made a few revisions to BPCA and PREA, which were slated to expire on September 30, 2012, and made both laws permanent.

Overview of FDA Regulation of Companion Diagnostics

We may seek to develop in vitro companion diagnostics for use in selecting the patients that we believe will respond to our therapeutics. In July 2011, the FDA issued a draft guidance that states that if safe and effective use of a therapeutic product depends on an in vitro diagnostic, then the FDA generally will require approval or clearance of the diagnostic at the same time that the FDA approves the therapeutic product. When finalized, the guidance would address issues critical to developing and obtaining approval or clearance for companion diagnostics and provide guidance as to when the FDA will require that the in vitro diagnostic, which is regulated as a medical device, and the drug be approved simultaneously. The FDA has yet to issue further guidance, and it is unclear whether it will do so, or what the scope would be. Nevertheless, although the draft guidance is not finalized, the FDA has already required in vitro companion diagnostics intended to select the patients who will respond to cancer treatment to obtain approval simultaneously with approval of the drug.

Other Regulatory Requirements

Any drug manufactured or distributed by us pursuant to FDA approvals are subject to pervasive and continuing regulation by the FDA, including, among other things, requirements relating to recordkeeping, periodic reporting, product sampling and distribution, advertising and promotion and reporting of adverse experiences with the product. After approval, most changes to the approved product, such as adding new indications or other labeling claims are subject to prior FDA review and approval.

The FDA may impose a number of post-approval requirements, including REMs, as a condition of approval of an NDA. For example, the FDA may require post-marketing testing, including phase four clinical trials, and surveillance to further assess and monitor the product&#8217;s safety and effectiveness after commercialization. Regulatory approval of oncology products often requires that patients in clinical trials be followed for long periods to determine the overall survival benefit of the drug.

&#160;

In addition, drug manufacturers and other entities involved in the manufacture and distribution of approved dr ugs are required to register their establishments with the FDA and state agencies, and are subject to periodic unannounced inspections by the FDA and these state agencies for compliance with cGMP requirements. Changes to the manufacturing process are stric tly regulated and often require prior FDA approval before being implemented. FDA regulations also require investigation and correction of any deviations from cGMP and impose reporting and documentation requirements upon us and any third-party manufacturers that we may decide to use. Accordingly, manufacturers must continue to expend time, money and effort in the areas of production and quality control to maintain cGMP compliance. 

Once an approval is granted, the FDA may withdraw the approval if compliance with regulatory requirements and standards is not maintained or if problems occur after the product reaches the market. Later discovery of previously unknown problems with a product, including adverse events of unanticipated severity or frequency, or with manufacturing processes, or failure to comply with regulatory requirements, may result in revisions to the approved labeling to add new safety information, imposition of post-market studies or clinical trials to assess new safety risks or imposition of distribution or other restrictions under a Risk Evaluation and

Mitigation Strategy program. Other potential consequences include, among other things:

&#8226; restrictions on the marketing or manufacturing of the product, complete withdrawal of the product from the market or product recalls;

&#8226; fines, warning letters or holds on post-approval clinical trials;

&#8226; refusal of the FDA to approve pending applications or supplements to approved applications, or

suspension or revocation of product license approvals;

&#8226; product seizure or detention, or refusal to permit the import or export of products; or

&#8226; consent decrees, injunctions or the imposition of civil or criminal penalties.

The FDA strictly regulates marketing, labeling, advertising and promotion of products that are placed on the market. Drugs may be promoted only for the approved indications and in accordance with the provisions of the approved label. The FDA and other agencies actively enforce the laws and regulations prohibiting the promotion of off label uses, and a company that is found to have improperly promoted off label uses may be subject to significant liability.

Additional Provisions

In addition to FDA restrictions on marketing of pharmaceutical products, several other types of state and federal laws have been applied to restrict certain marketing practices in the pharmaceutical industry in recent years. These laws include anti-kickback statutes and false claims statutes. The federal healthcare program anti-kickback statute prohibits, among other things, knowingly and willfully offering, paying, soliciting or receiving remuneration to induce or in return for purchasing, leasing, ordering or arranging for the purchase, lease or order of any healthcare item or service reimbursable under Medicare, Medicaid or other federally financed healthcare programs. This statute has been interpreted to apply to arrangements between pharmaceutical manufacturers on the one hand and prescribers, purchasers and formulary managers on the other. Violations of the anti-kickback statute are punishable by imprisonment, criminal fines, civil monetary penalties and exclusion from participation in federal healthcare programs. Although there are a number of statutory exemptions and regulatory safe harbors protecting certain common activities from prosecution or other regulatory sanctions, the exemptions and safe harbors are drawn narrowly, and practices that involve remuneration intended to induce prescribing, purchases or recommendations may be subject to scrutiny if they do not qualify for an exemption or safe harbor.

Federal false claims laws prohibit any person from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, a false claim for payment to the federal government, or knowingly making, or causing to be made, a false statement to have a false claim paid. Recently, several pharmaceutical and other healthcare companies have been prosecuted under these laws for allegedly inflating drug prices they report to pricing services, which in turn were used by the government to set Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement rates, and for allegedly providing free product to customers with the expectation that the customers would bill federal programs for the product. In addition, certain marketing practices, including off-label promotion, may also violate false claims laws. The majority of states also have statutes or regulations similar to the federal anti-kickback law and false claims laws, which apply to items and services reimbursed under Medicaid and other state programs, or, in several states, apply regardless of the payor.

Foreign Regulation

In order to market any product outside of the United States, we would need to comply with numerous and varying regulatory requirements of other countries regarding safety and efficacy and governing, among other things, clinical trials, marketing authorization, commercial sales and distribution of our products. Whether or not we obtain FDA approval for a product, we would need to obtain the necessary approvals by the comparable regulatory authorities of foreign countries before we can commence clinical trials or marketing of the product in those countries. The approval process varies from country to country and can involve additional product testing and additional administrative review periods. The time required to obtain approval in other countries might differ from 

&#160;

and be longer than that required to obtain FDA approval. Regulatory approval in one country does not ensure regulatory approval in another, but a failure or delay in obtaining regulatory approval in one c ountry may negatively impact the regulatory process in others. 

New Legislation and Regulations

From time to time, legislation is drafted, introduced and passed in Congress that could significantly change the statutory provisions governing the testing, approval, manufacturing and marketing of products regulated by the FDA. In addition to new legislation, FDA regulations and policies are often revised or interpreted by the agency in ways that may significantly affect our business and our products. It is impossible to predict whether further legislative changes will be enacted or whether FDA regulations, guidance, policies or interpretations changed or what the effect of such changes, if any, may be.

Employees

As of December 31, 2015, we had 44 full-time employees, including 16 employees with Ph.D. or M.D. degrees. Of these full-time employees, 32 employees are engaged in research and development activities. None of our employees is represented by a labor union or covered by a collective bargaining agreement.

Facilities 

We occupy approximately 29,000 square feet of office and laboratory space in South San Francisco, California. In March 2016, we entered into an amendment to our lease for additional space which we expect will commence in December 2016 and to extend the lease term through January 2024, with an option to extend another two years to January 2026. Approximately 4,500 square feet of laboratory space have been leased to another biotechnology company under a sublease agreement that expires in July 2016. We believe that our facility is sufficient to meet our current needs and that suitable additional space will be available as and when needed.

Legal Proceedings

From time to time, we may become involved in litigation relating to claims arising from the ordinary course of business. Our management believes that there are currently no claims or actions pending against us, the ultimate disposition of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.

&#160;

