 Item 1. Business 

Overview 

We are a premier infant and juvenile products company originally founded in 1985 and have publicly traded on the Nasdaq Stock Market since 2007 under the symbol "SUMR." We create branded juvenile safety and infant care products (targeted for ages 0-3 years) that are intended to deliver a diverse range of parenting solutions to families. We focus on providing innovative products to meet the lifestyle and demands of families who seek more opportunities to connect with their children. 

We operate in one principal industry segment across geographically diverse marketplaces, selling our products globally to large, national retailers as well as independent retailers, and on the internet through third-party websites and our own summerinfant.com website. In North America, our customers include Babies R Us, Wal-Mart, Amazon, Target, Buy Buy Baby, Burlington Coat Factory, Kmart, Home Depot, and Lowe's. Our largest European-based customers are Mothercare, Toys R Us, Argos and Tesco. We also sell through international distributors, representatives, and to select international retail customers in geographic locations where we do not have a direct sales presence. 

The juvenile products industry is estimated to be a $20 billion market worldwide, and consumer focus is on quality, safety, innovation, and style. Due to the halo effect of baby products in retail stores, there is a strong retailer commitment to the juvenile category. We believe we are positioned to capitalize on positive market trends in the juvenile products industry, including a predicted increase in U.S. birth rates over the next several years. 

Strategic Priorities 

We seek to become a global, leading juvenile products company by providing a full range of innovative, high quality, high value products that meet the demands of parents. We have identified the following key strategic priorities that we believe will support our future growth: 

&#149; Continue to innovate. We continuously seek to create innovative solutions for consumers whose lifestyles demand high quality, long lasting, and safe products. We believe the nursery of the future will be a "connected" nursery, providing parents with continual access to information about their child. We expect to launch a revolutionary line of products under the Summer Smart&#153; line that work together in concert to provide parents information that will allow them to better predict and respond to their baby's needs. To the extent it is consistent with our strategy, we may collaborate with third parties in developing new products or acquiring new products. &#149; Increase consumer connectivity with our Company. We focus our efforts on getting to know consumers' routines and lifestyles. By developing in-depth knowledge of their needs, we seek to deliver high quality, innovative products to the marketplace. In fiscal 2015, we conducted research that focused on the New Millennial Parent, to better understand their shopping habits, preferred brands, attitudes, and specific needs as they enter parenthood. From that research, we have worked to improve our core brands of Summer Infant&#174;, SwaddleMe&#174;, and Born Free&#174; and reintroduced a new play brand, Kiddopotamus&#174;. Through focus groups, on-line surveys, and test marketing, we continually evaluate consumer reactions to our products. We also take a strategic approach to setting price points, which provides us the opportunity to create products that appeal to different categories of end consumers and classes of trade. In addition, we seek to improve the customer experience in stores and online. 3 

&#149; Increase awareness of our brands. Historically, we marketed products under our own brands, under license agreements for other brands, and under private label agreements. In fiscal 2015, we shifted our focus to strengthening our strong portfolio of core brands of Summer Infant&#174;, the empowering brand that reminds parents that "You Were Born For This&#153;," SwaddleMe&#174;, the premier safe sleep brand that encourages "Safer Sleep. Brighter Days&#153;," Born Free&#174; providing nurturing support for healthy families to "Bottle Your Love&#153;," and new to market Kiddopotamus&#174;, designed to inspire "Gigantic Little Moments&#153;" between babies and parents who love them. Aligning our core brands with our target market values, we seek to deliver a unique line look, brand voice, and product line that will further increase awareness and drive brand affinity. &#149; Maintain and grow our partnerships. We have long-standing relationships and strong partnerships with our brick and mortar and e-commerce retail customers and suppliers that provide us the flexibility needed to engineer our products in a cost-efficient manner and to respond quickly to customer demands. We will continue to focus on strengthening these existing relationships to increase our presence in stores, online and in new geographic locations. In specialty retail, we are seeking to add retailers and distributors to target markets where we do not currently have a presence. In addition, we are continuing to expand our business internationally. In fiscal 2015, we added a new Chinese distributor to address the forecasted demand due to the one-child policy being lifted in China and position us for potential growth in this market. By focusing on these key strategic priorities, we expect to drive future sales growth, improve profitability and our return on capital, and further develop and strengthen our relationships with our suppliers, our customers and the consumers who use our products. 

Products 

We currently market over 1,100 products in several product categories including monitoring, safety, nursery, baby gear, and feeding products. Our portfolio of strong brands, under which we market all of our core products, includes Summer Infant&#174;, Born Free&#174;, SwaddleMe&#174;, and Kiddopotamus&#174;. No single product generated more than 10% of sales for the 2015 fiscal year ended January 2, 2016 ("fiscal 2015"). 

Anchor products in our product categories include the following: 

Monitoring &#160; Safety &#160; Nursery &#160; Baby Gear &#160; Feeding Products Wi-Fi/Internet &#160; Gates &#160; Swaddle &#160; Strollers &#160; Bottles Video &#160; Bath &#160; Travel Accessories &#160; Bassinets &#160; Drinking Cups Audio &#160; Potties &#160; Safe Sleep &#160; High Chairs &#160; Bibs &#38; Placemats Prenatal &#160; Boosters &#160; Soothers &#160; Playards &#160; Electronics &#160; &#160; Super Seats &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; Pacifiers &#160; &#160; Entertainers &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; Infant Massage &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; 

Monitoring 

Our monitors were first introduced in 2001 and are characterized by premium quality, ease of use, and innovative features. Currently, we offer audio, video, internet viewable monitors, and a new wearable monitor marketed under the Summer Infant&#174; brand. Our monitors feature high quality components, intended to fulfill the desire for consumers to connect with baby at any time or place. In fiscal 2015, we introduced our SharpView HD Monitor series and in fiscal 2016 we expect to launch our WiFi 3.0 monitor to anchor our Summer Smart&#153; Nursery line launch. Additionally, we have just launched our award winning Babble Band&#153;, the first ever wearable audio monitor which became 

available to consumers in the first quarter of 2016. Also new in fiscal 2016, designed for parents that are on-the-go, the Liv Cam&#153; is a portable battery operated baby monitor that streams live video directly to smart devices without wifi or cellular service. 

Safety 

Our safety line encompasses gates and home safety products, potties, bath, positioners, and infant health. We are a North American market leader in the gate category, with a product range of 30 gates covering all key consumer price points. In fiscal 2014, we introduced an innovative retail merchandising solution, a safety gate selector tool. This online tool was initially created to facilitate selection of a safety gate to meet the particular needs of the consumer with regard to space (size and location) as well as installation considerations (bannisters, baseboards, walls), and reduce the number of returned or damaged goods. Its success led us to further develop the selector for our retailers as an in-store sales tool and merchandising solution. We also launched our HomeSafe by Summer line of home safety products, which presents an increased opportunity to expand distribution into the home center and pet care channels as well as offer channel strategy within our existing retail channels. In fiscal 2015, we redefined the potty category with the launch of the My Size Potty&#153;. This potty has disrupted a heavily licensed category by introducing a fresh clean looking potty that mimics the adult toilet while still offering a cute giggle reward for child. 

We first entered the infant bathing category in 2002, and we have continued to create innovative and safe solutions for bathing baby. In fiscal 2014, we introduced several new platforms developed as the result of consumer insights, including the Keep Me Warm Baby Bath, which is designed to increase baby's comfort by delivering a warm flow of water over baby's back during bath time. In fiscal 2015, we expanded our offering in the Keep Me Warm Baby Bath platform by offering a new Warming Waterfall Bather. 

In fiscal 2016, we expect to launch a new line, Baby My Baby&#153;, which offers parents new platforms to engage in the benefits of infant massage. Aligning ourselves with partners such as Infant Massage USA and BabyGanics, we have been able to develop this new category within juvenile. As a natual extension to our luxury bath, our Baby My Baby&#153; subbranded line of infant massage products, will be the first hard goods introduced to market that allows parents to perform infant massage techniques comfortably and safely. These products provide massage pads, lotions/oils, an infant massage guide, as well as a free app that will allow parents to learn, perform, and engage with the infant massage community. 

Nursery 

Our nursery line includes our core brand of SwaddleMe&#174; wearable blankets as well as travel accessories, soothers, and bedding. Acquired in 2008, SwaddleMe&#174; continues to be a brand synonymous with infant safe sleep. In fiscal 2015, we refreshed this popular line which allowed us to expand our channels of trade as well as our selection of product in this growing category. In late fiscal 2014, we announced our co-branded partnership with Little Me&#174;, a premier newborn and infant clothing brand. The new co-branded product line was launched in mid-2015 and provides us with the opportunity to broaden the presence of the SwaddleMe&#174;, brand into high-end department stores and premium specialty retailers. 

Baby Gear 

Since the introduction of the Bouncy Seat in 1985, our first product, we have expanded our baby gear category to include high chairs, playards, bassinets, and strollers. Following on the success of our 3D lite&#153; Convenience Stroller in fiscal 2014, we expanded this line in fiscal 2015 with lightweight, affordable, feature rich strollers including the 3D-one&#153; and 3D flip&#153;. In 2016, we expect to launch our first dual stroller, the 3Dtwo&#153;. This stroller was developed based upon demand from end consumers 

and offers stadium seating for 2 children as well as offering the features expected from the 3D line: compact fold, light weight frame, and endless convenience features. 

Our Pop 'n Play Portable Playard was introduced to market in fiscal 2014 driven from consumer insights on their "on-the-go" lifestyles. Compact, foldable, lightweight and portable, the Pop 'n Play Portable Playard has been well received. In fiscal 2015, we expanded the line to include a portable booster, high chair, and entertainer and launched a new sub-brand for the collection, POP (portable on-the-go products). 

Feeding Products 

We acquired the Born Free&#174; brand in 2011 to provide calm, safe feeding solutions. The premium Born Free&#174; Bottle continues to be the core product in the feeding category that has evolved to include pacifiers, drinking cups, bibs, and electronics. Our Born Free&#174; line will be undertaking a brand refresh in fiscal 2016 in order to continue to meet our mission to help healthy families grow with fewer worries and more smiles. In addition, in the first quarter of fiscal 2016, we launched a revolutionary new bottle, Breeze&#153;, which we believe features the only 2 piece design bottle in the marketplace today. 

Product Development and Design 

Innovation drives our product development, a critical element of our strategy. We strive to produce proprietary products that offer distinctive benefits, are visually appealing, and provide caring solutions to the consumer. Our retail customers are strategically motivated to buy innovative products to provide differentiation from their competitors. 

We design the majority of our products at our Rhode Island headquarters. We also have development efforts in China and the United Kingdom. If consistent with our strategy, we may also collaborate with third parties in the development of products, license technologies or acquire new products from third parties. In addition to new product development, we continuously look for ways to improve upon existing products based on consumer insights with a strong focus on the end-user experience and product safety. New product introductions provide opportunities for improved pricing and product margins. 

We engage in market research and test marketing to evaluate consumer reactions to our products, both pre- and post-production. Our product development team and sales force are essential in researching consumer buying trends and analyzing information from retail stores, customer surveys, focus groups, on-line surveys, industry experts and vendor recommendations. We continually evaluate our products to determine whether they should be upgraded, modified, or replaced. 

Suppliers and Manufacturing 

The majority of our products are manufactured in Asia (primarily China). We also use several manufacturers in the United States for certain injection-molded products, including bath tubs, potty seats and booster seats, which together account for approximately 17% of our annual sales in fiscal 2015. 

We are not dependent on any one supplier because we use many different manufacturers and we own the tooling and molds used for our products. Our Hong Kong subsidiary provides us with an Asian sourcing presence and the ability to oversee quality, electronic engineering and other issues that may arise during production. Generally, we buy finished goods from manufacturers, and thus do not directly procure raw materials for product manufacturing. Historically, we have not experienced any significant disruption of supply as a result of raw material shortages or other manufacturing factors, but there is the possibility that shortages could occur in the future based on a variety of factors beyond our control. 

Transportation of Asian-made goods to our warehouses typically takes three to four weeks. We also utilize a direct import program, to reduce costs and shipping time to certain customers. We 

maintain our inventory at warehouses located in the United States, Canada, Australia, and the United Kingdom. Most of our customers pick up their goods at our warehouses. We also use UPS and other common carriers to arrange shipments to customers (primarily smaller retailers and specialty stores) that request such arrangements. 

Sales and Marketing 

Our products are largely marketed and sold through our own direct global sales force of industry experienced professionals. We have also established a strong network of independent manufacturers' representatives and distributors to provide sales and customer service support for the remaining portion of North American and international sales. E-commerce sales have continued to grow in recent years consistent with increased online shopping by consumers. 

Sales are recognized upon transfer of title of product to our customers and are made utilizing standard credit terms of 30 to 60 days. We generally accept returns only for defective merchandise. 

Marketing, promotion and consumer education are key elements in the juvenile products industry. Historically, a significant percentage of our promotional spending has been structured in coordination with our large retail partners. In fiscal 2015, we focused more of our spending on awareness and outreach programs to both our retail partners and our end-use consumers. In further support of this communication effort, we continue to improve the functionality and capabilities of our website and develop merchandising solutions to improve the overall experience for consumers. 

In addition, we will continue to support the promotion and presence of Summer Infant&#174;, SwaddleMe&#174;, Born Free&#174;, and Kiddopotamus&#174; branded products in the marketplace with participation at select industry trade shows, trade and consumer advertising, as well as enhanced digital promotion activities. 

Customer service is a critical component of our marketing strategy. We maintain an internal customer service department that responds to customer inquiries, investigates and resolves issues, and is generally available to assist customers and consumers during business hours. 

Competition 

The juvenile product industry has many participants, none of which has dominant market share, though certain companies may have disproportionate strength in certain product categories. We compete with a number of different companies in a variety of categories, although there is no single company that competes with us across all of our product categories. Our largest direct competitors are Dorel Industries (including Safety 1st and Cosco brands), Fisher-Price (a subsidiary of Mattel, Inc.), The First Years (a subsidiary of Tomy Corporation), Graco (a subsidiary of Newell Rubbermaid), Evenflow (a subsidiary of Goodbaby International Holdings, Ltd), Motorola (a licensed brand of Binatone Communications Group), KidCo, Inc., and Munchkin. 

The primary methods of competition in the industry consist of product innovation, brand positioning, quality, price, and timely distribution. Our competitive strengths include our ability to develop innovative new products, brand awareness, our relationships with major retailers, and the quality and pricing of our products. 

Intellectual Property 

We rely on a combination of patents, licenses and trade secrets to protect our intellectual property. Our patents currently in effect include various design features related to safety gates, bouncers, and bathers, with several other patents under review by the United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO). These patents expire at various times during the next 20 years. We also have license agreements in place related to the use of patented technology owned by third parties in certain of our products. In certain circumstances, we will partner with third parties to develop proprietary products. 

Customers 

Sales to our top seven customers together comprised more than 73% of our sales in fiscal 2015 and 74% of our sales in fiscal 2014. These customers include Babies R Us/Toys R Us, Wal-Mart, Amazon, Target, Buy Buy Baby, K-Mart, and Burlington Coat Factory. Of these customers, four generated more than 10% of sales for fiscal 2015: Babies R Us/Toys R Us (23%), Walmart (14%), Amazon.com (14%) and Target (12%). In fiscal 2014, four customers generated more than 10% of sales: Babies R Us/Toys R Us (27%), Walmart (14%), Amazon (11%) and Target (11%). 

We have no long-term contracts with these customers, and because of the concentration of our business with these customers, our success depends heavily on our customers' willingness to purchase and provide shelf space for our products. 

Seasonality 

We do not see significant variations in seasonal demand for our products. Sales history has exhibited some higher volume at times associated with initial shipments of new products. These orders usually incorporate enough product inventory to fill each store plus additional amounts to be kept at the customer's distribution center. The timing of these initial shipments varies by customer depending on when they finalize store layouts for the upcoming year and whether there are any mid-year product introductions. 

Geographic Regions 

North America accounted for approximately 91% of our total net sales in both fiscal 2015 and fiscal 2014. Remaining sales were in the United Kingdom and other geographic regions. We maintain sales, marketing, and distribution offices in Canada, Australia, and England, which services the United Kingdom and other parts of Europe. We also maintain a product development, engineering and quality assurance office in Hong Kong. 

Regulatory Matters 

Each of our products is designed to comply with all applicable mandatory, voluntary and industry safety standards. In the USA, these safety standards are promulgated by federal, state and independent agencies such as the US Consumer Product Safety Commission, ASTM, Juvenile Products Manufacturers Association, Federal Communications Commission, the US Food and Drug Administration and various states Attorney General and state regulatory agencies. All products are independently tested, by third party laboratories accredited by the Consumer Product Safety Commission, to verify compliance to applicable safety standards. A similar approach is used to design and test products sold globally. 

Insurance 

We carry product liability insurance that provides us with $15 million coverage with a minimal deductible. We consult with our insurers to ascertain appropriate liability coverage for our product mix. We believe our current coverage is adequate for our existing business and will continue to evaluate our coverage in the future in line with our expanding sales and product breadth. 

Employees 

As of January 2, 2016, we had 197 employees, 192 who were full time employees, and 101 of whom work in our headquarters in Rhode Island. 

Available Information 

The Company is incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware. Our principal executive offices are located at 1275 Park East Drive, Woonsocket, Rhode Island 02895, and our telephone number is (401) 671 6550. 

We maintain our corporate website at www.summerinfant.com and we make available, free of charge, through this website our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports that we file with, or furnish to, the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"), as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file that material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. You may also read and copy any material filed by us with the SEC at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549, and you may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC in the U.S. at 1-800-SEC-0330. In addition, the SEC maintains an Internet website, www.sec.gov, that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information that we file electronically with the SEC. Our website also includes corporate governance information, including our Code of Ethics and our Board Committee Charters. The information contained on our website does not constitute a part of this report. 

