 ITEM 1. BUSINESS Overview 

Odyssey Marine Exploration, Inc. is a world leader in deep-ocean exploration. Our innovative techniques are currently applied to mineral exploration, shipwreck cargo recovery and other marine survey and exploration charter services. 

We have extensive experience discovering shipwreck sites in the deep ocean and conducting archaeological excavations with remotely operated vehicles (&#147;ROVs&#148;). Our historic shipwreck discoveries include the SS Republic , HMS Victory , &#147;Black Swan ,&#148; La Marquise de Tourny , and many other unidentified shipwrecks. We have we set records for the deepest and heaviest cargo recoveries from a shipwreck during our commodity salvage work on the SS Gairsoppa. A total of nearly 110 tons of silver, representing more than 99% of the insured silver on board, was recovered from the Gairsoppa shipwreck, which is over 15,000 feet deep. 

In 2010, we began to leverage our core business expertise and technology for deep-ocean mineral exploration. Our expeditions conducted for Neptune Minerals, Inc. and Chatham Rock Phosphate, Ltd. resulted in the assessment of significant mineral deposits. We have also begun to explore other deep-ocean mineral projects on our own behalf. Via our majority stake in Oceanica Resources S. de. R.L. (&#147;Oceanica&#148;), a Panamanian company, we control Exploraciones Oceanicas, S. De R.L. De C.V. (&#147;ExO&#148;), a Mexican company that has exclusive mining permits for an area (known as the &#147;Don Diego&#148; deposit) that contains large amounts of mineralized phosphate material. We performed all the off-shore exploration to find and validate the mineralized phosphate deposit and are managing the environmental studies and environmental permit application process. The deposit is one of the largest to be identified and is expected to be important to the regional and international fertilizer markets. The Don Diego deposit is currently our main mineral project. In order to move to the next phase of development of the deposit, Odyssey and its subsidiaries need to obtain approval of its environmental permit application (&#147;EIA&#148;). A decision on this application is expected in the course of 2016. 

Deep-Ocean Mineral Exploration 

We have leveraged the expertise of our team of some of the industry&#146;s most experienced ocean explorers and geologists, along with our extensive array of advanced deep-ocean technology, for cost efficient exploration and assessment of seabed mineralized material. 

Utilizing the chartered RV Dorado Discovery or similar ships with our customized and specialized equipment, our team has the ability to perform precision geophysical and geotechnical surveys, detailed mapping, sampling, environmental assessments and resource evaluations. While we discontinued the long-term lease of the RV Dorado Discovery vessel in 2014, we still own and maintain equipment on board the vessel and may re-charter the vessel for future projects. 

&#160;

We offer exploration services including geophysical and geotechnical assessments of seabed mineral deposits to companies, including our subsidiaries and companies in which we hold an equity position, as a resource development partner. When performing mineral exploration services, we may receive payments in the form of cash, equity interests in the contracting company, or financial interests in the tenement. 

There are three economically significant types of seabed mineral deposits being evaluated or explored by Odyssey: 

Phosphorites - Phosphorite deposits are mineral occurrences that are recovered primarily for their phosphate material. Phosphorites may be present on the seabed or in the stratigraphic column. Phosphate is an agriculturally important mineral used primarily for crop fertilization, though a variety of uses exist for phosphate and phosphorus, the significant element in phosphate. Phosphorites exist in a wide range of depositional environments. Several factors contribute to the formation of phosphorites, including a supply of phosphorus, present or pre-existing complex oceanographic circulation patterns, and a proper sedimentological setting. Generally, phosphorites are targeted on continental shelves and slopes, though phosphorites do occur on oceanic seabed features such as guyots (flat-topped seamounts). 

Polymetallic nodules - These nodular concretions are found on the seabed and consist of concentric layers of iron and manganese hydroxides. Nodules generally consist primarily of either manganese or iron. Manganese nodules can contain up to 30% manganese as well as other valuable metals and minerals, while iron nodules generally contain a mixture of iron, silicon, and aluminum ore. Polymetallic nodules are found at the seabed interface in oceans worldwide. Nodules must exhibit proper metal content and exist in sufficient concentration to be of potential economic interest. Some areas hosting economically viable nodules include the Clarion-Clipperton Fracture Zone between Hawaii and Mexico, the Peru Basin, and the northern Indian Ocean. 

Seafloor Massive Sulphides (SMS) &#150; SMS deposits are found on the ocean floor and contain copper, zinc, gold, silver and other trace metals. SMS deposits are found in areas of active or complex tectonic or volcanogenic activity, such as near oceanic spreading centers (such as the Mid-Atlantic Ridge and East Pacific Rise), back-arc basins (such as the Manus Basin in Papua New Guinea waters) and submarine arc volcanic chains (such as Kermadec Arc in New Zealand waters). 

Deep-Ocean Shipwreck Exploration 

For many years, we conducted shipwreck search and cargo recovery work on our own behalf and under contract to third parties. During the past 20 years, we amassed a large private database and research library of target shipwrecks, developed and acquired proprietary deep-ocean equipment and tools, and built a team of knowledgeable experts to execute off-shore projects. On December 10, 2015, we sold the shipwreck database and research library to Magellan Offshore Services, Ltd. (&#147;Magellan&#148;), while still retaining our vessel, equipment, tools, and specialized offshore team members. As part of the Acquisition Agreement with Monaco Financial, LLC., Magellan agreed to exclusively hire us on a &#147;cost plus&#148; basis for any shipwreck search and recovery projects conducted in the next five years. We agreed not to pursue the shipwrecks included in the data base sold to Magellan. Magellan will also pay 21.25% of the net proceeds from any monetization of recovered cargo to us. As part of the Acquisition Agreement, four pre-existing projects including the HMS Victory 1744 and HMS Sussex were retained by us. Magellan may participate in funding the recovery costs of these projects in the future, and will have the right to receive up to 50% of our net proceeds, if any. 

Shipwreck search operations typically begin with a side-scan sonar survey of a target area, which is sometimes coupled with a magnetometer survey, multi-beam bathymetric survey or other acoustic or geophysical survey technologies. The most interesting anomalies on the ocean floor are then inspected visually with an ROV that sends real-time video images to monitors on the survey vessel for observation by the scientific and technical teams. These images are also downloaded and saved for additional evaluation onshore. Sometimes, it is immediately obvious whether the inspected site is of interest (identifiable artifacts are apparent on the site) or not - (geology, modern debris). In other instances, it may take additional research and return visits to a site to arrive at probable or positive identification of the vessel and to determine the next step forward. Even when a shipwreck&#146;s identity is confirmed or an area of geological interest is identified, a detailed reconnaissance inspection or pre-disturbance survey may be required prior to commencing any recovery or resource assessment operations. 

If and when historic target sites are identified, we undertake an archaeological pre-disturbance survey and archaeological excavation subjected to stringent archaeological standards, thus adding to the body of knowledge of the people, the history and culture of the vessel&#146;s time. Archaeological excavation and recovery operations are conducted on historic shipwreck sites and combine ROVs with sophisticated positioning systems, cameras and specialized computer hardware and software to carefully record the location of artifacts in situ and to document the entire archaeological process as 

&#160;

the artifacts are recovered from a shipwreck site. As they conduct robotic archaeological operations at sites hundreds and sometimes thousands of feet below the ocean surface, our ROV pilots are directed by marine archaeologists aboard the recovery vessel. The archaeological excavation of cargo is followed by conservation, recording, documentation, and publication/exhibition. If and when a modern commodity shipwreck target is identified, removal of deck plates or ship&#146;s structure may be necessary to obtain access to the cargo to be salvaged. 

We have extensive experience in other phases of the shipwreck discovery business, such as conservation, documentation and exhibit of rare artifacts and publication of archaeological excavation. We will continue to conduct these services for the four projects that we have retained. We expect to conduct these services under contract to Magellan or its affiliates for their projects. 

Operational Projects and Status 

We have numerous deep-ocean projects in various stages of development around the world. In order to protect the targets of our planned search or recovery operations, in some cases we may defer disclosing specific information relating to our projects until we have located a shipwreck or other potentially valuable sources of interest and determined a course of action to protect our property rights. With respect to mineral deposits, SEC Industry Guide 7 outlines the Commission&#146;s basic mining disclosure policy and what information may be disclosed in public filings. With respect to shipwrecks, the identity of the ship may be indeterminable and the nature and amount of cargo may be uncertain, thus before completing any recovery, specific information about the project may be unavailable. Although Odyssey has a variety of projects in various stages of development, only projects with operational activity in the past 12 months are included below. 

Subsea Mineral Mining Exploration Projects 

Oceanica Resources, S. de R.L. 

In February 2013, we disclosed Odyssey&#146;s ownership interest, through Odyssey Marine Enterprises, Ltd., a wholly owned Bahamian company (&#147;Enterprises&#148;), in Oceanica Resources, S. de R.L., a Panamanian company (&#147;Oceanica&#148;) and Exploraciones Oceanicas, S. De R.L. De C.V. (&#147;ExO&#148;), a subsidiary of Oceanica. ExO is in the business of mineral exploration and controls exclusive permits in an area in Mexican waters that contains a large amount of phosphate mineralized material (known as the &#147;Don Diego&#148; deposit). Phosphate is a key ingredient of fertilizers. In March 2014, Odyssey completed a first NI 43-101 compliant report on the deposit and periodically updates this report. The Don Diego deposit is currently our main mineral project and is important to Odyssey&#146;s future. Odyssey believes that the Don Diego deposit contains a large amount of high-grade phosphate rock that can be extracted on a financially attractive basis (essentially a dredging operation) and that the product will be attractive to Mexican and other world producers of fertilizers. 

ExO has conducted extensive scientific testing of the mineralized phosphate material and of the environmental impact of recovering the mineralized material from the seafloor. Oceanica has been working with leading environmental experts on the impact assessment and permitting process, with Royal Boskalis on the extraction and processing program, and with JPMorgan and the AHMSA group of companies on the strategic growth alternatives. 

ExO applied for and was granted additional mining concession areas by the Mexican government. These additional areas are adjacent to the zones with the highest concentration of mineralization in the original mining concession area. ExO also relinquished certain parts of the granted concession areas where the mineral concentration levels were less attractive for mining purposes. 

In September 2014, ExO reported that the Environmental Impact Assessment (&#147;EIA&#148;) for proposed dredging and recovery of phosphate sands from the Don Diego deposit had been filed with the Mexican Secretary of Environment and Natural Resources (SEMARNAT). This EIA application is needed in order to obtain an environmental permit to begin the commercial extraction of phosphate from the tenement area. In November 2014, SEMARNAT held a public hearing on the EIA in Mexico and asked supplemental questions to Oceanica on its EIA application. In full compliance with the SEMARNAT process, a response to the questions was filed in March 2015. In addition to providing supplemental scientific information and studies, the response included additional mitigation and economic considerations to reinforce ExO&#146;s commitment to being good corporate citizens and stewards of the environment. In June 2015, ExO withdrew its Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) application to allow additional time for review and regional briefings. The EIA was re-submitted in June 2015 and additional information was filed in August 2015. A public hearing on this application was conducted by SEMARNAT on October 8, 2015, additional questions were received from SEMARNAT in November 2015, and ExO&#146;s responses to the questions were filed and stamped confirming receipt by SEMARNAT on December 3, 2015. In order to move to the next phase of development of the deposit, Odyssey and its subsidiaries need the approval of this environmental permit application. A decision on this application is expected in the course of 2016. 

&#160;

Enterprise initially held 77.6 million of Oceanica&#146;s 100.0 million outstanding shares. Subsequently, Enterprises sold and transferred to Mako Resources, LLC (&#147;Mako&#148;) 15.0 million shares for a purchase price of $1.00 per share, or $15.0 million, and granted Mako options to purchase an additional 15.0 million shares at the purchase price of $2.50 per share before December 31, 2013. 

In June 2013, Mako agreed to exercise of a portion of these options to purchase 8 million shares at a reduced exercise price of $1.25 per share. As part of Odyssey&#146;s strategy to maintain a control position in Oceanica, in parallel with the early exercise, Enterprise purchased one million shares of Oceanica from another Oceanica shareholder at $1.25 per share. This transaction also granted Odyssey voting rights on an additional three million shares of Oceanica held by such other Oceanica shareholder so long as there is no change in control of Odyssey. 

An option to purchase an additional one million shares was exercised by Mako on December 30, 2013 for a total amount of $2.5 million. The options on the remaining 6.0 million shares were extended in 2014 and 2015. On March 11, 2015, these options were terminated in exchange for the issuance of 4.0 million shares of our common stock to Mako. This termination was a requirement of the March 11, 2015 financing deal. In August 2014, we entered into a loan agreement with Monaco Financial, LLC, a marketing partner. Under terms of that agreement, Monaco may convert all or part of the loan balance into Oceanica shares held by us or purchase some Oceanica shares from us at a pre-defined price (See NOTE K). This loan was amended on December 10, 2015, extending the maturity date of the loan to December 31, 2017 and allowing Monaco to retain the call option on the $10 million worth of Oceanica shares held by Odyssey until December 31, 2017. In March 2015, Odyssey entered into a loan arrangement with Minera del Norte, S.A. de C.V. (&#147;MINOSA&#148;) whereby Odyssey pledged all of its shares in Oceanica as collateral for a $14.75 million loan from MINOSA. The MINOSA loan has been amended several times and recently had a maturity date of March 30, 2016. The maturity date is now March 18, 2017, see NOTE U for further information. 

Shipwreck Exploration Projects 

SS Central America Project 

In March 2014, we were awarded an exclusive contract to conduct an archaeological excavation and recover the remaining valuable cargo from the SS Central America (&#147;SSCA&#148;) shipwreck located approximately 160 miles off the coast of South Carolina. 

Odyssey was selected for the project by Ira Owen Kane, the court-appointed receiver for Recovery Limited Partnership (RLP) and Columbus Exploration, LLC. The service contract was approved by the Common Pleas Court of Franklin County, Ohio, which has jurisdiction over the receivership for RLP and Columbus Exploration, LLC. The shipwreck itself is under the admiralty jurisdiction of the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Virginia, Norfolk Division, which ruled in July 2014 that RLP had the exclusive shipwreck salvage rights. Monetization of the cargo recovered in 2014 has not yet occurred because the District Court has not yet released the cargo recovered from the SS Central America . Under the agreement with RLP, Odyssey will receive 80% of the proceeds of monetization of cargo until a fixed mobilization fee and a negotiated day rate are paid (the &#147;Priority Recoupment&#148;). Thereafter, Odyssey will receive 45% of the proceeds of monetization. 

Odyssey conducted survey and archaeological recovery work on the shipwreck site from mid-April through mid-September 2014. Over 15,500 silver and gold coins as well as 45 gold ingots, dust, nuggets, jewelry and other artifacts were recovered from the shipwreck. Odyssey has exclusive rights to perform future recovery work on this shipwreck site under contract with RLP through the first quarter of 2019. RLP and Odyssey will continue to analyze the data obtained in 2014 to determine whether to conduct work on the site in future seasons. 

No revenues from this project have been recognized to date because the recovered items have not been monetized yet and thus the realized value cannot be fully measured at this time. However, we recognized the Priority Recoupment as a benefit (credit to expense) in the second and third quarters of 2014 because the potential monetization value of the already-recovered cargo is well in excess of the project costs. The Priority Recoupment in the second and third quarter of 2014 was $3.5 million and $2.8 million, respectively. Tens of millions of dollars&#146; worth of valuable cargo was recovered from the shipwreck in 2014, but the exact value will only be determined by a monetization event. Odyssey has a right to a share of the proceeds from this monetization but is not the owner of the recovered cargo and, that being the case, none of the recovered cargo is carried as inventory on the balance sheet of Odyssey. 

&#160;

On December 10, 2015, Odyssey sold all of its financial interests in the SSCA project to Monaco Financial, LLC and its affiliates (See NOTE S). As a result, at December 31, 2015, Odyssey no longer carries a receivable on its books for the SSCA project and will not receive any further proceeds from the eventual monetization of the cargo that was recovered in 2014. All other contractual terms and conditions of the March 2014 agreement between Odyssey and RLP remain in place. 

HMS Victory Project 

In 2008, Odyssey discovered the shipwreck of HMS Victory (lost 1744) and, with the permission of the UK Ministry of Defence (MOD), recovered two cannons to aid in positive identification of the shipwreck. In 2010, the MOD and the UK Department for Culture Media and Sport (DCMS) held a joint public consultation on options for the management of the site. In January 2012, a deed of gift transferred the Victory (1744) and associated materials belonging to the Crown to the Maritime Heritage Foundation (MHF), a UK charity whose mission is to promote knowledge and understanding of Britain&#146;s maritime heritage. Odyssey is recognized as the salvor-in-possession of the wreck by the MHF and under maritime law. The MHF has now assumed responsibility for the future management of the wreck site and has contracted with Odyssey to provide a full range of archaeological, recovery, conservation and other services. 

The MHF is awaiting the go-ahead from the UK government to begin archaeological recovery of at-risk artifacts from the HMS Victory shipwreck site. On December 10, 2015, Odyssey gave Monaco Financial, LLC and its affiliates (&#147;Monaco&#148;) the right to purchase the ability to participate in up to 50% of the economic benefits, if any, of the HMS Victory project (See NOTE S). 

&#147; Gairsoppa &#148; Project 

On January 25, 2010, Odyssey was awarded the exclusive salvage contract for the cargo of the SS Gairsoppa by the United Kingdom Government (UKG) Department for Transport. Odyssey recovered cargo from this shipwreck in 2012 and 2013 and monetized most of the cargo in those years and through the start of 2014. A total of nearly 110 tons of silver, representing more than 99% of the insured silver on board, was recovered from the Gairsoppa shipwreck, which is over 15,000 feet deep. Odyssey paid $10.0 million to the UK government as its share of the proceeds from the monetization of the recovered cargo from the Gairsoppa . 

Other Projects 

In the fourth quarter of 2015, Odyssey was contracted by a third party to recover cargo from a shipwreck located in the Mediterranean sea. Odyssey recognized $3.0 million of revenue in 2015 for these services. The recovered cargo is the property of the contracting party. 

Odyssey offers its marine exploration services to third party companies. This may be for mineral exploration, environmental studies, shipwreck search and recovery, subsea surveys, and other off-shore work requiring specialized vessels, equipment and personnel. 

Legal and Political Issues 

Odyssey works with a number of leading international maritime lawyers and policy experts to constantly monitor international legal initiatives that might affect our projects. 

To the extent that we engage in mineral exploration or shipwreck search and recovery activities in the territorial, contiguous or exclusive economic zones of countries, Odyssey works to comply with verifiable applicable regulations and treaties. 

We believe there will be increased interest in the protection of underwater cultural heritage throughout the oceans of the world. We are uniquely qualified to provide governments and international agencies with knowledge and skills to help manage these resources. As related to mineral exploration, we will determine the political climate and specific legal requirements of any areas in which we are working. We may partner with third parties who have unique industry experience in specific geographical areas to assist with navigation of the regulatory landscape. 

&#160;

Competition 

Odyssey mineral exploration is conducted on both shallow and deep sea terrains. There are a number of companies that publicly identify themselves as engaged in aspects of deep-ocean mineral exploration or mining including Nautilus Minerals (NUS.TO), Neptune Minerals, and Chatham Rock Phosphate (CRP.NZ) as well as countries that are exploring options to utilize deep-ocean mineralized materials. As our mineral exploration business plan includes partnering with others in the industry, we view these entities as potential partners rather than pure competitors. As mineral rights are generally granted on an exclusive basis for a specific area or tenement, once licenses are granted we do not anticipate any competitive intrusion on those areas. It is possible that one of these companies or some currently unknown group may secure licenses on an area desired by Odyssey or one of our partners; but since exploration work does not start until licenses are secured, we do not believe that competition from one or more of these entities, known or unknown, would materially affect our operating plan or alter our current business strategy. For offshore mineral exploration, there are providers of vessels and equipment that could be competitors or partners for certain projects. These include companies such as Fugro NV and Royal Boskalis Westminster NV. 

Odyssey shipwreck recovery projects are focused on deep-sea sites where competition is limited due to the expertise and specialized equipment needed to operate at such depths. There are a number of companies that publicly identify themselves as engaged in aspects of the shipwreck business, but they do not compete directly with us as an established deep-ocean archaeological shipwreck exploration company. These entities include, but are not limited to Blue Water Ventures, Mel Fisher&#146;s Treasures, Deep Blue Marine, Marine Exploration, Inc., Oceanic Research and Recovery, Seafarer Exploration, Sub Sea Research, Earth Dragon Resources, Endurance Exploration Group and UnderSea Recovery Corporation. Some companies such as Phoenix International Holdings Inc. and Oceaneering International Inc. may provide deep-sea services to groups seeking to pursue deep sea projects. It is possible that one of these companies or some currently unknown group may locate and recover a shipwreck on our project roster; however, we do not believe that competition from one or more of these entities, known or unknown, would materially affect our operating plan or alter our current business strategy. 

Cost of Environmental Compliance 

With the exception of vessel operations and conservation activities, our general business operations do not expose us to environmental risks or hazards. We carry insurance that provides a layer of protection in the event of an environmental exposure resulting from the operation of our vessels. The cost of such coverage is minimal on an annual basis. Our seabed mineral business is currently in the exploration and validation phase and has thus not exposed us to environmental risks or hazards. 

Executive Officers of the Registrant 

The names, ages and positions of all the executive officers of the Company as of March 1, 2016 are listed below. 

Mark D. Gordon (age 55) has served as Chief Executive Officer since October 1, 2014, as President since October 2007 and was appointed to the Board of Directors in January 2008. Previously, Mr. Gordon served as Chief Operating Officer since October 2007 and as Executive Vice President of Sales and Business Development since January 2007 after joining Odyssey as Director of Business Development in June 2005. Prior to joining Odyssey, Mr. Gordon owned and managed four different ventures (1987-2003). 

Philip S. Devine (age 49) joined the Company in September 2013 from which time he has served as the Chief Financial Officer. Prior to joining Odyssey, Mr. Devine served as CFO of several publicly listed companies in Europe, as a management consultant at McKinsey &#38; Company and as an auditor at Deloitte &#38; Touche. 

Jay A. Nudi, CPA (age 52) has served as Principal Accounting Officer since January 2006 and joined Odyssey as Controller in May 2005. Mr. Nudi assumed the additional responsibilities of Treasurer in May 2010. Prior to joining Odyssey, Mr. Nudi served as Controller for The Axis Group in Atlanta (2003-2004). 

Laura L. Barton (age 53) was appointed as Executive Vice President and Director of Communications in June 2012 and formerly served at Vice President and Director of Corporate Communications from November 2007 to June 2012. She was appointed Corporate Secretary in June 2015. Ms. Barton previously served as Director of Corporate Communications and Marketing for Odyssey since July 2003. Ms. Barton was previously President of LLB Communications, a marketing and communications consulting company whose customers included a variety of television networks, stations and distributors and the Company (1994-2003). 

&#160;

John D. Longley, Jr. (age 49) has served as Chief Operating Officer since October 1, 2014. Previously Mr. Longley served as Executive Vice President of Sales and Business Development since February 2012. Mr. Longley was originally the Director of Sales and Business Operations when he joined the Company in May 2006. 

Employees 

As of December 31, 2015, we had 22 full-time employees, most working from our corporate offices in Tampa, Florida. Additionally, we contract with companies to operate our vessels and with specialized technicians who perform marine survey and recovery operations on our vessels and from time to time we hire subcontractors and consultants to perform specific services. 

Internet Access 

Odyssey&#146;s Forms 10-K, 10-Q, 8-K and all amendments to those reports are available without charge through Odyssey&#146;s web site on the Internet as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. They may be accessed as follows: www.odysseymarine.com (Investors/Financial Information Link). 

&#160;

