 ITEM 1. BUSINES S 

BUSINESS OF APTARGROUP 

We are a leading global provider of a broad range of innovative packaging , dispensing and sealing solutions, primarily for the beauty, personal care, home care, prescription drug, consumer health care, injectables, food and beverage markets. Our creative packaging solutions enhance the convenience, safety and security of consumers around the globe and allow our customers to differentiate their products in the market. 

Our business was started in the late 1940&#8217;s, manufacturing and selling aerosol valves in the United States, and has grown primarily through the acquisition of relatively small companies and internal expansion. We were incorporated in Delaware in 1992. In this report, we may refer to AptarGroup, Inc. and its subsidiaries as &#8220;AptarGroup&#8221; , &#8220;Aptar&#8221; or the &#8220;Company&#8221;. 

We have manufacturing facilities located throughout the world including North America, Europe, Asia and South America. We have approximately 5,000 customers with no single customer or group of affiliated customers accounting for greater than 8% of our 2015 net sales. 

Sales of our dispensing systems have traditionally grown at a faster rate than the overall packaging industry as consumers&#8217; preference for convenience has increased and product differentiation through packaging design has become more important to our customers. Also, c onsumer product marketers have converted many of their packages from non-dispensing formats to those with dispensing systems that offer the benefit of enhanced shelf appeal, convenience, cleanliness or accuracy of dosage. We expect these trend s to continue. 

While we offer a wide variety of dispensing and sealing solutions, our primary products are dispensing pumps, closures, aerosol valves and elastomeric primary packaging components. 

Dispensing pumps are finger &#8209;actuated dispensing systems that dispense a spray or lotion from non &#8209;pressurized containers. The style of pump used depends largely on the nature of the product being dispensed, from small, fine mist pumps used with perfume and pharmaceutical products to lotion pumps for more viscous formulas. 

Closures are primarily dispensing closures but to a lesser degree can include non &#8209;dispensing closures. Dispensing closures are plastic caps &#160; which allow a product to be dispensed without removing the cap. 

Aerosol valves dispense product from pressurized containers. The majority of the aerosol valves that we sell are continuous spray valves, with the balance being metered dose inhaler valves. 

We also manufacture and sell elastomeric primary packaging components. These components are used in the injectables market. Products include stoppers for infusion, antibiotic, lyophilization and diagnostic vials. Our elastomeric components also include pre &#8209;filled syringe components, such as plungers, needle shields, tip caps and cartridges, as well as dropper bulbs and syringe plungers. 

On January 25, 2016, the Company signed an agreement to acquire Megaplast GmbH, Megaplast France S.a.r.l. and Mega Pumps L.P. (&#8220;Mega Airless&#8221;), a leading provider of innovative all-plastic airless dispensing systems for the beauty, personal care and pharmaceutical markets. The transaction is subject to customary regulatory approvals and has not closed as of the date of this report but is expected to close prior to the end of the first quarter of 2016 . 

AVAILABLE INFORMATION 

Our periodic and current reports, and any amendments to those reports, are available, free of charge, through a link on the Investors page of our website (www.aptar.com), as soon as reasonably practicable after the material is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (&#8220;SEC&#8221;). These filing are also available to the public over the Internet at the SEC&#8217;s website (http:// www.sec.gov ). You may also read and copy any document we file with the SEC at the SEC&#8217;s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for further information on the reference room. 

Also posted on our website are the charters for our Audit, Compensation, Governance and Executive Committees, our Governance Principles, our Code of Business Conduct &#38; Ethics, our Director Independence Standards and our Conflict Minerals Statement. Within the time period required by the SEC and the New York Stock Exchange (&#8220;NYSE&#8221;), we will post on our website any amendment or waiver to the Code of Business Conduct &#38; Ethics applicable to any executive officer or director. The information provided on our website is not part of this report and is therefore not incorporated herein by reference. 

1 /ATR 

2015 Form 10-K 

&#160;

OUR STRATEGY 

We seek to enhance our position as a leading global provider of innovative packaging dispensing and sealing solutions and deliver increased value to our customers and shareholders through strategic focus and execution in the following areas: 

(i) 

Market Focused: We are committed to develop market focused packaging solutions and convert less convenient or non-dispensing applications to convenient dispensing systems or replacing current dispensing applications with more value-added dispensing products. We see opportunities to convert to more convenient and value-added solutions across all of our segments and markets. 

(ii) 

Diversification: We aim to continue to expand, through internal growth or through acquisition, our geographic footprint and portfolio of solutions in order to serve global consumer and pharmaceutical companies across a number of end uses. Our ability to diversify our business globally and across a number of end uses is a key strategic priority which improves our competitive position and reduces an over reliance on any one particular region or market. 

(iii) 

Niche Provider: Our customers look to us to develop products that provide them market differentiation related to convenience of use, product security and regulatory compliance. We invest in consumer research, product design and manufacturing technologies to be a leader in packaging delivery solutions. 

(iv) 

Innovation: We use our market research and insight into consumer behaviors to develop and license innovative new products. Additionally, we actively adapt and transfer innovative product technologies and concepts across business segments and geographic regions. 

(v) 

Operationally Efficient: We compete with global and local companies. We are focused on executing programs to improve our operational efficiency , including actions around local sourcing, production efficiency and process redesign. We understand the importance of continuous improvement to protect our ability to compete in the market. 

(vi) 

Talented Workforce: Execution of our strategy requires a talented and highly motivated team. We have a focused talent acquisition and development strategy to ensure our team has the right skills to execute our strategy. 

Facilitating the execution of our strategy are our core values , which dictate how we interact internally and with our customers, suppliers and all stakeholders . 

DESCRIPTION OF APTARGROUP&#8217;S REPORTING SEGMENTS 

INFORMATION ABOUT SEGMENTS 

AptarGroup&#8217;s organizational structure consists of three market &#8209;focused business segments which are Beauty + Home, Pharma and Food + Beverage. This is a strategic structure which allows us to be more closely aligned with our customers and the markets in which they operate. We primarily sell our products through our own sales force to the largest beauty, personal care, pharmaceutical, home care, food and beverage marketers in the world. To a limited extent, we use independent representatives and distributors to reach smaller customers and export markets. 

Operations that sell dispensing systems primarily to the beauty, personal care and home care markets form the Beauty + Home segment. Operations that sell dispensing systems and sealing solutions to the prescription drug, consumer health care and injectables markets form the Pharma segment. Operations that sell dispensing systems and sealing solutions to the food and beverage markets form the Food + Beverage segment. Each of these three business segments is described more fully below. A summary of sales, segment income and total assets based upon this reporting structure for each of the last three years is shown in Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 (which is incorporated by reference herein). 

BEAUTY + HOME 

The Beauty + Home segment is our largest segment in terms of net sales and total assets representing 55% and 45% of AptarGroup&#8217;s Net Sales and Total Assets, respectively. The Beauty + Home segment primarily sells pumps, closures, aerosol valves and accessories to the personal care and home care markets and pumps and decorative components to the beauty market. We believe we are a leading supplier for the majority of the products we sell primarily to the beauty, personal care and home care markets. 

2 /ATR 

2015 Form 10-K 

&#160;

Beauty. Sales to the beauty market accounted for approximately 46% of the segment&#8217;s total net sales in 2015. The beauty market requires a broad range of spray and lotion pumps and sampling dispensing systems to meet functional as well as aesthetic requirements. A considerable amount of research, time and coordination with our customers is required to qualify a pump for use with their products. Within the market, we expect the use of pumps to continue to increase, particularly in the cosmetics and sampling sectors. In the cosmetic sector, packaging for certain products such as natural and organic cosmetics and anti &#8209;aging lotions continue to provide us with growth opportunities. We are a leading provider of packaging solutions for prestige and mass market fragrance products. Our cosmetic lotion pumps, airless dispensing systems , lotion sampling devices and decorative capabilities will also provide growth opportunities. We see continued growth opportunities in Latin America and significant opportunities for growth in the sale of our products for cosmetic applications in Asia. 

Personal Care. Sales to the personal care market accounted for approximately 4 5 % of the segment&#8217;s total net sales in 2015 and primarily included sales of fine mist spray pumps, lotion pumps, closures and continuous spray aerosol valves. Personal care spray pump applications include hair care, body care and sun care products. Typical lotion pump applications include skin moisturizers, hand sanitizers and soap. Personal care closures applications include shampoos and conditioners. Personal care continuous spray aerosol valve applications include hair care products, deodorants, shaving creams and sun care products. Our research and development teams continue to design unique accessories that increase the value of our continuous spray aerosol valve offerings. 

Home Care. Sales to the home care market accounted for approximately 8% of the segment&#8217;s total net sales in 2015 and primarily included sales of continuous or metered dose spray aerosol valves, closures and to a lesser degree spray and lotion pumps. Applications for continuous spray valves include disinfectants, spray paints, insecticides and automotive products. Metered dose valves are used for air fresheners. Closure applications include liquid detergents and household cleansers. Spray and lotion pump applications primarily include household and industrial cleaners. There is a trend towards concentrated cleaners and laundry care products that could provide opportunities for incorporating our dosing dispensing technologies. 

PHARMA 

The Pharma segment is our second largest segment in terms of net sales and total assets, accounting for 31% and 24% of AptarGroup&#8217;s Net Sales and Total Assets, respectively, and is our most profitable segment. We believe we are a leading supplier of pumps and metered dose inhaler valves (&#8220;MDI&#8217;s&#8221;) to the pharmaceutical market worldwide and we are a supplier of elastomer for injectables primary packaging components worldwide. Characteristics of this market include (i) governmental regulation of our pharmaceutical customers, (ii) contaminant &#8209;controlled manufacturing environments and (iii) a significant amount of time and research from initially working with pharmaceutical companies at the molecular development stage of a medication through the eventual distribution to the market. We have clean &#8209;room manufacturing facilities in Argentina, China, France, Germany, India, Switzerland and the United States. We believe that providing an alternative to traditional medication forms such as pills with value &#8209;added, convenient dispensing systems will continue to offer opportunities for our business. In addition, with the trend towards hea l th care reform we believe there are opportunities for growth in the over the counter and generic pharmaceutical categories. 

Prescription Drug. Sales to the prescription drug market accounted for approximately 56% of the segment&#8217;s total net sales in 2015. Pumps sold to the prescription drug market deliver medications nasally, orally or topically. Currently the majority of our pumps sold are for nasal allergy treatments. Recently, there is a trend of nasal allergy products moving from prescription &#8209;only to being sold over the counter without a prescription. This trend could provide us with growth opportunities as this movement could allow consumers &#160; easier access to these types of treatments. Our nasal pumps and unit dose device s are also used to deliver pain management products. Potential opportunities for providing alternatives to traditional pill and injectable dosage forms of medication include pump dispensing systems for vaccine s , cold and flu treatments, central nervous systems applications and hormone replacement therapies. 

MDI&#8217;s are used for dispensing precise amounts of aerosolized medication. This technology allows medication to be broken up into very fine particles, which enables the drug to be delivered typically via the pulmonary system. Currently the majority of our MDI&#8217;s sold are used for respiratory ailments such as asthma and COPD (chronic obstructive pulmonary disease) . 

We continue to develop new dispensing systems and accessories in this segment. &#160; For example, w e provide single dose delivery devices suitable for central nervous system applications. While we expect that these types of new products will come to market in the future, it is difficult to estimate when, as the rigors of pharmaceutical regulations affect the timing of product introductions by our pharmaceutical customers which use our dispensing systems. 

3 /ATR 

2015 Form 10-K 

&#160;

Consumer Health Care. Sales to the consumer health care market accounted for approximately 25% of the segment&#8217;s total net sales in 2015. Applications for this market are similar to the prescription market; however, these applications are sold over the counter without a prescription. Typical consumer health care spray pump applications include nasal decongestants, nasal salines and cough and cold applications. Typical consumer health care valve applications include nasal saline using our bag &#8209;on valve technology. We have developed a multi dose ophthalmic dispensing device suitable for unpreserved medicinal formulations. This technology is successfully marketed in Europe and is under development for other markets. Other products sold to this market include airless pump systems for dermal applications. We have recently seen a trend to more child resistant and senior &#8209;friendly packaging solutions and have developed products to meet these market needs. 

Injectables. Sales to the injectables market accounted for a pproximately 19 % of the segment&#8217;s total net sales in 2015. Injectables are elastomeric primary packaging components for injectable drug delivery. Injectable products offered include stoppers for vials , pre &#8209;filled syringe components, such as plungers, needle shields, tip caps and components for cartridges, as well as syringe plungers. Our recent investment in this business will allow us to market coated stoppers which better preserve the contents of the vial and adds value to our customers and the consumer. Pharmaceutical applications for this market include vaccines, anti &#8209;thrombotic, small molecules and biologics. 

FOOD + BEVERAGE 

The Food + Beverage segment is our smallest segment in terms of net sales and total assets representing 14% and 10% of AptarGroup&#8217;s Net Sales and Total Assets, respectively, but has been experiencing strong product growth over recent years. We primarily sell dispensing closures and, to a lesser degree, non &#8209;dispensing closures, spray pumps and aerosol valves. 

Sales of dispensing closures have grown as consumers worldwide have demonstrated a preference for a package utilizing the convenience of a dispensing closure. At the same time, consumer marketers are trying to differentiate their products by incorporating performance enhancing features such as bonded aluminum liners to plastic, flow &#8209;control and no &#8209;drip dispensing, inverted packaging and directional flow to make packages simpler to use, cleaner and more appealing to consumers. We also have a number of product solutions that address the increased use of flexible packaging formats. 

Food. Sales to the food marke t accounted for approximately 56 % of the segment&#8217;s total net sales in 2015 and primarily include sales of dispensing closures and elastomeric flow &#8209;control components. To a lesser degree we also sell non &#8209;dispensing closures, continuous spray aerosol valves and spray pumps to this market. Applications for dispensing closures include sauces, condiments and food products. Applications for non &#8209;dispensing closures include granular and powder food products along with baby food closures. Applications for continuous spray aerosol valves include cooking sprays. Spray pump applications primarily include butter or salad dressing sprays. 

Beverage. Sales to the beverage marke t accounted for approximately 42 % of the segment&#8217;s total net sales in 2015 and primarily include sales of dispensing closures and elastomeric flow &#8209;control components. Sales of dispensing closures to the beverage market have increased significantly over the last several years as we continue to see an increase of interest from marketers using dispensing closures for their products. Examples of beverage products currently utilizing dispensing closures include bottled water, sport and energy drinks, juices and concentrated water flavorings. 

GENERAL BUSINESS INFORMATION 

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT 

Our commitment to innovation, one of our competitive strengths, has resulted in an emphasis on research and development directed toward developing affordable, new, innovative packaging delivery solutions and adapting existing products for new markets or customer requirements. In certain cases, our customers share in the research and development expenses of customer initiated projects. Occasionally, we acquire or license from third parties technologies or products that are in various stages of development. Expenditures for research and development activities, net of certain research and development credits, were $67.1 million, $76.2 million and $71.8 million in 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. 

PATENTS AND TRADEMARKS 

We customarily seek patent and trademark protection for our products and brands. We own and currently have numerous applications pending for patents and trademarks in many regions of the world. In addition, certain of our products are produced under patent licenses granted by third parties. We believe that we possess certain technical capabilities in making our products that make it difficult for a competitor to duplicate. While valuable to our overall product portfolio, sales of any one individually patented product are not considered material to any specific segment or to the Company&#8217;s consolidated &#160; results. 

4 /ATR 

2015 Form 10-K 

&#160;

TECHNOLOGY 

We have technical expertise regarding injection molding, robotics, clean - room facilities and high &#8209;speed assembly. We also have expertise regarding the formulation and finishing of elastomer and silicone components. In addition, we offer a variety of sterilization options for elastomeric components for the pharmaceutical industry. Pumps and aerosol valves require the assembly of several different plastic, metal and rubber components using high &#8209;speed equipment. When molding dispensing closures, or plastic components to be used in pump or aerosol valve products, we use advanced plastic injection molding technology, including large cavitation plastic injection molds. We are able to mold within tolerances as small as one one &#8209;thousandth of an inch and we assemble products in a high &#8209;speed, cost &#8209;effective manner. We are experts in molding liquid silicone that is used in certain dispensing closures as well as rubber gasket formulation and production primarily for the prescription drug and consumer health care markets. 

MANUFACTURING AND SOURCING 

The majority of our worldwide production is located outside of the United States. In order to augment capacity and to maximize internal capacity utilization (particularly for plastic injection molding), we use subcontractors to supply certain plastic, metal and rubber components. Certain suppliers of these components have unique technical abilities that make us dependent on them, particularly for aerosol valve and pump production. The principal raw materials used in our production are plastic resins, rubber and certain metal products. We believe an adequate supply of such raw materials is available from existing and alternative sources. We attempt to offset cost increases through improving productivity and increasing selling prices over time, as allowed by market conditions or contractual commitments. Our pharmaceutical products often use plastic resin and rubber components specifically approved by our customers. Significant delays in receiving these components or discontinuance of an approved raw material would require us to seek alternative sources, which could result in higher costs as well as impact our ability to supply products in the short-term. 

BACKLOG 

Our sales are primarily made pursuant to standard purchase orders for delivery of products. While most orders placed with us are ready for delivery within 120 days, we continue to experience a trend towards shorter lead times requested by our customers. Some customers place blanket orders, which extend beyond this delivery period. However, deliveries against purchase orders are subject to change, and only a small portion of the order backlog is noncancelable. The dollar amount associated with the noncancelable portion is not material. Therefore, we do not believe that backlog as of any particular date is an accurate indicator of future results. 

CUSTOMERS 

We have approximately 5,000 customers with no single customer or group of affiliated customers accounting for greater than 8% of 2015 net sales. A consolidation of our customer base has occurred and this trend is expected to continue. A concentration of customers presents opportunities for increasing sales due to the breadth of our product line, our international presence and our long &#8209;term relationships with certain customers. However, consolidation of our customers could lead to pricing pressures, concentration of credit risk and fewer opportunities to introduce new products to the market. 

INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS 

We are geographically diverse with manufacturing and sales operations in Asia, Europe, Latin America (including Mexico) and North America. Europe is our largest region where sales for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013 were approximately 56%, 58% and 58%, respectively. Asia and Latin America when aggregated represented approximately 17%, 17% and 17% of our consolidated sales for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. Export sales from the United States were $151.2 million, $161.4 million and $143.9 million in 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. For additional financial information about geographic areas, please refer to Note 17 in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 (which is incorporated by reference herein). 

FOREIGN CURRENCY 

Because of our international presence, movements in exchange rates have a significant impact on the translation of the financial statements of our foreign subsidiaries. Our primary foreign exchange exposure is to the Euro, but we have foreign exchange exposure to the Chinese Yuan, Brazilian Real, Mexican Peso, Swiss Franc and other Asian, European and South American currencies. A strengthening U.S. dollar relative to foreign currencies has a dilutive translation effect on our financial statements. Conversely, a weakening U.S. dollar has an additive effect. We manage our exposures to foreign exchange principally with forward exchange contracts to economically hedge recorded transactions and firm purchase and sales commitments denominated in foreign currencies. 

5 /ATR 

2015 Form 10-K 

&#160;

WORKING CAPITAL PRACTICES 

Collection and payment periods tend to be longer for our operations located outside the United States due to local business practices. We have also seen an increasing trend in pressure from certain customers to lengthen their payment terms . As the majority of our products are made to order, we have not needed to keep significant amounts of finished goods inventory to meet customer requirements. 

To the extent our financial position allows and there is a clear financial benefit, we from time-to-time benefit from early payment discounts with some suppliers. 

EMPLOYEE AND LABOR RELATIONS 

AptarGroup has approximately 13,000 full &#8209;time employees. Of the full &#8209;time employees, approximately 7,600 are located in Europe, 3,300 are located in Asia and South America and the remaining 2,100 are located in North America. The majority of our European and Latin American employees are covered by collective bargaining arrangements made at either the local or national level in their respective countries and approximately 160 of the North American employees are covered by a collective bargaining agreement. Termination of employees at certain of our international operations could be costly due to local regulations regarding severance benefits. There were no material work stoppages in 2015 and management considers our employee relations to be satisfactory. 

COMPETITION 

All of the markets in which we operate are highly competitive and we continue to experience price competition in all product lines and markets. Competitors include privately and publicly held entities that range from regional to international companies. We expect the market for our products to remain competitive. We believe our competitive advantages are consistent high levels of innovation, quality and service, geographic diversity and breadth of products. Our manufacturing strength lies in the ability to mold complex plastic components and formulate and finish elastomer and silicone components in a cost &#8209;effective manner and to assemble products at high speeds. Our business is somewhat capital intensive and it is becoming more important to our customers for Aptar to have global manufacturing capabilities. Both of these serve as barriers to entry for new competitors wanting to enter our business. 

While we have experienced some competition in Europe, Latin America and the United States from low cost Asian suppliers, particularly in the low &#8209;end beauty and personal care market, this has not been significant. Although using low cost Asian supplies may have a cost advantage, some customers prefer local suppliers citing better quality, better customer service and shorter lead times. 

ENVIRONMENT 

Our manufacturing operations primarily involve plastic injection molding, automated assembly processes, elastomer and silicone formulation and finishing and, to a limited degree, metal anodization and vacuum metallization of plastic components. Historically, the environmental impact of these processes has been minimal, and we believe we meet current environmental standards in all material respects. To date, our manufacturing operations have not been significantly affected by environmental laws and regulations relating to the environment. 

Recently there is increased interest and awareness from consumers, and from our customers, in environmentally sustainable products, especially through the sourcing of alternate materials. We are focused on reducing our environmental impacts through product l ife c ycle a ssessments, alternate material trials, operational eco-efficiency initiatives and renewable energy sourcing. We are designing for sustainability by providing products that improve recyclability and use less material. Future regulations on environmental matters regarding recycling or material inputs could impact our business. 

GOVERNMENT REGULATION 

Certain of our products are indirectly affected by government regulation. Demand for aerosol and pump packaging is affected by government regulations regarding the release of volatile organic compounds (&#8220;VOCs&#8221;) into the atmosphere. Europe and the United States have regulations that require the reduction in the amount of VOCs that can be released into the atmosphere and the potential exists for this type of regulation to expand worldwide. These regulations required certain of our customers to reformulate certain aerosol and pump products, which may have affected the demand for such products. We own patents and have developed systems to function with alternative propellant and product formulations. 

Future government regulations could include medical cost containment policies. For example, reviews by various governments to determine the number of drugs, or prices thereof, that will be paid by their insurance systems could affect future sales to the pharmaceutical industry. Such regulation could adversely affect prices of and demand for our pharmaceutical products. We believe that the focus on the cost effectiveness of the use of medications as compared to surgery and hospitalization provides us with an opportunity to expand sales to the pharmaceutical market. 

6 /ATR 

2015 Form 10-K 

&#160;

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS 

Our executive officers as of February 25, 2016 are as follows: 

Name 

Age 

Position with the Company 

&#160; 

Stephen Hagge 

President and Chief Executive Officer 

Mr. Hagge has been President and Chief Executive Officer since January 2012. Prior to this, Mr. Hagge was Chief Operating Officer from 2008 to 2011, Executive Vice President from 1993 to 2011 and &#160; Secretary from 1993 to June 2011. 

&#160; 

Robert Kuhn 

Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Secretary 

Mr. Kuhn has been Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since September 2008. Mr. Kuhn has been Secretary since June 2011. 

&#160; 

Eldon Schaffer 

President, Aptar Beauty + Home 

Mr. Schaffer has been President of Aptar Beauty + Home since January 2016. Prior to this, Mr. Schaffer was President of Aptar Food + Beverage from 2012 to 2015 and &#160; President of Aptar Beauty + Home North America from 2010 to 2011. 

&#160; 

Gael Touya 

President, Aptar Food + Beverage 

Mr. Touya has been President of Aptar Food + Beverage since January 2016. Prior to this, Mr. Touya was President of Aptar Food + Beverage Europe from 2012 to 2015 and &#160; Business Development V ice P resident Skin Care and Color Cosmetics from 2010 to 2011. 

&#160; 

Salim Haffar 

President, Aptar Pharma 

Mr. Haffar has been President of Aptar Pharma since January 2014. From 2012 to 2013 Mr. Haffar worked with Capsugel, a leading pharmaceutical supplier of gelatin capsules for the oral drug delivery industry. From 2010 to 2012, he was President of Aptar Pharma&#8217;s Prescription division. 

&#160; 

Ursula Saint &#8209;L&#233;ger 

Vice President of Human Resources 

Ms. Saint &#8209;L&#233;ger has been Vice President of Human Resources since October 2010. 

&#160; 

There were no arrangements or understandings between any of the executive officers and any other person(s) pursuant to which such officers were elected. 

