 ITEM 1. BUSINESS

OUR COMPANY

Cabot Microelectronics Corporation ("Cabot Microelectronics'', "the Company'', "us'', "we'', or "our''), which was incorporated in the state of Delaware in 1999, is the leading supplier of high-performance polishing slurries and a growing supplier of polishing pads used in the manufacture of advanced integrated circuit (IC) devices within the semiconductor industry, in a process called chemical mechanical planarization (CMP). CMP is a polishing process used by IC device manufacturers to planarize or flatten many of the multiple layers of material that are deposited upon silicon wafers in the production of advanced ICs. Our products play a critical role in the production of advanced IC devices, thereby helping to enable our customers to produce smaller, faster and more complex IC devices with fewer defects. Our mission is to create value by developing reliable and innovative solutions, through close customer collaboration, that solve today's challenges and help enable tomorrow's technology.

We currently operate predominantly in one industry segment &#8211; the development, manufacture and sale of CMP consumables products. We develop, produce and sell CMP slurries for polishing many of the conducting, insulating and isolating materials used in IC devices, and also for polishing the disk substrates and magnetic heads used in hard disk drives. We also develop, manufacture and sell CMP polishing pads, which are used in conjunction with slurries in the CMP process. In addition, we pursue demanding surface modification applications in other industries through our Engineered Surface Finishes (ESF) business.

On October 22, 2015, we completed the acquisition of NexPlanar Corporation ("NexPlanar"), a U.S. based company that had been privately held, which specialized in the development, manufacture and sale of advanced CMP pad solutions for the semiconductor industry. We believe the acquisition of NexPlanar provides an opportunity to expand our polishing pad product offerings with a complementary technology, and leverage our global infrastructure to better serve our customers on a global basis, including offering performance-advantaged slurry and pad consumable sets.

CMP PROCESS WITHIN IC DEVICE MANUFACTURING

IC devices, or "chips", are components in a wide range of electronic systems for computing, communications, manufacturing and transportation. Individual consumers most frequently encounter IC devices in mobile internet devices (MIDs) such as smart phones and tablets, microprocessors, application processors and memory chips in their desktop or laptop computers, and in automotive applications, gaming devices, and digital televisions. The multi-step manufacturing process for IC devices typically begins with a circular wafer of pure silicon, with the first manufacturing step referred to as a "wafer start". A large number of identical IC devices, or dies, are manufactured on each wafer at the same time. The initial steps in the manufacturing process build transistors and other electronic components on the silicon wafer. These are isolated from each other using a layer of insulating material, most often silicon dioxide, to prevent electrical signals from bridging from one transistor to another. These components are then wired together using conducting materials such as aluminum or copper in a particular sequence to produce a functional IC device with specific characteristics. When the conducting wiring on one layer of the IC device is completed, another layer of insulating material is added. The process of alternating insulating and conducting layers is repeated until the desired wiring within the IC device is achieved. At the end of the process, the wafer is cut into the individual dies, which are then packaged to form individual chips.

Demand for CMP consumables products, including slurries and pads, used in the production of IC devices is primarily based on the number of wafer starts by semiconductor manufacturers and the type and complexity of the IC devices they produce. To enhance the performance of IC devices, IC device manufacturers have progressively increased the number and density of electronic components and wiring layers in each IC device. This is typically done in conjunction with shrinking the key dimensions on an IC device from one technology generation, or "node," to another. As a result, the number of transistors, wires and the number of discrete wiring layers have increased, increasing the complexity of the IC device and the related demand for CMP consumables products. As semiconductor technology has advanced and performance requirements of IC devices have increased, the percentage of IC devices that utilize CMP in the manufacturing process has increased steadily over time. We believe that CMP is used in the majority of all IC devices made today, and we expect that the use of CMP will continue to increase in the future.

In the CMP polishing process, CMP consumables are used to remove excess material that is deposited during the IC manufacturing process, and to level and smooth the surfaces of the layers of IC devices, via a combination of chemical reactions and mechanical abrasion, leaving minimal residue and defects on the surface, with only the material necessary for circuit integrity remaining. CMP slurries are liquid solutions generally composed of high-purity deionized water and a proprietary mix of chemical additives and engineered abrasives that chemically and mechanically interact at an atomic level with the surface material of the IC device. CMP pads are engineered polymeric materials designed to distribute and transport the slurry to the surface of the wafer and distribute it evenly across the wafer. Grooves are formed into the surface of the pad to facilitate distribution of the slurry. The CMP process is performed on a CMP polishing tool. During the CMP process, the wafer is held on a rotating carrier, which is pressed down against a CMP pad. The CMP pad is attached to a rotating polishing table that spins in a circular motion in the opposite direction from the rotating wafer carrier. A CMP slurry is continuously applied to the polishing pad to facilitate and enhance the polishing process. Hard disk drive and silicon wafer manufacturers use similar processes to smooth the surface of substrate disks.

An effective CMP process is achieved through technical optimization of the CMP consumables in conjunction with an appropriately designed CMP process. Prior to introducing new or different CMP slurries or pads into its manufacturing process, an IC device manufacturer generally requires the product to be qualified in its processes through an extensive series of tests and evaluations. These qualifications are intended to confirm that the CMP consumable product will function properly within the customer's overall manufacturing process. These tests and evaluations may require minor changes to the CMP process or the CMP slurry or pad. While this qualification process varies depending on numerous factors, it is generally quite costly and may take six months or longer to complete. IC device manufacturers usually take into account the cost, time required and impact on production when they consider implementing or switching to a new CMP slurry or pad.

CMP enables IC device manufacturers to produce smaller, faster and more complex IC devices with a greater density of transistors and other electronic components. With smaller IC devices, IC device manufacturers can increase the number of IC devices that fit on a wafer, which increases their throughput, or the number of IC devices that can be manufactured in a given time period. CMP also helps reduce the number of defective or substandard IC devices produced, which increases the device yield. Producing more complex and higher performing IC devices increases the value of the wafers processed. Improvements in throughput, yield, and value per wafer improve the return on an IC device manufacturer's significant investment in manufacturing capacity, which is a high priority. More broadly, sustained growth in the semiconductor industry traditionally has been fueled by enhanced performance and lower unit costs, making IC devices more affordable in an expanding range of applications. We believe CMP remains a critical process in leading-edge semiconductor technology, enabling IC device manufacturers to efficiently produce the complex chips, particularly where higher performance may now be accompanied by higher unit costs.

PRECISION POLISHING

Through our ESF business, we are applying our technical expertise in polishing techniques to demanding applications in other industries where shaping, enabling and enhancing the performance of surfaces is critical to success, such as for precision optics and electronic substrates, including silicon and silicon-carbide wafers.

Many of the production processes currently used in precision machining and polishing have been based on traditional, labor-intensive techniques, which are being replaced by computer-controlled, deterministic processes. Our wholly-owned subsidiary, QED Technologies International, Inc. (QED), is a leading provider of deterministic finishing technology for the precision optics industry. We believe precision optics are pervasive, serving several large existing industries such as semiconductor equipment, aerospace, defense, biomedical, research and digital imaging.

OUR PRODUCTS

CMP CONSUMABLES FOR IC DEVICES

We develop, produce and sell CMP slurries for polishing a wide range of materials that conduct electrical signals, including tungsten, copper, tantalum (commonly referred to as "barrier"), which is used in copper wiring applications, and aluminum. Slurries for polishing tungsten are used in the production of advanced memory and logic devices for a multitude of end use applications such as computers and servers, MIDs such as smart phones and tablets, gaming devices, and digital televisions, as well as in mature logic applications such as those used in automobiles and communication devices. Tungsten slurries are also used in some of the most advanced technologies, such as 3D memory and FinFET for advanced logic IC devices. Slurries for polishing copper and barrier materials are used in the production of advanced IC logic devices such as microprocessors for computers, and devices for graphic systems, gaming systems and communication devices, as well as in the production of advanced memory devices. These products include different slurries for polishing the copper film and the thin barrier layer used to separate copper from the adjacent insulating material. Slurries for polishing aluminum are used in certain advanced transistor gate structures. We offer multiple products for each technology node to enable different integration schemes depending on specific customer needs.

We also develop, manufacture and sell slurry products used to polish the dielectric insulating materials that separate conductive layers within logic and memory IC devices. Our slurry products for these materials are primarily used in mature, high volume polishing applications called Interlayer Dielectric, or ILD, in the production of both logic and memory devices. Our more advanced dielectrics products are designed to deliver higher performance and lower cost of ownership in traditional ILD applications, as well as to meet the more stringent and complex performance requirements of lower-volume, more specialized dielectrics polishing applications at advanced technology nodes. Some of the applications for advanced dielectrics slurries include shallow trench isolation (STI), "stop on poly" isolation, bulk oxide polishing, and polishing of various dielectrics in advanced transistor designs.

We develop, produce and sell CMP polishing pads, which are consumable materials that work in conjunction with CMP slurries in the CMP polishing process. We believe that CMP polishing pads represent a natural adjacency to our CMP slurry business, since both technologies are required by our customers to deliver their intended result and utilize the same technical, sales and support infrastructure. Our polishing pad product portfolio includes pads utilizing both thermoset and thermoplastic polyurethane pad material. We produce and sell pads that can be used on a variety of polishing tools, over a range of applications, including tungsten, copper, and dielectrics, over a range of technology nodes, and on both 300mm and 200mm wafers.

CMP CONSUMABLES FOR THE DATA STORAGE INDUSTRY

We develop, produce and sell CMP slurries for polishing certain materials that are used in the production of rigid disks and magnetic heads used in hard disk drives for computer and other data storage applications, which represent an extension of our core CMP slurry technology and manufacturing capabilities established for the semiconductor industry. We believe CMP significantly improves the surface finish of these rigid disk coatings, resulting in greater storage capacity of the hard disk drive systems, and also improves the production efficiency of manufacturers of hard disk drives.

PRECISION OPTICS PRODUCTS

Through our QED subsidiary, we design and produce precision polishing and metrology systems for advanced optic applications that allow customers to attain near-perfect shape and surface finish on a range of optical components such as mirrors, lenses and prisms. Historically, advanced optics have been produced using labor-intensive artisanal processes, and variability has been common. QED has automated the polishing process for advanced optics to enable rapid, deterministic and repeatable surface correction to the most demanding levels of precision in dramatically less time than with traditional means. QED's polishing systems use Magneto-Rheological Finishing (MRF), a proprietary surface figuring and finishing technology that employs magnetic fluids and sophisticated computer technology to polish a variety of shapes and materials. QED's metrology systems use proprietary Subaperture Stitching Interferometry (SSI) technology, which captures precise metrology data for large and/or strongly curved optical parts. SSI technology includes proprietary Aspheric Stitching Interferometry (ASI), which is designed to measure increasingly complex shapes, including non-spherical surfaces, or aspheres. QED's products also include MRF polishing fluids and MRF polishing components, as well as optical polishing services and polishing support services.

STRATEGY

We collaborate closely with our customers to develop and manufacture products that offer innovative and reliable solutions to our customers' challenges, and we strive to consistently and reliably deliver and support these products around the world through what we believe is a robust global infrastructure and supply chain. We continue to focus on the execution of our primary strategies related to technology leadership, customer collaboration and supply chain excellence.

STRENGTHENING AND GROWING OUR CORE CMP CONSUMABLES BUSINESS

Delivering Innovative and High-Performing Solutions: We believe that technology and innovation are vital to success in our CMP consumables business, and we devote significant resources to research and development. We focus our research and development activity to deliver innovative CMP consumables products for advanced applications for our technology-leading customers. We have established facilities in Japan, Singapore, South Korea, Taiwan, and the United States, in order to meet our customers' technology needs on a global basis.

We believe an example of our ability to deliver innovative products for advanced applications is the growth we saw in revenues in fiscal 2016 from our tungsten and certain dielectrics slurry products used in 3D memory and FinFET for advanced logic. We believe our focused effort on advanced technologies with technology-leading customers will enable us to provide more compelling new products as technology continues to advance. In addition, we believe our polishing pads product area represents a promising opportunity for continued growth. We believe that combining pad technology and products from our NexPlanar acquisition with our organic pad technology and products will enable us to better serve the needs of our customers on a global basis, including the ability to offer performance-differentiated CMP slurry and pad consumable sets.

Close Collaboration with Our Customers: We believe that building close relationships with our customers is essential to achieving long-term success in our business. We collaborate with our customers to identify and deliver new and improved CMP solutions, to integrate our products into their manufacturing processes, and to assist them with supply, warehouse and inventory management. Our customers demand a highly reliable supply source, and we believe we have a competitive advantage because of our ability to timely deliver high-quality products and service from the early stages of product development through the high-volume commercial use of our products. We have strategically located our research and development and clean room facilities, manufacturing operations, and related technical and customer support teams to be responsive to our customers' needs. We believe our research and development facilities, in close proximity to our customers, provide a competitive advantage.

We believe the three supplier excellence awards we received from our customers in fiscal 2016 are evidence of our commitment to, and success in, delivering high-performing and high-quality products to our customers through close collaboration with them. These awards recognized our product quality and reliability, as well as our customer support capabilities. Our global business teams are focused on a range of projects with our customers to address specific business opportunities for advanced technologies.

Robust Global Supply Chain: We believe that product and supply chain quality is critical to success in our business. Our customers demand continuous improvement in the performance of our products, in terms of product quality and consistency. We strive to reduce variation in our products and processes in order to increase quality, productivity and efficiency, and improve the uniformity and consistency of performance of our CMP consumables products. Variability reduction becomes more important to our customers as technology advances. Our global manufacturing sites are managed to provide the people, training and systems needed to support stringent industry demands for product quality. To support our quality initiative, we practice the concepts of Six Sigma across our Company, which we believe has contributed to lower variability in our products and sustained improvement in productivity in our operations. Six Sigma is a systematic, data-driven approach and methodology for improving quality by reducing variability.

We also believe that continuous improvement and variation reduction in our global supply chain are critical to our success and the success of our customers. We believe our capabilities in supply chain management and quality systems differentiate us from our competitors. We believe our worldwide CMP consumables manufacturing plants and global network of suppliers also provide supply chain flexibility if needed.

ENGINEERED SURFACE FINISHES

Beyond our core CMP consumables business, through our ESF business, we develop and provide products for demanding polishing applications in other industries, such as in precision optics and electronic substrates. Our QED subsidiary continues to be the technology leader in deterministic finishing for the precision optics industry. QED's polishing and metrology technology enables customers to replace manual processes with automated solutions that provide more precise and repeatable results. Another aspect of our ESF business is the polishing of electronic substrates, including silicon and silicon-carbide wafers. CMP is utilized in the production of these wafers to ensure they meet the stringent specifications required by IC manufacturers.

INDUSTRY TRENDS

SEMICONDUCTOR INDUSTRY

We believe the semiconductor industry continues to exhibit a number of trends: demand within the semiconductor business is driven primarily by MIDs, and secondarily by personal computers (PCs) and a wide range of other electronic applications; overall industry growth fluctuates; our customer base consolidates; there is pressure to reduce costs; and, the pace of technology advancement has slowed.

We have discussed the significant shift in semiconductor industry demand over the past several years from IC devices for PCs to MIDs. Demand for MIDs is largely consumer-based, versus more enterprise-based demand for PCs, so semiconductor industry demand fluctuates. For example, the semiconductor industry experienced soft demand conditions during the second half of our fiscal 2015 through the first half of fiscal 2016. Semiconductor demand strengthened during the second half of fiscal 2016, apparently driven by inventory replenishment and preparation for new product launches. A factor that could spur future industry growth is semiconductor industry development in China; significant domestic and international investment in both logic and memory capacity is ongoing, and more is expected in the future. We continue to believe that semiconductor industry demand will grow over the long term based on increased usage of IC devices in existing applications, as well as future applications.

Over a number of years, we have seen our customer base within the semiconductor industry consolidate as larger semiconductor manufacturers have generally grown faster than the smaller ones, through mergers and acquisitions as well as through alliances among and between different companies. Costs to achieve the required scale in manufacturing within the semiconductor industry continue to rise, along with the related costs of research and development, and larger manufacturers generally have greater access to the resources necessary to manage their businesses, than do smaller ones. This trend is particularly evident in capital spending within the industry, as the largest semiconductor companies account for an increasingly large portion of total capital spending in the industry compared to the past.

As demand for more advanced and lower cost electronic devices grows, there is continued pressure on IC device manufacturers to reduce their costs. Many manufacturers reduce costs by pursuing ever-increasing scale in their operations, while seeking to reduce their production costs by increasing their production yields, regardless of their scale. Thus, they look for CMP consumables products with quality and performance attributes that can help them reduce their overall cost of ownership, pursue ways to use smaller amounts of CMP materials, and also aggressively pursue price reductions for these materials. The pressure on IC device manufacturers to reduce costs has led to increased usage of foundries, which further drives increasing scale.

Manufacturers also have historically reduced cost, and simultaneously improved device performance, by migrating to smaller technology nodes. However, as the industry continues to shrink dimensions, leading edge technology node transitions are becoming more challenging due to technical and physical obstacles, and the pace of technology change has slowed. To achieve performance and cost improvements, semiconductor manufacturers are placing greater emphasis on new device architectures, including 3D memory and FinFET. 3D NAND for advanced memory is now more broadly ramping in high-volume manufacturing, and several manufacturers of logic applications are in high-volume manufacturing using FinFET. We believe semiconductor manufacturers will continue to depend upon highly engineered materials in these new architectures, requiring innovative CMP solutions.

CMP CONSUMABLES INDUSTRY

Demand for CMP consumables is primarily driven by wafer starts, so the CMP consumables industry reflects semiconductor industry demand patterns in terms of cyclicality, seasonality and specific device types. Our revenue and net income for fiscal years 2012, 2013 and 2014 demonstrated seasonal swings in demand as we saw softer demand for our products in the first half of each of these fiscal years, followed by stronger demand during the second half. However, consistent with overall semiconductor industry demand, in fiscal 2015, we saw a departure from this trend as demand for our products was stronger during the first half of the fiscal year, but weaker in the second. In fiscal 2016, we saw a return to a more seasonal demand pattern as demand was softer during the first half of the fiscal year and stronger in the second half, which was consistent with the conditions experienced by a number of other participants in the semiconductor industry. Over the long term, we anticipate worldwide demand for CMP consumables used by IC device manufacturers will grow as a result of expected long-term growth in wafer starts, the trend to more advanced technologies and an associated increase in the number of CMP polishing steps required to produce these advanced devices, and the introduction of new materials that will require CMP.

We expect the anticipated long-term growth in demand will be partially mitigated by continued efficiency improvements in CMP consumable usage as customers seek to reduce their costs. As discussed above, semiconductor manufacturers look for ways to lower the cost of CMP consumables in their production operations, including improvements in technology, dilution of slurry, use of concentrated slurry products, or reduction of slurry flow rate, to reduce the total amount of slurry used, and to extend pad life. In addition, CMP demand also depends upon the specific mix of IC device demand, since the intensity of CMP usage varies by IC device type.

We believe that CMP technical solutions are becoming more complex, with advanced technologies generally requiring greater customization by customer, tool set and process integration approach. As a result, we generally see customers selecting suppliers earlier in their development processes and maintaining preferred supplier relationships through production. Therefore, we believe that close collaboration with our customers early in the development cycle offers the best opportunity for optimal CMP solutions. We also believe that research and development programs with customers and suppliers continue to be vital to our success as we develop and commercialize innovative, high-performing and more cost-effective CMP solutions.

COMPETITION

We compete in the CMP consumables industry, which is characterized by rapid advances in technology and demanding product quality and consistency requirements. We face competition from other CMP consumables suppliers. We also may face competition in the future from significant changes in technology or emerging technologies. However, we believe we are well-positioned to continue our leadership in CMP slurries, and to continue to grow our business in CMP pads. We believe we have the experience, scale, capabilities and infrastructure that are required for success, and we work closely with technology-leading customers in the semiconductor industry to meet their growing expectations as a trusted business partner.

Our CMP slurry competitors range from small companies that compete with a single product or in a single geographic region, to divisions of global companies with multiple lines of CMP products. However, we believe we are the leader in CMP slurries. In our view, we are the only CMP slurry supplier today that serves a broad range of customers by offering and supporting a full line of CMP slurry solutions for all major applications, with a proven track record of supplying these products globally in high volumes with the requisite high level of technical support services.

With respect to CMP polishing pads, a division of Dow Chemical has held the leading position in this area for many years. Subsequent to our acquisition of NexPlanar, we believe we are the second largest supplier of CMP polishing pads to the industry. A number of other companies also participate in this area of the CMP consumables business. We believe that the combination of our organic pad technology and products with those we acquired with NexPlanar enable us to meet our customers' needs for lower defectivity, greater pad consistency, and longer pad life. In addition, we believe that this combination will enable us to better serve our customers on a global basis, including offering performance-differentiated slurry and pad consumable sets.

Our QED subsidiary operates in the precision optics industry. There are few direct competitors of QED and we believe its technology is unique and provides a competitive advantage to customers in the precision optics industry, which still relies heavily on traditional artisanal methods of fabrication.

CUSTOMERS, SALES AND MARKETING

Within the semiconductor industry, our customers are generally producers of logic or memory IC devices , or providers of IC foundry services. Some logic customers, and so-called "fabless" companies, outsource some or all of the production of their devices to foundries, which provide contract manufacturing services, in order to avoid the high cost of process development, construction and operation of a fab, or to provide additional capacity when needed. In fiscal 2016, excluding revenue attributable to data storage and ESF customers, approximately 42% of our revenue was from memory customers, 40% from foundry customers and 18% from logic customers.

We believe the primary influences of our customers' CMP consumables buying decisions are: overall cost of ownership, which represents the cost to purchase, use and maintain a product; product quality and consistency; product performance and its impact on a customer's overall yield; engineering support; and, supply assurance. We believe that greater customer sophistication in the CMP process, more challenging integration schemes, additional and unique polishing materials, and cost pressures will continue to increase demands on CMP consumables suppliers like us.

We use a collaborative approach to build close relationships with our customers in a variety of areas, and we have customer-focused teams located in each major geographic region. Our sales process begins long before the actual sale of our products, and occurs on a number of levels. Due to the long lead times from research and development to product commercialization and sales, we have research teams that collaborate with technology-leading customers on emerging applications years before the products are required &#160; by the market. &#160; We also have development teams that interact closely with these customers, using our research and development facilities and capabilities to design CMP products tailored to their needs. Next, our applications engineers work with customers to integrate our products into their manufacturing processes. Finally, as part of our sales process, our logistics and sales personnel provide supply, warehouse and inventory management services for our customers. 

We market our products primarily through direct sales to our customers, although we use distributors in certain areas. We believe this strategy of primarily direct sales provides us an additional means to collaborate with our customers, and provides our customers with the most efficient means by which to procure our products.

Our QED subsidiary supports customers in the semiconductor equipment, aerospace, defense, research, biomedical and digital imaging industries. QED counts among its worldwide customers leading precision optics manufacturers, major semiconductor original equipment manufacturers, research institutions, and contractors to the United States and other governments.

In fiscal 2016, our five largest customers accounted for approximately 54% of our revenue, with Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Corporation and Samsung each accounting for approximately 15% of our revenue, respectively. For additional information on our customers, refer to Note 2 of "Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements" included in Item 8 of Part II of this Form 10-K.

RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT AND TECHNICAL SUPPORT

We believe that technology is vital to success in our CMP and ESF businesses, and we plan to continue to devote significant resources to research, development and technical support (R&#38;D), and balance our efforts between shorter-term market needs and longer-term investments required of us. We focus our R&#38;D efforts on product innovation at leading-edge applications for our technology-leading customers. We develop new and enhanced CMP solutions tailored to these customers' requirements using our expertise in chemical formulation, materials science, product engineering and manufacturing technology. We work closely with these customers at their facilities to identify their specific technology and manufacturing challenges and to translate these challenges into viable CMP process solutions.

Our technology efforts are focused on five main areas that span the early stage of product development involving new materials, processes and designs several years in advance of commercialization, to continuous improvement of already commercialized products in daily use in our customers' manufacturing facilities:

&#61623;

Research related to fundamental CMP technology;

&#61623;

Development of new and enhanced CMP consumables products, including collaboration on joint development projects with technology-leading customers and suppliers;

&#61623;

Process development to support rapid and effective commercialization of new products;

&#61623;

Technical support of our CMP products in our customers' research, development and manufacturing facilities; and,

&#61623;

Development of polishing and metrology applications outside of the semiconductor industry.

Our research in CMP slurries and pads addresses a breadth of complex and interrelated performance criteria that relate to the functional performance of the IC device, our customers' manufacturing yields, and their overall cost of ownership. We design slurries and pads that are capable of polishing one or more materials of differing hardness, sometimes at the same time, that comprise the semiconductor circuitry. In addition, our products must achieve the desired surface conditions at high polishing rates, high processing yields and low consumables costs in order to provide acceptable cost of ownership for our customers. As technology advances and materials and designs increase in complexity, these challenges require significant investments in R&#38;D.

We also commit R&#38;D resources to our ESF business. Products under development in this area include products used to polish silicon and silicon-carbide wafers to improve the surface quality of these wafers and reduce the customers' total cost of ownership.

We believe that technology provides us with a competitive advantage, and that our investments in R&#38;D provide us with polishing and metrology capabilities that support the most advanced and challenging customer technology requirements. In fiscal years 2016, 2015 and 2014, we incurred approximately $58.5 million, $59.8 million and $59.4 million, respectively, in R&#38;D expenses. We believe our Six Sigma initiatives in our R&#38;D efforts allow us to conduct more research at a lower cost than through other means. Investments in property, plant and equipment to support our R&#38;D efforts are capitalized and depreciated over their useful lives.

Our global R&#38;D team includes experts from the semiconductor industry and scientists from key disciplines required for the development of high-performance CMP consumable products. We operate an R&#38;D facility in Aurora, Illinois, that features a Class 1 clean room and advanced equipment for product development, including 300mm polishing and metrology capabilities; a facility in Japan, which includes a Class 1 clean room with 300mm polishing, metrology and slurry development capabilities; a facility in Taiwan that includes a clean room with 300mm polishing capability; a facility in South Korea that provides slurry formulation capability and 300mm polishing capability; an R&#38;D laboratory in Singapore that provides polishing, metrology and slurry development capabilities for the data storage industry; and, a research facility in Rochester, New York that supports our QED business. These facilities underscore our commitment to continuing to invest in our technology infrastructure to maintain our technology leadership and to be responsive to the needs of our customers.

RAW MATERIALS SUPPLY

Engineered abrasive particles are significant raw materials we use in many of our CMP slurries. Our strategy is to secure various sources of different raw materials, as appropriate, to enable the desired performance of our products, and monitor those sources as necessary to provide supply assurance. Also, we have entered into multi-year supply agreements with a number of suppliers for the purchase of raw materials in the interest of supply assurance and to control costs. For additional information regarding these agreements, refer to "Tabular Disclosure of Contractual Obligations", included in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," in Item 7 of Part II of this Form 10-K.

INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY

We believe our intellectual property is important to our success and ability to compete, and we also differentiate our products and technology by their high quality and reliability, and our quality systems, global supply chain and logistics. As of October 31, 2016, we had 1,285 active worldwide patents, of which 280 are U.S. patents, and 512 pending worldwide patent applications, of which 78 are in the U.S. Many of these patents are important to our continued development of new and innovative products for CMP and related processes, as well as for new businesses. Our patents have a range of duration. We expect to lose worldwide patent coverage of a patent that has been material to some of our legacy business in approximately one year. However, we refresh our intellectual property on an ongoing basis through continued innovation, and have significant patents that protect this technology and other legacy and advanced technology with a range of duration. We attempt to protect our intellectual property rights through a combination of patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, use of certain manufacturing technologies, exclusive contractual arrangements with suppliers, and with employee and third party nondisclosure and assignment agreements. We vigorously protect and defend our intellectual property, and have been successful in this regard.

Most of our intellectual property has been developed internally, but we also may acquire intellectual property from others to enhance our intellectual property portfolio. These enhancements may be via licenses or assignments or we may acquire certain proprietary technology and intellectual property when we make acquisitions. We believe these technology rights can enhance our competitive advantage by providing us with future product development opportunities and expanding our intellectual property portfolio.

ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS

&#160; Our facilities are subject to various environmental, safety and health laws and regulations, including those relating to air emissions, wastewater discharges, the handling and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes, and occupational safety and health. We believe that our facilities are in substantial compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations. Our major operations in the United States, Japan, Singapore, South Korea and Taiwan are ISO 14001 Environmental and OHSAS 18001 Safety and Health certified, which requires that we implement and operate according to various procedures that demonstrate waste reduction, energy conservation, injury reduction and other environmental, health and safety objectives. We have incurred, and will continue to incur, capital and operating expenditures and other costs in complying with environmental, safety and health laws and regulations in the United States and other countries in which we do business, but we do not expect these costs will be material. 

EMPLOYEES

We believe our employees are the foundation of our success. As of October 31, 2016, we employed 1,145 individuals, including 650 in operations, 259 in research and development and technical, 101 in sales and marketing and 135 in administration. In general, our employees are not covered by collective bargaining agreements. We have not experienced any work stoppages and consider our relations with our employees to be good.

FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT GEOGRAPHIC AREAS

We sell our products worldwide. We believe our geographic coverage allows us to utilize our business and technical expertise from a diverse, global workforce, strategically located in close proximity to our customers. For more financial information about geographic areas, see Note 20 of "Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements" included in Item 8 of Part II of this Form 10-K.

AVAILABLE INFORMATION

Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, definitive proxy statements on Form 14A, current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports are made available free of charge on our Company website, www.cabotcmp.com, as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Any materials that the Company files with the SEC are also available to read and copy at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. Statements regarding beneficial ownership of our securities by our executive officers and directors are made available on our Company website following the filing of such with the SEC. In addition, the SEC's website (http://www.sec.gov) contains reports, proxy statements, and other information that we file electronically with the SEC.

