 ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

Overview

8x8 provides cloud-based, enterprise-class software solutions that transform the way businesses communicate and collaborate globally. Delivered through a SaaS (Software as a Service) business model, our solutions are at the forefront of a disruptive technology shift that is occurring in business communications where enterprises are increasingly replacing costly and unwieldy on-premises communications equipment with agile, cloud-based software services delivered over the public Internet.

Cloud computing has fundamentally changed the way enterprise software applications are developed and deployed. Organizations no longer need to buy and maintain their own infrastructure of servers, storage and tools in order to run core business applications. Instead, companies can gain access to a variety of business applications via an Internet browser or mobile device on an as-needed basis, without the cost and complexity of managing the hardware or software in-house.

8x8's comprehensive software platform brings together the power of cloud, mobile, collaboration, video and data science technologies to enhance the way employees communicate with each other, and how they connect and interact with their customers. Our integrated, "pure-cloud" offering combines global voice, conferencing, messaging and video with integrated workflows and big data analytics on a single platform to enable increased team productivity, better customer engagement and real-time insights into business performance. Through a combination of open API's (application program interface) and pre-built integrations, 8x8 solutions seamlessly leverage critical customer context from internal data systems and industry-leading Customer Relationship Management (CRM) systems, including cloud-based solutions from Salesforce.com, NetSuite, and Zendesk.

Powered by internally owned and managed technologies, 8x8's offerings are uniquely positioned to serve businesses of all sizes and can easily scale to large, globally distributed enterprise customers. Our turnkey solution spans the breadth of communications and collaboration needs, is provided with industry-leading reliability at an affordable cost and is quick and easy-to deploy through our proprietary deployment methodology. This allows customers to focus on their business instead of managing the complexities of disparate communications and collaboration platforms and the integration of these platforms with other cloud-based business applications. 

Available Information

We were incorporated in California in February 1987 and reincorporated in Delaware in December 1996. We maintain a corporate Internet website at the address http://www.8x8.com. The contents of this website are not incorporated in or otherwise to be regarded as part of this Annual Report. We file reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, which are available on our website free of charge. These reports include annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to such reports, each of which is provided on our website as soon as reasonably practical after we electronically file such materials with or furnish them to the SEC. You also can read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. You can obtain additional information about the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1.800.SEC.0330. In addition, the SEC maintains a website (www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC, including 8x8. 

Our Industry

Businesses today are facing increasing cost and complexity with deployments of communications and collaboration solutions. Companies of all sizes are managing a mobile and globally distributed workforce that seeks to leverage multiple forms of communication, including voice, text, video and desktop, in their day-to-day interactions. The rapid rise of mobile devices in the enterprise has created demand for "bring your own device," or BYOD, provisioning capabilities. Additionally, companies are looking to increase their competitive edge by integrating ERP (Enterprise Resource Planning), CRM (Customer Relationship Management), and HCM (Human Capital Management) applications and other back-office information technology (IT) systems within their communications infrastructure.

2 The on-premises communications systems traditionally offered by legacy hardware vendors have numerous shortcomings that make them poorly suited for today's dynamic business environments. In addition to being difficult to deploy and expensive to maintain in multiple locations for a globally distributed workforce, these solutions may not provide the mobility, resiliency and business continuity capabilities required by customers. BYOD demands from employees further complicate the delivery of a company-wide communication system. The result is a patchwork communications system with security risks that stretch across the organization. Security compliance in this environment is extremely difficult, and information distributed across multiple systems increases administrative complexity and decreases business intelligence visibility. 

Because of these inadequacies and security risks, more and more businesses are demanding enterprise-class cloud solutions like ours, which deliver secure, global, high-quality communications with built-in disaster recovery. Our service offerings are intuitive and easy-to-use, can be deployed rapidly, customized easily and integrated with other platforms and enterprise applications. We deliver our software as a service via all major Internet browsers and on leading mobile devices. Virtually all of our customers do not require any dedicated equipment, employees or carriers to use our services - only Internet connectivity and a subscription to the 8x8 service are required at the customer location.

Cloud Market Opportunity

We believe that the addressable market for our cloud communications and collaboration services is large, growing and underpenetrated. For example, we believe that the following forecasts, recently published by industry research firms may provide relevant data about the size of the markets addressed by our Virtual Office, Virtual Contact Center and Virtual Office Meetings solutions: 

Frost &#38; Sullivan estimates North American spending on cloud communications and collaboration services will increase at a compound annual growth rate, or CAGR, of 29% to $14 billion in 2021. (Frost &#38; Sullivan &#34;Analysis of the North American Hosted IP Telephony and UCC Services Market,&#34; July 2015).

According to Transparency Market Research, the global unified communications as a service market is poised for staggering growth, and will be worth US$37.85 billion by 2022. The market will expand at a CAGR of 23.4% between 2014 and 2022. (Transparency Market Research "Unified Communication as a Service Market - Global Industry Analysis, Size, Share, Growth, Trends and Forecast 2014 - 2022," July 2015).

MarketsandMarkets forecasts that the global cloud-based contact center market is expected to grow from $4.68 billion in 2015 to $14.71 billion by 2020, at a Compound Annual Growth Rate (CAGR) of 25.7% during the forecast period. (MarketsandMarkets &#34;Cloud Based Contact Center Market - Global Forecast to 2020,&#34; November 2015).

IDC forecasts the content collaboration software market to grow to a total of $6.2 billion by 2019, representing a 13.4% CAGR for the 2014-2019 period. (IDC &#34;Worldwide Content Collaboration Software Forecast,&#34; December 2015).

The 8x8 Approach

Seamless Communications over an Integrated Software Platform . We believe that seamless, continuous communications drives more effective employee and customer engagement and greater business productivity. To that end, 8x8's solutions have been designed to allow users to communicate and collaborate with others in an integrated and fluid manner. For example, a user who initiates a voice call on a desk phone and then needs to leave the office can seamlessly transfer the call to a mobile device without the person they are communicating with being aware that the user is no longer at his/her desk. Single Vendor for All Communication Software . Increasingly, customers are seeking multiple solutions from a single vendor, especially in our rapidly growing enterprise customer segment, to further simplify the deployment and management of their communications infrastructure. Our cloud software solutions encompass all of the primary communications capabilities required by businesses - voice, video, presence, chat, conferencing, collaboration, contact center and analytics - providing multiple buying paths and usage scenarios for our customers. Focus on Customer Communication . Many businesses are faced with customer communication challenges due to gaps in internal employee communication, poor internal collaboration, and little or no contextual data available at the time of customer contact. To help companies communicate better with their customers, our solutions link customer information with internal collaboration capabilities to provide synchronized customer engagement from the moment of contact with any individual role within the company's sales, support and other customer-facing organizations. 3 Big Data and Analytics . We believe that transparency into communication provides businesses the information they need to optimize customer communication. For that reason we released a series of analytic tools in the 2016 calendar year that give businesses visibility into employee communications in the contact center and the enterprise. Mining and analyzing &#34;big data&#34; related to communication optimization is a pioneering area in which we are investing. Rapid Deployment . Business flexibility in the global, modern economy is a competitive necessity, and we embrace the notion that communication services should be deployable as quickly as possible. Our services can be provisioned in minutes, on-the-fly, from web-based administrative tools. We have automated our provisioning, billing and other systems to enable rapid customer deployment and maximum flexibility. Global Reach &#174; . We provide service today via Global Reach&#174; to 114 countries. Our nine data centers help us achieve, low voice latency and superior quality and reliability in all these countries. We currently maintain data center operations in five dispersed regions of the world - United States, Canada, United Kingdom, Hong Kong and Australia. Committed Service Quality over the Public Internet . We offer qualifying customers an end-to-end service level agreement (SLA) with commitments regarding service availability and voice quality for calls transmitted over the public Internet. This SLA provides for at least 99.99% uptime and a voice-quality mean opinion score (MOS) of 3.0 or higher for at least 98% of all calls carried over the network, subject to certain exceptions (such as scheduled maintenance) and conditions (such as the customer's implementation of dual diverse connections to the Internet and adherence to our setup guidelines). We are able to provide this level of SLA because of our proprietary audio stack and the geographical and network architecture, which optimizes the path for voice data across the World Wide Web. Security and Compliance . We understand that security of information is paramount for many organizations. To that end we have invested heavily in security and compliance with state and federal regulations including FISMA (Federal Information Security Management Act), HIPAA (Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act) FIPS 140-2 (Federal Information Processing Standard), CPNI (Customer Proprietary Network Information), PCI-DSS (Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard), and U.S., E.U. and EEA Safe Harbor data privacy standards (under the former Safe Harbor framework). Our Strategy

We are committed to developing and delivering the most innovative, reliable, scalable and secure cloud software for business communications. Our strategy is based on market growth dynamics, including the growing adoption of cloud communications software by larger mid-market and enterprise customers, along with the capabilities of our solutions, to continue to build a competitive advantage by delivering unique value to our customers.

The following are key elements of our strategy:

Global Expansion . There is an increasing number of small and midsize (SMB) and mid-market sized customers with facilities and personnel in multiple countries. Traditional communication solutions bridging multiple geographies and carrier networks are cumbersome and expensive, and we see a market need for seamless cloud software solutions that can connect employees and customers across multinational organizations with simplicity and ease. We are focused on expanding our ability to effectively and efficiently deliver our software solutions into an increasing number of countries and regions. In addition, we plan to continue expanding the distribution of our services into new countries through a combination of organic growth, regional acquisitions and channel partners. One Integrated Platform . Business communications solutions are increasingly requiring a breadth of software capabilities, spanning from simple voice and video collaboration to complex multi-channel contact center capabilities. We believe our ability to deliver a full spectrum of capabilities within a single cloud platform from a single vendor is a competitive advantage, especially for larger customers. We plan to continue expanding the set and features of services within our platform, including extending our contact center capabilities, adding deeper collaboration services, and bringing an increasing number of analytics-driven applications to market. Additionally, our services provide increased benefits when used in concert, so we intend to upsell our products and services by educating our customers on the additional functionality and overall business value that can be achieved across our platform. Enterprise Grade . We have invested in our software and software delivery infrastructure to provide a high-level of availability, reliability, security and compliance, and will continue to invest in this area. Additionally, we plan to expand and deepen our customer deployment and support capabilities, including more program management, professional services, and partner delivery capabilities, to meet the needs of larger multi-national customers. 4 Intuitive User Experience . Because we deliver our software from one integrated platform, we can offer an intuitive, seamless communication experience that spans voice, messaging, and video. We plan to continue enhancing the usability and user interface of our software, including mobility and tighter integration with commonly used business productivity application, CRM solutions and vertical business applications. Mid-Market and Distributed Enterprise Focus. We plan to capitalize on the growing adoption of cloud-based communications and collaboration solutions in mid-market and distributed enterprises through increasing focus on our direct and channel sales strategy. Strategic Acquisitions . We intend to identify, acquire and integrate strategic technologies, assets and businesses that we believe will expand the breadth of our cloud software offerings and drive growth, both domestically and internationally. Our Products

We have built a global, hyper-scalable cloud communications and contact center platform that is powering the communications infrastructure worldwide for businesses of all sizes from an SMB to a large, multi-national enterprise. Regardless of size, our software enables businesses to operate as one unified entity while delivering the highest quality of service. These capabilities are becoming increasingly important as more and more globally distributed enterprises move their communications infrastructure to the cloud. Unlike many cloud business services, our distributed platform enables users to utilize services from our data centers worldwide automatically, based on their current location without any user intervention. Our software solutions combine global voice, messaging and video with integrated workflows and big data analytics to provide business communications to our customers' workforce, to enable better customer engagement, increased team productivity, and real-time insights into business performance.

All of our software components work together and can be combined into different bundles depending on the business needs of our customers. Our software products provide solutions in the following areas:

Global Business Voice (8x8 Virtual Office)

The Company's flagship software product, branded 8x8 Virtual Office, delivers high quality voice as a service globally with a robust business feature set. 8x8 Virtual Office is a self-contained, end-to-end solution that enables a customer to use a single business phone number to place and receive calls from any supported device (including desktop phones, computers with an installed software telephone app, and mobile devices) over any available Internet connection. Local numbers are available in over 80 countries and toll-free numbers are available in over 100 countries. We further provide local number porting in more than 40 countries.

The use of a single business telephone number across any employee device is an important advancement because it allows a business to retain a phone number, and the business contacts associated with it, when an employee leaves the business. Without this advancement, employees using their mobile phones for work can take their personal number with them on termination of employment, meaning that they can easily retain business contact information that typically belongs to their employers. 

With 8x8 Virtual Office, those business contacts stay with the company, and can be assigned to a different employee. 8x8 Virtual Office also connects all internal business calls (including calls to a receptionist, voicemail system, conference bridge, etc.) using any Internet connection, which enables high definition (HD) audio at a much lower price point for the business, making this product especially suitable for distributed companies with employees in many different locations.

8x8 Virtual Office includes a complete set of business features such as a worldwide extension calling, corporate directory with click-to-call functionality, voicemail, call forwarding, transfers, conferencing, ring groups (ringing many different extensions at the same time), hot-desking (multiple people sharing the same physical device), call recording, call monitoring, music on hold, and a receptionist console with a night-attendant feature to answer and route calls when no employees are available.

Many 8x8 Virtual Office pricing plans include unlimited calls to certain regions of the world, with different prepaid or per-minute plans for connecting international and toll-free calls.

5 Messaging and Presence 

Our solutions include 8x8 Virtual Office and 8x8 Virtual Office Pro software that enables all of the customer's authorized personnel to see a corporate directory sorted and searchable by name, branch, department and other fields defined for a given set of employees. In addition to presence information, which shows whether an employee is logged in, available, busy, temporarily away or in a do-not-disturb mode, Virtual Office Pro enables employees and workgroups to communicate with each other using chat or text messages sent via the Short Message Service (SMS) protocol, commonly known as &#34;texting&#34; on mobile phones. Chats from other employees will appear on any 8x8 chat-enabled device, including mobile phones, associated with the employee. Chats can also be seamlessly escalated to a voice call or video connection. 8x8's Virtual Office Pro chat messages are secure and integrated into the business communications environment.

Contact Center (8x8 Virtual Contact Center)

We provide software to enable a multi-channel contact center under the 8x8 Virtual Contact Center brand. Our multi-channel (voice, chat, voicemail, e-mail) call center can be used for customer support, sales and any other corporate function that involves a high density of inbound or outbound interactions with customers. 

8x8 Virtual Contact Center offers features such as a programmable, interactive voice response tool for greeting customers, automatic queuing and routing of inbound inquiries, skills-based routing of inquiries to the appropriate call center agents, multimedia management, real-time monitoring and reporting, voice recording and logging, historical reporting, contact and case management tools, and integration with popular third party CRM tools.

A unique feature of 8x8 Virtual Contact Center is its integration with the 8x8 Virtual Office and 8x8 Virtual Office Pro software. This enables contact center agents to have phone calls with anyone in the corporate directory, as well as to see the presence of employees across the enterprise, regardless of their locations, and enables the contact centers to become an integrated part of the communications of the entire enterprise.

Collaboration

Our Virtual Office Meetings software solution is an ideal tool for teams within the enterprise to meet and collaborate on a shared project from any Virtual Office extension, desktop or mobile device. Initiating a meeting takes only three clicks, and can include internal colleagues or external participants via a software download and/or a dial-in telephone number from any country where the business has deployed 8x8 Virtual Office.

Inside a Virtual Office Meeting, participants experience high definition audio conferencing (for employees or external participants using a software download), content sharing, chat conversations and meeting recordings. Meetings can be scheduled in advance either from the software itself or from Microsoft Outlook.

Mobility

We also provide Virtual Office Mobile software that turns any Apple IOS and Android-based mobile device into a device that will function as an extension on the 8x8 Virtual Office platforms. Virtual Office Mobile also allows any telephone number anywhere in the world (even a non-8x8 phone number) to be associated as an extension on the 8x8 Virtual Office platform. Virtual Office Mobile can be downloaded from the Apple or Google Play stores as an application.

Once installed, this application enables calls to be placed or received on the mobile device using the business number of the employee, and makes key Virtual Office features accessible such as access to the corporate directory, presence information, voicemail access, chat and SMS texting, access to Virtual Office Meetings (with content sharing and video, if subscribed). Our mobility software application runs in the background of the mobile device and automatically launches the application for business, not personal, communications. Outbound communications from the Virtual Office Mobile software appear to the outside world as if they originated from the employee's 8x8 Virtual Office extension.

Video

Our software integrates with third party software providers to add high definition video to any 8x8 Virtual Office Meeting session to provide HD video conferencing capability for up to 8 participants using any Virtual Office, Virtual Office Pro, or Virtual Office Mobile device that includes a camera. The high definition video component is an optional, add-on service to Virtual Office Meetings. Our software also enables point-to-point video calls between any two 8x8 Virtual Office, Virtual Office Pro, or Virtual Office Mobile endpoints if a camera device is present at the respective endpoints.

6 Big Data / Analytics

We have developed a set of big data tools that collect and analyze historical and real-time communications data transmitted through our Virtual Office and Virtual Contact Center solutions. These products, sold under the Virtual Office Analytics and Virtual Contact Center Analytics brands, enable an enterprise to improve its performance by providing details about internal and external call activity, real-time call queue status, call quality and global routing and device status information.

Line of Business Solutions 

We provide software to enable a group of employees within a business unit to set up their own communications infrastructure without requiring the involvement of an information technology (IT) or formal purchasing function. We refer to these solutions as &#34;Line of Business&#34; because they can be adopted and used by any employee within an enterprise. EasyContactNow (currently only available in the United Kingdom) is a simple, multi-channel outbound and inbound contact center for voice, SMS, chat and e-mail interactions with external customers cloud solution that enables employees within the business unit to easily communicate across multiple touchpoints and engage customers and prospects based on a request or campaign. Customers pay as they go and are only charged for their actual usage of the product. 

Third Party Integrations 

Our software uses a combination of open application program interfaces (APIs) and pre-built integrations to enhance functionality with data from other third-party back office management systems, including cloud-based solutions from Salesforce.com, NetSuite, and Zendesk. We typically offer our customers access to these integrations from our website and from partner application exchange web sites.

These integrations enable customers to receive a popup screen from the third party solution whenever a relevant inbound call is received, and also enables customers to click-to-call any customer or prospect in the third party solution. 

Our Technology

We introduced our first communications software as a service offering in 2002, and have since expanded our solutions, features and software capabilities. Almost all of our software is delivered from internally owned and operated software technologies built from the ground up to deliver these services to our customers from the Internet cloud.

From inception through March 31, 2016 we have been awarded 118 United States patents covering a variety of voice and video communications, signaling, processing and storage technologies. Many patents in our portfolio relate to the communications software used in our various software products.

We supply communications software to users in over 114 countries across six continents. We run our software in nine data centers in seven locations around the world. Providing high quality global communications requires more than just a set of data centers, however. We also developed our proprietary Global Reach&#174; patented technology so that 8x8 software voice communications, placed or received anywhere on the globe on any compatible device, can have the same consistent quality as a local or internal call within a single area code.

Many hosted VoIP solutions route call data through the same data center regardless of the physical or geographic location of callers. We take a different and, we believe, more optimal approach: when an end-user makes a call using our solution, our patented technology seeks out the closest data center to the current location, subject to service, security and data sovereignty considerations (which might require that the user's signaling data be sourced from a certain geography). We call this &#34;geo-routing.&#34; Our patented technologies to ensure that this data latency is always minimized. For all routing decisions, current Internet and carrier network conditions are taken into account and the best route is determined in real time.

7 Many of our software solutions provide mission critical services to our business customers, and we have developed technologies and architectures that embed high reliability and uptime into our software. 

Based on our reliability technologies and Global Reach&#174;, we are able to offer some of our enterprise customers an end-to-end SLA that provides commitments as to both the availability of our solutions, or uptime, and voice call quality, including commitments as to:

A minimum of 99.99% service uptime. In fiscal 2016, our annual service uptime exceeded 99.99% across our customer base, running at 99.997% for Virtual Office and 99.992% for Virtual Contact Center. These percentages exclude downtime for scheduled maintenance; Voice quality standards based on the industry standard Mean Opinion Score (MOS). The SLA provides for a minimum MOS of 3.0 for 98% of all calls end-to-end over private networks or the public Internet. These commitments are subject to certain prerequisites, including the customer's implementation of dual diverse connections to the Internet and adherence to our setup guidelines.

Our technologies include a number of deployment methodologies that represent best practices for deploying our software at a new customer site and driving maximum customer adoption of our more advanced software features. We also manage and port existing business numbers globally, and we provide local number porting services in more than 40 countries. We also provide software connectivity to emergency services, wiretap and other regulatory services required by law in different regions of the world. We have developed our own billing software, and provide our customers with electronic monthly billing.

Finally, a key aspect of our technology for larger enterprise customers and certain industry verticals, like medical, is our security and compliance, including Cloud Security Alliance, HIPAA, FISMA, PCI-DSS v3.1, end-to-end encryption technologies, U.S., E.U. and EEA Safe Harbor data privacy standards (under the former Safe Harbor framework), and ISO/IEC 27001:2013.

Sales, Marketing and Promotional Activities

We market our services directly to end users through a variety of means including search engine marketing and optimization, third party lead generation sources, industry conferences, trade shows, webinars, traditional advertising channels and other demand generation activities. We employ a multi-tiered direct sales force and indirect channel partner network consisting of VARs (value added resellers), master agents, system integrators and service providers in the U.S., Canada, UK and Australia to identify, qualify and manage prospects throughout the sales cycle. Our sales professionals work closely with inside technical support, sales engineers and deployment specialists to develop customized proposals based on individual customer requirements. Sales representatives are paid a base salary or hourly rate and monthly commission for selling our products and services. The commission is based on new sales made by the sales representative. Our sales department employs over 100 individuals. 

Competition

Given the size and stage of the current market opportunity and the breadth of our communications and collaboration service platform, we face competition from several types of organizations including other cloud services providers, communications and collaboration software vendors and incumbent telephone companies reselling legacy communications equipment. For more information regarding the risks associated with such competition, please refer to our "Risk Factors" below.

Cloud Services Providers

When customers have decided to transition to cloud-based communications, we compete with other cloud communication software providers such as RingCentral, Fuze, inContact, Five9, and Interactive Intelligence to win that business. We believe that our comprehensive suite of services integrated over a common platform, including our contact center capabilities, as well as our expertise in security, reliability, quality of service, analytics and global coverage, gives customers of all sizes a significant incentive to choose us over other cloud-based providers. 

Communications and Collaboration Software Vendors

We also face competition from communications and collaboration vendors such as Cisco, Google, and Microsoft Corporation. While these competitors currently provide solutions that compete with some elements of our software suite, notably our Virtual Office Meeting web conferencing solution, they are beginning to roll out additional communications capabilities including business voice. Although we believe that none of these competitors currently have cloud services offerings that span the entire breadth of our platform, they each have strong software solutions for their respective communications and/or collaboration silos. In addition, many of these competitors are substantially larger and better capitalized than we are and have advantages 8 with larger existing customer bases and larger marketing budgets. However, we believe that a collective deployment of these software solutions that is equivalent to a similar deployment of our services is likely to be more expensive and cumbersome for customers to integrate into a cohesive communications solution. 

Incumbent Telephony Companies and Legacy Equipment Providers

Our cloud-based software replaces wireline business voice services sold by incumbent telephone and cable companies such as AT&#38;T, CenturyLink, Comcast, and Verizon Communications in conjunction with on-premises hardware solutions from companies like Avaya, Cisco and Mitel. However, we believe that the solutions offered by these competitors are typically more expensive to adopt, require on-premise implementations and regular hardware and IT infrastructure upgrades. Furthermore, the offerings typically do not provide all the functionality needed for our customers to integrate their communication systems with their IT infrastructure, therefore requiring additional system integration investments and set up. 

Operations

Our operations infrastructure consists of data management, monitoring, control and billing systems that support all of our products and services. We have invested substantial resources to develop and implement our real-time call management information system. Key elements of our operations infrastructure include a prospective customer quotation portal, customer provisioning, customer access, fraud control, network security, call routing, call monitoring, media processing and normalization, call reliability, detailed call record storage and billing and integration with third-party applications. We maintain a call switching platform in software that manages call admission, call control, call rating and routes calls to an appropriate destination or customer premises equipment. 

Network Operations Center

We maintain a network operations center at our headquarters in San Jose, California and employ a staff of approximately 50 individuals with experience in voice and data operations to provide 24-hour operations support, seven days per week. We use various tools to monitor and manage all elements of our network and our partners' networks in real time. We also monitor the network elements of some of our larger business customers. Additionally, our network operations center provides technical support to troubleshoot equipment and network problems. We also rely upon the network operations centers and resources of our telecommunications carrier partners such as Level 3 Communications, Inc. and data center providers such as Equinix, Inc. to augment our monitoring and response efforts. 

In the event of a major disruption at a data center, such as a natural disaster, failover between data centers for 8x8 Virtual Office happens instantly. Active calls may disconnect, but new calls can be generated immediately. In addition, most of the maintenance services performed by 8x8 are completely seamless and invisible to customers. For example, we can move the core call flow processing from one data center to another without dropping a single call. 8x8 Virtual Contact Center local redundancy is offered by default, and geographical redundancy can be enabled as an option to provision geo-redundant tenants on multiple sites.

Customer and Technical Support 

We maintain a call center at our headquarters in San Jose, California and have a staff of approximately 90 employees and contractors that provide customer service and technical support to customers. In addition, we have outsourced some customer support activities to third parties. Customers who access our services directly through our website receive customer service and technical support through multilingual telephone communication, web-based and "chat" sessions, and email support. 

Interconnection Agreements

We are a party to telecommunications interconnect and service agreements with VoIP providers and PSTN telecommunications carriers, such as Level 3 Communications, Verizon Communications and Inteliquent. Pursuant to these agreements, VoIP calls originating on our network can be terminated on other VoIP networks or the PSTN. Correspondingly, calls originating on other VoIP networks and the PSTN can be terminated on our network. 

9 Research and Development

The cloud communications market is characterized by rapid technological changes and advancements, typical of most SaaS markets. Accordingly, we make substantial investments in the design and development of new products and services, as well as the development of enhancements and features to our existing products and services, and make these enhancements available to our customers frequently. 

We believe our ability to deliver a full spectrum of capabilities within a single cloud platform from a single vendor is a competitive advantage, especially for larger customers. We plan to continue expanding our set of services within our platform, including extending our contact center capabilities, adding deeper collaboration services, and bringing an increasing number of analytics-driven applications to market. Our future development programs also will focus on the integration and functionality of our products and services with other SaaS products, such as Salesforce.com, NetSuite, Zendesk and others. Supporting a variety of standard and custom integration partners and services is essential to our success as a cloud services provider.

We currently employ more than 140 individuals in research, development and engineering activities in our facilities in San Jose, California as well as outsourced software development consultants. Our Romanian subsidiary consists of employees primarily dedicated to our research development efforts. Research and development expenses in each of the fiscal years ended March 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014 were $24.0 million, $15.1 million and $11.6 million, respectively. 

Regulatory Matters

In the United States, VoIP and other software communications and collaboration services, like ours, have been subject to less regulation at the state and federal levels than traditional telecommunications services. Providers of traditional telecommunications services are subject to the highest degree of regulation, while providers of VoIP and other information services are largely exempt from most federal and state regulations governing traditional common carriers. The FCC has subjected VoIP service providers to a smaller subset of regulations that apply to traditional telecommunications service providers and has not yet classified VoIP services as either telecommunications or information. The FCC is currently examining the status of VoIP service providers and the services they provide in multiple open proceedings. In addition, many state regulatory agencies impose taxes and other surcharges on VoIP services, and certain states take the position that offerings by VoIP providers are intrastate telecommunications services and therefore subject to state regulation. These states argue that if the beginning and end points of communications are known, and if some of these communications occur entirely within the boundaries of a state, the state can regulate that offering. We believe that the FCC has pre-empted states from regulating VoIP offerings in the same manner as providers of traditional telecommunications services. However, this issue has not been resolved definitively as a matter of law, and it remains possible that the FCC could determine that such services are not information services, or that there could be a judicial or legislative determination that the states are not pre-empted from regulating VoIP services as traditional telecommunications services. We cannot predict how or when these issues will be resolved or its potential future impact on our business at this time.

In addition to regulations addressing Internet telephony and broadband services, other regulatory issues relating to the Internet, in general, could affect our ability to provide our services. Congress has adopted legislation that regulates certain aspects of the Internet including online content, user privacy, taxation, liability for third party activities and jurisdiction. In addition, a number of initiatives pending in Congress and state legislatures would prohibit or restrict advertising or sale of certain products and services on the Internet, which may have the effect of raising the cost of doing business on the Internet generally. 

Internationally, we are subject to a complex patchwork of regulations that vary from country to country. Some countries have adopted laws that make the provision of VoIP services illegal within the country. Other countries have adopted laws that impose stringent licensing obligations on providers of VoIP services like ours. In many countries, it is not clear how laws that have historically been applied to traditional telecommunications providers will be applied to providers of VoIP services like us. 

The effect of any future laws, regulations and orders, or any changes in the enforcement of existing laws, on our operations, including, but not limited to, our cloud-based communications and collaboration services, cannot be determined. But as a general matter, increased regulation and the imposition of additional funding obligations increases service costs that may or may not be recoverable from our customers, which could result in making our services less competitive with traditional telecommunications services if we increase our prices or decreasing our profit margins if we attempt to absorb such costs.

Federal, state, local and foreign governmental organizations are considering other legislative and regulatory proposals that would regulate and/or tax applications running over the Internet. We cannot predict whether new taxes will be imposed on our services, and depending on the type of taxes imposed, whether and how our services would be affected thereafter. Increased regulation of the Internet may decrease its growth and hinder technological development, which may negatively impact the cost of doing business via the Internet or otherwise materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Please refer to Part I, Item 1A. "Risk Factors" for a discussion of regulatory risks, proceedings and issues that could adversely affect our business and operating results in the future.

10 Intellectual Property and Proprietary Rights

Our ability to compete depends, in part, on our ability to obtain and enforce intellectual property protection for our technology in the United States and internationally. We currently rely primarily on a combination of trade secrets, patents, copyrights, trademarks and licenses to protect our intellectual property. From inception through March 31, 2016, we have been awarded 118 United States patents since our inception, of which we expect to expire between 2016 and 2043. We have additional United States and foreign patent applications pending. 

We cannot predict whether our pending patent applications will result in issued patents. 

To protect our trade secrets and other proprietary information, we require our employees to sign agreements providing for the maintenance of confidentiality and also the assignment of rights to inventions made by them while in our employ. There can be no assurance that our means of protecting our proprietary rights in the United States or abroad will be adequate or that competition will not independently develop technologies that are similar or superior to our technology, duplicate our technology or design around any of our patents. In addition, the laws of foreign countries in which our products are or may be sold do not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. Our failure to protect our proprietary information could cause our business and operating results to suffer.

We are also subject to the risks of adverse claims and litigation alleging infringement of the intellectual property rights of others. Such claims and litigation could require us to expend substantial resources and distract key employees from their normal duties, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, cash flows and financial condition. The communications and software industries are subject to frequent litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. Moreover, the VoIP service provider community has historically been a target of patent holders. There is a risk that we will be a target of assertions of patent rights and that we may be required to expend significant resources to investigate and defend against such assertions of patent rights. For information about specific claims, please refer to Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors - "Our infringement of a third party's proprietary technology could disrupt our business" and Part I, Item 3. "LEGAL PROCEEDINGS."

We rely upon certain technology, including hardware and software, licensed from third parties. These licenses are on standard commercial terms made generally available by the companies providing the licenses. To date, the cost and terms of these licenses individually has not been material to our business. There can be no assurance that the technology licensed by us will continue to provide competitive features and functionality or that licenses for technology currently utilized by us or other technology which we may seek to license in the future will be available to us on commercially reasonable terms or at all, however. The loss of, or inability to maintain, existing licenses could result in shipment delays or reductions until equivalent technology or suitable alternative products could be developed, identified, licensed and integrated, and could harm our business. 

Geographic Areas

We have two reportable segments. Financial information relating to revenues generated in different geographic areas are set forth in Note 12 to our consolidated financial statements contained in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report.

Employees

As of March 31, 2016, our workforce consisted of 810 employees. None of our employees are represented by a labor union or are subject to a collective bargaining arrangement. 

Executive Officers of the Registrant

Our executive officers as of the date of this report are listed below.

Vikram Verma, Chief Executive Officer. Vikram Verma, age 51, has served as Chief Executive Officer since September 2013 and as a director since January 2012. From October 2008 through August 2013, Mr. Verma was President of Strategic Venture Development for Lockheed Martin. From 2006 through 2008, Mr. Verma was President of the IS&#38;GS Savi Group, a division of Lockheed Martin. Prior to 2006, Mr. Verma was Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Savi Technology, Inc. Mr. Verma received a B.S.E.E. degree from Florida Institute of Technology, a M.S.E. degree from the University of Michigan in electrical engineering, and the graduate degree of Engineer in Electrical Engineering from Stanford University.

11 Bryan Martin, Chairman and Chief Technology Officer. Bryan Martin, age 48, has served as Chairman of the Board of Directors since December 2003, has served as Chief Technology Officer since September 2013 and as a director since February 2002. From February 2002 to September 2013, he served as Chief Executive Officer. From March 2007 to November 2008, and again from April 2011 to December 2011, he served as President. From February 2001 to February 2002, he served as our President and Chief Operating Officer. He served as our Senior Vice President, Engineering Operations from July 2000 to February 2001 and as Chief Technical Officer from August 1995 to August 2000. He also served as a director of the Company from January 1998 through July 1999. In addition, Mr. Martin served in various technical roles for the Company from April 1990 to August 1995. He received a B.S. and an M.S. in Electrical Engineering from Stanford University.

Mary Ellen Genovese, Chief Financial Officer. Mary Ellen Genovese, age 57, has served as our Chief Financial Officer since November 2014. Ms. Genovese had been serving as our Senior Vice President of Human Resources since July 2014 and prior to that, as a consultant to the Company since April 2012. Prior to joining the Company, from 2008 to 2011, Ms. Genovese served as a consultant to a Fortune 50 security company. From 2004 through 2006, Ms. Genovese was the Chief Financial Officer of Savi Technology, Inc. Prior to joining Savi Technology, she was Chief Financial Officer of Trimble Navigation Limited from 2000 to 2004. Between 1992 and 2000, Ms. Genovese worked at Trimble in a succession of other financial and accounting positions, including VP of Finance and Corporate Controller. Ms. Genovese holds a B.S. Degree in Accounting from Fairfield University and received her CPA license from the State of Connecticut.

Darren Hakeman, Senior Vice President of Product and Strategy. Darren Hakeman, age 46, has served as our Senior Vice President of Product and Strategy since September 2013, and was a consultant to the Company starting in May 2013. From 2009 to 2013, Mr. Hakeman worked as a strategic advisor to leading Silicon Valley companies and emerging start-ups including Authentication Metrics, Inc. (now Agari), Blackfire Research, and a major global security company. Prior to 2009, he served as Senior Vice President of Operations for a SaaS Business Unit of Lockheed Martin that emerged following Lockheed's acquisition of Savi Technology, Inc. He received a B.S. and an M.S. in Electrical Engineering from Stanford University. 

Puneet Arora, Senior Vice President of Global Sales. Puneet Arora, age 41, has served as Senior Vice President of Global Sales since January 2015. From January 2013 to January 2015, Mr. Arora was Vice President and Head of North America Sales at LivePerson. From August 2010 to August 2012, Mr. Arora led Cloud CRM Sales - North America - West for Oracle. From September 2007 to November 2009, Mr. Arora was Vice President of Corporate Sales for Salesforce.com. He received a B.S. in Computer Engineering from Iowa State University.

