 ITEM 1. 

BUSINESS 

Unless otherwise stated in this Annual Report, references to "AppFolio," "we," "us," and "our" refer to AppFolio, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries. 

Overview 

We are a provider of industry-specific, cloud-based software solutions for small and medium-sized businesses, or SMBs, in the property management and legal industries. We initially chose to enter the market for property management because it met our criteria for selecting industries that cloud-based solutions are ideally suited to address, including the prevalence of unique workflows and relationships among multiple industry participants. We launched our first product, AppFolio Property Manager, or APM, a property management solution, in 2008. In 2012, after completing our market validation process, we decided to enter the legal market. We expedited our time-to-market by acquiring MyCase, a legal practice and case management solution, and we leveraged our AppFolio Business System, including our experience gained in the property management vertical, to advance our software solution in the legal vertical. 

Our platform is designed to be the system of record to automate essential business processes and the system of engagement to enhance business interactions between our customers and their clients and vendors. Our mobile-optimized software solutions have a user-friendly interface across multiple devices, enabling our customers to work at any time and from anywhere. Our property management software provides small and medium-sized property managers with an end-to-end solution to their business needs, enabling them to manage properties quickly and easily in a single, integrated environment. Our legal software provides solo practitioners and small law firms with a streamlined practice and case management solution, allowing them to manage their practices and case load within a flexible system. We also offer optional, but often mission-critical, Value+ services, such as our professionally designed websites and electronic payment services, which are seamlessly built into our core solutions. 

SMBs face numerous issues that divert limited time and resources away from serving their clients and growing their businesses. The business activities of SMBs are complex and their day-to-day operations are often managed through inefficient manual processes and disparate software systems. The lack of automation and integrated technology places a significant administrative burden on these businesses, particularly in industries that involve unique workflows, relationships among multiple industry participants, significant data inputs, and compliance or regulatory requirements. While larger enterprises and consumers have been experiencing a transformational shift into the digital age, the legacy systems currently used by many SMBs are lagging behind in terms of technological sophistication and ease of use. In particular, many small and medium-sized property managers are still running their businesses using spreadsheets and a variety of point solutions that are not web-optimized while much of the real estate market has moved online. Similarly, solo practitioners and small law firms continue to be plagued by manual processes and outdated software despite the broader legal industry&#8217;s increased comfort with cloud-based solutions. 

We have custom-tailored our business to enable us to revolutionize the way that SMBs grow and compete. We refer to our approach to addressing similar, fundamental business needs of SMBs across our targeted verticals as our AppFolio Business System. At the center of our AppFolio Business System is a common technology platform, which provides functionality across our software solutions in our targeted verticals. We apply a disciplined approach of using market validation to select and develop new core functionality and Value+ services for our existing markets and to identify the most suitable adjacent markets and new verticals to pursue. Based on the results of our market validation process, we strive to deploy exceptional cloud-based technology designed to improve the efficiency and productivity of businesses. We use in-bound marketing, participation at customer and industry events, and in-app messaging to educate new and existing customers on how our software solutions can transform their businesses. Based on the foundation created by our marketing activities, our sales team quickly builds relationships with potential customers, assesses their business challenges and demonstrates the benefits of our core functionality and Value+ services. We partner with our customers to navigate their digital transformation by streamlining the on-boarding process and providing ongoing advice on best practices. We continuously expand our core functionality and add new Value+ services based on feedback from our customers, which is collected across our organization and used by our research and product development team to release frequent updates to our software solutions. Our customer-centric culture fosters long-term relationships with our customers and helps to facilitate their business success. 

Our core solutions address common business functions and interactions of SMBs in our targeted verticals by providing key functionality, including accounting, document management, real-time interactive search, data analytics and communication options. We currently offer APM for property managers and MyCase for law firms. APM is a comprehensive solution for the operational requirements of small and medium-sized property managers, including activities such as posting and tracking tenant vacancies, handling the entire leasing process electronically, administering maintenance and repairs with their vendor networks, managing accounting and reporting to property owners. MyCase is a flexible practice and case management solution for solo 

practitioners and small law firms, providing time tracking, billing and payments, client communication, coordination with other lawyers and support staff, legal document management and assembly, and general office administration. As MyCase is in an earlier stage of development than APM, we are continuing to expand its core functionality. 

In addition to our core solutions, we offer a range of optional, but often mission-critical, Value+ services. Our Value+ services are available on an as-needed basis and enable our customers to adapt our platform to their specific operational requirements. Today, we offer certain Value+ services to both our property manager and law firm customers, namely, professionally designed websites and electronic payment services. In addition, we offer the following Value+ services to our property manager customers: resident screening; tenant liability insurance; and our contact center to resolve or route incoming maintenance requests. Over time, we anticipate offering similar and additional Value+ services across our targeted verticals. In April 2015, we expanded the services offered to our property manager customers, giving them the ability to better spend, track and optimize their marketing investments through our acquisition of RentLinx, a software platform that allows customers to advertise rental houses and apartments online. Through our disciplined market validation approach and ongoing investment in product development, we continuously update our software solutions through new and innovative core functionality and Value+ services, as well as assess opportunities in adjacent markets and new verticals. 

For the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, our revenue was $75.0 million , $47.7 million and $26.5 million, respectively, representing year-over-year growth of 57% &#32;when comparing 2015 to 2014, and year-over-year growth of 80% when comparing 2014 to 2013. As a result of the substantial increase in headcount, as well as other investments to expand our research and product development, customer service, and sales and marketing, and maintain and expand our technology infrastructure and operational support, we incurred net losses of $15.7 million , $8.6 million and $7.3 million for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. We have invested, and intend to continue to invest, heavily in our business to capitalize on our market opportunity. 

Our AppFolio Business System 

We refer to our approach to addressing the specific needs of SMBs across our targeted verticals as our AppFolio Business System. Our AppFolio Business System has been developed to find, evaluate and serve verticals in which we can deliver a transformative, easy-to-use software solution that can handle the key operational requirements of SMBs at a low overall cost of ownership. 

&#160; 

Key elements of our AppFolio Business System include: 

Disciplined Market Validation Process . Since our founding, we have worked closely with our customers, partners and other industry participants to inform our product roadmap. We have consistently applied a disciplined market validation process to select and develop new core functionality and Value+ services, and to identify the most suitable adjacent markets and new verticals to target. This approach facilitates faster and more focused product development, with higher confidence that our software solutions will rapidly find market acceptance within our targeted verticals. 

&#32; 

AppFolio Technology Platform . At the center of our AppFolio Business System is our modern, cloud-based technology platform, which encompasses a wide variety of reusable core functionality and Value+ services that can be leveraged to provide continuous updates across our software solutions in our targeted verticals. The functionality of our platform has been developed with a view to improving business efficiency and productivity for SMBs. 

Innovative Marketing Approach . We believe a key element of our AppFolio Business System is efficiently creating and delivering industry-specific content and educating SMBs in our targeted verticals to build our market presence. Our go-to-market strategy across our targeted verticals leverages in-bound marketing techniques, including content marketing, search engine optimization, or SEO and search engine marketing or SEM, and industry thought leadership, including our participation at customer and industry events, which are used by our sales development team to further nurture potential sales leads. We also use in-app messaging to remind existing customers of our Value+ services at natural points in their workflow, making it easy for our customers to increase usage and find out about new Value+ services. 

Efficient Sales Process . Based on the foundation created by our marketing programs and sales development team, we are able to quickly build relationships with potential customers, assess their business challenges and demonstrate the benefits of our core functionality. Following on-boarding of our core solution, our sales team identifies specific Value+ services that enable our customers to further streamline and grow their businesses. Our transparent pricing model is designed to simplify the sales process by pricing subscriptions in a uniform manner based on the size of our customers&#8217; businesses. 

&#32; 

Customer Service as a Partnership . Our customer service team partners with our customers to assist them with on-boarding and help ensure they are optimally using our software solution early in their relationship with us. We believe this process is critical to our customers&#8217; success and plays an important role in customer retention. We also provide ongoing training and support, and regularly provide advice on best practices. Our customer service is an essential component of our AppFolio Business System, serving to deepen our relationships with our customers, maximize the value of our software solutions for their businesses, and encourage word-of-mouth referrals from satisfied customers. 

&#32; 

Customer Feedback Loop . We are committed to listening to and understanding our customers based on proactive customer dialogue and feedback about our software solutions. This provides valuable insight into the operations of SMBs in our targeted verticals. Our product management team routinely engages with our customer service and sales and marketing organizations, as well as our customers, partners and other industry participants, to provide guidance to our engineering team. Our agile, team-based engineering approach and continual integration of customer feedback allows us to release frequent updates to our software solutions quickly and seamlessly. 

These components of our AppFolio Business System strengthen our brands and customer loyalty, often resulting in customer promotion and feedback that we leverage in developing, marketing and selling our software solutions across our targeted verticals. 

Our Solutions 

We provide SMBs with cloud-based business management software solutions that are designed and developed with our customers&#8217; industry-specific business needs in mind. 

&#32; 

All-in-One System . Our core solutions have been designed and developed to suit the specific workflows of SMBs in our targeted verticals. We believe that, by focusing on specific industries, we are better able to provide our customers with broad functionality that meets their key business needs and eliminates their need for a myriad of disparate point solutions. Our vision for each vertical software solution includes fully integrated functionality that provides a single system of record to automate routine processes and a system of engagement to optimize business interactions among our customers and their clients and vendors. 

&#32; 

Essential Value+ Services . Our software solutions include optional, but often mission-critical, Value+ services that our customers can adopt to enhance our core solutions. These services range from upfront professional website design to ongoing high-volume transactional services, such as electronic payment services, in addition to industry-specific services, such as resident screening, for our property manager customers. 

Modern Cloud-Based Solutions . We have designed and developed our software solutions on a modern cloud-based platform, allowing for rapid and cost-effective deployment of our enterprise-class software solutions and frequent updates to help ensure our software solutions incorporate the latest technological advances and adapt to industry trends. 

Built for Any Device, Anytime, Anywhere . We recognize that SMBs handle multiple responsibilities that require them to be available 24/7, and they demand flexible software solutions that are compatible with the laptops, tablets and smartphones they already own to allow them to work at any time and from anywhere. Our software solutions are designed to enable users to move seamlessly from one device to another, to run on multiple operating systems and to launch in a variety of browsers. 

User-Friendly Interface . We invest significant time and resources in streamlining and rationalizing our functionality to enable an intuitive and user-friendly customer experience. Our users are often able to benefit immediately from our software solutions with little to no training. We designed our interface to resemble the social media applications our customers already use, making it easy to transition their businesses to our platform because of a preexisting familiarity. 

&#32; 

Ever-Evolving Functionality . We direct our investment in research and product development based on our market validation findings and customer feedback loop, which inform the development of new core functionality and Value+ services that are directly relevant to our customers&#8217; businesses and foster best practices based on deep industry knowledge. 

&#32; 

Vertical Data Analytics . As a vertical cloud-based solution provider, we are uniquely positioned to capture data across our customer base, forming a new source of industry-specific business data. Our customers benefit from data analytics in the form of business performance management through a wide variety of customizable reports and business optimization through aggregated benchmarking data, which provides visibility across their industries. 

Benefits of Our Solutions 

&#32; 

Benefits to Our SMB Customers . Our cloud-based business management software solutions enable our customers to eliminate manual processes and collapse a myriad of point solutions into a single system of record and system of engagement, all at a lower cost than an inflexible on-premise software product. Our software solutions facilitate the automation of recurring transactions to improve efficiency, vertical data analytics to provide visibility, and seamless communication, which combine to produce tangible time savings, reduced expenses and increased revenue. 

Benefits to Clients of SMBs . Our software solutions help ensure clients of SMBs experience high quality, professional service, improved responsiveness and easy access to useful information. Clients of SMBs are able to interact with the owners and managers of SMBs through our intuitive, consumer-like interfaces and to complete a variety of tasks online. 

Benefits to Vendors of SMBs . Our software solutions enable vendors of SMBs to streamline transactions with the owners and managers of SMBs by automating processes and facilitating communications. 

AppFolio Technology Platform 

We have developed a common technology platform that enables us to create business management software solutions for SMBs within our targeted verticals. Our suite of applications integrated within our core solution spans many of our customers&#8217; most critical business needs by providing the system of record and the system of engagement. In conjunction with our core solution, we offer a number of Value+ services. Our Value+ services currently consist of website services, electronic payment services, background and credit checks, insurance services and contact center services. We have built our platform using a modern cloud-based architecture. Our software solutions are designed to run on any device and are compatible with any operating system. As a result, our customers' data is available at any time and from any location. 

Products - AppFolio Property Manager 

Core Functionality 

Our property management software solution provides small and medium-sized property managers (including both third-party managers and owner-operators) with a multi-faceted solution for their operational requirements. We built APM from the ground up based on our analysis of the industry and input directly from property managers. APM includes the following core functionality: 

&#32; 

Powerful Accounting Software . &#32;APM provides integrated accounting software specifically designed for property managers, including accounts payable, accounts receivable, trust accounting, Form 1099 creation, check printing, automatic bank reconciliation and Ratio Utility Billing to calculate a resident&#8217;s share of monthly utility costs based on predetermined allocations. 

Data-Driven Management . Unlimited storage allows all data to be centralized in APM, making it available to property managers on-demand through our dynamic search capabilities. APM also allows property managers to better understand and track their business performance through property-level budgets and many customizable reports covering accounting details, property details, and resident and vendor information. 

&#32; 

Effective Online Marketing . Our tenant vacancy tracking software capitalizes on property data centralized in APM to streamline the listing process. In just a few clicks, property managers can manage listings on their own websites and make automatic feeds available to a wide variety of third-party listing sites, dramatically increasing the visibility of listings. Our core functionality also improves the quality of listings by allowing property managers to embed YouTube videos and use our professionally formatted HTML code for listings on third-party websites. All vacancy listings and tasks are then consolidated in real time to reflect the status of a property manager&#8217;s current vacancies, with detailed metrics showing how vacancy rates are affected by changes in rent or marketing. 

&#32; 

Seamless End-to-End Lease Processing . APM provides a mobile-friendly online leasing solution that allows prospective residents to complete online rental applications from the vacancy listings and upload photographs of their drivers licenses and other important documents. If approved, the property manager can generate a lease agreement pre-populated with the applicant&#8217;s data that can be electronically signed by the new resident in real time. Our online lease template can be customized to create multiple lease agreements for different property types and requirements, including forms required by applicable law. We also recently introduced a lease renewal workflow, which automatically incorporates designated increases in rent into the relevant documentation. 

&#32; 

Streamlined Resident Communications . Mass emailing capability and text messaging functionality in APM streamline communications and social interactions with residents. Our messaging center facilitates a range of communications from move-in and move-out instructions to invitations to resident events, as well as short, time-sensitive 

communications, such as maintenance alerts and late rent reminders. Our messaging center allows property managers to personalize communications and interact with property owners and vendors. 

&#32; 

Accessible Property Owner Reporting . &#32;APM enables property managers to post to private and secure online owner portals. These postings typically include owner statements, completed work orders and other reports to which owners have on-demand access. Our owner statements are designed to be easy to read and user friendly, providing a helpful overview of transactions affecting the property in the past month, and facilitating better service by property managers to their clients. 

Transparent Property Maintenance . APM&#8217;s built-in property maintenance software facilitates electronic work orders to vendors, for both one-time and recurring tasks, which are organized in real time to provide a snapshot of all past and in-progress work orders. Residents can access tenant portals to submit online maintenance requests, which automatically create work orders upon acceptance by the property manager. This allows property managers to expedite response times, track and edit the status of repairs, and ensure that property issues are addressed in a timely manner. 

&#32; 

Convenient Payments to Owners and Vendors . As an alternative to cash or checks, APM enables property managers to make payments to owners and vendors faster and more securely by depositing funds directly into their bank accounts. Like our other payment solutions, this functionality is built into APM so that payments are automatically entered into our accounting software. 

Property Inspection on Any Device . Built-in property inspections functionality allows property managers to perform and manage on-site property inspections remotely on their preferred mobile device. Property managers can make notes directly in the application (or use their phone&#8217;s speech-to-text functionality) and upload related photographs as they walk through the property. APM then generates an inspection report in a fraction of the time it would take to type up handwritten notes and allows property managers to create work orders from flagged inspection items. 

Optimized Rent Comparison . &#32;RentMatch, our rent comparison tool, quickly analyzes the rental price and characteristics of any given unit and uses data analytics to compare them to actual rental prices of units of similar size and bedroom count in the same geographical area, presenting the results in a user-friendly report. 

&#32; 

Variable Functionality for Different Property Types . &#32;APM allows property managers to manage single- and multi-family residences, student housing, commercial property or mixed real estate portfolios, as well as optional rentable items such as parking spaces or storage. We are continually adding new core functionality, including rent-by-the-bed for student housing and the ability to allocate common area maintenance charges. 

Value+ Services 

Our Value+ services enable property managers to activate certain optional, but often mission-critical, functionality that is seamlessly built into APM and designed to improve the user experience in a number of significant ways. 

&#32; 

Professionally Designed Websites . We collaborate with our customers to deliver and maintain websites that showcase modern and mobile-optimized designs, with unique sites customized for individual properties, including image galleries and floor plans. Our websites are fully integrated with APM&#8217;s functionality, including vacancy postings, payment options, owner portals and maintenance requests. Property managers can track and analyze site traffic and lead generation and identify prospects by evaluating the guest cards on vacancy postings that are filled in by prospective residents. 

&#32; 

Electronic Payment Services . Our payments platform provides prospective and current residents with a number of convenient and secure payment options. Prospective residents can pay rental application fees through our secure online rental applications. APM supports ACH payment processing (e-Check) and credit or debit card payments of security deposits and rent through our secure online tenant portals. As a more secure alternative to cash and money orders, residents can make regular or last-minute Electronic Cash Payments at any 7-Eleven and ACE Cash Express location. 

Instant Background and Credit Checks . APM offers instant background screening and credit checks for use during the rental application process. Instead of manually entering or faxing information to third-party service providers, APM allows property managers to simply press a &#8220;Screen Now&#8221; button upon receipt of a new online rental application and receive an easy-to-read report summarizing the results of a credit check and nationwide eviction and criminal records search. Customers also gain access to, and have the option to contribute to, Experian RentBureau rental payment history data, updated every 24 hours, to identify the highest quality residents and reduce the risk of bad debts. 

Reliable Insurance Coverage . Property managers are increasingly requiring residents to carry tenant liability insurance to reduce the hassle and expense associated with resident-caused damage. APM facilitates enrollment of residents in a simple, easy-to-understand tenant liability insurance program, and allows property managers to link this service to lease signings and renewals and easily track resident compliance. Our tenant liability insurance program seeks to 

provide residents with a cost-effective, integrated solution that provides property managers with a competitive advantage when marketing their services to owners. 

&#32; 

24/7 Maintenance Contact Center . APM&#8217;s contact center is manned 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, by professionally trained agents. These agents can act as an extension of the property manager&#8217;s office to resolve or route incoming maintenance requests. Our answering service is designed to work seamlessly with APM&#8217;s property maintenance software. APM agents are equipped to enter non-emergency work orders directly into APM for the property manager&#8217;s approval and dispatch vendors immediately in case of an emergency. 

Products - MyCase 

Core Functionality 

Our legal software solution is designed to assist solo practitioners and small law firms with administering their practice and managing their case load. We acquired MyCase in 2012 and are continuing to expand its functionality by leveraging our AppFolio Business System, including our experience gained in the property management vertical, to advance our software solution in the legal vertical. MyCase includes the following core functionality: 

On-the-Go Time Tracking . MyCase allows attorneys to enter billable hours on their preferred mobile device, automatically linking time entries to the appropriate case or matter. Lawyers are able to handle multiple court appearances, meetings and other interactions without having to recreate their days after the fact. MyCase can also be used to track non-billable entries to monitor the performance and efficiency of flat-fee arrangements and contributions to pro bono work. 

&#32; 

Flexible Legal Billing Software . MyCase&#8217;s legal billing software can be used to generate detailed trust account balances and a wide variety of reports to track productivity and other firm metrics. It can also quickly pull unbilled time and expenses or flat fee balances into a professionally formatted invoice, which can be customized with the law firm&#8217;s logo. Attorneys can use our Payment Plan Generator to easily define a payment schedule for a client with flexible due dates and balances. Our QuickBooks integration functionality provides a one-way sync of detailed accounting data into QuickBooks, ensuring consistency across accounting software. 

Secure Client Portals . MyCase&#8217;s integrated client portals provide clients with on-demand access to a variety of information, including sensitive and privileged communications, with the knowledge that such correspondence is private and secure and better protected than messages sent over unsecure email. Our client portals have a modern interface similar to that of social networking sites, with real-time activity streams to provide an overview of recent developments, and a comment stream associated with uploaded items shared with clients, who get automatic notifications of updates. 

&#32; 

Automated Organizational Tasks . MyCase offers broad functionality to facilitate better organization of cases and matters, including centralized contacts, tasks, calendars and reminders accessible by the entire firm. Our workflow software allows lawyers to automate processes for routine tasks tailored to the type of case or matter. Calendars and reminders are synchronized in real time across all devices to assist the entire team with time management, and colleagues and clients receive notifications when calendar events are added. Practitioners can also link calendar events to the applicable case or matter to track associated billable hours. 

Robust Document Management and Collaborative Assembly . MyCase provides a robust legal document management system, which, together with our unlimited storage and drag-and-drop upload tool, allows law firms to organize correspondence and other documentation in a searchable, centralized firm library. Our cloud-based platform allows colleagues to collaborate in drafting new documents, which can be assembled quickly and easily by capitalizing on our customizable templates. 

Value+ Services 

We currently offer two optional, but frequently essential, services to our law firm customers. 

Professionally Designed Websites . Our professionally designed websites are fully integrated with MyCase so that practitioners and their clients can easily login to the site to access case and matter information, communicate and manage bills. Our websites are geared towards improving the effectiveness of law firm marketing and building a mobile presence. We work with our law firm customers to build their brand by tailoring website content, providing professional images, creating a logo and purchasing their unique domain. 

Electronic Payment Services . MyCase enables practitioners to accept credit or debit cards in their offices or over the phone and pay only normal merchant processing fees. In addition, by linking operating and trust accounts, practitioners can accept online payment of retainers and other amounts directly into these accounts. 

Our Customers 

As of December 31, 2015, we had 8,218 &#32;property manager customers and 6,145 &#32;law firm customers. Our property manager customers include third-party managers and owner-operators, managing single- and multi-family residences, commercial property and student housing, as well as mixed real estate portfolios. Our property manager customers typically manage portfolios ranging from 20 to 3,000 units. Our customers in the legal vertical are generally solo practitioners and small law firms with less than 20 lawyers. No customer represented more than 10% of our total revenue for our fiscal year ended December 31, 2015. 

Our Culture and Employees 

We believe our people are at the heart of our success and our customers&#8217; success. We endeavor to attract and hire the most talented employees and provide a challenging and rewarding environment to motivate and bring out the best in them. We believe our ability to create and grow our company culture provides us with a significant competitive advantage by stimulating strong teams capable of executing our strategic plans and encouraging innovation. We subscribe to six core values, which capture the culture of our organization: 

&#9642; 

Simpler Is Better 

&#9642; 

Great, Innovative Products Are Key To A Great Business 

&#9642; 

Great People Make A Great Company 

&#9642; 

Listening To Customers Is In Our DNA 

&#9642; 

Small, Focused Teams, Keep Us Agile 

&#9642; 

We Do The Right Thing Because It&#8217;s Good For Business 

As of December 31, 2015, we had 573 &#32;employees. We also hire temporary employees and consultants. We consider our relations with our employees to be good. None of our employees are represented by a labor union or covered by a collective bargaining agreement. 

Technology and Operations 

Data Security and Availability 

We use Ruby-on-Rails as our web application framework for both APM and MyCase. Our software solutions run on a combination of both public and private cloud infrastructure, consisting of both our own servers and Amazon&#8217;s Elastic Compute Cloud, or EC2, platform. Our servers are located in state-of-the-art data centers operated by third-party service providers. Physical security at these facilities includes a variety of access controls, including electronic keycards, pin codes, biometric hand scans and mantraps, and policing by high resolution, motion sensitive video surveillance. These facilities provide redundant power and a system of heating, ventilating and air conditioning, as well as fire-threat detection and suppression. We utilize a system of redundant routers, switches, server clusters and back-up systems to help ensure high availability. Amazon is widely recognized for operating state-of-the-art, highly available data centers. 

With respect to Internet security, sensitive data, such as passwords, Social Security and tax identification numbers, are encrypted before being written to disk. In addition, all network connections are encrypted. Data is backed up using Amazon&#8217;s Simple Storage Service, or S3, providing high durability, and we also perform regular backups of all customer data. We evaluate our Internet security regularly, including through third-party penetration testing. 

In addition, our software solutions allow our customers to define roles that provide different levels of access to users, allowing them to view and modify specific items depending on their role. Supervisors can distribute work to on-site staff in a secure and controlled environment, while leadership retains visibility across the entire system. 

Research and Product Development 

We entrust product design, development and testing to our team of engineers, who coordinate closely with our product management team to launch new core functionality and Value+ services. Our engineers are organized in smaller groups to foster agility and continued innovation in responding to the evolving needs of our customers. We leverage a collaborative, team-based and test-driven approach to engineering to release new code frequently. We believe that it is easier for our customers to adjust to these continuous updates to our software solutions, which incrementally change and improve their user experience, than it is to adapt to infrequent, but more drastic, upgrades of legacy on-premise software. 

We rely heavily on input from our customers in developing products that meet their needs and anticipate developments in their respective industries. Our product management team leads our research and market validation efforts and provides guidance to management and our engineering team based on our collective domain expertise and in-depth knowledge and understanding of our customers. As a result, our product management team engages regularly with customers, partners and other industry participants, as well as our customer service and sales and marketing organizations. Our product management team manages our development projects generally and serves to align separate functions within the company with a single strategic vision. 

Our research and product development expenses were $9.6 million , $6.5 million and $5.1 million for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. 

Sales and Marketing 

We leverage a modern marketing approach along with marketing automation technology to build brand recognition and our reputation as an industry leader in our targeted verticals. 

We participate in and drive industry thought leadership and education with both online and offline activities. We attend, host and present at a number of industry events and support educational opportunities in the form of trade shows, conferences and webinars across the United States. We host informational lunches and networking opportunities in key cities in the form of &#8220;Meet Ups,&#8221; which bring together existing and prospective customers. Our online user forums facilitate discussions with other industry participants and serve as a resource for tips on using our platform and best practices. We also make a number of valuable educational resources available for free through our industry partners and on our industry websites, such as PropertyManager.com and our blogs. 

We use a variety of in-bound marketing techniques to promote our software solutions, including content marketing, SEO, SEM, social media and advanced digital advertising tactics. Our sales development team acts in partnership with our in-bound marketing efforts to reach potential customers, generate additional sales opportunities and speed the time from evaluation to close. We offer free trials of both APM and MyCase. Our sales representatives can then assist prospective property manager customers as they evaluate APM, while prospective law firm customers generally sign up for a 30-day free trial on a self-service basis (with additional support from a live sales development representative as needed). 

Our sales team works closely with our marketing organization to find and acquire new customers as well as expand adoption and use by existing customers. We have a metrics-driven sales culture with a focus on early indicators that lead to strong pipeline creation. We leverage technology and specialization of resources along with an emphasis on continued training and development to maximize the productivity and speed the ramp time for each sales representative. Our interactive sales methodology allows the sales team to quickly build relationships, assess the customer&#8217;s business challenges, and demonstrate the benefits of our core functionality and Value+ services. 

Throughout the customer relationship, we continue to promote adoption and usage of our Value+ services in a variety of channels, including email, webinars, training, sales outreach and within our software solution via in-app messaging. While APM and MyCase customers are using our core solutions, in-app messaging puts additional Value+ services right in their workflow. This makes it easy for customers to find out about additional Value+ services in an unobtrusive manner and begin to adopt those services that are useful to their business. Our Value+ sales team then works in tandem with our marketing organization to further increase adoption and usage of our Value+ services. 

Customer Service 

Our success is based on long-term customer retention, not a one-time sale, and we partner with our customers throughout the life of the customer relationship to help them navigate their digital transformation. We design our software solutions to be simple and easy-easy to switch to, set up, use and manage. We offer unlimited training and support across our software solutions 

at no extra charge. We pride ourselves on being customer-centric and strive to educate our customers on the additional core functionality and Value+ services they can use to improve business efficiency and productivity. 

Our on-boarding team strives to ensure that customers are prepared to run their businesses on our platform and provide the best on-boarding experience in the industry. Based on our assistance with data migration, we are able to provide valuable insights into data integrity and work diligently with our customers to help resolve any issues in their underlying business processes. We also assist our customers with the configuration of our platform for particular property types or cases. We provide a dedicated team throughout the on-boarding process and ongoing planning thereafter, including compliance with best practices. Our Value+ team also includes a number of employees focused on guiding our customers through the adoption of our Value+ services. 

&#160; 

Our software solutions are designed to be intuitive so that our customers can learn to use them in a matter of hours, as opposed to days or weeks. Nevertheless, we provide a variety of training options to assist with this process. Our instructors offer several live-streamed training courses each week, and also make available recorded training courses, which can be accessed on demand. Our training is designed to provide product overviews for those in the process of converting to our software solutions, as well as in-depth, step-by-step instructions and ongoing education for those seeking to leverage greater functionality. 

Our cloud-based platform allows us to fix issues quickly and to continuously improve our customers&#8217; experience through ongoing updates to our software solutions. However, when issues and questions do arise, we strive to ensure that a real person is available to respond to a customer&#8217;s concerns quickly and intelligently. 

Throughout the customer relationship, our customer loyalty team proactively engages with our customers to facilitate our customers&#8217; success. Similarly, our Value+ team includes employees focused exclusively on expanding Value+ service adoption and usage by new and existing customers and providing expertise with respect to related services. 

Competition 

The overall market for business management software is global, highly competitive and continually evolving in response to changes in technology, operational requirements, laws and regulations. While we focus on providing software solutions to SMBs in our targeted verticals, we compete with other vertical cloud-based solution providers that serve companies of all sizes and horizontal cloud-based solution providers that offer broad solutions across multiple verticals. 

In the property management vertical, our competitors include established vertical software vendors, such as RealPage and Yardi. In the property management vertical, we also compete with cloud-based solution providers whose services are geared toward individual landlords with smaller portfolios than those of our targeted customers. In the legal vertical, our competitors include established vertical software vendors, such as Thompson-Reuters, LexisNexis, and Clio. 

We also see competition from numerous cloud-based solution providers that focus almost exclusively on one or more point solutions. For example, in the property management vertical, we compete with listing services, tenant screening applications and specialists in lease forms. In the legal vertical, we compete with time tracking, legal billing and payment services. Continued consolidation among cloud-based solution providers could lead to significantly increased competition. 

We believe the principal competitive factors in our market include the following: 

&#9642; ease of deployment and use of software solutions and applications; 

&#9642; total cost of ownership; 

&#9642; data security and availability; 

&#9642; breadth and depth of functionality in software solutions and applications; 

&#9642; nature and extent of mobile interface; 

&#9642; level of customer satisfaction; 

&#9642; size of customer base and level of user adoption and usage; 

&#9642; brand awareness and reputation; 

&#9642; ability to innovate and respond to customer needs rapidly; 

&#9642; &#160; 

&#9642; domain expertise with respect to our targeted verticals; and 

&#9642; ability to leverage a common technology platform and business strategy. 

We believe that we compete favorably on the basis of these factors and that the domain expertise required for developing, marketing and selling successful software solutions in the property management and legal verticals may hinder new entrants that are unable to invest the necessary resources to develop and deploy software solutions with the same level of functionality as ours. 

Intellectual Property 

We rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets, confidentiality procedures and contractual restrictions to establish and protect our proprietary rights in our core solutions and Value+ services. As of January 31, 2016, we had ten issued U.S. patents that directly relate to our technology that expire between 2026 and 2033, and we had two pending patent applications in the United States. We intend to pursue additional patent protection to the extent we believe it would be beneficial and cost effective. 

We registered &#8220;AppFolio,&#8221; "MyCase" and "RentLinx" and certain other marks as trademarks in the United States and several other jurisdictions. We also filed trademark applications in the United States and certain other jurisdictions and will pursue additional trademark registrations to the extent we believe it would be beneficial and cost effective. We are the registered holder of a variety of domestic and international domain names that include &#8220;appfolioinc.com,&#8221; &#8220;appfolio.com,&#8221; &#8220;mycase.com,&#8221; &#8220;propertymanager.com&#8221; and similar variations. We also license software from third parties for use in our solutions, including open source software and other software available on standard commercial terms. 

We control access to our proprietary technology by entering into confidentiality and invention assignment agreements with our employees and contractors and confidentiality agreements with third parties. Despite our precautions, it may be possible for unauthorized third parties to copy our software solutions and use information that we regard as proprietary to create products and services that compete with ours. 

Corporate Information 

We were formed in 2006 as a Delaware limited liability company and converted to a Delaware corporation in 2007. Our principal executive offices are located at 50 Castilian Drive, Goleta, California 93117, and our telephone number is (805) 364-6093. Our corporate website is www.appfolioinc.com. The information contained on or accessed through our website does not constitute part of, and is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report. References to our website address in this Annual Report are inactive textual references only. 

&#8220;AppFolio,&#8221; &#8220;MyCase,&#8221; "RentLinx," the AppFolio logo, the MyCase logo, and other trademarks and trade names of AppFolio, MyCase and RentLinx appearing in this Annual Report are our property. All other trademarks or trade names appearing in this report are the property of their respective owners. Solely for convenience, the trademarks and trade names in this report are referred to without the &#174; and &#8482; symbols. We do not intend our use or display of the trademarks, trade names or service marks of other parties to imply a relationship with, or endorsement or sponsorship of us by, such other parties. 

Available Information 

We file annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, as well as amendments to those reports pursuant to Sections 13(a) and 15(d) of the Exchange Act. We also file proxy statements and information statements pursuant to Section 14 of the Exchange Act. The public may obtain these filings at the SEC&#8217;s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549 or by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC also maintains a website at www.sec.gov that contains the reports, proxy and information statements, and other information that we file with or furnish to the SEC electronically. Copies of the reports on Form 10-K, Form 10-Q, and Form 8-K, as well as the amendments to those reports, may also be obtained, free of charge, electronically through our corporate website at www.appfolioinc.com as soon as reasonably practical after we file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. 

