 I TEM 1. B USINESS . The Company was founded in 1982, and re-incorporated in Florida in 1992. Our worldwide headquarters are located at 250 Technology Park, Lake Mary, Florida 32746 and our telephone number is (407) 333-9911. 

We design, develop, manufacture, market and support software driven, three-dimensional (3D) measurement, imaging and realization systems. We sell the majority of our products through a direct sales force across a broad number of customers in a range of manufacturing, industrial, architecture, surveying, building information modeling, construction, public safety, cultural heritage and other applications. Our FaroArm &#174; , FARO Laser ScanArm &#174; , FARO Gage, FARO Laser Tracker&#153;, FARO Cobalt Array 3D Imager, and their companion CAM2 &#174; software, provide for Computer-Aided Design, or CAD, based inspection and/or factory-level statistical process control and high-density surveying. Together, these products integrate the measurement, quality inspection, and reverse engineering functions with CAD software to improve productivity, enhance product quality and decrease rework and scrap in the manufacturing process. Our FARO Focus 3D and FARO Freestyle 3D laser scanners, and their companion SCENE, FARO public safety software and FARO 3D software, are utilized for a wide variety of 3D modeling, documentation and high-density surveying applications, including in two of our key vertical markets &#150; Building Information Modeling (BIM)/Construction Information Management (CIM) and public safety. 

Industry Background 

We believe four principal forces drive the need for our products and services: 1) the widespread use by manufacturers of CAD in product development, which shortens product cycles; 2) the adoption by manufacturers of quality standards such as Six Sigma and ISO-9001 (and its offshoot QS-9000), which stress the measurement of every step in a manufacturing process to reduce or eliminate defects; 3) the inability of traditional measurement devices to address many manufacturing problems such as throughput, efficiency, and accuracy, especially with respect to large components for products such as automobiles, aircraft, heavy duty construction equipment and factory retrofits; and 4) the growing demand to capture large volumes of three-dimensional data for modeling and analysis. 

CAD improves the manufacturing process. The creation of physical products involves the processes of design, engineering, production, and measurement and quality inspection. These basic processes have been profoundly affected by the computer hardware and software revolution that began in the 1980s. CAD software was developed to automate the design process, providing manufacturers with computerized 3D design capability and shortening the time between design changes. Today, most manufacturers use some form of CAD software to create designs and engineering specifications for new products and to quantify and modify designs and specifications for existing products. While manufacturers previously designed their products to remain in production for longer periods of time, current 

&#160;

manufacturing practices must accommodate more frequent product introductions and modifications, while satisfying more stringent quality and safety standards. Assembly fixtures and measurement tools must be linked to the CAD design to enable production to keep up with the rate of design change. 

Quality standards dictate measurement to reduce defects. QS-9000 is the name given to the Quality System requirements of the automotive industry developed by Chrysler, Ford, General Motors and major truck manufacturers. Companies registered under QS-9000 are considered to have higher standards and better quality products. Six Sigma is a set of quality standards that embodies the principles of total quality management, focused on measuring results and reducing product or service failure rates to 3.4 per million. All aspects of a Six Sigma company&#146;s infrastructure must be analyzed and, if necessary, restructured to increase revenues and raise customer satisfaction levels. The all-encompassing nature of these and other quality standards has resulted in manufacturers measuring every aspect of their process, including stages of product assembly that may never have been measured before, in part because of the lack of suitable measurement equipment. 

Traditional products do not measure up . A significant aspect of the manufacturing process entails measurement and quality inspection. Historically, manufacturers have measured and inspected products using hand-measurement tools such as scales, calipers, micrometers and plumb lines for simple measuring tasks, test (or check) fixtures for certain large manufactured products, and traditional (or fixed) coordinate measurement machines, or CMM, for objects that require higher precision measurement. However, the broader utility of each of these measurement methods is limited. 

Although hand-measurement tools are often appropriate for simple geometric measurements, including hole diameters or length and width of a rectangular component, their use for complex part measurements, such as the fender of a car, is limited. Also, these devices do not allow for the measurements to be directly compared electronically to the CAD model of the part. Test fixtures (customized fixed tools used to make comparative measurements of complex production parts to &#147;master parts&#148;) are relatively expensive and must be reworked or discarded each time a dimensional change is made in the part being measured. In addition, these manual measuring devices do not permit the manufacturer to electronically compare the dimensions of an object with its CAD model. 

Conventional CMMs are generally large, fixed-base machines that provide very high levels of precision and provide a link to the CAD model of the object being measured. However, fixed-base CMMs require that the object being measured be brought to the CMM and fit within the CMM&#146;s measurement grid. As manufactured subassemblies increase in size and become integrated into even larger assemblies, they become less transportable, thus diminishing the utility of a conventional CMM. Consequently, manufacturers must continue to use hand-measurement tools, or expensive customized test fixtures, to measure large or unconventionally shaped objects. In addition, some parts or assemblies are not easily accessible and cannot be measured using traditional devices. 

The market demands three-dimensional data. Various factors contribute to market demand for FARO products and services. Conventional surveying equipment is limited to single-point measurements and does not have the capacity to capture and analyze large volumes of three-dimensional data. As data requirements for construction, civil engineering and public safety projects become more complex, single-point measurement devices will become increasingly more difficult to utilize in those applications. 

Escalating global competition has created a demand for higher quality products with shorter life cycles. Customers require more rapid design, greater control of the manufacturing process, tools to compare components to their CAD specifications, the ability to precisely measure components that cannot be measured or inspected by conventional devices, and the 

&#160;

ability to capture and analyze large volumes of three-dimensional data. Moreover, they increasingly require measurement capabilities to be integrated into manufacturing processes and to be available on the factory floor. These changing demands have driven the demand for FARO&#146;s products and services. 

FARO Products 

FaroArm . The FaroArm is a combination of a portable, six or seven-axis, articulated measurement arm, a computer, and CAM2 software programs, which are described below under &#147;CAM2 Software&#148;. 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Articulated Arm &#150; The articulated arm is comprised of three major joints, each of which may consist of one, two or three axes of motion. The articulated arm is available in a variety of sizes, configurations and precision levels suitable for a broad range of applications. To take a measurement, the operator simply touches the object to be measured with a probe at the end of the arm and presses a button. Data can be captured at either individual points or a series of points. Optical encoders located at each of the joints of the arm measure the angles at those joints, and this rotational measurement data is transmitted to an on-board controller that converts the arm angles to precise locations in 3D space using &#147;xyz&#148; position coordinates and &#147;ijk&#148; orientation coordinates. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Computer &#150; We pre-install our CAM2 software on either a notebook or desktop style computer or Microsoft Windows&#153;-based Touch PC or Touch Pad, depending on the customer&#146;s need, and the measurement arm, computer and installed software are sold as a system. We purchase the computers sold with our products from various suppliers. FARO Laser ScanArm. The FARO Laser ScanArm is a FaroArm equipped with a combination of a hard probe (like that in the FaroArm) and a non-contact laser line probe. This product provides our customers the ability to measure products without touching them and offers a seven-axis contact/non-contact measurement device with a fully integrated laser scanner. The ScanArm is used for contact and non-contact measurement applications, including inspection, cloud-to-CAD comparison, rapid prototyping, reverse engineering and 3D modeling. 

FARO Gage. The FARO Gage is a smaller, higher-accuracy version of the FaroArm that is sold as a combination of an articulated arm device with a computer and software. The FARO Gage is also distinguished from the FaroArm by the special mounting features and software unique to the FARO Gage. The FARO Gage is targeted at machine tools and bench tops around machine tools, where basic measurements of smaller machined parts must be taken. The CAM2 FARO Gage software developed for this device, described below, features basic 2D and 3D measurements common to these applications. 

FARO Laser Tracker. The FARO Laser Tracker combines a portable, large-volume laser measurement tool, a computer, and CAM2 software programs. 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Laser Tracker Vantage &#150; The FARO Laser Tracker Vantage utilizes an ultra-precise laser beam to measure objects of up to 260 feet. It enables manufacturing, engineering, and quality control professionals to measure and inspect large parts, machine tools and other large objects on-site and in-process. With our high angular resolution, repeatability, and accuracy, the FARO Laser Tracker Vantage advances already-proven tracker technology. Among our many enhanced features is TruADM&#153;, which improves upon existing Absolute Distance Measurement (&#147;ADM&#148;) technology by providing the time-saving ability to reacquire the laser beam without the need to return to a known reference point or the need to hold the target stationary. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Laser Tracker ION &#150; The FARO Laser Tracker ION is an interferometer (IFM)-based measurement system that provides the high accuracy and range to complete measurement tasks, such as in-line measurements, high-speed dynamic measurements, or high-accuracy machine calibration. The FARO Laser Tracker ION features Dual Distancing Systems, enabling the Tracker to catch the beam in the air and set the distance instantly with Agile ADM. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Computer &#150; The FARO Laser Tracker includes a notebook or desktop style computer or Microsoft Windows&#153;-based Touch PC or Touch Pad, depending on the customer&#146;s requirements, that includes the pre-installed CAM2 Software. FARO Cobalt Array 3D Imager. The FARO Cobalt Array 3D Imager, released in January 2016, is our next generation FARO 3D Imager product offering replacing the FARO 3D Imager AMP. The FARO Cobalt Array 3D Imager is a metrology-grade non-contact scanner that utilizes blue light technology to capture millions of high resolution 3D coordinate measurements in seconds. FARO Cobalt&#146;s versatility supports a variety of deployment options including rotary table, robot, industrial inspection cells and multiple imager arrays. This technology is used in quality control to improve product quality and reduce scrap, as well as for reverse engineering and rapid manufacturing. 

FARO Focus 3D . The FARO Focus 3D laser scanner utilizes laser technology to measure and collect a cloud of data points, allowing for the detailed and precise three-dimensional rendering of an object or an area as large as an industrial facility. This technology is currently used for factory planning, facility life-cycle management, quality control, forensic analysis and capturing large volumes of three-dimensional data. The FARO Focus 3D simplifies modeling, reduces project time and maintains or increases the accuracy of the image. The resulting data is used with major CAD systems or FARO&#146;s own proprietary SCENE software. 

FARO Freestyle 3D . The FARO Freestyle 3D is a top-quality, high-precision, handheld scanner that quickly documents rooms, structures and objects in 3D and creates high-definition point clouds. The applications of the FARO Freestyle 3D include architecture, construction, industrial production and forensics. The FARO Freestyle 3D &#146;s durable carbon fiber design equips the user with a versatile and ergonomic tool for performing accurate scanning in confined spaces. The FARO Freestyle 3D can be used independently or as a complement to the FARO Focus 3D . The FARO Freestyle 3D comes with two software applications in addition to FARO&#146;s proprietary SCENE software: SCENE Capture, which is installed on a tablet computer to record and visualize the capturing of 3D data, and SCENE Process, which processes the captured 3D data. 

FARO Software. We provide a family of proprietary CAD-based measurement and laser scanner software used with our measurement and scanning devices. 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; CAM2 Measure 10 allows customers to complete measurement jobs quickly and gives customers the freedom to measure as required by the application. State-of-the-art functionalities improve every process where measuring is needed. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; FARO CAM2 Smartinspect is our CAM2 solution for measuring geometry and building dimensions. The software allows customers to quickly measure geometric features and report dimensions for control. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; FARO SCENE software combines ease-of-use, networking, and an enhanced 3D experience to deliver a complete scan processing solution. With SCENE, customers can display, analyze, administer and edit 3D measurements in point clouds. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; FARO Public Safety Software makes diagramming and pre-planning easier for law enforcement officers, firefighters and loss control engineers by allowing the users who need to draw site plans or crash or crime scene diagrams to be able to do so in a fast and efficient manner. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; FARO 3D Software offers field-proven software products to enable and simplify the use of real world objects in CAD applications. Primarily serving the Surveying and Architecture, Engineering and Construction spaces, the offering allows the user to integrate 3D laser scan data with CAD environments. To support our product line, we also offer extended warranties and comprehensive support, training and technology consulting services to our customers. 

In February 2015, we completed the acquisition of ARAS 360 Technologies Inc. (&#147;ARAS&#148;). ARAS, a privately held business headquartered in Canada, produces a full suite of accident and crime reconstruction software tools that offer advanced graphics, analytical tools, and the ability to work with large point cloud data. These products are part of our FARO Public Safety Software product offerings discussed above and are expected to complement our portfolio of software products within the public safety market. 

In March 2015, we completed the acquisition of kubit GmbH and substantially all of the assets of kubit GmbH&#146;s U.S. distributor kubit USA, Inc. (collectively &#147;kubit&#148;). Kubit, a privately held business with operating facilities in Germany and the United States, develops software for surveying and as-built documentation. These products are part of our FARO 3D Software product offerings discussed above and are expected to complement our portfolio of software products specifically in the Building Information Modeling (BIM)/Construction Information Management (CIM) market. 

Customers 

Our sales are diversified across a broad number of over 15,000 customers worldwide in a range of metrology, reverse engineering, factory automation, Building Information Modeling (BIM)/Construction Information Management (CIM), public safety and other applications. The FARO metrology product lines (e.g. Arm, Gage, Laser ScanArm, Laser Tracker, and Cobalt Array Imager) are purchased primarily by customers in the automotive and aerospace markets and a diverse array of manufacturing customers from small machine shops to large industrials. Our Focus 3D and Freestyle 3D product lines provide precise three-dimensional renderings primarily to architecture, engineering, construction, and public safety customers. Our ten largest customers by revenue represented an aggregate of approximately 4.3% of our total sales in 2015. No customer represented more than 2.0% of our sales in 2015. 

Sales and Marketing 

We conduct our sales and marketing efforts on a decentralized basis in three main regions around the world: Americas, Europe/Africa and Asia-Pacific. The regional headquarters for the Americas, which is also our global headquarters, is located in Lake Mary, Florida; the Europe/Africa regional headquarters is located in Stuttgart, Germany; and the regional headquarters for the Asia-Pacific region is located in Singapore. At December 31, 2015, we employed 171, 172, and 169 sales and marketing specialists in the Americas, Europe/Africa, and Asia-Pacific regions, respectively. We sell most of our products through direct sales representation in Brazil, Canada, China, France, Germany, India, Italy, Japan Malaysia, Mexico, the Netherlands, Poland, Singapore, South Korea, Spain, Switzerland, Thailand, Turkey, the United Kingdom, the United States, and Vietnam. We also sell our products through distributors, although this channel has historically represented a small percentage of total sales, and in 2015 represented 9.3% of total sales, compared with 9.9% in 2014. Note 17 to the &#147;Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements&#148; included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K includes financial information about our foreign and domestic operations. 

&#160;

Our sales and marketing efforts use a process of integrated lead qualification and sales demonstration. Once a customer opportunity is identified, we employ a team-based sales approach involving inside and outside sales personnel who are supported by application engineers. Each team has the ability to sell multiple product lines. We employ a variety of marketing techniques to promote brand awareness and customer identification. 

Research and Development 

We believe that our future success depends, in part, on our ability to maintain technological leadership, which will require ongoing enhancements of our products and the development of new applications and products that provide 3D measurement solutions. The field of 3D measurement continues to expand, and new technologies and applications will be essential to competing in this market. Accordingly, we intend to continue to make substantial investments in the development of new technologies, the commercialization of new products that build on our existing technological base, and the enhancement and development of additional applications for our products. 

Our research and development efforts are directed primarily at enhancing the functional adaptability of our current products and developing new and innovative products that respond to specific requirements of the emerging market for 3D measurement and documentation systems. Our engineering development efforts will continue to focus on enhancing the mechanical hardware, electronics, and software in our existing products and developing new products for the CAM2 market. Research and development activities, especially with respect to new products and technologies, are subject to significant risks, and there can be no assurance that any of our research and development activities will be completed successfully or on schedule, or, if completed, will be commercially accepted. 

At December 31, 2015, we employed 181 scientists and technicians in our research and development efforts. Research and development expenses were approximately $26.6 million in 2015, compared to $27.5 million in 2014 and $22.4 million in 2013. 

Intellectual Property 

We own approximately 900 patents and pending patent applications worldwide, which generally expire on a rolling basis between 2016 and 2040. We also own approximately 65 trademark registrations worldwide. 

Our success and ability to maintain a competitive position depends, in large part, on our ability to protect our intellectual property. We rely on a combination of contractual provisions and trade secret laws to protect our proprietary information. However, there can be no assurance that the steps taken by us to protect our trade secrets and proprietary information will be sufficient to prevent misappropriation of our proprietary information or preclude third-party development of similar intellectual property. 

Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. We intend to vigorously defend our proprietary rights against infringement by third parties. However, policing unauthorized use of our products is difficult, particularly in foreign countries, and we may be unable to determine the extent, if any, to which unauthorized use of our products exist. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. 

&#160;

We do not believe that any of our products infringe on the proprietary rights of third parties. There can be no assurance, however, that third parties will not claim infringement by us with respect to current or future products. Any such claims, with or without merit, could be time consuming, result in costly litigation, cause product shipment delays or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements, which could have a material adverse effect upon the our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, such royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may not be available on terms acceptable to us, if at all. 

Manufacturing and Assembly 

We manufacture our FaroArm, FARO Gage, FARO Laser ScanArm, FARO Cobalt Array 3D Imager and FARO Laser Tracker products in our manufacturing facilities located in Florida and Pennsylvania for customer orders from the Americas, in our manufacturing facility located in Schaffhausen, Switzerland for customer orders from the Europe/Africa region, and in our manufacturing facility located in Singapore for customer orders from the Asia-Pacific region. We manufacture our FARO Focus 3D and FARO Freestyle 3D products in our facilities located in Stuttgart, Germany and Schaffhausen, Switzerland. In 2014, we relocated our facility in Kennett Square, Pennsylvania to a leased facility consisting of approximately 90,400 square feet in Exton, Pennsylvania. 

We expect all of our existing plants to have the production capacity necessary to support our volume requirements through 2016. 

Manufacturing consists primarily of assembling and integrating components and subassemblies purchased from suppliers into finished products. The primary components, which include machined parts and electronic circuit boards, are produced by subcontractors according to our specifications. Products are assembled, calibrated and tested for accuracy and functionality before shipment. We perform limited in-house circuit board assembly and component part machining. Typically, we enter into purchase commitments for manufacturing components to cover production requirements for 60 to 120 days. We may enter into longer agreements to purchase sufficient inventory to satisfy warranty commitments or to ensure adequate component availability. 

Our manufacturing, engineering, and design headquarters have been registered to the ISO-9001 standard since July 1998. Semi-annual surveillance audits have documented continuous improvement to this multinational standard. Currently, our manufacturing sites in Lake Mary, Florida; Exton, Pennsylvania; Stuttgart, Germany; Schaffhausen, Switzerland; and Singapore are jointly registered to ISO-9001. Our FARO Laser Tracker, FaroArm, FARO Gage, and FARO Cobalt Array 3D Imager products are all registered to ISO-17025:2005. We continue to examine our scope of registration as our business evolves and we have chosen English as the standard business language for our operations. 

Our efforts to register our manufacturing, engineering and design headquarters to the ISO-9001 standard in concert with the ISO9001:2008 Quality Management System Certification verifies our commitment to quality through an internationally recognized standard. Additionally, we take a global approach to ISO-17025:2005 regarding the recognition of the Competence of Calibration and Testing Laboratories, seeking to have all locations registered with similar scopes of accreditation and capabilities for the products generated and serviced. 

Competition 

Our measurement systems compete in the broad and highly competitive market for measurement devices for manufacturing and industrial applications, which, in addition to portable articulated arms, laser tracker, 3D imaging and laser scanner products, consist of fixed-base CMMs, templates and go/no-go gages, check fixtures, handheld measurement tools, and various categories of surveying equipment. In the FARO Gage product line, we compete with a number of manufacturers of handheld measurement tools and fixed-base 

&#160;

CMMs, including some large, well-established companies. In the FaroArm, FARO Laser ScanArm, FARO Laser Tracker, FARO Focus 3D and FARO Cobalt Array 3D Imager product lines, we compete primarily with Hexagon Metrology, a division of Hexagon AB, and with Steinbichler Optotechnik GmbH and GOM GmbH in the 3D Imager product lines. We also compete in these product lines with a number of other smaller companies. We compete on the basis of technical innovation, product performance, quality and price with respect to all of our products. 

We will be required to make continued investments in technology and product development to maintain and extend the technological advantage that we believe we currently have over our competition. However, we cannot be certain that our technology or our product development efforts will allow us to successfully compete as the industry evolves. As the market for our measurement systems expands, additional competition may emerge and our existing and future competitors may commit more resources to the markets in which we participate. 

Government Regulation 

Our operations are subject to numerous governmental laws and regulations, including those governing antitrust and competition, the environment, import and export of products, currency conversions and repatriation, taxation of foreign earnings and earnings of expatriate personnel, and use of local employees and suppliers. Our foreign operations are subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or FCPA, and similar foreign anti-corruption laws, which makes illegal any payments to government officials or government employees that are intended to induce their influence to assist us or to gain any improper advantage for us. We operate in certain regions in the Middle East, Africa, Latin America, and Asia-Pacific that are more prone to risk under these anti-corruption laws. 

Manufacturers of electrical goods are subject to the European Union&#146;s RoHS2 and WEEE directives, which took effect during 2006. RoHS2 prohibits the use of lead, mercury and certain other specified substances in electronics products, and WEEE makes producers of electrical goods financially responsible for specified collection, recycling, treatment, and disposal of covered electronic products and components. Parallel initiatives are being proposed in other jurisdictions, including several states in the United States and China. 

We currently hold WEEE registration and are in compliance with the directives of the European Union. Under the classification of &#147;Industrial Monitoring and Control Instruments,&#148; our products have until July 22, 2017 to become compliant with the RoHS2 directive. Currently, only the FARO Laser Tracker ION does not meet the RoHS2 directive. However, if we are unable to bring the FARO Laser Tracker ION into compliance with the RoHS2 directive by July 22, 2017, we would be unable to sell the FARO Laser Tracker ION in the European Union countries and China, and potentially in several states in the United States, which could have a material adverse effect on our sales and results of operations. 

Backlog and Seasonality 

At December 31, 2015, we had orders representing approximately $9.1 million in sales outstanding. The majority of these specific orders were shipped by February 18, 2016, and, as of February 18, 2016, we had orders representing approximately $8.5 million in sales outstanding. We believe that substantially all of the outstanding sales orders as of February 18, 2016 will be shipped during 2016. At December 31, 2014 and 2013, we had orders representing approximately $14.1 million and $18.7 million in sales outstanding, respectively. 

We typically experience greater order volume during the fourth quarter as customers spend the remaining balances of their capital expenditure budgets. 

&#160;

Employees 

At December 31, 2015, we had 1,288 full-time employees, consisting of 512 sales and marketing professionals, 201 production staff, 181 research and development staff, 166 administrative staff, and 228 customer service/training/application engineering specialists. We are not a party to any collective bargaining agreements and believe our employee relations are satisfactory. Management believes that our future growth and success will depend in part on our ability to retain and continue to attract highly skilled personnel. We anticipate that we will be able to obtain the additional personnel required to satisfy our staffing requirements over the foreseeable future. 

Geographic Information 

We have three reportable segments based upon geographic regions: Americas, Europe/Africa and Asia-Pacific. We develop, manufacture, market, support and sell CAD-based quality assurance products integrated with CAD-based inspection and statistical process control software and three-dimensional documentation systems in each of these regions. These activities represent more than 99% of our consolidated sales. We evaluate performance and allocate resources based upon profitable growth and assets deployed. Information regarding our net sales, operating income, and long-lived assets by geographic region is set forth in Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements under Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Available Information 

We make available, free of charge on our Internet website at http://www.faro.com, our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC. You can find these reports on our website at www.faro.com by first clicking &#147;Investor Relations&#148; and then &#147;SEC Filings&#148;. The information on, or accessible through, our website is not a part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

These reports may also be obtained at the SEC&#146;s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street NE, Washington, DC 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room is available by calling the SEC at (800) SEC-0330. You may also access this information at the SEC&#146;s website at http://www.sec.gov. This site contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. 

&#160;

