 ITEM 1. &#32; BUSINESS 

Overview 

Alimera Sciences, Inc., and its subsidiaries (we, Alimera or the Company), is a pharmaceutical company that specializes in the research, development and commercialization of prescription ophthalmic pharmaceuticals. We are presently focused on diseases affecting the back of the eye, or retina, because we believe these diseases are not well treated with current therapies and represent a significant market opportunity. 

Our only commercial product is ILUVIEN &#174; , which has been developed to treat diabetic macular edema (DME). DME is a disease of the retina that affects individuals with diabetes and can lead to severe vision loss and blindness. ILUVIEN has received marketing authorization in the U.S., Austria, Belgium, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Spain, Sweden and the United Kingdom. In the U.S., ILUVIEN is indicated for the treatment of DME in patients who have been previously treated with a course of corticosteroids and did not have a clinically significant rise in intraocular pressure (IOP). In the European Economic Area (EEA) countries in which ILUVIEN has received marketing authorization, it is indicated for the treatment of vision impairment associated with DME considered insufficiently responsive to available therapies. As part of the approval process in the EEA, we have committed to conduct a five-year, post-authorization, open label registry study in 800 patients treated with ILUVIEN. Through December 31, 2015, we have enrolled over 200 patients. 

We launched ILUVIEN in Germany and the United Kingdom in the second quarter of 2013 and in the U.S. and Portugal in the first quarter of 2015. 

In addition, we have entered into various agreements under which distributors will provide regulatory, reimbursement or sales and marketing support for future commercialization of ILUVIEN in numerous countries in the Middle East, Canada, Italy, Australia and New Zealand. 

ILUVIEN is an intravitreal implant that treats patients by delivering a constant micro-dose of the non-proprietary corticosteroid fluocinolone acetonide (FAc) in the eye, which is continuous for 36 months. ILUVIEN is inserted in a non-surgical procedure employing a device with a 25-gauge needle, which inserts ILUVIEN into the back of the patient &#8217; s eye and allows for a self-sealing wound. In the treatment of DME with an intraocular corticosteroid, we believe that delivering therapeutic levels and mitigating the typical corticosteroid related side effects can only be achieved by delivering drug to the back of the eye in a daily micro-dose where DME occurs. ILUVIEN, which is non-bioerodable, provides consistent delivery as a result of its constant surface area. This provides a sustained therapeutic effect on DME, and an adverse event profile that is predictable and manageable by a retinal physician. Other corticosteroid options for DME provide a higher initial daily dose but then rapidly decline, requiring frequent reinjection by the physician to maintain or reestablish the therapeutic effect. 

Our commercialization strategy is to establish ILUVIEN as a leading therapy for vision loss in DME patients and subsequently for other indications for which ILUVIEN is proven safe and effective. We are led by an executive team with extensive development and commercialization expertise with ophthalmic products including the launch and management of Visudyne, the first pharmacological treatment indicated for patients with wet age-related macular degeneration (AMD). We intend to capitalize on our management&#8217;s experience and expertise to market ILUVIEN and other potential eye care products, when, where and if such drugs receive regulatory approval. 

Business Strategy 

We are presently focused on diseases affecting the back of the eye, or retina, because we believe these diseases are not well treated with current therapies and represent a significant market opportunity. Our business strategy is to: 

&#160; 

&#8226; 

Maximize the Commercial Success of ILUVIEN. &#32;We launched ILUVIEN in Germany and the United Kingdom in the second quarter of 2013 and in the U.S. and Portugal in the first quarter of 2015. We have approval in 14 additional countries in the EEA and we are pursuing opportunities to sell ILUVIEN in some of these countries. 

&#8226; 

Pursue Approval in Additional Countries . We plan to pursue regulatory approval for ILUVIEN, directly or with a partner, in other countries. We entered into distribution agreements to distribute ILUVIEN in numerous countries in the Middle East, Canada and Australia. In addition, under a Mutual Recognition Procedure (MRP) available in the EEA, we can submit ILUVIEN for approval in any or all of the remaining 12 European Union (EU) countries where we do not have marketing approval. 

&#8226; 

Assess the Effectiveness of ILUVIEN for Additional Retinal Diseases . We believe that ILUVIEN has the potential to address additional retinal diseases including, among others, retinal vein occlusion (RVO), dry AMD and wet AMD. 

&#8226; 

Expand Our Ophthalmic Product Pipeline. &#32;We believe there are further unmet medical needs in the treatment of ophthalmic diseases. Toward that end, we intend to leverage our management&#8217;s expertise and its broad network of relationships to continue to evaluate in-licensing and acquisition opportunities for compounds and technologies with potential treatment applications for diseases affecting the eye. 

Disease Overview and Market Opportunity 

Diabetes and Diabetic Retinopathy 

Diabetes mellitus, with its systemic and ophthalmic complications, represents a global public health threat. The estimated prevalence of diabetes worldwide in 2015 increased to 415 million people and is expected to increase to 642 million people by 2040. 

According to the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), the number of Americans diagnosed with diabetes has increased from approximately 15.2 million people in 2004 to approximately 22.0 million people in 2014. In addition to diagnosed cases, the CDC most recently estimated in 2012 that an additional 8.1 million Americans with diabetes are undiagnosed and are therefore not being monitored and treated to control their disease and prevent systemic and ophthalmic complications. In the EEA countries in which ILUVIEN has received marketing authorizations, according to the International Diabetes Foundation, Diabetes Atlas, Seventh Edition, 2015 Update, there are approximately 17.2 million diagnosed diabetics and 10.5 million diabetics that remain undiagnosed. 

All patients with diabetes are at risk of developing some form of diabetic retinopathy, an ophthalmic complication of diabetes with symptoms including the swelling and leakage of blood vessels within the retina or the abnormal growth of new blood vessels on the surface of the retina. According to the CDC, diabetic retinopathy causes approximately 12,000 to 24,000 new cases of blindness in the U.S. each year; making diabetes the leading cause of new cases of blindness in adults aged 20 to 74. Diabetic retinopathy can be divided into either non-proliferative or proliferative retinopathy. Non-proliferative retinopathy (also called background retinopathy) develops first and causes increased capillary permeability, micro aneurysms, hemorrhages, exudates (when fluid leaks into spaces between vessels), macular ischemia (lack of oxygen) and macular edema (thickening of the retina caused by fluid leakage from capillaries). Proliferative retinopathy is an advanced stage of diabetic retinopathy which, in addition to characteristics of non-proliferative retinopathy, results in the growth of new blood vessels. These new blood vessels are abnormal and fragile, growing along the retina and along the surface of the clear, vitreous gel that fills the inside of the eye. By themselves, these blood vessels do not cause symptoms or vision loss. However, these blood vessels have thin, fragile walls that are prone to leakage and hemorrhage. 

Diabetic Macular Edema 

DME, the primary cause of vision loss associated with diabetic retinopathy, is a disease affecting the macula, the part of the retina responsible for central vision. When the blood vessel leakage of diabetic retinopathy causes swelling in the macula, the condition is called DME. The onset of DME is painless and may go undetected by the patient until it manifests with the blurring of central vision or acute vision loss. The severity of this blurring may range from mild to profound loss of vision. 

As the diabetic patient continues to suffer from DME, the disease can undergo a transition where more inflammatory factors become present. At this stage, targeting only one factor of DME may no longer reduce the macular edema or improve vision of the patient even after a significant reduction in macular edema has occurred. 

As the incidence of diabetes continues to increase worldwide, the incidence of DME and other complications is predicted to rise as well. A majority of patients who suffer from diabetes do not meet glycemic (glucose or blood sugar) targets, resulting in hyperglycemia (elevated levels of glucose in the blood). This, in turn, leads to the development of micro-vascular complications, which manifest in the eye as diabetic retinopathy. 

Current Treatments for DME 

Anti-vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) therapies are the current standard of care for the treatment of DME. Lucentis and Eylea are the only approved anti-VEGF therapies marketed for the treatment of vision loss associated with DME in the EEA and for the treatment of DME in the U.S. having been proven efficacious in patients suffering from DME. However, anti-VEGF therapies are limited by a need for multiple and frequent injections to maintain a therapeutic effect. Further, many patients either do not achieve a response or achieve an insufficient response from these anti-VEGF therapies. In addition, these therapies have safety profiles which include an increased risk of endophthalmitis, a serious eye infection that must be treated with high doses of antibiotics,due to frequent injections and an IOP rise in certain patients which may increase the risk of glaucoma as well as systemic risks associated with VEGF suppression which include stroke or death. 

Intravitreal corticosteroid therapies are also used to treat DME. Ozurdex, a short duration corticosteroid, is marketed for the treatment of vision loss associated with DME in the EEA and for the treatment of DME in the U.S. Off-label intravitreal triamcinolone injections of Avastin are also used to treat DME. Corticosteroids have historically been associated with significant increases in IOP, which may increase the risk of glaucoma and the acceleration of cataract formation. Like anti-VEGF antibody therapy, these shorter duration corticosteroids are efficacious in some but not all patients and are limited by a need for multiple and frequent injections to maintain a therapeutic effect. 

Laser photocoagulation is a retinal procedure in which a laser is used to apply a burn, or a pattern of burns, to cauterize leaky blood vessels to reduce edema. Visual acuity gains are seen with this therapy, however, its primary benefit is to prevent or slow vision loss. Further, this is a destructive procedure that has undesirable side effects including partial loss of peripheral and night vision. 

ILUVIEN 

Overview 

Our only commercial product is ILUVIEN, a sustained release corticosteroid intravitreal implant for the treatment of DME. ILUVIEN is non-bioerodable and is designed to deliver a constant micro-dose of FAc over 36 months. "Intravitreal" refers to the space inside the eye behind the lens that contains the jelly-like substance called vitreous. DME is a disease of the retina which affects individuals with diabetes and can lead to severe vision loss and blindness. ILUVIEN is inserted in the back of the patient&#8217;s eye in a non-surgical procedure using a sterile preloaded applicator (the ILUVIEN applicator) employing a 25-gauge needle, which allows for a self-sealing wound. This procedure is similar to that commonly employed by retinal specialists in the administration of other intravitreal therapies. Based on data from our FAME Study, we believe ILUVIEN improves vision while mitigating side effects commonly associated with the use of corticosteroids for the following reasons: 

&#160; 

&#8226; 

ILUVIEN delivers FAc. &#32;The active pharmaceutical ingredient in ILUVIEN is FAc, which has demonstrated efficacy in the treatment of DME in clinician &#8217; s real world experience and in the two completed Phase 3 pivotal clinical trials, collectively referred to as our FAME Study. 

&#8226; 

ILUVIEN delivers a constant daily micro-dose of a steroid to the eye. &#32;The delivery mechanism of ILUVIEN provides lower daily and aggregate exposure to corticosteroids than other intraocular dosage forms currently available. In vitro release kinetics have shown that ILUVIEN provides sustained sub-microgram levels of FAc and in vivo over time. Based on the results of our FAME Study, ILUVIEN provides a sustained, therapeutic effect in the treatment of DME patients for up to 36 months. 

&#8226; 

ILUVIEN is inserted using a 25-gauge needle. &#32;Needle gauge determines the size of the wound that is created. ILUVIEN is inserted into the eye in a non-surgical procedure using a 25-gauge needle, which results in a wound that is small enough to seal itself after the needle is removed, thus eliminating the need for additional intervention. Using a larger needle would require a more complicated procedure to create a self-sealing wound, or may require a suture to ensure closure of the wound. 

Fluocinolone Acetonide 

FAc, a non-proprietary corticosteroid, is the active compound in ILUVIEN and a member of the class of steroids known as corticosteroids. Corticosteroids have demonstrated a range of pharmacological actions, including inhibition of inflammation, inhibition of leukostasis, up regulation of occludin, inhibition of the release of certain inflammatory cytokines and suppression of VEGF secretion. Leukostasis refers to the accumulation of white blood cells at a particular site which leads to further tissue damage. Occludin is an important protein in maintaining and reinforcing the tight junctions between cells, and with occludin is reduced the junctions between cells becomes less tight and are prone to leaking, as is seen in DME. These pharmacological actions have the potential to treat various ocular conditions, including DME, RVO, dry AMD and wet AMD. However, FAc shares many of the same side effects as other corticosteroids currently available for intraocular use, including increased IOP, which may increase the risk of glaucoma, and the acceleration of cataract formation. 

ILUVIEN is Positioned to Mitigate IOP Increases 

Based on our analysis of the final clinical readout from our FAME Study through month 36 and clinician &#8217; s real world experience, we believe that ILUVIEN mitigates the incidence of steroid-induced IOP elevations associated with the sustained use of intraocular corticosteroids. 

The side effect of increased IOP associated with corticosteroids in certain people is believed to be directly related to the interaction of corticosteroids with the cells of the trabecular meshwork, a specialized tissue that acts as a filter located in the front of the eye. In some individuals, the use of intraocular corticosteroids can result in a change in this meshwork, increasing resistance to outflow, and increasing pressure inside the eye. We believe the positioning of ILUVIEN allows it to take 

advantage of the posterior flow of fluid away from the trabecular meshwork of the eye. We believe ILUVIEN &#8217; s sustained low dose and positioning minimizes the anterior chamber exposure to FAc, where the typical side effects associated with corticosteroids take place. We believe our FAME Study and clinician &#8217; s real world experience demonstrate ILUVIEN &#8217; s ability to mitigate the side effects associated with the sustained use of intraocular corticosteroids in both the incidence of IOP elevations and the number of surgical interventions required to treat elevated IOP associated. 

ILUVIEN Provides Constant Micro-Dose Delivery 

ILUVIEN consists of a tiny non-bioerodable polyimide tube with a permeable membrane cap on one end and an impermeable silicone cap on the other end that is filled with 190mg of FAc in a polyvinyl alcohol matrix. Both polyimide and the polyvinyl alcohol matrix have been demonstrated to be biocompatible with ocular tissues and have histories of safe use within the eye. ILUVIEN is designed to deliver a constant micro-dose of FAc over 36 months. 

ILUVIEN for Other Diseases of the Eye 

We believe that ILUVIEN has the potential to address other ophthalmic diseases such as RVO, dry AMD and wet AMD. Details regarding the rationale for these other indications are as follows: 

&#160; 

&#8226; 

Macular edema associated with RVO. &#32;According to GlobalData, a provider of global business intelligence, there are 16 million adults affected with RVO around the world. In September 2009, Allergan, Inc. (Allergan) introduced Ozurdex (a short duration corticosteroid) as the first approved product for macular edema following branch or retinal vein occlusion. The Food and Drug Administration &#8217; s (FDA) approval of Ozurdex provides additional evidence that corticosteroids work effectively to treat RVO. 

&#8226; 

Dry AMD. &#32;Dry AMD patients account for 90% of AMD patients, with the greatest unmet need among these patients being a treatment for geographic atrophy (GA) for which there are currently no treatments available. Pre-clinical studies in two established rat models of retinal degeneration reported at the Association for Research in Vision and Ophthalmology meetings in 2006, 2007 and 2008, described the efficacious effects of a miniaturized version of ILUVIEN in retinal degeneration. While there are no standard preclinical models of GA, we believe these results support the exploration of ILUVIEN to treat this condition. 

&#8226; 

Wet AMD. &#32;The size of the wet AMD market was $2 billion in 2008 according to VisionGain, an independent competitive intelligence organization. According to American Academy of Ophthalmology, more than 11 million people in America are affected by AMD and are now benefiting from advanced treatment options such as anti-VEGF agents and photodynamic therapy (PDT). Anti-VEGF antibodies require persistent dosing to maintain a therapeutic effect which is a burden on both the patient and the physician. Estimates as of March 2015 of the global cost of visual impairment due to age-related macular degeneration is $343 billion, including $255 billion in direct health care costs according to BrightFocus Foundation. We believe ILUVIEN has the potential to be synergistic with the market leading anti-VEGF antibody therapies in the treatment of wet AMD given that corticosteroids have been shown to suppress the production of VEGF. 

ILUVIEN Regulatory Status 

ILUVIEN has received marketing authorization in the U.S., Austria, Belgium, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Spain, Sweden and the United Kingdom. In the U.S., ILUVIEN is indicated for the treatment of DME in patients who have been previously treated with a course of corticosteroids and did not have a clinically significant rise in IOP. In the EEA countries in which ILUVIEN has received marketing authorization, it is indicated for the treatment of vision impairment associated with DME considered insufficiently responsive to available therapies. As part of the approval process in the EEA, we have committed to conduct a five-year, post-authorization, open label registry study in 800 patients treated with ILUVIEN. 

We are currently pursuing regulatory approval in certain Middle Eastern countries, Canada and Australia with our partners. 

Commercialization 

ILUVIEN is the only intraocular therapy to treat DME designed to deliver a constant micro-dose of FAc over 36 months. Our commercialization strategy is to establish ILUVIEN as a leading therapy for the treatment of DME and subsequently for other indications for which ILUVIEN may prove safe and effective. We launched ILUVIEN in Germany and the United Kingdom in the second quarter of 2013 and in the U.S. and Portugal in the first quarter of 2015. We also plan to commercialize ILUVIEN, directly or with a partner, in other EEA and non-EEA countries pending the receipt of reimbursement and future applicable regulatory approvals. Although we anticipate ILUVIEN being administered as a standalone therapy, we do not 

foresee the use of ILUVIEN as precluding the administration of other therapies in conjunction with ILUVIEN. Our commercialization strategy in any geography is subject to and dependent upon the regulatory approval of ILUVIEN in any jurisdiction. 

Sales and Marketing 

We are led by an executive team with extensive commercialization expertise with ophthalmic products including the launch and management of Visudyne, the first pharmacological treatment indicated for the treatment of wet AMD. 

In late 2012 and early 2013 we established a core management team for our European operations based in the United Kingdom. In November 2012, we entered into a master services agreement with Quintiles Commercial Europe Limited. Under the agreement, Quintiles Commercial Europe Limited and its affiliates (collectively, Quintiles Commercial) provided certain services to us in relation to the commercialization of ILUVIEN, in France, Germany and the United Kingdom. In December 2013 and January 2014, respectively, we transitioned our German and United Kingdom country manager positions in-house. In April 2015, we terminated the project orders associated with France and Germany and transitioned the covered positions employed by Quintiles Commercial to our payroll. In July 2015, we terminated the project orders associated with the United Kingdom and transitioned the covered positions employed by Quintiles Commercial to our payroll. 

As of December 31, 2015, we have a European management team, local management teams and commercial personnel in France, Germany, Portugal and the United Kingdom totaling 31 persons, five of which are consultants. 

We began building our U.S. commercial infrastructure in the fourth quarter of 2014 following the FDA approval of ILUVIEN in the third quarter of 2014 with the addition of sales management, field sales representatives, payor relations specialists, reimbursement support specialists and other positions. As of December 31, 2015, we had a U.S. field force of approximately 49 persons, including sales personnel, reimbursement specialists, and payor relations directors. 

We plan to develop our medical marketing, promotion and communication materials to ensure that influential retinal specialists are presenting our ILUVIEN data, clinician &#8217; s real world data, and messages at key retina meetings in the U.S. and EEA. 

In addition, we have entered into various agreements under which distributors will provide regulatory, reimbursement or sales and marketing support for future commercialization of ILUVIEN in numerous countries in the Middle East, Canada and Australia. In addition, we have an agreement with a distributor in Italy to provide regulatory, reimbursement and sales and marketing support for future commercialization of ILUVIEN in Italy. Although we expect that these distributors may be able to sell ILUVIEN in the future in these territories, as of December 31, 2015 there have been no significant sales of ILUVIEN in any of these territories by these distributors. 

Manufacturing 

We do not have, and do not intend to establish an in-house manufacturing capability for our products and as a result we will continue to depend exclusively on third-party contract manufacturers to produce and package ILUVIEN. We rely on these manufacturers to produce active pharmaceutical ingredients, or APIs, and finished drug products in accordance with current Good Manufacturing Practices (cGMPs) and all other applicable laws and regulations. We maintain agreements with potential and existing manufacturers that include confidentiality and intellectual property provisions to protect our proprietary rights related to ILUVIEN. 

Third party manufacturers are responsible for the commercial-scale production of ILUVIEN and the ILUVIEN applicator. We have agreements with the manufacturer of FAc, the active pharmaceutical ingredient in ILUVIEN (FARMABIOS SpA/Byron Chemical Company Inc.), the manufacturer of the components of the ILUVIEN applicator (FlexMedical or an affiliate of Flextronics International, Ltd. (Flextronics)),the manufacturer of ILUVIEN (Alliance Medical Products Inc., a Siegfried Company (Alliance)) and the manufacturer for the quality release testing of ILUVIEN in the EEA (AndersonBrecon Limited trading as Packaging Coordinators, Inc.). We do not currently have alternate providers for any of these activities. The manufacturing process for ILUVIEN consists of filling the polyimide tube with a matrix consisting of FAc and polyvinyl alcohol, cutting the tubes, capping the tubes with membrane caps, curing at high temperature, loading ILUVIEN inside the ILUVIEN applicator, packaging and sterilizing the product. This process has been validated at Alliance, the third-party contract manufacturer of ILUVIEN. 

In February 2010, we entered into a commercial manufacturing agreement with Alliance whereby Alliance agreed to manufacture and package ILUVIEN for us at its Irvine, California facility. The agreement was amended and restated in February 2016. Certain equipment at Alliance&#8217;s facility was purchased by us and is used solely for the purpose of allowing Alliance to manufacture and package ILUVIEN for us. Under the amended and restated agreement, we are also responsible for supplying Alliance with the ILUVIEN applicator and the API. We have agreed to order from Alliance at least 80% of our total 

requirements for new units of ILUVIEN in the U.S., Canada and Europe in a calendar year; provided that Alliance is able to fulfill our supply requirements and is not in breach of its agreements or obligations to us. Unless terminated earlier in accordance with the provisions thereof, the agreement, as amended, has a remaining term of five years through February 2021 and will automatically renew for successive terms of one year unless either party delivers written notice of non-renewal to the other at least 12 months prior to the end of the then current term. 

In February 2012, we entered into a commercial manufacturing agreement with Flextronics whereby Flextronics agreed to manufacture the components of the ILUVIEN applicator for us at its Tijuana, Mexico facility. Certain equipment at Flextronics&#8217; facility was purchased by us and is used solely for the purpose of allowing Flextronics to manufacture the components of the ILUVIEN applicator for us. Unless terminated earlier in accordance with the provisions thereof, our agreement with Flextronics has an initial term of three years and will automatically renew for successive terms of one year unless either party delivers written notice of non-renewal to the other at least 18 months prior to the end of the then current term. 

Business Segments 

Our business is aligned in two segments: U.S. and International. Financial information about our business segments can be found in the section entitled &#8220;Results of Operations - Segment Review&#8221; of Item 7 of Part I of this annual report on Form 10-K and Note 18 of the accompanying consolidated financial statements in this annual report on Form 10-K. 

Customers 

Our revenues for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2015 were generated from product sales primarily in the U.S., Germany, Portugal and the United Kingdom. Two customers within the U.S. accounted for 68% of consolidated revenues for the year ended December 31, 2015 as a result of our sales to large pharmaceutical distributors in the U.S. Our revenues for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2014 were generated from product sales primarily in Germany and the United Kingdom. No single customer accounted for more than 10% of our total consolidated revenue for the year ended December 31, 2014. Two customers in Europe accounted for approximately 23% of our total consolidated revenues for the year ended December 31, 2013. No other single customer accounted for more than 10% of revenue in 2013. 

Competition 

The development and commercialization of new drugs and drug delivery technologies is highly competitive. We face competition with respect to ILUVIEN and any products or product candidates we may develop or commercialize in the future from major pharmaceutical companies, specialty pharmaceutical companies and biotechnology companies worldwide, many of whom have substantially greater financial and other resources than we do. In the countries in which ILUVIEN has received or been recommended for marketing authorization, or becomes approved for use in the treatment of DME, it competes or will compete against the use of anti-VEGF antibodies, short duration corticosteroids and laser photocoagulation or other therapies that may be approved in the future. There are other companies working to develop other drug therapies and sustained delivery platforms for DME and other indications. We believe that the following companies provide competition to ILUVIEN: 

&#160; 

&#8226; 

Roche&#8217;s products Lucentis (ranibizumab injection) and Avastin (bevacizumab) are both antibodies that inhibit VEGF pathways. Lucentis is marketed in the EEA by Novartis. Lucentis is currently approved for the treatment of diabetic retinopathy in patients with DME, the treatment of neovascular wet AMD and the treatment of macular edema following RVO in the U.S. and the EEA. Avastin, an oncology product, is used by retinal specialists in both the U.S. and in certain countries of the EEA in the treatment of numerous retinal diseases off label but is not formulated or approved for any ophthalmic use. 

&#8226; 

Regeneron &#8217; s Eylea (aflibercept), a anti-VEGF inhibitor, is approved for the treatment of diabetic retinopathy in patients with DME, neovascular wet AMD and RVO in the U.S. and in the EEA. Eylea is marketed in the EEA by Bayer. 

&#8226; 

Allergan&#8217;s product Ozurdex (dexamethasone intravitreal implant), is a short duration biodegradable implant that delivers the corticosteroid dexamethasone. Ozurdex is approved for the treatment of DME, macular edema following branch or central RVO and non-infectious uveitis affecting the posterior segment of the eye in both the U.S. and the EEA. 

In addition, there are a number of other companies, including Ophthotech Corporation, Ampio Pharmaceuticals and pSivida, which are developing drug therapies or sustained delivery platforms for the treatment of ocular diseases. These companies are seeking to apply their technologies to ophthalmic indications in clinical trials. 

We believe we will be less likely to face a generic competitor for ILUVIEN for the treatment of DME because of the bioequivalency requirements of a generic form of ILUVIEN. A generic pharmaceutical competitor to ILUVIEN would need to establish bioequivalency through the demonstration of an equivalent pharmacodynamic endpoint in a clinical trial. We believe conducting such a clinical trial would be cost prohibitive and time consuming. 

The licensing and acquisition of pharmaceutical products, which is part of our strategy, is a highly competitive area. A number of more established companies are also pursuing strategies to license or acquire products. These established companies may have a competitive advantage over us due to, among other factors, their size, cash flow and institutional experience. 

Licenses and Agreements 

pSivida US, Inc. 

We entered into an agreement with pSivida in February 2005, and a subsequent amendment in March 2008, to obtain a worldwide exclusive license to develop and sell ILUVIEN for delivery to the back of the eye for the treatment and prevention of eye diseases in humans (other than uveitis). This agreement also provides us with a worldwide non-exclusive license to develop and sell pSivida&#8217;s proprietary delivery device to deliver other corticosteroids to the back of the eye for the treatment and prevention of eye diseases in humans (other than uveitis) or to treat DME by delivering a compound to the back of the eye through a direct delivery method through an incision required for a 25-gauge or larger needle. We do not have the right to develop and sell pSivida&#8217;s proprietary delivery device in connection with indications for diseases outside of the eye or for the treatment of uveitis. 

Our license rights to pSivida&#8217;s proprietary delivery device could revert to pSivida if we were to (i) fail twice to cure our breach of an obligation to make certain payments to pSivida following receipt of written notice thereof; (ii) fail to cure other breaches of material terms of our agreement with pSivida within 30 days after notice of such breaches or such longer period (up to 90 days) as may be reasonably necessary if the breach cannot be cured within such 30-day period; (iii) file for protection under the bankruptcy laws, make an assignment for the benefit of creditors, appoint or suffer appointment of a receiver or trustee over our property, file a petition under any bankruptcy or insolvency act or have any such petition filed against us and such proceeding remains undismissed or unstayed for a period of more than 60 days; or (iv) we notify pSivida in writing of our decision to abandon our license with respect to a certain product using pSivida&#8217;s proprietary delivery device. We were not in breach of our agreement with pSivida as of December 31, 2015. 

The agreement provides that after commercialization of ILUVIEN, pSivida will be entitled to 20% of the net profits as defined in the amended and restated agreement. In connection with this arrangement we are entitled to recover 20% of commercialization costs of ILUVIEN, as defined in the agreement, incurred prior to product profitability out of pSivida&#8217;s share of net profits. As of December 31, 2015 and 2014, pSivida owed us $21.6 million and $13.0 million, respectively, in commercialization costs. Due to the uncertainty of future net profits from ILUVIEN, we have fully reserved these amounts in the accompanying consolidated financial statements. 

As a result of the FDA approval of ILUVIEN in September 2014, we paid pSivida a milestone payment of $25.0 million (the pSivida Milestone Payment) in October 2014. If we were to enter into any sub-license of ILUVIEN, we must share 20% of net profits and 33% of any lump sum milestone payments received from a sub-licensee, as defined in the agreement with pSivida. 

Government Regulation 

General Overview 

Government authorities in the U.S. and other countries extensively regulate among other things the research, development, testing, quality, efficacy, safety (pre- and post-marketing), manufacturing, labeling, storage, record-keeping, advertising, promotion, export, import, marketing and distribution of pharmaceutical products. 

U.S. 

In the U.S., the FDA, under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (FD&#38;C Act) and other federal and local statutes and regulations, subjects pharmaceutical products to review. If we do not comply with applicable regulations, the government may refuse to approve or place our clinical studies on clinical hold, refuse to approve our marketing applications, refuse to allow us to manufacture or market our products, seize our products, impose injunctions and monetary fines on us, and prosecute us for criminal offenses. 

To obtain approval of a new product from the FDA, we must, among other requirements, submit data supporting the safety and efficacy as well as detailed information on the manufacture and composition of the product and proposed labeling. 

The testing and collection of data and the preparation of the necessary applications are expensive and time consuming. The FDA may not act quickly or favorably in reviewing these applications, and we may encounter significant difficulties or costs in our efforts to obtain FDA approval that could delay or preclude us from marketing additional products. Once approved by the FDA, a drug requires an annual product and establishment fee which is currently $114,000 and $585,000, respectively. 

Post-Marketing Requirements. &#32;There are post-marketing safety surveillance requirements that are required to be met to continue marketing an approved product. Adverse experiences with the product must be reported to the FDA and could result in imposition of market restrictions through labeling changes or in product removal. Product approvals may be withdrawn if compliance with regulatory requirements is not maintained or if problems concerning safety and/or efficacy of the product occur following approval. The FDA may also, in its discretion, require post-marketing testing and surveillance to monitor the effects of approved products or place conditions on any approvals that could restrict the commercial applications of these products. The FDA did not require any post-marketing testing or surveillance as part of its approval of ILUVIEN. 

With respect to product advertising and promotion of marketed products, the FDA imposes a number of complex regulations which include, among others, standards for direct-to-consumer advertising, off-label promotions, industry-sponsored scientific and educational activities and Internet promotional activities. The FDA has very broad enforcement authority under the FD&#38;C Act, and failure to abide by these regulations can result in penalties, including the issuance of warning letters directing the sponsor to correct deviations from FDA standards, a requirement that future advertising and promotional materials are pre-cleared by the FDA, and state and federal civil and criminal investigations and prosecutions. 

The manufacturing facility that produces our product must maintain compliance with cGMP and is subject to periodic inspections by the FDA. Failure to comply with statutory and regulatory requirements subjects a manufacturer to possible legal and regulatory action, including Warning Letters, seizure or recall of products, injunctions, consent decrees placing significant restrictions on or suspending manufacturing operations and civil and criminal penalties. 

Foreign Regulations 

Foreign regulatory systems, although varying from country to country, include risks similar to those associated with FDA regulations in the U.S. 

Under the EU regulatory system, applications for drug approval may be submitted either in a centralized or decentralized procedure. Under the centralized procedure, a single application to the EMA, if approved, would permit marketing of the product throughout the EU (currently 27 member states). We chose to pursue the decentralized procedure in Austria, France, Germany, Italy, Portugal, Spain and the United Kingdom due to our limited resources. The decentralized procedure provides for applications to be submitted for marketing authorization in a select number of EU countries. The process is managed by a central Reference Member State (RMS) that coordinates the review process with the Concerned Member States. 

A mutual recognition procedure of nationally approved decisions is available to pursue marketing authorizations for a product in the remaining EU countries once marketing authorization has been received in any EU country. Under the mutual recognition procedure, the holders of national marketing authorization in one of the countries within the EU may submit further applications to other countries within the EU, who will be requested to recognize the original authorization based on the FAR provided by the RMS. Pursuant to this procedure, we obtained marketing authorizations in Belgium, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Finland, Ireland, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Norway, Poland and Sweden. 

Third-party reimbursement and pricing controls 

In the EU, U.S. and elsewhere, sales of pharmaceutical products depend in significant part on the availability of reimbursement to the consumer from third-party payers, such as government and private insurance plans. Third-party payers are increasingly challenging the prices charged for medical products and services. In the U.S., it is time consuming and expensive for us to go through the process of seeking reimbursement from Medicare and private payers. Our products may not be considered cost-effective, and coverage and reimbursement may not be available or sufficient to allow us or our partners to sell our products on a competitive or profitable basis. The passage of the Medicare Prescription Drug and Modernization Act of 2003 imposes new requirements for the distribution and pricing of prescription drugs which may adversely affect the marketing of our products. 

The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act of 2010, collectively referred to as the ACA, is expected to significantly change the way healthcare is financed by both governmental and private insurers. The provisions of the ACA became effective beginning in 2010. While we cannot predict what impact on federal reimbursement policies this law will have in general or specifically on any product we commercialize, the ACA may result in downward pressure on pharmaceutical reimbursement, which could negatively affect market acceptance of new products. The rebates, discounts, taxes and other costs resulting from the ACA may have a 

significant effect on our profitability in the future. In addition, potential reductions of the per capita rate of growth in Medicare spending under the ACA, could potentially limit access to certain treatments or mandate price controls for our products. Moreover, although the U.S. Supreme Court has upheld the constitutionality of most of the ACA, some states have indicated that they intend not to implement certain sections of the ACA, and some members of the U.S. Congress are still working to repeal the ACA. We cannot predict whether these challenges will continue or other proposals will be made or adopted, or what impact these efforts may have on us. 

In many foreign markets, including the countries in the EEA, pricing of pharmaceutical products is subject to governmental control. In the U.S., there have been, and we expect that there will continue to be, a number of federal and state proposals to implement similar governmental pricing control. While we cannot predict whether such legislative or regulatory proposals will be adopted, the adoption of such proposals could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and profitability. 

Patents and Proprietary Rights 

Our success depends in part on our ability to obtain and maintain proprietary protection for ILUVIEN or any future products or product candidates, technology and know-how, to operate without infringing on the proprietary rights of others and to prevent others from infringing our proprietary rights. Because certain intellectual property relating to ILUVIEN is licensed to us by third-party collaborators, we are dependent on our collaborators&#8217; ability to obtain and maintain such protection. Where we have conducted our own research, our policy is to seek to protect our proprietary position by, among other methods, filing U.S. and foreign patent applications related to our proprietary technology, inventions and improvements that are important to the development of our business. We also rely on trade secrets, know-how, continuing technological innovation and in-licensing opportunities to develop and maintain our proprietary position. 

As of December 31, 2015, we owned or have licensed six U.S. utility patents, one U.S. design patent and two U.S. patent applications as well as numerous foreign counterparts to many of these patents and patent applications relating to ILUVIEN or the ILUVIEN applicator. We licensed two European patents from pSivida directed to our low-dose device and have an application pending directed to our applicator system for ILUVIEN. We licensed our patent rights relating to ILUVIEN from pSivida. Pursuant to our agreement with pSivida, our ILUVIEN-related patent rights are only for diseases of the human eye (other than uveitis). Our licensed patent portfolio includes U.S. patents (with no currently pending or issued corresponding European applications or patents) with claims directed to methods for administering a corticosteroid with an implantable sustained delivery device to deliver the corticosteroid to the vitreous of the eye wherein aqueous corticosteroid concentration is less than vitreous corticosteroid concentration during release. 

U.S. utility patents generally have a term of 20 years from the date of filing. The utility patent rights relating to ILUVIEN licensed to us from pSivida include six U.S. patents that expire between March 2019 and August 2027 and counterpart filings to these patents in a number of other jurisdictions. Two European patents are licensed to us from pSivida directed to our low-dose device that expire in April of 2021 and October 2024. No patent term extension or supplementary protection certificate will be available for any of these U.S. or European patents or applications. 

The patent positions of companies like ours are generally uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. Our ability to maintain and solidify our proprietary position for our technology will depend on our success in obtaining effective claims and enforcing those claims once granted. We do not know whether any of our patent applications or those patent applications that we license will result in the issuance of any patents. Our issued patents and those that may issue in the future, or those licensed to us, may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, which could limit our ability to stop competitors from marketing related products or the length of term of patent protection that we may have for our products. In addition, the rights granted under any issued patents may not provide us with proprietary protection or competitive advantages against competitors with similar technology. Furthermore, our competitors may independently develop similar technologies or duplicate any technology developed by us. Because of the extensive time required for development, testing and regulatory review of a potential product, it is possible that, before such product can be commercialized, any related patent may expire or remain in force for only a short period following commercialization, thereby reducing any advantage of the patent. 

We may rely, in some circumstances, on trade secrets to protect our technology. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect. We seek to protect our proprietary technology and processes, in part, by confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, scientific advisors and other contractors. These agreements may be breached, and we may not have adequate remedies for any breach. In addition, our trade secrets may otherwise become known or be independently discovered by competitors. To the extent that our employees, consultants or contractors use intellectual property owned by others in their work for us, disputes may arise as to the rights in related or resulting know-how and inventions. 

Research and Development 

We have built a research and development organization that includes extensive expertise with ophthalmic products including Visudyne, the first pharmacological treatment indicated for patients with wet AMD. We operate cross-functionally and are led by an experienced research and development management team. We also access relevant market information and key opinion leaders in creating target product profiles and, when appropriate, as we advance our programs to commercialization. We engage third parties to conduct our clinical and preclinical research as we do not have research laboratories in house. In addition, we utilize multiple clinical sites to conduct our clinical trials; however we are not substantially dependent upon any one of these sites for our clinical trials nor do any of them conduct a major portion of our clinical trials. 

We invested $2.7 million, $7.6 million and $3.9 million in research and development during the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. 

Employees 

As of March 11, 2016, we had 132 employees with 32 of these employees engaged in research, development and regulatory activities, and 100 engaged in administrative support, finance, information technology and sales and marketing activities. 

Corporate Information 

We are a Delaware corporation incorporated on June 4, 2003. Our principal executive office is located at 6120 Windward Parkway, Suite 290, Alpharetta, Georgia 30005 and our telephone number is (678) 990-5740. Our website address is www.alimerasciences.com. The information contained in, or that can be accessed through, our website is not part of this report and should not be considered part of this report. 

Available Information 

We file annual, quarterly, and current reports, proxy statements, and other documents with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act). The public may read and copy any materials that we file with the SEC at the SEC&#8217;s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. Also, the SEC maintains an Internet website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers, including us, that file electronically with the SEC. The public can obtain any documents that we file with the SEC at www.sec.gov. 

Copies of each of our filings with the SEC on Form 10-K, Form 10-Q and Form 8-K and all amendments to those reports, can be viewed and downloaded free of charge at our website, www.alimerasciences.com as soon as reasonably practicable after the reports and amendments are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. 

Our code of ethics, other corporate policies and procedures, and the charters of our Audit Committee, Compensation Committee and Nominating/Corporate Governance Committee are available through our website at www.alimerasciences.com. 

