 ITEM 1: BUSINESS

GENERAL

Pathfinder Bancorp, Inc.

Pathfinder Bancorp, Inc. (the "Company") is a Maryland corporation headquartered in Oswego, New York. On October 16, 2014, the Company completed its conversion from the mutual holding company ("MHC") structure and the related public offering and is now a stock holding company that is fully owned by the public (the "Conversion"). As a result of the Conversion, the mutual holding company and former mid-tier holding company were merged into Pathfinder Bancorp, Inc. The primary business of the Company is its investment in Pathfinder Bank (the "Bank") which is 100% owned by the Company. The Company sold 2,636,053 shares of common stock, in the Conversion, including 105,442 shares to the Pathfinder Bank employee stock ownership plan ("ESOP"). All shares were sold at a price of $10.00 per share raising $26.4 million in gross proceeds. Additionally, $197,000 in cash was received from the merger of MHC into the company; and after accounting for Conversion related expenses of $1.5 million, which offset gross proceeds, the Company received $24.9 million in net proceeds. Concurrent with the completion of the Conversion, publicly owned shares of Pathfinder Bancorp, Inc., a federal corporation ("Pathfinder-Federal"), were exchanged for 1.6472 shares of the Company's common stock.

At December 31, 2015 and 2014, 4,353,850 and 4,352,203 shares of Company common stock were outstanding, respectively.

&#160;

"Table of Contents" 

In 2011, in connection with Pathfinder-Federal's redemption of its interests in the Troubled Asset Relief Program ("TARP"), Pathfinder-Federal sold 13,000 shares of variable rate, non-cumulative perpetual senior preferred stock to the U.S. Treasury for $13.0 million in gross proceeds as part of the Small Business Lending Fund ("SBLF") program. The Company exchanged on a one-for-one basis its preferred stock for Pathfinder-Federal's preferred stock with the same rights and privileges to the U.S. Treasury in connection with the Conversion.

On October 15, 2015, the Company executed the $10.0 million non-amortizing Subordinated Loan with an unrelated third party that is scheduled to mature on October 1, 2025. The Company has the right to prepay the Subordinated Loan at any time after October 15, 2020 without penalty. The terms of the Subordinated Loan require interest payments at an annual interest rate of 3.50% from October 15, 2015 to February 29, 2016. The annual interest rate will increase to 6.25% on March 1, 2016 through the maturity date. The Subordinated Loan is senior in the Company's credit repayment hierarchy only to the Company's common equity and, as a result, qualifies as Tier 2 capital for all future periods when applicable. The Company paid $172,000 in origination and legal fees as part of this transaction. These fees will be amortized over the life of the Subordinated Loan through its first call date of October 1, 2020 using the effective interest method. The effective cost of funds related to this transaction is 6.44% calculated under this method. 

The proceeds from the Subordinated Loan were used to repay the preferred stock, which was retired on February 16, 2016. The issuance of the Subordinated Loan will increase interest expense by $644,000 per year but prospectively reduce the amount payable to the SBLF in preferred stock dividends. Effective April 1, 2016, the annual dividend rate for the preferred stock would have been 9.0%. The retirement of the $13.0 million of the SBLF Preferred Series B stock, therefore, will result in an annual reduction of preferred dividends payable of $1.2 million. The Company paid $130,000 in preferred dividends in 2015. These transactions had no effect on the regulatory capital position of the Bank.

&#160;

On May 8, 2015, the Company announced that the Bank filed an application with the New York State Department of Financial Services (the "Department" or the "NYSDFS") and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation ("FDIC") to merge with the Bank's wholly-owned subsidiary, Pathfinder Commercial Bank, a New York State-chartered limited purpose commercial bank. Prior to or simultaneously with the merger, Pathfinder Commercial Bank's charter will be amended such that Pathfinder Commercial Bank will become a full-service commercial bank, rather than a limited purpose commercial bank, and its name will be changed to "Pathfinder Bank". The transaction is expected to be completed in the first half of 2016 and will not impact the current activities or investments of the Bank and Pathfinder Commercial Bank, although the Bank expects some annual cost savings as a result of the merger.

At December 31, 2015, the Company` had total consolidated assets of $623.3 million, total deposits of $490.3 million and shareholders' equity of $70.8 million plus a noncontrolling interest of $424,000, which represents the 49% not owned by the Company as a result of the 2013 acquisition of the FitzGibbons Agency, LLC.

The Company's executive office is located at 214 West First Street, Oswego, New York and the telephone number at that address is (315) 343-0057. Its internet address is www.pathfinderbank.com . Information on our website is not and should not be considered to be a part of this report.

Pathfinder Bank

The Bank is a New York-chartered stock savings bank and its deposit accounts are insured up to applicable limits by the FDIC through the Deposit Insurance Fund ("DIF"). The Bank is subject to extensive regulation by the Department, as its chartering agency, and by the FDIC, as its deposit insurer and primary federal regulator. The Bank is a member of the Federal Home Loan Bank of New York ("FHLBNY") and is subject to certain regulations by the Federal Home Loan Bank System.

&#160;

"Table of Contents" 

The Bank is primarily engaged in the business of attracting deposits from the general public in the Bank's market area, and investing such deposits, together with other sources of funds, in loans secured by residential real estate, commercial real estate, small business loans, and consumer loans. The Bank invests a portion of its assets in securities issued by the United States Government and its agencies and sponsored enterprises, state and municipal obligations, corporate debt securities, mutual funds, and equity securities. The Bank also invests in mortgage&#8209;backed securities primarily issued or guaranteed by United States Government sponsored enterprises and collateralized mortgage obligations. The Bank's principal sources of funds are deposits, principal and interest payments on loans and investments, as well as borrowings from correspondent financial institutions. The principal source of income is interest on loans and investment securities. The Bank's principal expenses are interest paid on deposits, employee compensation and benefits, data processing and facilities.

Pathfinder Bank also owns and operates a limited purpose commercial bank subsidiary, Pathfinder Commercial Bank, which serves the depository needs of municipalities and public entities in its market area. On May 8, 2015, the Company announced that the Bank filed an application with the Department and the to merge with the Bank's wholly-owned subsidiary, Pathfinder Commercial Bank, a New York State-chartered limited purpose commercial bank. Prior to or simultaneously with the merger, Pathfinder Commercial Bank's charter will be amended such that Pathfinder Commercial Bank will become a full-service commercial bank, rather than a limited purpose commercial bank, and its name will be changed to "Pathfinder Bank". The transaction is expected to be completed in the first half of 2016 and will not impact the current activities or investments of the Bank and Pathfinder Commercial Bank, although the Bank expects some annual cost savings as a result of the conversion.

The Bank has Pathfinder REIT, Inc., a New York corporation, as its wholly-owned real estate investment trust subsidiary. At December 31, 2015, Pathfinder REIT, Inc. held $28.4 million in mortgages and mortgage related assets. All disclosures in this Form 10-K relating to the Bank's loans and investments include loans and investments that are held by Pathfinder REIT, Inc.

The Bank also has 100% ownership of Whispering Oaks Development Corp., a New York corporation, that is retained to operate or develop foreclosed real estate emerges.

Additionally, the Bank has 100% ownership of Pathfinder Risk Management Company, Inc. which was established to record the 51% controlling interest upon the December 2013 purchase of the FitzGibbons Agency, an Oswego County property, casualty and life insurance brokerage business with approximately $701,000 in annual revenues.

Finally, the Company has a non-consolidated Delaware statutory trust subsidiary, Pathfinder Statutory Trust II, of which 100% of the common equity is owned by the Company. Pathfinder Statutory Trust II was formed in connection with the issuance of $5.2 million in trust preferred securities.

Employees

As of December 31, 2015, the Bank had 118 full-time employees and 16 part-time employees. The employees are not represented by a collective bargaining unit and we consider our relationship with our employees to be good.

MARKET AREA AND COMPETITION

Market Area

We provide financial services to individuals, families, small to mid-size businesses and municipalities through our seven branch offices located in Oswego County and our one branch office in Onondaga County and our business banking office in Syracuse, New York. Our primary market area is Oswego and Onondaga Counties. Our primary lending market area includes both Oswego and Onondaga Counties. However, our primary deposit generating area is concentrated in Oswego County and the areas surrounding our Onondaga County branches.

&#160;

"Table of Contents" 

The economy in Oswego County is based primarily on manufacturing, energy production, heath care, education, and government. The broader Central New York market has a more diverse array of economic sectors, including, food processing production and transportation, in addition to financial services. The region has developed particular strength in emerging industries such as bio-processing, medical devices and renewable energy.

Based on recent independent market survey reports, median home values were $125,500 in Onondaga County and $70,000 in Oswego County at the end of 2015. While home values have stagnated since 2008, the Syracuse metro area, including Onondaga and Oswego Counties, did not experience the significant loss of value during the economic recession that many other areas of the country experienced.

Competition

Pathfinder Bank encounters strong competition both in attracting deposits and in originating real estate and other loans. Our most direct competition for deposits and loans comes from commercial banks, savings institutions and credit unions in our market area, including money-center banks such as JPMorgan Chase &#38; Co. and Bank of America, regional banks such as M&#38;T Bank, Key Bank National Association and First Niagara Bank, N.A., and community banks such as NBT Bank and Community Bank N.A., all of which have greater total assets than we do. We compete for deposits by offering depositors a high level of personal service, a wide range of competitively priced financial services, and a well distributed network of branches, ATMs, and electronic banking. We compete for loans through our competitive pricing, our experienced and active loan officers, local knowledge of our market and local decision making, strong community support and involvement and a highly reputable brand. As the economy has improved, and loan demand has increased, competition from financial institutions for commercial and residential loans has increased. Additionally, some of our competitors offer products and services that we do not offer, such as trust services and private banking. Our primary focus is to build and develop profitable consumer and commercial customer relationships while maintaining our role as a community bank.

As of June 30, 2015, based on the most recently-available FDIC data, we had the second largest market share in Oswego County, representing 24.0% of all deposits, and 0.8% of all deposits in Onondaga County. In addition, when combining both Oswego and Onondaga Counties, we have the eighth largest market share of seventeen institutions, representing 4.4% of the total market.

LENDING ACTIVITIES

General

Our primary lending activity is originating one-to-four family residential real estate loans, the majority of which have fixed rates of interest. Our loan portfolio also includes commercial real estate loans, commercial and municipal loans, home equity loans and junior liens and consumer loans. In order to diversify our loan portfolio, increase our income sources and make our loan portfolio less interest rate sensitive, in recent years, we have sought to significantly increase our commercial real estate and commercial business lending, consistent with safe and sound underwriting practices. Accordingly, we offer adjustable-rate commercial mortgage loans, short-and medium-term mortgage loans, and floating rate commercial loans. In addition, we offer shorter-term consumer loans, home equity loans and lines of credit with adjustable interest rates and municipal loans with fixed interest rates.

Residential Real Estate Loans

Historically, our primary lending consisted of originating one-to-four family, owner-occupied residential mortgage loans, substantially all of which were secured by properties located in our market area. Over the past several years, we have begun to shift our lending focus towards originating commercial real estate and commercial loans.

We currently offer one-to-four family residential real estate loans with terms up to 30 years that are generally underwritten according to Federal National Mortgage Association ("Fannie Mae") guidelines, and we refer to loans that conform to such guidelines as "conforming loans." We generally originate both fixed-rate and adjustable-rate mortgage loans in amounts up to the maximum conforming loan limits as established by the Federal Housing Finance Agency, which as of December 31, 2015, was generally $417,000 for single-family homes in our market area.

&#160;

"Table of Contents" 

Although conforming loans are saleable, we generally hold our one-to-four family residential real estate loans in our portfolio but have the capability to sell the mortgagees into the secondary market, at management's discretion, as a source of liquidity or as a means of managing interest-rate risk. Such loan sales were conducted on a limited basis in 2015 and 2014. In the current and prolonged low interest rate environment, a significant portion of our loan portfolio consists of fixed-rate one-to-four family residential real estate loans with terms in excess of 15 years. We also originate one-to-four family residential real estate loans secured by non-owner occupied properties. However, we generally do not make loans in excess of 80% loan-to-value on non-owner occupied properties.

Our fixed-rate one-to-four family residential real estate loans include loans that generally amortize on a monthly basis over periods between 10 to 30 years. Fixed-rate one-to-four family residential real estate loans often remain outstanding for significantly shorter periods than their contractual terms because borrowers have the right to refinance or prepay their loans.

Our adjustable-rate one-to-four family residential real estate loans generally consist of loans with initial interest rates fixed for one, three, or five years, and annual adjustments thereafter are indexed based on changes in the one-year United States Treasury bill constant maturity rate. Our adjustable-rate mortgage loans generally have an interest rate adjustment limit of 200 basis points per adjustment, with a maximum lifetime interest rate adjustment limit of 600 basis points. In the current low interest rate environment, we have not originated a significant amount of adjustable-rate mortgage loans.

Although adjustable-rate one-to-four family residential real estate loans may reduce, to an extent, our vulnerability to changes in market interest rates because they periodically re-price, as interest rates increase the required payments due from a borrower also increase (subject to rate caps), thereby increasing the potential for default by the borrower. At the same time, the ability of the borrower to repay the loan and the marketability of the underlying collateral may be adversely affected by higher interest rates. Upward adjustments of the contractual interest rate are also limited by our maximum periodic and lifetime rate adjustments.

Regulations limit the amount we may lend relative to the appraised value of the real estate securing the loan, as determined by an appraisal of the property at the time the loan is originated. For borrowers who do not obtain private mortgage insurance ("PMI"), our lending policies limit the maximum loan-to-value ratio on both fixed-rate and adjustable-rate mortgage loans to 80% of the appraised value of the collateralized property, with the exception of a limited use product which allows for loans up to 90% with no PMI. For most one-to-four family residential real estate loans with loan-to-value ratios of between 80% and 95%, we require the borrower to obtain private mortgage insurance. For first mortgage loan products, we require the borrower to obtain title insurance. We also require homeowners' insurance, fire and casualty, and, if necessary, flood insurance on properties securing real estate loans. We do not, and have never offered or invested in, one-to-four family residential real estate loans specifically designed for borrowers with sub-prime credit scores, including interest-only, negative amortization or payment option adjustable-rate mortgage loans.

Residential Construction Loans

Our one-to-four family residential real estate loan portfolio also includes residential constructions loans. Our residential construction loans generally have initial terms of up to six months, subject to extension, during which the borrower pays interest only. Upon completion of construction, these loans typically convert to permanent loans secured by the completed residential real estate. Our construction loans generally have rates and terms comparable to residential real estate loans that we originate. The Bank held $7.9 million and $3.2 million in residential construction loans at December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively.

"Table of Contents" 

Commercial Real Estate Loans

Over the past several years, we have focused on originating commercial real estate loans, and we believe that commercial real estate loans will continue to provide growth opportunities for us. We expect to increase, subject to our underwriting standards and market conditions, this business line in the future with a target loan size of $100,000 to $1.5 million to small businesses and real estate projects in our market area. Commercial real estate loans are secured by properties such as multi-family residential, office, retail, warehouse and owner-occupied commercial properties.

Commercial real estate loans are generally secured by property located in our primary market area. Our commercial real estate underwriting policies provide that such real estate loans may be made in amounts up to 80% of the appraised value of the property. Commercial real estate loans are offered with interest rates that are fixed for up to three or five years then are adjustable based on the FHLBNY advance rate. Contractual maturities generally do not exceed 20 years. In reaching a decision whether to make a commercial real estate loan, we consider gross revenues, operating trends, net cash flows of the property, the borrower's expertise and credit history, and the appraised value of the underlying property. We will also consider the terms and conditions of the leases and the credit quality of the tenants. We generally require that the properties securing these real estate loans have debt service coverage ratios (the ratio of earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization divided by interest expense and current maturities of long term debt) of at least 120%. Environmental due diligence is generally conducted for commercial real estate loans. Typically, commercial real estate loans made to corporations, partnerships and other business entities require personal guarantees by the principals and by the owners of 20% or more of the borrower.

A commercial real estate borrower's financial condition is monitored on an ongoing basis by requiring periodic financial statement updates, payment history reviews, property inspections and periodic face-to-face meetings with the borrower. We generally require borrowers with aggregate outstanding balances exceeding $100,000 to provide annual updated financial statements and federal tax returns. These requirements also apply to all guarantors on these loans. We also require borrowers to provide an annual report of income and expenses for the property, including a rent-roll, as applicable.

Loans secured by commercial real estate generally have greater credit risk than one-to-four family residential real estate loans. The increased credit risk associated with commercial real estate loans is a result of several factors, including larger loan balances concentrated with a limited number of borrowers, the impact of local and general economic conditions on the borrower's ability to repay the loan, and the increased difficulty of evaluating and monitoring these types of loans. Furthermore, the repayment of loans secured by commercial real estate properties typically depends upon the successful operation of the real property securing the loan. If the cash flows from the property are reduced, the borrower's ability to repay the loan may be impaired. However, commercial real estate loans generally have higher interest rates than loans secured by one-to-four family residential real estate.

Commercial Loans

We typically originate commercial loans, including commercial term loans and commercial lines of credit, on the basis of a borrower's ability to make repayment from the cash flows of the borrower's business, conversion of current assets in the normal course of business (for seasonal working capital lines), the experience and stability of the borrower's management team, earnings projections and the underlying assumptions, and the value and marketability of any collateral securing the loan. As a result, the availability of funds for the repayment of commercial loans and commercial lines of credit may be substantially dependent on the success of the business itself and the general economic environment in our market area. Therefore, commercial loans and commercial lines of credit that we originate have greater credit risk than one-to-four family residential real estate loans or, generally, consumer loans.

Commercial term loans are typically secured by equipment, furniture and fixtures, inventory, accounts receivable or other business assets, or, in limited circumstances, such loans may be unsecured. From time to time, we also originate commercial loans through Small Business Administration ("SBA") and United States Department of Agriculture ("USDA") guaranteed loan programs. Over the past several years, we have focused on increasing our commercial lending and our business strategy is to continue to increase our originations of commercial loans to small businesses in our market area, subject to our underwriting standards and market conditions. Our commercial loans are generally comprised of adjustable-rate loans, indexed to the prime rate, with terms consisting of three to seven years, depending on the needs of the borrower and the useful life of the underlying collateral. We make commercial loans to businesses operating in our market area for purchasing equipment, property improvements, business expansion or working capital. If a commercial loan is secured by equipment, the maturity of a term loan will depend on the useful life of the equipment purchased, the source of repayment for the loan and the purpose of the loan. We generally obtain personal guarantees on our commercial loans.

"Table of Contents" 

Our commercial lines of credit are typically adjustable rate lines, indexed to the prime interest rate. Generally, our commercial lines of credit are secured by business assets or other collateral, and generally payable on-demand pursuant to an annual review. Since the commercial lines of credit may expire without being drawn upon, the total committed amounts do not necessarily represent future cash requirements.

Tax-exempt Municipal and Commercial Loans

Tax-exempt municipal and commercial loans are a small component of our commercial loan product segment. At December 31, 2015, loans outstanding in this category were $9.1 million, or 4.3%, of our total commercial loan portfolio.

We make loans to local governments and municipalities for either tax anticipation or for small expenditure projects, including equipment acquisitions and construction projects. Our municipal loans are generally fixed for a term of one year or less, and are generally unsecured. Interest earned on municipal loans is tax exempt for federal tax purposes, which enhances the overall yield on each loan. Generally, the municipality will have a deposit relationship with us along with the lending relationship.

We also make tax-exempt loans to commercial borrowers based on obligations issued by a state or local authority to provide economic development such as the state dormitory authority.

Home Equity Loans and Junior Liens

Home equity loans and junior liens are made up of lines of credit secured by owner-occupied and non-owner occupied one-to-four family residences and second and third real estate mortgage loans. Home equity loans and home equity lines of credit are generally underwritten using the same criteria that we use to underwrite one-to-four family residential mortgage loans. We typically originate home equity loans and home equity lines of credit on the basis of the applicant's credit history, an assessment of the applicant's ability to meet existing obligations and payments on the proposed loan, and the value of the collateral securing the loan. Home equity loans are offered with fixed interest rates. Lines of credit are offered with adjustable rates, which are indexed to the prime rate, and with a draw period of up to 10 years and a payback period of up to 20 years. The loan-to-value ratio for our home equity loans is generally limited to 80% when combined with the first security lien, if applicable. The loan to value of our home equity lines of credit is generally limited to 80%, unless Pathfinder Bank holds the first mortgage. If we hold the first mortgage, we will permit a loan to value of up to 90%, and we adjust the interest rate and underwriting standards to compensate for the additional risk.

For all first lien position mortgage loans, we use outside independent appraisers. For second position mortgage loans where we also hold the existing first mortgage, we will use the lesser of the existing appraisal amount used in underwriting the first mortgage or assessed value. For all other second mortgage loans, we will use a third-party service which gathers all data from real property tax offices and gives the property a low, middle and high value, together with similar properties for comparison. The middle value from the third-party service will be the value used in underwriting the loan. If the valuation method for the loan amount requested does not provide a value, or the value is not sufficient to support the loan request and it is determined that the borrower(s) are credit worthy, a full appraisal will be ordered.

&#160;

"Table of Contents" 

Home equity loans and junior liens secured by junior mortgages have greater risk than one-to-four family residential mortgage loans secured by first mortgages. We face the risk that the collateral will be insufficient to compensate us for loan losses and costs of foreclosure, after repayment of the senior mortgages, if applicable. When customers default on their loans, we attempt to work out the relationship in order to avoid foreclosure because the value of the collateral may not be sufficient to compensate us for the amount of the unpaid loan and we may be unsuccessful in recovering the remaining balance from those customers. Moreover, decreases in real estate values could adversely affect our ability to fully recover the loan balance in the event of a default.

Consumer Loans

We are authorized to make loans for a variety of personal and consumer purposes and our consumer loan portfolio consists primarily of automobile, recreational vehicles and unsecured personal loans, as well as unsecured lines of credit and loans secured by deposit accounts. Our procedure for underwriting consumer loans includes an assessment of the applicant's credit history and ability to meet existing obligations and payments for the proposed loan, as well as an evaluation of the value of the collateral security, if any.

Consumer loans generally entail greater risk than one-to-four family residential mortgage loans, particularly in the case of loans that are unsecured or are secured by assets that tend to depreciate in value, such as automobiles. As a result, consumer loan collections are primarily dependent on the borrower's continuing financial stability and thus are more likely to be adversely affected by job loss, divorce, illness or personal bankruptcy. In these cases, repossessed collateral for a defaulted consumer loan may not provide an adequate source of repayment for the outstanding loan, and the remaining value often does not warrant further substantial collection efforts against the borrower.

Loan Originations, Purchases, Sales and Servicing

We benefit from a number of sources for our loan originations, including real estate broker referrals, existing customers, borrowers, builders, attorneys, and "walk-in" customers. Our loan origination activity may be affected adversely by a rising interest rate environment which may result in decreased loan demand. Other factors, such as the overall health of the local economy and competition from other financial institutions, can also impact our loan originations. Although we originate both fixed-rate and adjustable-rate loans, our ability to generate each type of loan depends upon borrower demand, market interest rates, borrower preference for fixed-rate versus adjustable-rate loans, and the interest rates offered on each type of loan by other lenders in our market area. These lenders include commercial banks, savings institutions, credit unions, and mortgage banking companies that also actively compete for local real estate loans. Accordingly, the volume of loan originations may vary from period to period.

The majority of the fixed rate residential loans that are originated each year meet the underwriting guidelines established by Fannie Mae. While infrequent, in the past, we have sold residential mortgage loans in the secondary market, and we may do so in the future, although we continue to service loans once they are sold.

From time to time, although infrequent, we may purchase loan participations in which we are not the lead lender. In these circumstances, we follow our customary loan underwriting and approval policies. We also have participated out portions of loans that exceeded our loans-to-one borrower legal lending limit and for risk diversification. We do not purchase whole loans.

Loan Approval Procedures and Authority

Pathfinder Bank's lending activities follow written, non-discriminatory underwriting standards and loan origination procedures established by management and the board of directors. Our policies are designed to provide loan officers with guidelines on acceptable levels of risk, given a broad range of factors. The loan approval process is intended to assess the borrower's ability to repay the loan, the viability of the loan and the adequacy of the value of the property that will secure the loan, if applicable.

The board of directors grants loan officers individual lending authority to approve extensions of credit. The level of authority for loan officers varies based upon the loan type, total relationship, form of collateral and risk rating of the borrower. Each loan officer is charged with the responsibility of achieving high credit standards. Individual lending authority can be increased, suspended or removed by the board of directors, as recommended by the President or Senior Vice President and Chief Credit Officer.

&#160;

"Table of Contents" 

If a loan is in excess of any individual loan officer's lending authority, the extension of credit must be referred to the Officer Loan Committee ("OLC"). The OLC is comprised of the President (serving as chairman), the Senior Vice President and Chief Credit Officer (serving as chair in the absence of the President), the Senior Vice President and General Counsel, as well as other members of the management team and retail and commercial lenders as may be appointed by the President. The OLC has authority to a pprove all commercial loans, and one-to-four family residential real estate loans where the total related credit is $1 million or less which are not within the lenders' individual authority. &#160; In addition, the OLC may approve all municipal loans, where the total related credit is $2.5 million or less, and the individual loan amount is $2.5 million or less for rated municipal loans, and $1.5 million for unrated credits. The OLC has the authority to approve all consumer loans where the total related credit is $2.5 million or less and the individual loan amount is $200,000 for unsecured loans or $750,000 for secured loans. The Executive Loan Committee, which consists of members of Pathfinder Bank's board of directors, must approve all extensions of credit in excess of the limits described above for the OLC.

Loans to One Borrower

Under New York law, New York savings banks are subject to loans-to-one borrower limits, which are substantially similar as those applicable to national banks, which restrict loans to one borrower to an amount equal to 15% of unimpaired capital and unimpaired surplus, which was $10.2 million at December 31, 2015, on an unsecured basis, and an additional amount equal to 10% of unimpaired capital and unimpaired surplus, which was $6.8 million at December 31, 2015, if the loan is secured by readily marketable collateral (generally, financial instruments and bullion, but not real estate), subject to exceptions.

Additionally, our internal loan policies limit the total related credit to be extended to any one borrower (after application of the rules of attribution), with respect to any and all loans with Pathfinder Bank to $6.0 million, subject to certain exceptions. The indebtedness includes all credit exposure whether direct or contingent, used or unused.

ASSET QUALITY

Loan Delinquencies and Collection Procedures

When a loan becomes delinquent, we make attempts to contact the borrower to determine the cause of the delayed payments and seek a solution to permit the loan to be brought current within a reasonable period of time. The outcome can vary with each individual borrower. In the case of mortgage loans and consumer loans, a late notice is sent 15 days after an account becomes delinquent. If delinquency persists, notices are sent at the 30 day delinquency mark, the 45 day delinquency mark and the 60 day delinquency mark. We also attempt to establish telephone contact with the borrower early on in the process. In the case of residential mortgage loans, included in every late notice is a letter that includes information regarding home-ownership counseling. As part of a workout agreement, we will accept partial payments during the month in order to bring the account current. If attempts to reach an agreement are unsuccessful and the customer is unable to comply with the terms of the workout agreement, we will review the account to determine if foreclosure is warranted, in which case, consistent with New York law, we send a 90 day notice of foreclosure and then a 30 day notice before legal proceedings are commenced. A consumer final demand letter is sent in the case of a consumer loan. In the case of commercial loans and commercial mortgage loans, we follow a similar notification practice with the exception of the previously mentioned information on home-ownership counseling. In addition, commercial loans do not require 90 day notices of foreclosure. Generally, commercial borrowers only receive 10 day notices before legal proceedings can be commenced. Commercial loans may experience longer workout times that may trigger a need for a loan modification that could meet the requirements of a troubled debt restructured loan.

&#160;

&#160;

"Table of Contents" 

Impaired Loans, Non-performing Loans and Troubled Debt Restructurings

The policy of Pathfinder Bank is to provide a continuous assessment of the quality of its loan portfolio through the maintenance of an internal and external loan review process. The process incorporates a loan risk grading system designed to recognize degrees of risk on individual commercial and mortgage loans in the portfolio. Management is responsible for monitoring of asset quality and risk grade designations, which are communicated to the board on a monthly basis.

We generally cease accruing interest on our loans when contractual payments of principal or interest have become 90 days past due or management has serious doubts about further collectability of principal or interest, even though the loan is currently performing. A loan may remain on accrual status if it is in the process of collection and is either guaranteed or well secured. When a loan is placed on non-accrual status, unpaid interest credited to income is reversed. Interest received on non-accrual loans generally is applied against principal or interest if it is recognized on the cash basis method. Generally, loans are restored to accrual status when the obligation is brought current, has performed in accordance with the contractual terms for a reasonable period of time, generally for a minimum of six months, and the ultimate collectability of the total contractual principal and interest is no longer in doubt.

Our Allowance for Loan and Lease Losses policy ("ALLL") establishes criteria for selecting loans to be measured for impairment based on the following:

Residential and Consumer Loans:

&#183;

All loans rated substandard or worse, on nonaccrual, and above our total related credit ("TRC") threshold balance of $300,000.

&#183;

All Troubled Debt Restructured Loans with a threshold balance of $300,000.

Commercial Lines and Loans, Commercial Real Estate and Tax-exempt loans:

&#183;

All loans rated substandard or worse, on nonaccrual, and above our TRC threshold balance of $100,000.

&#183;

All Troubled Debt Restructured Loans with a threshold balance of $100,000.

Impairment is measured by determining the present value of expected future cash flows or, for collateral-dependent loans, the fair value of the collateral adjusted for market conditions and selling expenses as compared to the loan carrying value.

Troubled Debt Restructurings ("TDR")

TDRs are loan restructurings in which we, for economic or legal reasons related to an existing borrower's financial difficulties, grant a concession to the debtor that we would not otherwise consider. Typically, a troubled debt restructuring involves a modification of terms of debt, such as reduction of the stated interest rate for the remaining original life of the debt, extension of the maturity date at a stated interest rate lower than the current market rate for new debt with similar risk, reduction of the face amount of the debt, or reduction of accrued interest. We consider modifications only after analyzing the borrower's current repayment capacity, evaluating the strength of any guarantors based on documented current financial information, and assessing the current value of any collateral pledged. These modifications are made only when there is a reasonable and attainable workout plan that has been agreed to by the borrower and that is in our best interests. Some examples of residential TDRs include restructures encouraged by the Federal Government's HAMP and HARP Programs, in which we participate.

Loans on non-accrual status at the date of modification are initially classified as non-accrual troubled debt restructurings. Our policy provides that troubled debt restructured loans are returned to accrual status after a period of satisfactory and reasonable future payment performance under the terms of the restructuring. Satisfactory payment performance is generally no less than six consecutive months of timely payments and demonstrated ability to continue to repay.

&#160;

&#160;

"Table of Contents" 

Foreclosed real estate

Fair values for foreclosed real estate are initially recorded based on market value evaluations by third parties, less costs to sell ("initial cost basis"). Any write-downs required when the related loan receivable is exchanged for the underlying real estate collateral at the time of transfer to foreclosed real estate are charged to the allowance for loan losses. Values are derived from appraisals of underlying collateral or discounted cash flow analysis. Subsequent to foreclosure, valuations are updated periodically and assets are marked to current fair value, not to exceed the initial cost basis. In the determination of fair value subsequent to foreclosure, management also considers other factors or recent developments, such as, changes in absorption rates and market conditions from the time of valuation, and anticipated sales values considering management's plans for disposition. Either change could result in adjustment to lower the property value estimates indicated in the appraisals.

Loan delinquencies together with properties within our Foreclosed Real Estate portfolio are reviewed monthly by the board of directors.

Classified Assets

Federal regulations provide for the classification of loans and other assets, such as debt and equity securities considered by the FDIC to be of lesser quality, as "substandard," "doubtful" or "loss." An asset is considered "substandard" if it is inadequately protected by the current net worth and paying capacity of the obligor or of the collateral pledged, if any. "Substandard" assets include those characterized by the "distinct possibility" that the insured institution will sustain "some loss" if the deficiencies are not corrected. Assets classified as "doubtful" have all of the weaknesses inherent in those classified "substandard," with the added characteristic that the weaknesses present make "collection or liquidation in full," on the basis of currently existing facts, conditions, and values, "highly questionable and improbable." Assets classified as "loss" are those considered "uncollectible" and of such little value that their continuance as assets without the establishment of a specific allowance for loan losses is not warranted. Assets that do not currently expose the insured institution to sufficient risk to warrant classification in one of the aforementioned categories but possess weaknesses are designated as "special mention" by our management.

When an insured institution classifies problem assets as either substandard or doubtful, it may establish general allowances in an amount deemed prudent by management to cover losses that are both probable and reasonable to estimate. General allowances represent allowances which have been established to cover accrued losses associated with lending activities that are both probable and reasonable to estimate, but which, unlike specific allowances, have not been allocated to particular problem assets. When an insured institution classifies problem assets as "loss," it is required either to establish a specific allowance for losses equal to 100% of that portion of the asset so classified or to charge-off such amount. An institution's determination as to the classification of its assets and the amount of its valuation allowances is subject to review by the regulatory authorities, which may require the establishment of additional general or specific allowances.

In connection with the filing of our periodic regulatory reports and in accordance with our classification of assets policy, we continuously assess the quality of our loan portfolio and we regularly review the problem loans in our loan portfolio to determine whether any loans require classification in accordance with applicable regulations. Loans are listed on the "watch list" initially because of emerging financial weaknesses even though the loan is currently performing in accordance with its terms, or delinquency status, or if the loan possesses weaknesses although currently performing. Management reviews the status of our loan portfolio delinquencies, by loan types, with the full board of directors on a monthly basis. Individual classified loan relationships are discussed as warranted. If a loan deteriorates in asset quality, the classification is changed to "special mention," "substandard," "doubtful" or "loss" depending on the circumstances and the evaluation. Generally, loans 90 days or more past due are placed on nonaccrual status and classified "substandard."

&#160;

"Table of Contents" 

We also employ a risk grading system for our loans to help assure that we are not taking unnecessary and/or unmanageable risk. The primary objective of the loan risk grading system is to establish a method of assessing credit risk to further enable management to measure loan portfolio quality and the adequacy of the allowance for loan losses. Further, we contract with an external loan review firm to complete a credit risk assessment of the loan portfolio on a regular basis to help determine the current level and direction of our credit risk. The external loan review firm communicates the results of their findings to the Executive Loan Committee in writing and by periodically attending the Executive Loan Committee meetings. Any material issues discovered in an external loan review are also communicated immediately to the President of Pathfinder Bank. See Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements for further details on the Company's credit quality indicators that define our risk grading system.

Allowance for Loan Losses

The allowance for loan losses represents management's estimate of losses inherent in the loan portfolio as of the date of the statement of condition and it is recorded as a reduction of loans. The allowance for loan losses is maintained at a level considered adequate to provide for losses that can be reasonably anticipated. Management performs a quarterly evaluation of the adequacy of the allowance. The allowance is increased by the provision for loan losses, and decreased by charge-offs, net of recoveries. Loans deemed to be uncollectible are charged against the allowance for loan losses, and subsequent recoveries, if any, are credited to the allowance. All or part of the principal balance of loans receivable are charged off to the allowance as soon as it is determined that the repayment of all or part of the principal balance is highly unlikely. Non-residential consumer loans are generally charged off no later than 120 days past due on a contractual basis, unless productive collection efforts are providing results. Consumer loans may be charged off earlier in the event of bankruptcy, or if there is an amount that is deemed uncollectible. No portion of the allowance for loan losses is restricted to any individual loan type and the entire allowance is available to absorb any and all loan losses.

The allowance is based on three major components which are: (i) specific components for impaired loans, (ii) recent historical losses and several qualitative factors applied to a general pool of loans, and (iii) an unallocated component.

The first component is the specific allowance that relates to loans that are classified as impaired. For these loans, an allowance is established when the discounted cash flows or collateral value of the impaired loan are lower than the carrying value of the loan. A loan is considered impaired when, based on current information and events, it is probable that we will be unable to collect the scheduled payments of principal or interest when due according to the contractual terms of the loan agreement. Impairment is measured by either the present value of the expected future cash flows discounted at the loan's effective interest rate or the fair value of the underlying collateral if the loan is collateral dependent. The majority of our loans utilize the fair value of the underlying collateral. Factors considered by management in determining impairment include payment status, collateral value and the probability of collecting scheduled principal and interest payments when due. Loans that experience insignificant payment delays and payment shortfalls generally are not classified as impaired. Management determines the significance of payment delays and shortfalls on a case-by case basis, taking into consideration all of the circumstances surrounding the loan and the borrower, including the length and reason for the delay, the borrower's prior payment record and the amount of shortfall in relation to what is owed.

The second component is the general allowance which covers pools of loans, by loan class, not considered impaired, smaller balance homogenous loans, such as residential real estate, home equity and other consumer loans. These pools of loans are evaluated for loss exposure based on historical loss rates for each of these categories of loans. The ratio of net charge-offs to loans outstanding within each loan class over the most recent eight quarters, lagged by one quarter, is used to generate the historical loss rates. In addition, qualitative factors are added to the historical loss rates in arriving at the total allowance for loan losses needed for this general pool of loans. The qualitative factors include changes in national and local economic trends, the rate of growth in the portfolio, trends of delinquencies and nonaccrual balances, changes in loan policy, and changes in lending management experience and related staffing. Each factor is assigned a value to reflect improving, stable or declining conditions based on management's best judgment using relevant information available at the time of the evaluation.

&#160;

"Table of Contents" 

These qualitative factors, applied to each product class, make the evaluation inherently subjective, as it requires material estimates that may be susceptible to significant revision as more information becomes available.

The third component is the unallocated allowance which is maintained to cover uncertainties that could affect management's estimate of probable losses. The unallocated component of the allowance reflects the margin of imprecision inherent in the underlying assumptions used in the methodologies for estimating specific and general losses in the portfolio, and generally comprises less than 10% of the total allowance for loan losses.

When a loan is determined to be impaired, we will reevaluate the collateral which secures the loan. For real estate loans, we will obtain a new appraisal or broker's opinion, whichever is considered to provide the most accurate value in the event of sale. An evaluation of equipment held as collateral will be obtained from an independent firm able to provide such an evaluation. Collateral will be inspected not less than annually for all impaired loans and will be reevaluated not less than every two years. Appraised values are discounted to arrive at the estimated selling price of the collateral, which is considered to be the estimated fair value. The discounts also include estimated costs to sell the property. For commercial and industrial loans secured by non-real estate collateral, such as accounts receivable, inventory and equipment, estimated fair values are determined based on the borrower's financial statements, inventory reports, accounts receivable agings or equipment appraisals or invoices. Indications of value from these sources are generally discounted based on the age of the financial information or the quality of the assets.

Large groups of homogeneous loans are evaluated for impairment in the aggregate. Accordingly, we do not separately identify individual residential mortgage loans with outstanding principal balances less than $300,000, home equity and other consumer loans for impairment disclosures. We make exceptions to this general rule when such loans are (1) rated substandard or worse, on nonaccrual status and are related to borrowers with total related credit exposure in excess of our threshold balance of $300,000; (2) the loans are subject to a troubled debt restructuring agreement and exceed a threshold balance of $300,000.

In addition, the FDIC and NYSDFS, as an integral part of their examination process, periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to recognize additions to the allowance based on their judgments about information available to them at the time of their examination, which may not be currently available to management. Based on management's comprehensive analysis of the loan portfolio, we believe the current level of the allowance for loan losses is adequate.

INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES

Our investment policy is established by the board of directors. Our investment policy dictates that investment decisions will be made based on the safety of the investment, liquidity requirements, potential returns, cash flow targets, and consistency with our interest rate risk management. The Asset Liability Management Committee of the board of directors acts in the capacity of an investment committee and is responsible for overseeing our investment program and evaluating on an ongoing basis our investment policy and objectives. Our President and Chief Financial Officer have the authority to purchase securities within specific guidelines established by the investment policy. All transactions are reviewed by the board of directors at its regular meetings.

All investment securities must meet regulatory guidelines and be permissible bank investments, including United States Government obligations, securities of various federal agencies and of state and municipal governments, deposits at the FHLBNY, certificates of deposit at federally insured institutions, and federal funds. Within certain regulatory limits, we may also invest a portion of our assets in mutual funds, equity securities and investment grade corporate debt securities. As part of our membership in the FHLBNY, we are required to maintain a dividend-earning investment in FHLBNY stock.

All securities purchased will be classified at the time of purchase as either held-to-maturity or available-for-sale. We do not maintain a trading account. Securities purchased with the intent and ability to hold until maturity will be classified as held-to-maturity. Securities placed in the held-to-maturity category will be accounted for at amortized cost.

&#160;

"Table of Contents" 

Securities that do not qualify or are not categorized as held-to-maturity are classified as available-for-sale. This classification includes securities that may be sold in response to changes in interest rates, the security's prepayment risk, liquidity needs, the availability of and the yield on alternative investments, and funding sources and terms. These securities are reported at fair value, which is determined on a monthly basis. Unrealized gains and losses are reported as a separate component of capital, net of tax. The aggregate change in value of the portfolio is reported to the board of directors monthly.

The general objectives of the investment portfolio are to assist in the overall interest rate risk management of Pathfinder Bank, generate a reasonable rate of return consistent with the safety of principal, provide a source of liquidity, minimize our tax liability, and mitigate our interest rate and credit risk. We purchase securities to provide necessary liquidity for day-to-day operations and when investable funds exceed loan demand. The effect that the proposed security would have on our credit and interest rate risk and risk-based equity is also considered.

Securities classified as held to maturity, other than mortgage-backed securities and collateralized mortgage obligations, consist primarily of state and political subdivision securities, and to a lesser extent, federal agency obligations and corporate securities. Our securities classified as available-for-sale consist primarily of corporate securities and federal agency obligations, which include Federal Farm Credit Bank notes, FHLBNY notes, Fannie Mae notes and Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation ("Freddie Mac") notes. For a discussion on mortgage backed securities, see "Mortgage-Backed Securities and Collateralized Mortgage Obligations."

Included within the available for sale portfolio are two mutual fund positions. The first is a mutual fund backed by adjustable-rate mortgage-backed securities and cash equivalents. The second is a mutual fund consisting primarily of investment grade dividend-paying common stocks of large capitalization companies, i.e., companies with market capitalization in excess of $5.0 billion.

We also have an investment in FHLBNY stock which is classified separately from securities due to the restrictions on sale or transfer. For further information regarding our securities portfolio, see Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements.

MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES AND COLLATERALIZED MORTGAGE OBLIGATIONS

We purchase mortgage-backed securities and collateralized mortgage obligations guaranteed by Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and the Government National Mortgage Association ("Ginnie Mae"). We invest in mortgage-backed securities and collateralized mortgage obligations to achieve positive interest rate spreads with minimal administrative expense, and to lower our credit risk. We regularly monitor the credit quality of this portfolio.

Mortgage-backed securities and collateralized mortgage obligations are created by pooling mortgages and issuing a security with an interest rate which is less than the interest rate on the underlying mortgages. These securities typically represent a participation interest in a pool of single-family or multi-family mortgages, although we focus our investments on mortgage related securities backed by one-to-four family real estate loans. The issuers of such securities pool and resell the participation interests in the form of securities to investors such as Pathfinder Bank, and in the case of government agency sponsored issues, guarantee the payment of principal and interest to investors. Mortgage-backed securities and collateralized mortgage obligations generally yield less than the loans that underlie such securities because of the cost of payment guarantees, if any, and credit enhancements. These fixed-rate securities are usually more liquid than individual mortgage loans.

&#160;

"Table of Contents" 

Investments in collateralized mortgage obligations involve a risk that actual prepayments may differ from estimated prepayments over the life of the security, which may require adjustments to the amortization of any premium or accretion of any discount relating to such instruments, thereby changing the net yield on such securities. There is also reinvestment risk associated with the cash flows from such securities or if such securities are redeemed by the issuer. In addition, the market value of such securities may be adversely affected in a rising interest rate environment, particularly since all of our collateralized mortgage obligations have a fixed rate of interest. The relatively short weighted average remaining life of our collateralized mortgage obligation portfolio mitigates our potential risk of loss in a rising interest rate environment.

SOURCES OF FUNDS

General

Deposits have traditionally been our primary source of funds for use in lending and investment activities. We also rely on advances from the FHLBNY and the Certificates of Deposit Account Registry Service ("CDARS") provided by an independent third-party, Promontory Interfinancial Network, as a form of brokered deposits. In addition to deposits and borrowings, we derive funds from scheduled loan payments, investment maturities, loan prepayments, retained earnings and income on interest-earning assets. While scheduled loan payments and income on interest-earning assets are relatively stable sources of funds, deposit inflows and outflows can vary widely and are influenced by prevailing market interest rates, economic conditions and competition from other financial institutions.

Deposits

A majority of our depositors are persons or businesses who work or reside or operate in Oswego and Onondaga Counties. We offer a variety of deposits, including checking, savings, money market deposit accounts, and certificates of deposit. Deposit account terms vary, with the principal differences being the minimum balance required, the amount of time the funds must remain on deposit and the interest rate. We establish interest rates, maturity terms, service fees and withdrawal penalties on a periodic basis. Management determines the rates and terms based on rates paid by competitors, our need for funds or liquidity, overall growth goals and federal and state regulations. The flow of deposits is influenced significantly by general economic conditions, changes in interest rates and competition. The variety of deposit accounts that we offer allows us to be competitive in generating deposits and to respond with flexibility to changes in our customers' demands. We believe that deposits are a stable source of funds, but our ability to attract and maintain deposits at favorable rates will be affected by market conditions, including competition and prevailing interest rates. In addition, Pathfinder Commercial Bank holds municipal deposits, which have been a more volatile source of funds.

The CDARS is a form of brokered deposit program in which we have been a participant since 2009. In addition to offering depositors enhanced FDIC insurance coverage, being a participant in CDARS allows us to fund our balance sheet through CDARS' One-Way Buy program. This program uses a competitive bid process for available deposits, up to $50 million, at specified terms. These deposits work well for us because of their weekly availability, coupled with their short term, which allows us to more closely mirror our funding needs. We believe this arrangement is a viable source of funding provided that we maintain our "well-capitalized" status.

Borrowings

We may obtain advances primarily from the FHLBNY utilizing the security of the common stock we own in the FHLBNY and qualifying residential mortgage loans as collateral, provided certain standards related to creditworthiness are met. These advances are made pursuant to several credit programs, each of which has its own interest rate and range of maturities. FHLBNY advances are generally available to meet seasonal and other withdrawals of deposit accounts and to permit increased lending.

&#160;

"Table of Contents" 

In addition to the above borrowing capability, on October 15, 2015, the Company executed the $10.0 million non-amortizing Subordinated Loan with an unrelated third party that is scheduled to mature on October 1, 2025. The Company has the right to prepay the Subordinated Loan at any time after October 15, 2020 without penalty. The Subordinated Loan is senior in the Company's credit repayment hierarchy only to the Company's common equity and, as a result, qualifies as Tier 2 capital for all future periods when applicable. The cost of funds related to this transaction is 6.44% calculated under the effective interest method.

SUPERVISION AND REGULATION

General

Pathfinder Bank is a New York-chartered stock savings bank and the Company is a Maryland corporation and a registered bank holding company. Pathfinder Bank's deposits are insured up to applicable limits by the FDIC. Pathfinder Bank is subject to extensive regulation by NYSDFS, as its chartering agency, and by the FDIC, its primary federal regulator and deposit insurer. Pathfinder Bank is required to file reports with, and is periodically examined by, the FDIC and the NYSDFS concerning its activities and financial condition and must obtain regulatory approvals prior to entering into certain transactions, including, but not limited to, mergers with or acquisitions of other financial institutions. As a registered bank holding company, the Company is regulated by the Federal Reserve Board.

The regulatory and supervisory structure establishes a comprehensive framework of activities in which an institution can engage and is intended primarily for the protection of depositors and the deposit insurance funds, rather than for the protection of shareholders and creditors. The regulatory structure also gives the regulatory authorities extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities and examination policies, including policies concerning the establishment of deposit insurance assessment fees, classification of assets and establishment of adequate loan loss reserves for regulatory purposes. Any change in such regulatory requirements and policies, whether by the New York State legislature, the NYSDFS, the FDIC, the Federal Reserve Board or the United States Congress, could have a material adverse impact on the financial condition and results of operations of the Company and Pathfinder Bank. As is further described below, the Dodd-Frank Act has significantly changed the bank regulatory structure and may affect the lending, investment and general operating activities of depository institutions and their holding companies.

Set forth below is a summary of certain material statutory and regulatory requirements applicable to the Company and Pathfinder Bank. The summary is not intended to be a complete description of such statutes and regulations and their effects on the Company and Pathfinder Bank.

The Dodd-Frank Act

The Dodd-Frank Act significantly changed bank regulation and has affected the lending, investment, trading and operating activities of depository institutions and their holding companies. The Dodd-Frank Act also created a new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau with extensive powers to supervise and enforce consumer protection laws. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has broad rule-making authority for a wide range of consumer protection laws that apply to all banks and savings institutions, including the authority to prohibit "unfair, deceptive or abusive" acts and practices. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau also has examination and enforcement authority over all banks and savings institutions with more than $10 billion in assets. Banks and savings institutions with $10 billion or less in assets, such as Pathfinder Bank, will continue to be examined by their applicable federal bank regulators. The Dodd-Frank Act also gave state attorneys general the ability to enforce applicable federal consumer protection laws.

The Dodd-Frank Act broadened the base for FDIC assessments for deposit insurance and permanently increased the maximum amount of deposit insurance to $250,000 per depositor. The Dodd-Frank Act also, among other things, requires originators of certain securitized loans to retain a portion of the credit risk, stipulates regulatory rate-setting for certain debit card interchange fees, repeals restrictions on the payment of interest on commercial demand deposits and contains a number of reforms related to mortgage originations. The Dodd-Frank Act increased the ability of shareholders to influence boards of directors by requiring companies to give shareholders a non-binding vote on executive compensation and so-called "golden parachute" payments. The Dodd-Frank Act also directed the Federal Reserve Board to promulgate rules prohibiting excessive compensation paid to company executives, regardless of whether the company is publicly traded or not.

&#160;

"Table of Contents" 

Many of the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act are subject to delayed effective dates or require the implementing regulations and, therefore, their impact on our operations cannot be fully determined at this time. However, the Dodd-Frank Act has increased the regulatory burden, compliance costs and interest expense for Pathfinder Bank and the Company.

SBLF Participation

On September 1, 2011, we entered into a Securities Purchase Agreement with the U.S. Treasury pursuant in which we sold to the U.S. Treasury 13,000 shares of our Series B Preferred Stock, having a liquidation amount of $1,000 per share for aggregate proceeds of $13.0 million. This transaction was entered into as part of the SBLF.

The Series B Preferred Stock was entitled to receive non-cumulative dividends payable quarterly, on each January 1, April 1, July 1 and October 1, beginning October 1, 2011. The dividend rate, which was calculated on the aggregate liquidation amount, was initially set at 4.2% per annum based upon the level of "Qualified Small Business Lending," or "QSBL" (as defined in the Securities Purchase Agreement) by Pathfinder Bank In general, the dividend rate decreased as the level of Pathfinder Bank's QSBL increased. Our dividend rate as of December 31, 2015 was 1.0%. Such dividends were not cumulative, but we could only declare and pay dividends on our common stock (or any other equity securities junior to the Series B Preferred Stock) if we had declared and paid dividends for the current dividend period on the Series B Preferred Stock. We were also subject to other restrictions on our ability to repurchase or redeem other securities. We had the right to redeem the shares of Series B Preferred Stock, in whole or in part, at any time at a redemption price equal to the sum of the liquidation amount per share and the per-share amount of any unpaid dividends for the then-current period, subject to any required prior approval by our primary federal regulator.

On February 16, 2016, the Company redeemed all 13,000 shares of the Series B Preferred Stock outstanding with the payment of $13.0 million to the SBLF. This redemption was substantially financed by the issuance of the $10 million Subordinated Loan on October 15, 2015. The issuance of the Subordinated Loan will increase interest expense by $644,000 per year but prospectively reduce the amount payable to the SBLF in preferred stock dividends. Effective April 1, 2016 the annual dividend rate for the preferred stock would have been 9.0%. The retirement of the $13.0 million of the SBLF Preferred Series B stock, will therefore result in an annual reduction of preferred dividends of $1.2 million. The Company paid $130,000 in preferred dividends in 2015. These transactions had no effect on the regulatory capital position of the Bank.

New York Bank Regulation

Pathfinder Bank derives its lending, investment, branching and other authority primarily from the applicable provisions of New York State Banking Law and the regulations of the NYSDFS, as limited by federal laws and regulations. Under these laws and regulations, savings banks, including Pathfinder Bank, may invest in real estate mortgages, consumer and commercial loans, certain types of debt securities, including certain corporate debt securities and obligations of federal, state and local governments and agencies, certain types of corporate equity securities and certain other assets. Under the statutory authority for investing in equity securities, a savings bank may invest up to 7.5% of its assets in corporate stock, with an overall limit of 5% of its assets invested in common stock. Investment in the stock of a single corporation is limited to the lesser of 2% of the outstanding stock of such corporation or 1% of the savings bank's assets, except as set forth below. Such equity securities must meet certain earnings ratios and other tests of financial performance. A savings bank's lending powers are not subject to percentage of assets limitations, although there are limits applicable to single borrowers. A savings bank may also, pursuant to the "leeway" power, make investments not otherwise permitted under the New York State Banking Law. This power permits investments in otherwise impermissible investments of up to 1% of assets in any single investment, subject to certain restrictions and to an aggregate limit for all such investments of up to 5% of assets. Additionally, in lieu of investing in such securities in accordance with and reliance upon the specific investment authority set forth in the New York State Banking Law, savings banks are authorized to elect to invest under a "prudent person" standard in a wider range of investment securities as compared to the types of investments permissible under such specific investment authority. However, in the event a savings bank elects to utilize the "prudent person" standard, it will be unable to avail itself of the other provisions of the New York State Banking Law and regulations which set forth specific investment authority. Pathfinder Bank has not elected to conduct its investment activities under the "prudent person" standard. A savings bank may also exercise trust powers upon approval of the NYSDFS. Pathfinder Bank does not presently have trust powers.

&#160;

"Table of Contents" 

New York State chartered savings banks may also invest in subsidiaries under their service corporation investment authority. A savings bank may use this power to invest in corporations that engage in various activities authorized for savings banks, plus any additional activities that may be authorized by the NYSDFS. Investment by a savings bank in the stock, capital notes and debentures of its service corporations is limited to 3% of the bank's assets, and such investments, together with the bank's loans to its service corporations, may not exceed 10% of the savings bank's assets.

Furthermore, New York banking regulations impose requirements on loans which a bank may make to its executive officers and directors and to certain corporations or partnerships in which such persons have equity interests. These requirements include that (i) certain loans must be approved in advance by a majority of the entire board of directors and the interested party must abstain from participating directly or indirectly in voting on such loan, (ii) the loan must be on terms that are not more favorable than those offered to unaffiliated third parties, and (iii) the loan must not involve more than a normal risk of repayment or present other unfavorable features.

Under the New York State Banking Law, the Superintendent may issue an order to a New York State chartered banking institution to appear and explain an apparent violation of law, to discontinue unauthorized or unsafe practices and to keep prescribed books and accounts. Upon a finding by the NYSDFS that any director, trustee or officer of any banking organization has violated any law, or has continued unauthorized or unsafe practices in conducting the business of the banking organization after having been notified by the Superintendent to discontinue such practices, such director, trustee or officer may be removed from office after notice and an opportunity to be heard. Pathfinder Bank does not know of any past or current practice, condition or violation that may lead to any proceeding by the Superintendent or the NYSDFS against Pathfinder Bank or any of its directors or officers.

New York State Community Reinvestment Regulation

Pathfinder Bank is also subject to provisions of the New York State Banking Law which imposes continuing and affirmative obligations upon banking institutions organized in New York State to serve the credit needs of its local community ("NYCRA") which are substantially similar to those imposed by the Federal Community Reinvestment Act ("CRA"). Pursuant to the NYCRA, a bank must file an annual NYCRA report and copies of all federal CRA reports with the NYSDFS. The NYCRA requires the NYSDFS to make a biennial written assessment of a bank's compliance with the NYCRA, utilizing a four-tiered rating system and make such assessment available to the public. The NYCRA also requires the Superintendent to consider a bank's NYCRA rating when reviewing a bank's application to engage in certain transactions, including mergers, asset purchases and the establishment of branch offices or automated teller machines, and provides that such assessment may serve as a basis for the denial of any such application. Pathfinder Bank's NYCRA most recent rating, dated December 31, 2012, was "satisfactory." As of the date of the issuance of this filing, Pathfinder Bank was undergoing a NYCRA examination by the NYSDFS. Management believes that the examination is routine in nature and that we are in substantial compliance with all applicable regulations related to NYCRA. Management has not been informed of any findings related to this examination as of the date of the issuance of this filing.

&#160;

"Table of Contents" 

Federal Regulations

Capital Requirements. Federal regulations require federally insured depository institutions to meet several minimum capital standards: a common equity Tier 1 capital to risk-based assets ratio of 4.5%, a Tier 1 capital to risk-based assets ratio of 6.0%, a total capital to risk-based assets of 8.0%, and a 4.0% Tier 1 capital to total assets leverage ratio. These capital requirements were effective January 1, 2015 and are the result of a final rule implementing recommendations of the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision and certain requirements of the Dodd-Frank Act.

In determining the amount of risk-weighted assets for purposes of calculating risk-based capital ratios, all assets, including certain off-balance sheet assets ( e.g. , recourse obligations, direct credit substitutes, residual interests) are multiplied by a risk weight factor assigned by the regulations based on the risks believed inherent in the type of asset. Higher levels of capital are required for asset categories believed to present greater risk. Common equity Tier 1 capital is generally defined as common stockholders' equity and retained earnings. Tier 1 capital is generally defined as common equity Tier 1 and additional Tier 1 capital. Additional Tier 1 capital includes certain noncumulative perpetual preferred stock and related surplus and minority interests in equity accounts of consolidated subsidiaries. Total capital includes Tier 1 capital (common equity Tier 1 capital plus additional Tier 1 capital) and Tier 2 capital. Tier 2 capital is comprised of capital instruments and related surplus, meeting specified requirements, and may include cumulative preferred stock and long-term perpetual preferred stock, mandatory convertible securities, intermediate preferred stock and subordinated debt. Also included in Tier 2 capital is the allowance for loan and lease losses limited to a maximum of 1.25% of risk-weighted assets and, for institutions that have exercised an opt-out election regarding the treatment of Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income, up to 45% of net unrealized gains on available-for-sale equity securities with readily determinable fair market values. Calculation of all types of regulatory capital is subject to deductions and adjustments specified in the regulations. In assessing an institution's capital adequacy, regulators take into consideration, not only these numeric factors, but qualitative factors as well, and has the authority to establish higher capital requirements for individual institutions where deemed necessary.

In addition to establishing the minimum regulatory capital requirements, the regulations limit capital distributions and certain discretionary bonus payments to management if the institution does not hold a "capital conservation buffer" consisting of 2.5% of common equity Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted asset above the amount necessary to meet its minimum risk-based capital requirements. The capital conservation buffer requirement is being phased in beginning January 1, 2016 at 0.625% of risk-weighted assets and increasing each year until fully implemented at 2.5% on January 1, 2019.

Standards for Safety and Soundness. As required by statute, the federal banking agencies have adopted final regulations and Interagency Guidelines Establishing Standards for Safety and Soundness to implement safety and soundness standards. The guidelines set forth the safety and soundness standards that the federal banking agencies use to identify and address problems at insured depository institutions before capital becomes impaired. The guidelines address internal controls and information systems, internal audit systems, credit underwriting, loan documentation, interest rate exposure, asset growth, asset quality, earnings, compensation, fees and benefits and, more recently, safeguarding customer information. If the appropriate federal banking agency determines that an institution fails to meet any standard prescribed by the guidelines, the agency may require the institution to submit to the agency an acceptable plan to achieve compliance with the standard.

Business and Investment Activities. Under federal law, all state-chartered FDIC-insured banks, including savings banks, have been limited in their activities as principal and in their equity investments to the type and the amount authorized for national banks, notwithstanding state law. Federal law permits exceptions to these limitations. For example, certain state-chartered savings banks may, with FDIC approval, continue to exercise state authority to invest in common or preferred stocks listed on a national securities exchange and in the shares of an investment company registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended. The maximum permissible investment is the lesser of 100.0% of Tier 1 capital or the maximum amount permitted by New York law.

&#160;

"Table of Contents" 

The FDIC is also authorized to permit state banks to engage in state authorized activities or investments not permissible for national banks (other than non-subsidiary equity investments) if they meet all applicable capital requirements and it is determined that such activities or investments do not pose a significant risk to the FDIC insurance fund. The FDIC has adopted regulations governing the procedures for institutions seeking approval to engage in such activities or investments. The Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999 specified that a state bank may control a subsidiary that engages in activities as principal that would only be permitted for a national bank to conduct in a "financial subsidiary," if a bank meets specified conditions and deducts its investment in the subsidiary for regulatory capital purposes.

Prompt Corrective Regulatory Action. Federal law requires, among other things, that federal bank regulatory authorities take "prompt corrective action" with respect to banks that do not meet minimum capital requirements. For these purposes, the law establishes five capital categories: well capitalized, adequately capitalized, undercapitalized, significantly undercapitalized and critically undercapitalized.

The regulations were amended to incorporate the previously mentioned increased regulatory capital standards that were effective January 1, 2015. Under the amended regulations, an institution is deemed to be "well capitalized" if it has a total risk-based capital ratio of 10.0% or greater, a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 8.0% or greater, a leverage ratio of 5.0% or greater and a common equity Tier 1 ratio of 6.5% or greater. An institution is "adequately capitalized" if it has a total risk-based capital ratio of 8.0% or greater, a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 6.0% or greater, a leverage ratio of 4.0% or greater and a common equity Tier 1 ratio of 4.5% or greater. An institution is "undercapitalized" if it has a total risk-based capital ratio of less than 8.0%, a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of less than 6.0%, a leverage ratio of less than 4.0% or a common equity Tier 1 ratio of less than 4.5%. An institution is deemed to be "significantly undercapitalized" if it has a total risk-based capital ratio of less than 6.0%, a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of less than 4.0%, a leverage ratio of less than 3.0% or a common equity Tier 1 ratio of less than 3.0%. An institution is considered to be "critically undercapitalized" if it has a ratio of tangible equity (as defined in the regulations) to total assets that is equal to or less than 2.0%.

&#160; "Undercapitalized" banks must adhere to growth, capital distribution (including dividend) and other limitations and are required to submit a capital restoration plan. A bank's compliance with such a plan must be guaranteed by any company that controls the undercapitalized institution in an amount equal to the lesser of 5% of the institution's total assets when deemed undercapitalized or the amount necessary to achieve the status of adequately capitalized. If an "undercapitalized" bank fails to submit an acceptable plan, it is treated as if it is "significantly undercapitalized." "Significantly undercapitalized" banks must comply with one or more of a number of additional measures, including, but not limited to, a required sale of sufficient voting stock to become adequately capitalized, a requirement to reduce total assets, cessation of taking deposits from correspondent banks, the dismissal of directors or officers and restrictions on interest rates paid on deposits, compensation of executive officers and capital distributions by the parent holding company. "Critically undercapitalized" institutions are subject to additional measures including, subject to a narrow exception, the appointment of a receiver or conservator within 270 days after being designated "critically undercapitalized."

At December 31, 2015, Pathfinder Bank was well-capitalized.

Transactions with Related Parties. Transactions between a bank (and, generally, its subsidiaries) and its related parties or affiliates are limited by Sections 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act. An affiliate of a bank is any company or entity that controls, is controlled by or is under common control with the bank. In a holding company context, the parent bank holding company and any companies which are controlled by such parent holding company are affiliates of the bank. Generally, Sections 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act limit the extent to which the bank or its subsidiaries may engage in "covered transactions" with any one affiliate to 10% of such institution's capital stock and surplus and contain an aggregate limit on all such transactions with all affiliates to an amount equal to 20% of such institution's capital stock and surplus. The term "covered transaction" includes the making of loans, purchase of assets, issuance of a guarantee and similar transactions.

In addition, loans or other extensions of credit by the institution to the affiliate are required to be collateralized in accordance with specified requirements. The law also requires that affiliate transactions be on terms and conditions that are substantially the same, or at least as favorable to the institution, as those provided to non-affiliates.

&#160;

"Table of Contents" 

Pathfinder Bank's authority to extend credit to its directors, executive officers and 10% shareholders, as well as to entities controlled by such persons, is currently governed by the requirements of Sections 22(g) and 22(h) of the Federal Reserve Act and Regulation O of the Federal Reserve Board. Among other things, these provisions generally require that extensions of credit to insiders:

&#183;

be made on terms that are substantially the same as, and follow credit underwriting procedures that are not less stringent than, those prevailing for comparable transactions with unaffiliated persons and that do not involve more than the normal risk of repayment or present other unfavorable features; and

&#183;

not exceed certain limitations on the amount of credit extended to such persons, individually and in the aggregate, which limits are based, in part, on the amount of Pathfinder Bank's capital.

In addition, extensions of credit in excess of certain limits must be approved by Pathfinder Bank's board of directors. Extensions of credit to executive officers are subject to additional limits based on the type of extension involved.

Enforcement. The FDIC has extensive enforcement authority over insured state savings banks, including Pathfinder Bank. That enforcement authority includes, among other things, the ability to assess civil money penalties, issue cease and desist orders and remove directors and officers. In general, enforcement actions may be initiated in response to violations of laws and regulations and unsafe or unsound practices. The FDIC also has authority under federal law to appoint a conservator or receiver for an insured bank under certain circumstances. The FDIC is required, with certain exceptions, to appoint a receiver or conservator for an insured state non-member bank if the bank was "critically undercapitalized" on average during the calendar quarter beginning 270 days after the date on which the institution became "critically undercapitalized."

Federal Insurance of Deposit Accounts. &#160; The Dodd-Frank Act permanently increased the maximum amount of deposit insurance for banks, savings institutions and credit unions to $250,000 per depositor. 

Under the FDIC's risk-based assessment system, insured institutions are assigned to one of four risk categories based on supervisory evaluations, regulatory capital levels and certain other risk factors. Rates are based on each institution's risk category and certain specified risk adjustments. Stronger institutions pay lower rates while riskier institutions pay higher rates.

In February 2011, the FDIC published a final rule under the Dodd-Frank Act to reform the deposit insurance assessment system. The rule redefined the assessment base used for calculating deposit insurance assessments effective April 1, 2011. Under the rule, assessments are based on an institution's average consolidated total assets minus average tangible equity, instead of total deposits. The rule revised the assessment rate schedule to establish assessments ranging from 2.5 to 45 basis points.

In addition to the FDIC assessments, the &#160; United States government-sponsored enterprise known as the Financing Corporation ("FICO") is authorized to impose and collect, with the approval of the FDIC, assessments for anticipated payments, issuance costs and custodial fees on bonds issued by the FICO in the 1980s to recapitalize the former Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation. The bonds issued by the FICO are due to mature in 2017 through 2019. The FICO assessment rate is adjusted quarterly to reflect changes in the assessment base as determined from quarterly Call Report submissions. For the quarter ended December 31, 2015, the annualized Financing Corporation assessment was equal to 0.60 of a basis point of total assets less tangible capital.

&#160;

"Table of Contents" 

The Dodd-Frank Act increased the minimum target Deposit Insurance Fund ratio from 1.15% of estimated insured deposits to 1.35% of estimated insured deposits. The FDIC must seek to achieve the 1.35% ratio by June 30, 2020. It is intended that insured institutions with assets of $10 billion or more will fund the increase. The Dodd-Frank Act eliminated the 1.5% maximum fund ratio, instead leaving it to the discretion of the FDIC, and the FDIC has exercised that discretion by establishing a long-term fund ratio of 2%.

The FDIC has authority to increase insurance assessments. Any significant increases would have an adverse effect on the operating expenses and results of operations of Pathfinder Bank. Management cannot predict what assessment rates will be in the future.

Insurance of deposits may be terminated by the FDIC upon a finding that an institution has engaged in unsafe or unsound practices, is in an unsafe or unsound condition to continue operations or has violated any applicable law, regulation, rule, order or condition imposed by the FDIC. We do not currently know of any practice, condition or violation that may lead to termination of our deposit insurance.

Community Reinvestment Act. Under the CRA, a bank has a continuing and affirmative obligation, consistent with its safe and sound operation, to help meet the credit needs of its entire community, including low and moderate income neighborhoods. The CRA does not establish specific lending requirements or programs for financial institutions nor does it limit an institution's discretion to develop the types of products and services that it believes are best suited to its particular community. The CRA does require the FDIC, in connection with its examination of a bank, to assess the institution's record of meeting the credit needs of its community and to take such record into account in its evaluation of certain applications by such institution, including applications to establish or acquire branches and merger with other depository institutions. The CRA requires the FDIC to provide a written evaluation of an institution's CRA performance utilizing a four-tiered descriptive rating system. Pathfinder Bank's latest FDIC CRA rating, dated October 9, 2012, was "satisfactory."

Federal Reserve System. The Federal Reserve Board regulations require depository institutions to maintain non-interest-earning reserves against their transaction accounts (primarily negotiable order of withdrawal (NOW) and regular checking accounts). The regulations generally provide that reserves be maintained against aggregate transaction accounts as follows: a 3% reserve ratio is assessed on net transaction accounts up to and including $110.2 million; a 10% reserve ratio is applied above $110.2 million. The first $15.2 million of otherwise reservable balances are exempted from the reserve requirements. The amounts are adjusted annually. Pathfinder Bank complies with the foregoing requirements.

Federal Home Loan Bank System. Pathfinder Bank is a member of the Federal Home Loan Bank System, which consists of twelve regional Federal Home Loan Banks. The Federal Home Loan Bank System provides a central credit facility primarily for member institutions as well as other entities involved in home mortgage lending. As a member of the FHLBNY, Pathfinder Bank is required to acquire and hold a specified amount of shares of capital stock in the FHLBNY. As of December 31, 2015, Pathfinder Bank was in compliance with this requirement.

Other Regulations

Interest and other charges collected or contracted for by Pathfinder Bank are subject to state usury laws and federal laws concerning interest rates. Pathfinder Bank's operations are also subject to federal laws applicable to credit transactions, such as the:

&#183;

Truth-In-Lending Act, governing disclosures of credit terms to consumer borrowers;

&#183;

Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act, requiring that borrowers for mortgage loans for one-to-four family residential real estate receive various disclosures, including good faith estimates of settlement costs, lender servicing and escrow account practices, and prohibiting certain practices that increase the cost of settlement services;

&#183;

The TILA-RESPA Integrated Disclosure Rule, commonly known as the TRID rule, which became effective on October 3, 2015. This rule amended the Truth in Lending Act and the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act to integrate several consumer disclosures for mortgage loans.

&#160;

&#160;

"Table of Contents" 

&#183;

Home Mortgage Disclosure Act, requiring financial institutions to provide information to enable the public and public officials to determine whether a financial institution is fulfilling its obligation to help meet the housing needs of the community it serves;

&#183;

Equal Credit Opportunity Act, prohibiting discrimination on the basis of race, creed or other prohibited factors in extending credit;

&#183;

Fair Credit Reporting Act, governing the use and provision of information to credit reporting agencies;

&#183;

Fair Debt Collection Act, governing the manner in which consumer debts may be collected by collection agencies;

&#183;

Truth in Savings Act; and

&#183;

Rules and regulations of the various federal agencies charged with the responsibility of implementing such federal laws.

The operations of Pathfinder Bank also are subject to the:

&#183;

Right to Financial Privacy Act, which imposes a duty to maintain confidentiality of consumer financial records and prescribes procedures for complying with administrative subpoenas of financial records;

&#183;

Electronic Funds Transfer Act and Regulation E promulgated thereunder, which govern automatic deposits to and withdrawals from deposit accounts and customers' rights and liabilities arising from the use of automated teller machines and other electronic banking services;

&#183;

Check Clearing for the 21 st Century Act (also known as "Check 21"), which gives "substitute checks," such as digital check images and copies made from that image, the same legal standing as the original paper check; 

&#183;

USA PATRIOT Act, which requires savings banks operating to, among other things, establish broadened anti-money laundering compliance programs, due diligence policies and controls to ensure the detection and reporting of money laundering. Such required compliance programs are intended to supplement existing compliance requirements, also applicable to financial institutions, under the Bank Secrecy Act and the Office of Foreign Assets Control regulations; and

&#183;

Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, which places limitations on the sharing of consumer financial information by financial institutions with unaffiliated third parties. Specifically, the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act requires all financial institutions offering financial products or services to retail customers to provide such customers with the financial institution's privacy policy and provide such customers the opportunity to "opt out" of the sharing of certain personal financial information with unaffiliated third parties.

&#160;

"Table of Contents" 

Holding Company Regulation

The Company, as a bank holding company, is subject to examination, regulation, and periodic reporting under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended, as administered by the Federal Reserve Board. The Company is required to obtain the prior approval of the Federal Reserve Board to acquire all, or substantially all, of the assets of any bank or bank holding company. Prior Federal Reserve Board approval would be required for the Company to acquire direct or indirect ownership or control of any voting securities of any bank or bank holding company if it would, directly or indirectly, own or control more than 5% of any class of voting shares of the bank or bank holding company.

A bank holding company is generally prohibited from engaging in, or acquiring, direct or indirect control of more than 5% of the voting securities of any company engaged in non-banking activities. One of the principal exceptions to this prohibition is for activities found by the Federal Reserve Board to be so closely related to banking or managing or controlling banks as to be a proper incident thereto. Some of the principal activities that the Federal Reserve Board has determined by regulation to be closely related to banking are: (i) making or servicing loans; (ii) performing certain data processing services; (iii) providing securities brokerage services; (iv) acting as fiduciary, investment or financial advisor; (v) leasing personal or real property under certain conditions; (vi) making investments in corporations or projects designed primarily to promote community welfare; and (vii) acquiring a savings association.

The Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999 authorizes a bank holding company that meets specified conditions, including depository institutions subsidiaries that are "well capitalized" and "well managed," to opt to become a "financial holding company." A "financial holding company" may engage in a broader array of financial activities than permitted a typical bank holding company. Such activities can include insurance underwriting and investment banking. The Company has elected to be a "financial holding company."

&#160;

The Dodd-Frank Act required the Federal Reserve Board to promulgate consolidated capital requirements for bank and savings and loan holding companies that are no less stringent, both quantitatively and in terms of components of capital, than those applicable to their subsidiary depository institutions. Instruments such as cumulative preferred stock and trust-preferred securities, which are currently includable as Tier 1 capital, by bank holding companies within certain limits are no longer includable as Tier 1 capital, subject to certain grandfathering. The previously discussed final rule regarding regulatory capital requirements implements the Dodd-Frank Act's directives as to holding company capital requirements.

In December 2014, legislation was passed by Congress that requires the Federal Reserve to revise its "Small Bank Holding Company Policy Statement" to exempt bank and savings and loan holding companies of less than $1.0 billion of consolidated assets from the consolidated capital requirements, provided that such companies meet certain other conditions such as not engaging in significant nonbanking activities. The Federal Reserve maintains authority to apply the consolidated capital requirements to any bank or savings and loan holding company as warranted for supervisory purposes.

A bank holding company is generally required to give the Federal Reserve Board prior written notice of any purchase or redemption of then outstanding equity securities if the gross consideration for the purchase or redemption, when combined with the net consideration paid for all such purchases or redemptions during the preceding 12 months, is equal to 10% or more of the company's consolidated net worth. The Federal Reserve Board may disapprove such a purchase or redemption if it determines that the proposal would constitute an unsafe and unsound practice, or would violate any law, regulation, Federal Reserve Board order or directive, or any condition imposed by, or written agreement with, the Federal Reserve Board. The Federal Reserve Board has adopted an exception to that approval requirement for well-capitalized bank holding companies that meet certain other conditions. The Federal Reserve Board has issued guidance which requires consultation with the Federal Reserve Board prior to a redemption or repurchase in certain circumstances.

&#160;

"Table of Contents" 

The Federal Reserve Board has issued a policy statement regarding the payment of dividends by bank holding companies. In general, the Federal Reserve Board's policies provide that dividends should be paid only out of current earnings and only if the prospective rate of earnings retention by the bank holding company appears consistent with the organization's capital needs, asset quality and overall financial condition. The Federal Reserve Board's policies also require that a bank holding company serve as a source of financial strength to its subsidiary banks by using available resources to provide capital funds during periods of financial stress or adversity and by maintaining the financial flexibility and capital-raising capacity to obtain additional resources for assisting its subsidiary banks where necessary. The Dodd-Frank Act codified the source of strength policy. Under the prompt corrective action laws, the ability of a bank holding company to pay dividends may be restricted if a subsidiary bank becomes undercapitalized. These regulatory policies could affect the ability of the Company to pay dividends or otherwise engage in capital distributions.

The Federal Deposit Insurance Act makes depository institutions liable to the FDIC for losses suffered or anticipated by the insurance fund in connection with the default of a commonly controlled depository institution or any assistance provided by the FDIC to such an institution in danger of default. This law could potentially apply to Pathfinder Commercial Bank.

The Company and Pathfinder Bank will be affected by the monetary and fiscal policies of various agencies of the United States Government, including the Federal Reserve System. In view of changing conditions in the national economy and in the money markets, it is impossible for management to accurately predict future changes in monetary policy or the effect of such changes on the business or financial condition of the Company or Pathfinder Bank.

The Company's status as a registered bank holding company under the Bank Holding Company Act will not exempt it from certain federal and state laws and regulations applicable to corporations generally, including, without limitation, certain provisions of the federal securities laws.

Federal Securities Laws

The Company's common stock is registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. We are subject to the information, proxy solicitation, insider trading restrictions and other requirements under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.

The registration under the Securities Act of 1933 of the Company's shares of common stock issued in the Company's stock offering does not cover the resale of those shares. Shares of common stock purchased by persons who are not our affiliates may be resold without registration. Shares purchased by our affiliates are subject to the resale restrictions of Rule 144 under the Securities Act of 1933. If we meet the current public information requirements of Rule 144 under the Securities Act of 1933, each affiliate of ours that complies with the other conditions of Rule 144, including those that require the affiliate's sale to be aggregated with those of other persons, would be able to sell in the public market, without registration, a number of shares not to exceed, in any three-month period, the greater of 1% of our outstanding shares, or the average weekly volume of trading in the shares during the preceding four calendar weeks. In the future, we may permit affiliates to have their shares registered for sale under the Securities Act of 1933.

Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002

The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 addresses, among other issues, corporate governance, auditing and accounting, executive compensation, and enhanced and timely disclosure of corporate information. We have prepared policies, procedures and systems designed to ensure compliance with these regulations.

&#160;

"Table of Contents" 

FEDERAL AND STATE TAXATION

Federal Taxation

General . The Bank and the Company is subject to federal income taxation in the same general manner as other corporations, with some exceptions discussed below. The following discussion of federal taxation is intended only to summarize certain pertinent federal income tax matters and is not a comprehensive description of the tax rules applicable to the Company or the Bank. Our federal tax returns have not been audited in the previous five years.

Method of Accounting . For federal income tax purposes, the Company currently reports its income and expenses on the accrual method of accounting and uses a tax year ending December 31 for filing its federal and state income tax returns.

Bad Debt Reserves . Prior to 1996, Pathfinder Bank was permitted to establish a reserve for bad debts and to make annual additions to the reserve. These additions could, within specified formula limits, be deducted in arriving at our taxable income. As a result of tax law changes in 1996, Pathfinder Bank was required to use the specific charge-off method in computing its bad debt deduction beginning with its 1996 federal tax return. Savings institutions were required to recapture any excess reserves over those established as of December 31, 1987 (base year reserve). At December 31, 2015, Pathfinder Bank had no reserves subject to recapture in excess of its base year reserves.

Pathfinder-Federal is required to use the specific charge-off method to account for tax bad debt deductions.

Taxable Distributions and Recapture . Prior to 1996, bad debt reserves created prior to 1988 were subject to recapture into taxable income if Pathfinder Bank failed to meet certain thrift asset and definitional tests or made certain distributions. Tax law changes in 1996 eliminated thrift-related recapture rules. However, under current law, pre-1988 tax bad debt reserves remain subject to recapture if Pathfinder Bank makes certain non-dividend distributions, repurchases any of its common stock, pays dividends in excess of earnings and profits, or fails to qualify as a "bank" for tax purposes. At December 31, 2015, our total federal pre-base year bad debt reserve was approximately $1.3 million.

Alternative Minimum Tax . The Internal Revenue Code imposes an alternative minimum tax at a rate of 20% on a base of regular taxable income plus certain tax preferences, less any available exemption. The alternative minimum tax is imposed to the extent it exceeds the regular income tax. Net operating losses can offset no more than 90% of alternative taxable income. Certain payments of alternative minimum tax may be used as credits against regular tax liabilities in future years. At December 31, 2015, the Company had no such amounts available as credits for carryover.

Net Operating Loss Carryovers. &#160; A financial institution may carry back net operating losses to the preceding two taxable years and forward to the succeeding 20 taxable years. As of December 31, 2015, the Company does not have a federal net operating loss carryforward.

Corporate Dividends-Received Deduction . The Company may exclude from its federal taxable income 100% of dividends received from Pathfinder Bank as a wholly-owned subsidiary by filing consolidated tax returns. The corporate dividends received deduction is 80% when the corporation receiving the dividend owns at least 20% of the stock of the distributing corporation. The dividends-received deduction is 70% when the corporation receiving the dividend owns less than 20% of the distributing corporation.

&#160;

"Table of Contents" 

State Taxation

For 2014, we were subject to the New York State Franchise Tax on Banking Corporations in an annual amount equal to the greater of (i) 7.1% of Pathfinder Bank's "entire net income" allocable to New York State during the taxable year, or (ii) the applicable alternative minimum tax. The alternative minimum tax is generally the greater of (a) 0.01% of the value of Pathfinder Bank's assets allocable to New York State with certain modifications, (b) 3% of our "alternative entire net income" allocable to New York State, or (c) $1,250.

Entire net income is similar to federal taxable income, subject to certain modifications and alternative entire net income is equal to entire net income without certain modifications. Net operating losses arising in the current period can be carried forward to the succeeding 20 taxable years.

Effective January 1, 2015, banking corporations were taxed under the New York State General Business Corporation Franchise Tax provisions. Under this change in New York State tax law, the tax rate on the business income base (formerly "entire net income") will be reduced prospectively from 7.1% to 6.5% as of January 1, 2016. In addition, various modifications will be available to community banks (defined as banks with less than $8 billion in total assets) regarding deductions associated with interest income. The New York State alternative minimum tax was repealed effective January 1, 2015.

Our state tax returns were under audit for the years 2012-2014 by the New York State Department of Finance commencing on February 29, 2016. Management believes that this audit is part of the Department's normal audit and review cycle and that adjustments to the Company's taxes payable to New York State, if any, are not expected to have a material adverse impact on the Company's consolidated financial condition and results of operations . &#160; As of the date of the issuance of this filing, management has no knowledge of any proposed adjustments to the Company's taxes payable stemming from the Finance Department's audit. Our state tax returns had not been audited in the five years previous to the current audit.

As a Maryland business corporation, the Company is required to file an annual report with, and pay franchise taxes to, the state of Maryland.

