 Item 1. 

Business 

Our Business

We are an immuno-oncology company focused on the discovery and development of revolutionary new treatments that engage the body&#8217;s immune system to benefit patients suffering from cancer. We have focused on immuno-oncology since our inception over 20 years ago, and today we have a series of platforms and capabilities across an array of immunological modalities. At Agenus, we have embraced the concept that cancers are complicated diseases requiring multi-pronged approaches to treatment. We believe that the future of cancer therapy will depend upon the ability to identify and possess the best treatment regime for an individual based on the specific cancer and patient profile. We are building the capabilities and platforms to address these complex needs.

We are developing a comprehensive immuno-oncology portfolio driven by the following platforms and programs, which we intend to utilize individually and in combination:

&#160;

&#183; 

our antibody discovery platforms, including our Retrocyte Display &#8482; , SECANT &#174; yeast display, and phage display technologies designed to produce quality human antibodies; 

&#160;

&#183; 

our antibody candidate programs, including our checkpoint modulator, or CPM, programs; 

&#160;

&#183; 

our vaccine programs, including Prophage &#8482; and AutoSynVax &#8482; ; and 

&#160;

&#183; 

our saponin-based vaccine adjuvants, principally our QS-21 Stimulon &#174; adjuvant, or QS-21 Stimulon. 

Our programs aim to stimulate the immune system to recognize and eradicate cancer cells and to disable the mechanisms that cancer cells employ to evade detection and destruction by the immune system. By combining multiple powerful antibody platforms, we have established a highly integrated approach to target identification and validation, and for the discovery, development and manufacture of monoclonal antibodies that modulate targets of interest. T he breadth of our portfolio gives us the ability to combine our proprietary antibodies, vaccines, and adjuvants to explore and optimize cancer treatments. Our strategy is to develop these agents either alone or in combinations to yield best-in-class treatments.

We assess development, commercialization and partnering strategies for each of our product candidates periodically based on several factors, including pre-clinical and clinical trial results, competitive positioning and funding requirements and resources. We are currently collaborating with companies such as Incyte Corporation, Merck Sharpe &#38; Dohme and Recepta Biopharma SA. Through these alliances, as well as our own internal programs, we currently have over a dozen antibody programs, including our anti-CTLA-4 (partnered with Recepta for certain South America territories) and anti-GITR (partnered with Incyte) antibody programs that each received U.S. Federal Drug Administration, or FDA, clearance to commence clinical trials in January 2016. We expect to initiate these trials in the first half of 2016. 

We are also advancing a series of Heat Shock Protein, or HSP, peptide-based vaccines to treat cancer. In Ju ly 2014, we reported positive results from a Phase 2 clinical trial with our Prophage vaccine, which showed that patients with newly-diagnosed glioblastoma, or ndGBM, who were treated with a combination of our Prophage vaccine and standard of care showed substantial improvement both in progression-free survival and median overall survival, each as compared to historical control data. We plan to advance our Prophage vaccine into a randomized, well-controlled clinical trial for ndGBM in the second half of 2016. We also reported positive results in June 2014 from a Phase 2 clinical trial with our synthetic HerpV vaccine candidate for genital herpes. Although we determined not to advance this product candidate in herpes, based on our findings we launched our AutoSynVax, or ASV, synthetic cancer vaccine program in 2015, and we plan to initiate our first clinical trial for this program in the second half of 2016.

Our QS-21 Stimulon adjuvant is partnered with GlaxoSmithKline plc., or GSK, and is a key component in multiple GSK vaccine programs that target prophylactic or therapeutic impact in a variety of infectious diseases and cancer. These programs are in various stages, with the most advanced being GSK&#8217;s shingles and malaria programs, for which GSK announced positive Phase 3 results in December 2014 and October 2013, respectively. In September 2015, we monetized a portion of the future royalties we are contractually entitled to receive from GSK from sales of its shingles and malaria vaccines and received net proceeds of approximately $78.2 million. 

Our business activities include product research and development, intellectual property prosecution, manufacturing, regulatory and clinical affairs, corporate finance and development activities, and support of our collaborations. Our product candidates require clinical trials and approvals from regulatory agencies, as well as acceptance in the marketplace. Part of our strategy is to develop and commercialize some of our product candidates by continuing our existing arrangements with academic and corporate collaborators and licensees and by entering into new collaborations.

&#160;

Our common stock is currently listed on The Nasdaq Capital Market under the symbol &#8220;AGEN.&#8221; 

Our Antibody Discovery Platforms and CPM Programs

In February 2014, we acquired our Retroviral B Lymphocyte Display, or Retrocyte Display, platform as a result of our acquisition of 4-Antibody AG, or 4-AB, a private European-based biopharmaceutical company. Retrocyte Display is a proprietary antibody discovery platform designed for the rapid discovery and optimization of fully-human and humanized monoclonal antibodies against a wide array of molecular targets. Our Retrocyte Display platform uses a high-throughput approach incorporating human antibody libraries expressed in mammalian B-lymphocytes and is designed to screen and generate therapeutic antibody drug candidates. We complemented this platform in April 2015 with the acquisition of our SECANT yeast display antibody discovery platform from Celexion, LLC, or Celexion, and in September 2015 with the exclusive license to a phage display library. The addition of the phage display library and SECANT yeast display platform in combination with our Retrocyte Display platform gives us broad, integrated and highly productive antibody discovery platforms. Each of these complementary platforms is designed to yield diverse antibody candidates, and together they increase the variety of addressable targets and diversity of antibody candidates. These approaches are intended to combine the speed, diversity, and selectivity of our discovery platforms to yield high affinity antibodies and bolster our antibody discovery capabilities internally and for our partners. We now have the potential to integrate three high quality complementary antibody display technologies with innovative computational, structured-based design approaches to discover and optimize best-in-class monoclonal antibodies as future medicines.

In addition to the use of our antibody discovery platforms that are designed to drive the discovery of future CPM antibody candidates, we may also employ a variety of techniques to identify and optimize our antibody candidates. We will use our recently acquired capabilities to accelerate the development of our portfolio of CPM candidates for our own programs and those of our partners and potential collaborators. These added capabilities will position us to exploit new technological and development capabilities and also to facilitate new partnership opportunities beyond our current portfolio. 

There are dozens of checkpoints as well as ligands that interact with these checkpoints, each of which are expressed on various cell types involved in immune responses. In most instances, these checkpoints and ligands work to control and shape our immune responses and promote our health. In the last decade, the biotechnology industry has begun to understand that these checkpoint processes can also intensify diseases, including cancer and auto-immune diseases. Understanding the roles that checkpoint processes can play in cancer has led to advances in the treatment of many patients with advanced cancer. We have learned that, while cancer can be recognized by the immune system as &#8220;non-self&#8221; and trigger potential immune control, cancer can hijack checkpoint processes to protect itself from either immune detection or immune destruction. Advances in cancer treatment are emerging based on therapeutic monoclonal antibodies targeting checkpoint receptors or their ligands, facilitating immune response against cancers. Some of the CPM antibodies that have been developed to date include Bristol-Myers Squibb&#8217;s Yervoy &#174; (CTLA-4 antagonist) and Opdivo &#174; (PD-1 antagonist) and Merck&#8217;s Keytruda &#174; (PD-1 antagonist). Agents like these have not only led to increased protracted survival for many patients with certain forms of cancer, such as melanoma and lung cancer, but they are also leading to apparent cures in some patients with advanced metastatic cancer.

Our strategy includes identifying opportunities to advance our portfolio of CPMs as single agents and in optimized combinations, including potential combinations with our vaccines and other agents. We and our partners currently have pre-clinical and clinical programs exploring fully human and humanized monoclonal antibodies against several important checkpoint targets including GITR, OX40, CTLA-4, PD-1, TIM-3, LAG-3, CEACAM1 and other undisclosed targets. We are working to discover and develop monoclonal CPM antibodies to modulate the activity of these targets, selectively reactivate the immune system and thwart attempts by cancer to evade destruction. We believe these CPM antibodies will be beneficial in the treatment of cancer patients by allowing the immune system to more effectively recognize and destroy cancer cells.

In 2015, we filed investigational new drug applications (INDs) for antibodies targeting CTLA-4 and GITR (filed with Incyte), and in January 2016 we announced that the FDA gave clearance to begin clinical trials with these two CPM candidates. Clinical trials with these CPMs are planned to initiate in the first half of 2016. In addition, we have product candidates targeting OX40 and PD-1 advancing into IND-enabling studies, and we expect to initiate clinical trials for one or more of these compounds during the second half of 2016. 

Partnered CPM Programs

In January 2015, we entered into a broad, global alliance with Incyte to discover, develop and commercialize novel immuno-therapeutics using our antibody platforms. The collaboration was initially focused on four CPM programs targeting GITR, OX40, TIM-3 and LAG-3, and in November 2015 we expanded our alliance by adding three additional novel undisclosed CPM targets. Pursuant to the terms of the collaboration, Incyte made non-creditable, non-refundable upfront payments to us totaling $25.0 million. Targets under the collaboration are designated as either profit-share programs, where the parties share all costs and profits equally, or royalty-bearing programs, where Incyte funds all costs, and we are eligible to receive milestones and royalties. The programs targeting 

GITR, OX4 0 and two of the undisclosed targets are profit-share programs, while the other targets currently under collaboration are royalty-bearing programs. For each profit-share product, we are eligible to receive up to $20.0 million in future contingent developme nt milestones. For each royalty-bearing product, we are eligible to receive (i) up to $155.0 million in future contingent development, regulatory, and commercialization milestones and (ii) tiered royalties on global net sales at rates generally ranging fro m 6%-12%. For each royalty-bearing product, we also have the right to elect to co-fund 30% of the development costs incurred following initiation of pivotal clinical trials in return for increased royalties. In addition, we and Incyte have the option to jo intly nominate and pursue the development and commercialization of CPM programs that target additional checkpoint targets during a five-year discovery period. For each antibody arising from a program that the parties elect to bring into our collaboration, we will have the option to designate that program as a profit-share or royalty-bearing program. Concurrent with the execution of the collaboration agreement, we and Incyte also entered into a stock purchase agreement pursuant to which Incyte purchased appr oximately 7.76 million shares of our common stock for an aggregate purchase price of $35.0 million, or approximately $4.51 per share. 

In addition, in April 2014, we entered into a collaboration and license agreement with Merck to discover and optimize fully-human antibodies against two undisclosed CPM targets. Under the terms of the agreement, Merck is responsible for the clinical development and commercialization of antibodies generated under the collaboration, and we are eligible to receive approximately $100.0 million in potential payments associated with the completion of certain clinical, regulatory and commercial milestones, as well as royalty payments on any worldwide product sales. We also continue to collaborate with Recepta SA on the development of antibodies targeting CTLA-4 and PD-1, and we expect to continue exploring additional future collaborations. 

Vaccine Platform Programs

Our current vaccine platform programs for the treatment of cancer include our HSP based Prophage vaccine candidates, and our synthetic vaccine candidates, ASV and PhosphoSynVax &#8482; , or PSV &#8482; . 

HSPs are a group of proteins present at high levels in most mammalian cells. Their expression is increased when cells are exposed to elevated temperatures or other stresses. A potential role for HSPs in regulating immune responses was revealed when it was first discovered that HSP complexes purified from cancer cells produced immunity to cancer, whereas HSP complexes purified from normal tissue did not. This discovery led to the understanding that HSPs bind to and carry a broad sampling of the protein environment within cells, including mutant proteins that might arise from genetic mutations within cancer cells. It was further shown that immunization with HSP complexes purified from tumors and used as vaccines to interact with antigen-presenting cells that then cross present the HSP-associated antigenic peptides to generate a CD4 and CD8 positive T-cell immune response. These activated T-cells target the cancer cells of the tumor from which the HSP complexes were derived. In order to provide effective immunization in this manner, HSP complexes isolated from cancer cells are particularly effective. Since HSPs are expressed in all tumor cells, the approach of immunizing with the HSP complexes isolated from a particular tumor is broadly applicable to a variety of cancer types. We believe that we pioneered the use of gp96, an HSP, purified from a patient&#8217;s own tumor tissue, as a way to make vaccines tailored to stimulating immune recognition and potential immune control of a specific patient&#8217;s cancer.

Because cancer is a highly variable disease from one patient to another, due to extensive mutation of cancer cells, we believe that a patient-specific vaccination approach is optimal to generate a more robust and targeted immune response against the disease. 

Prophage Vaccine Candidates

Our Prophage cancer vaccine candidates are autologous therapies derived from patient cancer tissues that are surgically removed. As a result, a Prophage vaccine tailored for a patient is produced from a broad sampling of potentially antigenic mutant proteins from such patient&#8217;s tumor. Prophage vaccines are designed to program the body&#8217;s immune system to target only the specific cells expressing these mutant antigens, thereby reducing the risk that the body&#8217;s immune response against the tumor after vaccination will also affect healthy tissue and cause debilitating side effects often associated with chemotherapy and radiation therapy.

To date, more than 1,000 patients have been treated with Prophage vaccines in clinical trials, covering a broad range of cancer types, and no serious immune-mediated side effects have been observed. The results of these trials have been published and/or presented at scientific conferences. These results indicate observable clinical and/or immunological activity across many types of cancer. Taken together, these trials show promising evidence of clinical benefit from Prophage vaccines and also establish that such vaccines can be effectively manufactured under current good manufacturing practices (&#8220;cGMP&#8221;), conditions and internationally distributed.

Our Prophage vaccines are currently being studied in two different settings of GBM: patients who have been newly diagnosed as well as those with recurrent disease. Glioblastoma is the most common primary malignant brain tumor and accounts for the majority of diagnoses of malignant cancers of the brain. 

GBM is a cancer affecting the central nervous system arising from glial cells that become malignant, and it is currently a rapidly fatal disease. The American Cancer Society estimates that 23,770 new cases of brain and other nervous system cancer will be diagnosed in the United States during 2016, and that 16,050 people in the United States will die from these tumors during 2016. 

In December 2013, we published our Phase 2 results demonstrating that more than 90% of the patients treated with Prophage vaccine were alive at six months after surgery and 30% were alive at 12 months after surgery. Additionally, the median overall survival was approximately 11 months. This compares favorably to historical control data with expected median survival for recurrent GBM patients of three to nine months. The data were published in a manuscript in Neuro-Oncology , the official journal of the Society of Neuro-Oncology.

In July 2014, we announced final results from a single-arm, multiple-center, open-label Phase 2 clinical trial in 46 patients with ndGBM treated with our Prophage vaccine in combination with standard of care: surgical resection, radiation and temozolomide. These results showed that patients treated with Prophage vaccine had a median progression free survival, or PFS, of 18 months, with 33% of patients progression free at 24 months. These results indicate improvement compared to historical data for patients treated with the standard of care, for which median PFS is six to nine months. Median overall survival, or OS, the primary endpoint of the trial, was 23.8 months and remains durable in patients treated with Prophage. In this study, the 12 month survival rate was 85% with many surviving beyond the 24 month study period. For the standard of care alone, studies have shown the historical median OS is approximately 16-19 months. Potential benefit from Prophage appears to be more evident in patients with less elevated expression of the checkpoint ligand PD-L1 on their white blood cells. This defines a potential group of responders to Prophage plus standard of care and also suggests a potential benefit from the combination of Prophage with CPMs like PD-1 antagonists in patients with more elevated PD-L1 on peripheral mononuclear white blood cells. In data reported at the American Society of Clinical Oncology, or ASCO, in 2015, a pre-defined subgroup of patients with less elevated monocyte PD-L1 expression (below the median of 54.5%) showed substantially longer PFS (~27.2 months vs historical median PFS of six to nine months) and OS (~47 months vs a historical median of 16-18.8 months). Durability of a response was evident in this cohort with approximately one third of the patients with less elevated PD-L1 living four years or longer.

In addition to the Phase 2 trial in patients with ndGBM, the Alliance for Clinical Trials in Oncology, a cooperative group of the National Cancer Institute, or NCI, is supporting a randomized Phase 2 clinical trial of the Prophage vaccine in combination with bevacizumab in 222 patients with surgically resectable, recurrent GBM. This trial is the largest vaccine trial ever funded by the NCI in brain tumors and the largest vaccine study ever conducted in combination with bevacizumab. The study is designed to compare the efficacy of the Prophage vaccine administered with bevacizumab either concomitantly or at progression to treatment with bevacizumab alone. The primary endpoint of this study is overall survival. This study design is supported in part by previous research indicating a potential synergistic effect between the mechanisms of action behind both the Prophage vaccine and bevacizumab. While the NCI Alliance has confirmed a commitment to completion of the trial, to date, it has been slow to recruit patients.

ASV Vaccine Program

In June 2014 we reported positive results from a Phase 2 clinical trial with our synthetic HerpV vaccine candidate for genital herpes. This candidate was the first potential recombinant, off-the-shelf application of our HSP technology. The study demonstrated that the HSP70-peptide-QS21 vaccine produced significant CD4 and CD8 positive T-cell responses to antigenic peptides, and that the side effects were mild to moderate and tolerable. We decided not to advance with this technology in herpes but based on our findings we launched our ASV synthetic cancer vaccine program in 2015. We plan to initiate clinical trials for this program in the second half of 2016.

The objective of our ASV program is to develop a fully synthetic, yet individual patient specific tumor vaccine targeting the neo-epitope landscape of each patient&#8217;s cancer. With a small amount of a patient&#8217;s tumor as a sample, our ASV program is designed to utilize highly complex bioinformatics and next generation sequencing technologies to identify mutations in a tumor&#8217;s DNA and RNA. Once these mutations have been identified, we will manufacture synthetic peptides, load these peptides on to our recombinant HSP70 and deliver a fully synthetic polyvalent vaccine to the patient. We believe that the HSP70 platform will shuttle the mutated peptides to sites where they are recognized by the immune system and elicit a cytotoxic and helper T cell response in patients with cancer. We expect that once identified, these tumor cells will be killed and cleared by the immune system.

Sequencing a tumor&#8217;s genome has become increasingly common and more cost effective compared to sequencing techniques utilized only a decade ago. ASV represents an unprecedented opportunity to integrate advances in information technology, including next generation sequencing and bioinformatics, with advances in biotechnology to develop individualized cancer vaccines. Tumors harbor a unique set of genetic mutations, some of which can result in mutant proteins. Tumor cells naturally degrade these mutant proteins to produce mutant peptides, and because over 98% of mutations are unique to individual tumors, advances in high-performance computing infrastructure make it feasible to target and synthesize these mutations.

Identifying and manufacturing selected synthetic immunogenic mutant peptides is anticipated to recapitulate the potential benefits of Prophage as an autologous cancer vaccine in patients where tumor material is insufficient for standard Prophage processing. Assembling synthetically predicted antigens with a recombinant HSP vaccine should allow us to create quantities of autologous vaccin es producing lasting benefits for patients with cancer. We plan to initiate the first clinical trial with our ASV vaccine in the second half of 2016. 

PSV Vaccine Candidate

PSV is a vaccine candidate designed to induce immunity against a novel class of tumor specific neo-epitopes: those arising from dysregulated phosphorylation of various proteins in malignant cells, rather than from mutations producing abnormal protein sequences. In cancer cells, protein sequences that can become phosphorylated (a phosphate group is added to particular amino acid residues) that are not normally phosphorylated, as a consequence of dysregulated biochemical processes. Some of these mis-phosphorylated peptides can be processed by the cellular machinery that leads to antigen presentation of the surface of cells, and there they can potentially be recognized by specific cytotoxic T cells. PhosImmune has described many hundreds of such phosphoprotein neo-epitopes characterizing different forms of cancer, such as lung cancer, specific leukemias, ovarian cancer, colon cancer and others . When this happens, it can lead to the destruction of the cancer cells. PSV is a group of potential product candidates intended to induce cellular immunity to abnormal phosphopeptide neo-epitopes characterizing various forms of cancer. Phosphopeptides (or phosphopeptide analogues) can be synthesized and complexed with HSP70, in a manner analogous to that used in the generation of Agenus&#8217; previous HerpV vaccine candidate. HerpV has successfully completed a placebo-controlled Phase 2 study, which demonstrated good cellular and humoral responses to synthetic peptide immunogens complexed with HSP70. We believe that similar responses can be obtained to phosphopeptide or phosphopeptide analogues bound to HSP70 used as vaccines. Mutation-based neo-epitopes, which will form the basis for the immunogens used in ASV, are almost always particular to a given patient. Therefore, ASV will need to be a largely individualized vaccine product. In contrast to this, some phosphorylation-based neo-epitopes are apparently found on specific types of cancer in many patients, suggesting that the immunogens used in PSV, while tailored to a particular patient, will be useful in other patients with related forms of cancer. Studies to optimize the immunogens to be used in PSV are on-going. PSV could prove to be particularly useful in enabling activation of immunity against cancer that contains fewer mutation-based neo-epitopes. Currently, scientists believe that it will be difficult to extend immune-based treatments to address these less mutant tumors. As with ASV, the HSP70 platform shuttles the phosphopeptide tumor targets, or PTTs to sites where they are recognized by the immune system and safely elicit an immune response in patients killing and clearing the tumor cells.

We acquired the phosphopeptide-based neo-epitope technology from PhosImmune in December 2015. Under the terms of the agreement, we paid PhosImmune&#8217;s equity holders an upfront payment of $2.5 million in cash and $7.4 million in common stock at closing. In addition, payments of up to $35.0 million in cash and/or common stock at our election are payable upon the achievement of certain milestones. 

The acquisition of PhosImmune allows us to benefit from the peptide analytics expertise of PhosImmune&#8217;s founders to create both patient-specific and off-the-shelf cancer vaccines products while leveraging our ASV vaccine developments.

QS-21 Stimulon Adjuvant

QS-21 Stimulon is an adjuvant, a substance added to a vaccine or other immunotherapy that is intended to enhance immune response to the target antigens. A natural product, QS-21 Stimulon is a triterpene glycoside, or saponin, purified from the bark of the Chilean soapbark tree, Quillaja saponaria . QS-21 Stimulon has the ability to stimulate antibody immune response and has also been shown to activate cellular immunity. QS-21 Stimulon has become a key component in the development of investigational preventive vaccine formulations across a wide variety of diseases. These studies have been carried out by academic institutions and pharmaceutical companies in the United States and internationally. A number of these studies have shown QS-21 Stimulon to be significantly more effective in stimulating immune responses than aluminum hydroxide or aluminum phosphate, the adjuvants most commonly used in approved vaccines in the United States today.

Partnered QS-21 Stimulon Programs

In July 2006, we entered into a license agreement and a supply agreement with GSK for the use of QS-21 Stimulon (the &#8220;GSK License Agreement&#8221; and the &#8220;GSK Supply Agreement,&#8221; respectively). In January 2009, we entered into an Amended and Restated Manufacturing Technology Transfer and Supply Agreement (the &#8220;Amended GSK Supply Agreement&#8221;) under which GSK has the right to manufacture all of its requirements of commercial grade QS-21 Stimulon. GSK is obligated to supply us, or our affiliates, licensees, or customers, certain quantities of commercial grade QS-21 Stimulon for a stated period of time. In March 2012, we entered into a First Right to Negotiate and Amendment Agreement amending the GSK License Agreement and the Amended GSK Supply Agreement to clarify and include additional rights for the use of QS-21 Stimulon (the &#8220;GSK First Right to Negotiate Agreement&#8221;). In addition, we granted GSK the first right to negotiate for the purchase of the Company or certain of our assets, which right expires in March 2017. As consideration for entering into the GSK First Right to Negotiate Agreement, GSK paid us an upfront, non-refundable 

payment of $9.0 million, $2.5 million of which is creditable toward future royalty payments. We refer to the GSK License Agreement, the Amended GSK Supply Agreement and the GSK First Right to Negotiate Agreement collectively as the GSK Agreements. As of December 31, 2015, we had received $23.3 million of a potential $24.3 million in upfront and milestone payments under the GSK Agreements. Under the terms of the Agreement, we are generally entitled to receive 2% royalties on net sales of prophylactic vacc ines for a period of 10 years after the first commercial sale of a resulting GSK product, with some exceptions. The GSK License and Amended GSK Supply Agreements may be terminated by either party upon a material breach if the breach is not cured within the time specified in the respective agreement. The termination or expiration of the GSK License Agreement does not relieve either party from any obligation which accrued prior to the termination or expiration. Among other provisions, the milestone payment ob ligations survive termination or expiration of the GSK Agreements for any reason, and the license rights granted to GSK survive expiration of the GSK License Agreement. The license rights and payment obligations of GSK under the Amended GSK Supply Agreemen t survive termination or expiration, except that GSK's license rights and future royalty obligations do not survive if we terminate due to GSK's material breach unless we elect otherwise. 

In September 2015, we monetized a portion of the royalties associated with the GSK License Agreement to an investor group led by Oberland Capital Management for up to $115.0 million in the form of a non-dilutive royalty transaction. Under the terms of a Note Purchase Agreement with the investor group (the &#8220;Note Purchase Agreement&#8221;) we received $100.0 million at closing for which the investors will have the right to receive 100% of our worldwide royalties under the GSK License Agreement on sales of GSK&#8217;s shingles (HZ/su) and malaria (RTS,S) prophylactic vaccine products that contain our QS-21 Stimulon adjuvant to pay down principle and interest. Once all principle and interest under the Note Purchase Agreement has been paid, any and all remaining royalties from the GSK License Agreement will accrue to us. The Note Purchase Agreement is designed to allow us to capture both the near and longer term benefit associated royalties from GSK&#8217;s vaccine products containing our QS-21 Stimulon. At our option, we are entitled to receive an additional $15.0 million in cash from the investors after approval of HZ/su by the FDA, provided such approval does not occur later than June 30, 2018. Also at our option, we have the right to buy back the loan at any time under pre-specified terms. The monetization of these royalty rights allows us to advance a significant portion of the future value of our royalty stream while still allowing us to retain any future monetary upside after the Note Purchase Agreement terms have been satisfied.

QS-21 Stimulon is a key component included in certain of GSK's proprietary adjuvant systems, and we believe that a number of GSK's vaccine candidates currently in development are formulated using adjuvant systems containing QS-21 Stimulon, including its shingles and malaria vaccine candidates which have successfully completed Phase 3 clinical trials. In December 2014, GSK reported that its ZOE-50 Phase 3 clinical trial evaluating the efficacy of its shingles vaccine candidate, HZ/su, met its primary endpoint. Analysis of the primary endpoint showed that HZ/su reduced the risk of shingles by 97.2% in adults aged 50 years and older compared to placebo. In addition, GSK has reported two positive Phase 3 clinical trials of its RTS,S malaria vaccine candidate containing QS-21 Stimulon, which was accepted by the EMA for regulatory review in July 2014. In November 2013, Phase 3 data were reported that demonstrated that RTS,S helps protect children and infants from clinical malaria up to 18 months post vaccination. In November 2012, The New England Journal of Medicine published results of a second Phase 3 trial for RTS,S. In this study, infants aged 6-12 weeks receiving the RTS,S vaccine candidate experienced one-third fewer episodes of both clinical and severe malaria and experienced similar reactions to the injection when compared to those who received the control meningococcal C conjugate vaccine. GSK met both of its co-primary endpoints in the large ongoing efficacy clinical trial. In October 2011, The New England Journal of Medicine published results of the first Phase 3 clinical trial of GSK&#8217;s RTS,S malaria vaccine candidate containing QS-21 Stimulon. Results of the study, the largest malaria vaccine efficacy and safety clinical trial ever conducted, demonstrate that RTS,S provided African children with significant protection against clinical and severe malaria, reducing risk by 56% and 47%, respectively, for the 12-month period following vaccination. 

Assuming regulatory approval, the first products containing QS-21 Stimulon are anticipated to be launched by GSK in 2018. We do not incur clinical development costs for products partnered with GSK. Our other licensee, Janssen Science Ireland UC, recently notified us that they were terminating their license for use of QS-21 Stimulon. 

Manufacturing 

Antibody manufacturing

In December 2015, we acquired XOMA Corporation&#8217;s antibody manufacturing pilot plant in Berkeley, CA. A team of former XOMA employees with valuable chemistry, manufacturing and controls experience has joined us and will continue to operate the facility. The pilot plant, referred to as &#8220;Agenus West,&#8221; was acquired to enable us to manufacture antibodies for some of our own CPM programs and those of existing and potential third party collaborators. We expect the pilot plant to provide antibody production development expertise, antibody drug substance to support clinical proof-of-concept studies, and to facilitate our future GMP antibody production requirements. We also expect to utilize our Agenus West pilot plant capabilities to accelerate antibody delivery speed, improve quality and increase product yield while providing us with greater manufacturing flexibility all at reduced costs. We believe our Agenus West pilot plant manufacturing facility could accelerate the time to the clinic and into product commercialization.

Prophage 

Prophage vaccines are manufactured in our Lexington, MA facility. We estimate that this facility could support the production of up to 4,000 batches per year. 

Each Prophage vaccine is manufactured using a patient&#8217;s own tumor. After the patient undergoes surgery to remove cancerous tumor tissue, the tumor is shipped frozen in a specially designed kit provided we provide to our Lexington, Massachusetts facility. Each Prophage vaccine is produced in approximately ten hours, after which it undergoes extensive quality testing for approximately two weeks. The turnaround time from the date of surgery to delivery of vaccine is approximately three to four weeks, which generally fits well with the patient&#8217;s recovery time from surgery. Once we release the vaccine, it is shipped frozen overnight to the hospital pharmacy or clinician. Prophage vaccines are given as a simple intradermal injection. Agenus has established, within a single facility, well-defined, cost efficient manufacturing under GMPs.

After manufacturing, Prophage vaccines are tested and released by our quality systems staff. The quality control organization performs a series of release assays designed to ensure that the product meets all applicable specifications. Our quality assurance staff also reviews manufacturing and quality control records prior to batch release in an effort to assure conformance with current GMP, or cGMP, as mandated by the FDA and foreign regulatory agencies.

Our manufacturing staff is rigorously trained and routinely evaluated for conformance to manufacturing procedures and quality standards. This oversight is intended to ensure compliance with FDA and foreign regulations and to provide consistent vaccine output. Our quality control and quality assurance staff is similarly trained and evaluated as part of our effort to ensure consistency in the testing and release of the product, as well as consistency in materials, equipment and facilities.

QS-21 Stimulon

Except in the case of GSK, we have retained worldwide manufacturing rights for QS-21 Stimulon, and we have the right to subcontract manufacturing for QS-21 Stimulon. In addition, under the terms of our agreement with GSK, upon request by us, GSK is committed to supply certain quantities of commercial grade QS-21 Stimulon to us and our licensees for a fixed period of time.

Intellectual Property Portfolio 

We seek to protect our technologies through a combination of patents, trade secrets and know-how, and we currently own, co-own or have exclusive rights to approximately 50 issued United States patents and approximately 120 issued foreign patents. Our issued patents include those that cover uses of our core technologies in combination with other agents. Such core technologies include HSP-based vaccines for the treatment of cancers and treatment/prevention of infectious diseases, and saponin adjuvants. We also own, co-own or have exclusive rights to approximately 50 pending United States patent applications and approximately 50 pending foreign patent applications. We may not have rights in all territories where we may pursue regulatory approval for Prophage vaccine candidates.

Through our acquisitions of 4-AB, PhosImmune and certain assets of Celexion, we own, co-own, or have exclusive rights to a number of patents and patent applications directed to various methods and compositions, including methods for identifying therapeutic antibodies and product candidates arising out of such entities&#8217; technology platforms. In particular, we own patents and patent applications relating to our Retrocyte Display technology platform, a high throughput antibody expression platform for the identification of fully-human and humanized monoclonal antibodies. This patent family is projected to expire between 2029 and 2031. Through our acquisition of PhosImmune, we own, co-own, or have exclusive rights to patents and patent applications directed to various methods and compositions, including a patent directed to methods for identifying phosphorylated proteins using mass spectrometry. This patent is projected to expire in 2023. We also own patents and patent applications relating to the SECANT platform, a platform used for the generation of novel monoclonal antibodies. This patent family is projected to expire between 2028 and 2029. In addition, as we advance our research and development efforts with our institutional and corporate collaborators, we intend to seek patent protection for newly identified therapeutic antibodies and product candidates. We can provide no assurance that any of our patents, including the patents that were acquired or in-licensed in connection with our acquisitions of 4-AB, PhosImmune and certain assets of Celexion, will have commercial value, or that any of our existing or future patent applications, including the patent applications that were acquired or in-licensed in connection with our acquisitions of 4-AB, PhosImmune and certain assets of Celexion, will result in the issuance of valid and enforceable patents. Our issued patents covering Prophage vaccines and methods of use thereof, alone or in combination with other agents, expired or will expire at various dates between 2015 and 2024. In particular, our issued U.S. patents covering Prophage composition of matter expired in 2015. In addition, our issued patents covering QS-21 Stimulon composition of matter expired in 2008. We continue to explore means of extending the life cycle of our patent portfolio. 

Various patents and patent applications have been exclusively licensed to us by the following entities:

University of Vir ginia 

In connection with our acquisition of PhosImmune in December 2015, we obtained exclusive rights to a portfolio of patent applications and one issued patent relating to PTTs under a patent license agreement with the University of Virginia (UVA). The UVA license gives us exclusive rights to develop and commercialize the PTT technology and an exclusive option to license any further PTT technology arising from ongoing research at UVA until December 2018. Under the license agreement, we will pay low to mid-single digit running royalties on net sales of PTT products, and a modest flat percentage of sublicensing income. In addition, we may be obligated to make milestone payments of up to $2.7 million for each indication of a licensed PTT product to complete clinical trials and achieve certain sales thresholds. The term of the UVA license agreement ends when the last of the licensed patents expires or becomes no longer valid. The UVA license agreement may be terminated as follows: (i) by UVA in connection with our bankruptcy or cessation of business relating to the licensed technology, (ii) by UVA if we commit a material, uncured breach or (iii) by us for our convenience on 180 days written notice. 

Ludwig Institute for Cancer Research

On December 5, 2014, 4-AB entered into a license agreement with the Ludwig Institute for Cancer Research Ltd. (Ludwig), which replaced and superseded a prior agreement entered into between the parties in May 2011. Pursuant to the terms of the license agreement, Ludwig granted 4-AB an exclusive, worldwide license under certain intellectual property rights of Ludwig and Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center arising from the prior agreement to further develop and commercialize GITR, OX40 and TIM-3 antibodies. On January 25, 2016, we and 4-AB entered into a second license agreement with Ludwig, on substantially similar terms, to develop CTLA-4 and PD-1 antibodies. Pursuant to the December 2014 license agreement, 4-AB made an upfront payment of $1.0 million to Ludwig. The December 2014 license agreement also obligates 4-AB to make potential milestone payments of up to $20.0 million for events prior to regulatory approval of licensed GITR, OX40 and TIM-3 products, and potential milestone payments in excess of $80.0 million if such licensed products are approved in multiple jurisdictions, in more than one indication, and certain sales milestones are achieved. Under the January 2016 license agreement, we are obligated to make potential milestone payments of up to $12.0 million for events prior to regulatory approval of CTLA-4 and PD-1 licensed products, and potential milestone payments of up to $32.0 million if certain sales milestones are achieved. Under each of these license agreements, we and/or 4-AB will also be obligated to pay low to mid-single digit royalties on all net sales of licensed products during the royalty period, and to pay Ludwig a percentage of any sublicensing income, ranging from a low to mid-double digit percentage depending on various factors. The license agreements may each be terminated as follows: (i) by either party if the other party commits a material, uncured breach; (ii) by either party if the other party initiates bankruptcy, liquidation or similar proceedings; or (iii) by 4-AB or us (as applicable) for convenience upon 90 days&#8217; prior written notice. The license agreements also contain customary representations and warranties, mutual indemnification, confidentiality and arbitration provisions.

Mount Sinai School of Medicine

In November 1994, we entered into a patent license agreement with the Mount Sinai School of Medicine (the &#8220;Mount Sinai Agreement&#8221;). Through the Mount Sinai Agreement, we obtained an exclusive, worldwide license to patent rights relating to the heat shock protein technology that resulted from the research and development performed by Dr. Pramod Srivastava, our founding scientist and a former member of our Board of Directors. We agreed to pay Mount Sinai a royalty on the net sales of products covered by the licensed patent rights and also provided Mount Sinai with a 0.45% equity interest in the Company, or approximately 10,300 shares, valued at approximately $90,000 at the time of issuance. The term of the Mount Sinai Agreement ends when the last of the licensed patents expires in 2016 or becomes no longer valid. 

University of Connecticut Health Center

In May 2001, we entered into a license agreement with the University of Connecticut Health Center (&#8220; UConn&#8221;) which was amended in March 2003 and June 2009. Through the license agreement, we obtained an exclusive, worldwide license to patent rights resulting from inventions discovered under a research agreement that was effective from February 1998 until December 2006. The term of the license agreement ends when the last of the licensed patents expires in 2024 or becomes no longer valid. UConn may terminate the agreement: (1) if, after 30 days written notice for breach, we continue to fail to make any payments due under the license agreement, or (2) we cease to carry on our business related to the patent rights or if we initiate or conduct actions in order to declare bankruptcy. We may terminate the agreement upon 90 days written notice. We are required to make royalty payments on any obligations created prior to the effective date of termination of the license agreement. Upon expiration or termination of the license agreement due to breach, we have the right to continue to manufacture and sell products covered under the license agreement which are considered to be works in progress for a period of six months. The license agreement contains aggregate milestone payments of approximately for each product we develop covered by the licensed patent rights. These milestone payments are contingent upon regulatory filings, regulatory approvals, and commercial sales of products. We have also agreed to pay UConn a royalty on the net sales of products covered by the license agreement as well as annual license maintenance fees beginning in May 2006. Royalties otherwise due on the net sales of products covered by the license agreement may be credited against the annual license maintenance 

fee obligations. Under the March 2003 amendment, we agreed to pay UConn an upfront payment and to make future payments for each patent or patent application with respect to which we exerci sed our option under the research agreement. As of December 31, 2015, we had paid approximately $745,000 to UConn under the license agreement. The license agreement gives us complete discretion over the commercialization of products covered by the licensed patent rights but also requires us to use commercially reasonable diligent efforts to introduce commercial products within and outside the United States. If we fail to meet these diligence requirements, UConn may be able to terminate the license agreement . 

Regulatory Compliance

Governmental authorities in the United States and other countries extensively regulate the preclinical and clinical testing, manufacturing, labeling, storage, record keeping, advertising, promotion, export, marketing and distribution, among other things, of our investigational product candidates. In the United States, the FDA under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, the Public Health Service Act and other federal statutes and regulations, subject pharmaceutical products to rigorous review.

In order to obtain approval of a new product from the FDA, we must, among other requirements, submit proof of safety and efficacy as well as detailed information on the manufacture and composition of the product. In most cases, this proof entails extensive preclinical, clinical, and laboratory tests. Before approving a new drug or marketing application, the FDA may also conduct pre-licensing inspections of the company, its contract research organizations and/or its clinical trial sites to ensure that clinical, safety, quality control, and other regulated activities are compliant with Good Clinical Practices, or GCP, or Good Laboratory Practices, or GLP, for specific non-clinical toxicology studies. The FDA may also require confirmatory trials, post-marketing testing, and extra surveillance to monitor the effects of approved products, or place conditions on any approvals that could restrict the commercial applications of these products. Once approved, the labeling, advertising, promotion, marketing, and distribution of a drug or biologic product must be in compliance with FDA regulatory requirements.

In Phase 1 clinical trials, the sponsor tests the product in a small number of patients or healthy volunteers, primarily for safety at one or more doses. Phase 1 trials in cancer are often conducted with patients who have end-stage or metastatic cancer. In Phase 2, in addition to safety, the sponsor evaluates the efficacy of the product in a patient population somewhat larger than Phase 1 trials. Phase 3 trials typically involve additional testing for safety and clinical efficacy in an expanded population at geographically dispersed test sites. The FDA may order the temporary or permanent discontinuation of a clinical trial at any time.

The sponsor must submit to the FDA the results of preclinical and clinical testing, together with, among other things, detailed information on the manufacture and composition of the product, in the form of a new drug application, or NDA, or in the case of biologics, like the Prophage vaccines, a biologics license application, or BLA. In a process that can take a year or more, the FDA reviews this application and, when and if it decides that adequate data are available to show that the new compound is both safe and effective for a particular indication and that other applicable requirements have been met, approves the drug or biologic for marketing.

Whether or not we have obtained FDA approval, we must generally obtain approval of a product by comparable regulatory authorities of international jurisdictions prior to the commencement of marketing the product in those jurisdictions. We are also subject to cGMP, GCP, and GLP compliance obligations and are subject to inspection by international regulatory authorities. International requirements may in some circumstances be more rigorous than U.S. requirements and may require additional investment in manufacturing process development, non-clinical studies, clinical studies, and record keeping that are not required for U.S. regulatory compliance or approval. The time required to obtain this approval may be longer or shorter than that required for FDA approval and can also require significant resources in time, money and labor.

Under the laws of the United States, the countries of the European Union and other nations, we and the institutions where we sponsor research are subject to obligations to ensure the protection of personal information of human subjects participating in our clinical trials. We have instituted procedures that we believe will enable us to comply with these requirements and the contractual requirements of our data sources. The laws and regulations in this area are evolving, and further regulation, if adopted, could affect the timing and the cost of future clinical development activities.

We are also subject to regulation under the Occupational Safety and Health Act, the Toxic Substances Control Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, and other current and potential future federal, state, or local regulations. Our research and development activities involve the controlled use of hazardous materials, chemicals, biological materials, various radioactive compounds, and for some experiments we use recombinant DNA. We believe that our procedures comply with the standards prescribed by local, state, and federal regulations; however, the risk of injury or accidental contamination cannot be completely eliminated. We conduct our activities in compliance with the National Institutes of Health Guidelines for Recombinant DNA Research.

Additionally, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or FCPA, prohibits U.S. corporations and their representatives from offering, promising, authorizing or making payments to any foreign government official, government staff member, political party or political candidate in an attempt to obtain or retain business abroad. The scope of the FCPA includes interactions with certain healthcare professionals in many countries. Other countries have enacted similar anti-corruption laws and/or regulations.

Compet itio n 

Competition in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries is intense. Many pharmaceutical or biotechnology companies have products on the market and are actively engaged in the research and development of products for the treatment of cancer.

Many competitors have substantially greater financial, manufacturing, marketing, sales, distribution, and technical resources, and more experience in research and development, clinical trials, and regulatory matters, than we do. Competing companies developing or acquiring rights to more efficacious therapeutic products for the same diseases we are targeting, or which offer significantly lower costs of treatment, could render our products noncompetitive or obsolete. See Part I-Item 1A. &#8220;Risk Factors-Risks Related to our Business-Our competitors may have superior products, manufacturing capability, selling and marketing expertise and/or financial and other resources.&#8221;

Academic institutions, governmental agencies, and other public and private research institutions conduct significant amounts of research in biotechnology, medicinal chemistry and pharmacology. These entities have become increasingly active in seeking patent protection and licensing revenues for their research results. They also compete with us in recruiting and retaining skilled scientific talent.

We have CPM antibody programs currently in early stage development targeting GITR, OX40, CTLA-4, LAG-3, TIM-3, PD-1, CEACAM1 and other undisclosed targets. We are aware of many companies that have antibody-based products on the market or in clinical development that are directed to the same biological target as some of our programs, including, without limitation, the following: (1) Bristol-Myers Squibb markets ipilimumab, an anti-CTLA-4 antibody, and nivolumab, an anti-PD-1 antibody, and is developing an anti-LAG-3 antibody and agonist to OX-40 (2) Merck has an approved anti-PD-1 antibody in the United States, and is developing an anti-GITR agonist and anti-CEACAM antibodies, (3) Ono Pharmaceuticals has an approved anti-PD-1 antibody in Japan, (4) AstraZeneca /Medimmune has anti-CTLA-4, OX-40 and PD1 antibodies in development, (5) Curetech has an anti-PD-1 antibody in development, (6) Pfizer has an anti-CTLA-4 antibody in development, (7) Tesaro has antibody programs targeting PD-1, TIM-3 and LAG-3, which include both monospecific and dual reactive antibody drug candidates, (8) Novartis has anti-PD-1 and anti-TIM-3 antibodies in discovery, and anti-LAG-3 and GITR agonist in clinical trials and (9) Roche/Genetech has an anti-OX40 agonist in development. There is no guarantee that our antibody product candidates will be able to compete with our competitors&#8217; antibody products and product candidates.

We have autologous vaccines programs in development including our Prophage vaccine in clinical development for GBM and our neo-antigen based AutoSynVax vaccine in preclinical development. We are aware of many companies pursuing cancer vaccines and/or immunotherapies clinical development, including, without limitation, the following: (1) Neon Therapeutics is developing a personalized neoantigen vaccine; (2) Gritstone Oncology is discovering and developing a novel tumor-specific neo-antigen (TSNA) based immunotherapies, with an initial focus on lung cancer; (3)Aduro Biotech and Advaxis Inc. are developing immunotherapy platforms (Listeria, cyclic dinucleotides, and B-select antibodies); (4) Inovio Pharmaceutical Inc. and Medimmune are collaborating on developing DNA based immunotherapies for cancer and infectious disease; (5) Oncolytics Biotech Inc. is developing oncolytic virus based cancer therapeutics in lung, colorectal and pancreatic cancers; and (6) Oncothyreon is developing synthetic vaccines for cancer therapeutics.

Several companies have products that utilize similar technologies and/or patient-specific medicine techniques that compete with our HSP based vaccines. For treatment of recurrent glioma, Roche markets bevacizumab and Eisai and Arbor Pharmaceuticals market carmustine. Schering Corporation, a subsidiary of Merck, markets temozolmide for treatment of patients with ndGBM and refractory astrocytoma. Other companies are developing vaccines for the treatment of patients with newly diagnosed glioma, such as Innocell Corp (Immuncell-LC), ImmunoCellular Therapeutics (ICT-107), Northwest Biotherapeutics (DC-Vax), Immatics (IMA-950) and Activartis Biotech (GBM-Vax).

We are aware of compounds that claim to be comparable to QS-21 Stimulon that are being used in clinical trials. Several other vaccine adjuvants are in development and could compete with QS-21 Stimulon for inclusion in vaccines in development. These adjuvants include, but are not limited to, (1) oligonucleotides, under development by Pfizer, Idera, Colby, and Dynavax, (2) MF59, under development by Novartis, (3) IC31, under development by Intercell, and (4) MPL, under development by GSK. In the past, we have provided QS-21 Stimulon to other entities under materials transfer arrangements. In at least one instance, it is possible that this material was used unlawfully to develop synthetic formulations and/or derivatives of QS-21. In addition, companies such as Adjuvance Technologies, Inc., CSL Limited, and Novavax, Inc., as well as academic institutions and manufacturers of saponin extracts, are developing saponin adjuvants, including derivatives and synthetic formulations. These sources may be competitive to our ability to execute future partnering and licensing arrangements involving QS-21 Stimulon. The existence of products developed by these and other competitors, or other products of which we are not aware or which other companies may develop in the future, may adversely affect the marketability of products developed or sold using QS-21 Stimulon.

We are also aware of a third party that manufactures pre-clinical mate rial purporting to be comparable to QS-21 Stimulon. The claims being made by this third party may create marketplace confusion and have an adverse effect on the goodwill generated by us and our partners with respect to QS-21 Stimulon. Any diminution of thi s goodwill may have an adverse effect on our ability to commercialize future products, if any, incorporating this technology, either alone or with a third party . 

We anticipate that we will face increased competition in the future as new companies enter markets we seek to address and scientific developments surrounding immunotherapy and other traditional cancer and infectious disease therapies continue to accelerate.

Employees

As of February 29, 2016, we had 230 employees, of whom 70 were PhDs and four were MDs. None of our employees are subject to a collective bargaining agreement. We believe that we have good relations with our employees.

Corporate History

Antigenics L.L.C. was formed as a Delaware limited liability company in 1994 and was converted to Antigenics Inc., a Delaware corporation, in February 2000 in conjunction with our initial public offering of common stock. On January 6, 2011, we changed our name from Antigenics Inc. to Agenus Inc.

Availability of Periodic SEC Reports

Our Internet website address is www.agenusbio.com . We make available free of charge through our website our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (&#8220;Exchange Act&#8221;), as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish such material to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (the &#8220;SEC&#8221;). The contents of our website are not part of, or incorporated into, this document. In addition, we regularly use our website to post information regarding our business, product development programs and governance, and we encourage investors to use our website, particularly the information in the sections entitled &#8220;Financial&#8221; and &#8220;News,&#8221; as sources of information about us.

The public may read and copy any materials filed by Agenus with the SEC at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Room 1580, Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at www.sec.gov.

The contents of the websites referred to above are not incorporated into this filing. Further, our references to the URLs for these websites are intended to be inactive textual references only.

&#160;

&#160;

