 Item 1. Business. 

General 

Becton, Dickinson and Company (also known as &#8220;BD&#8221;) was incorporated under the laws of the State of New Jersey in November 1906, as successor to a New York business started in 1897. BD&#8217;s executive offices are located at 1 Becton Drive, Franklin Lakes, New Jersey 07417-1880, and its telephone number is (201) 847-6800. All references in this Form 10-K to &#8220;BD&#8221; refer to Becton, Dickinson and Company and its domestic and foreign subsidiaries, unless otherwise indicated by the context. 

BD is a global medical technology company engaged in the development, manufacture and sale of a broad range of medical supplies, devices, laboratory equipment and diagnostic products used by healthcare institutions, life science researchers, clinical laboratories, the pharmaceutical industry and the general public. We provide customer solutions that are focused on improving medication management and patient safety; supporting infection prevention practices; equipping surgical and interventional procedures; improving drug delivery; aiding anesthesiology care; enhancing the diagnosis of infectious diseases and cancers; advancing cellular research and applications; and supporting the management of diabetes. 

Business Segments 

BD&#8217;s operations consist of two worldwide business segments: BD Medical and BD Life Sciences. Information with respect to BD&#8217;s business segments is included in Note 6 to the consolidated financial statements contained in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, and is incorporated herein by reference. 

BD Medical 

BD Medical produces a broad array of medical technologies and devices that are used to help improve healthcare delivery in a wide range of settings. The primary customers served by BD Medical are hospitals and clinics; physicians&#8217; office practices; consumers and retail pharmacies; governmental and nonprofit public health agencies; pharmaceutical companies; and healthcare workers. BD Medical consists of the following business units: 

Business Unit 

Principal Product Lines 

Diabetes Care 

Syringes, pen needles and IV sets for the injection or infusion of insulin and other drugs used in the treatment of diabetes. 

Medication and Procedural Solutions 

Needles, syringes and intravenous catheters for medication delivery (including safety-engineered and auto-disable devices); prefilled IV flush syringes; regional anesthesia needles and trays; sharps disposal containers; closed-system transfer devices; skin antiseptic products; and surgical and laproscopic instrumentation. 

Medication Management Solutions 

Intravenous medication safety and infusion therapy delivery systems, including infusion pumps and dedicated disposables; medication compounding workflow systems; and automated medication dispensing and supply management systems. 

Pharmaceutical Systems 

Prefillable drug delivery systems provided to pharmaceutical companies and sold to end-users as drug/device combinations. 

BD Life Sciences 

BD Life Sciences provides products for the safe collection and transport of diagnostics specimens, and instruments and reagent systems to detect a broad range of infectious diseases, healthcare-associated infections (&#8220;HAIs&#8221;) and cancers. In addition, BD Life Sciences produces research and clinical tools that facilitate the study of cells, and the components of cells, to gain a better understanding of normal and disease processes. That information is used to aid the discovery and development of new drugs and vaccines, and to improve the diagnosis and management of diseases. The primary customers served by BD Life Sciences are hospitals, laboratories and clinics; blood banks; healthcare workers; public health agencies; physicians&#8217; office practices; academic and government institutions; and pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. BD Life Sciences consists of the following business units: 

Business Unit 

Principal Product Lines 

Preanalytical Systems 

Integrated systems for specimen collection; safety-engineered blood collection products and systems. 

Diagnostic Systems 

Automated blood culturing and tuberculosis culturing systems; molecular testing systems for infectious diseases and women&#8217;s health; microorganism identification and drug susceptibility systems; liquid-based cytology systems for cervical cancer screening; rapid diagnostic assays; microbiology laboratory automation; and plated media. 

Biosciences 

Fluorescence-activated cell sorters and analyzers; monoclonal antibodies and kits for performing cell analysis; reagent systems for life science research; molecular indexing and next-generation sequencing sample preparation for genomics research; clinical oncology, immunological (HIV) and transplantation diagnostic/monitoring reagents and analyzers; and cell culture media supplements for biopharmaceutical manufacturing. 

Acquisitions and Divestitures 

On March 17, 2015, BD completed the acquisition of CareFusion Corporation (&#8220;CareFusion&#8221;), a global medical technology company with a comprehensive portfolio of products in the areas of medication management, infection prevention, operating room and procedural effectiveness, and respiratory care. The CareFusion acquisition positions BD as a global leader in medication management. CareFusion product lines are included in our Medical Segment, which is discussed below. 

In March 2016, BD signed a definitive agreement to sell 50.1% of its Respiratory Solutions business and form a joint venture with respect to this business. The Respiratory Solutions business was acquired in the CareFusion acquisition in 2015 and was a component of the Medical segment. Upon closing of the transaction, which occurred on October 3, 2016, the Company transferred the Respiratory Solutions business to a new standalone entity, retaining a 49.9% non-controlling interest. The buyer controls the operations and governance of the new entity. 

Additional information regarding this Respiratory Solutions transaction is contained in Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements contained in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, which is incorporated herein by reference. 

International Operations 

BD&#8217;s products are manufactured and sold worldwide. For reporting purposes, we organize our operations outside the United States as follows: Europe, EMA (which includes the Commonwealth of Independent States, the Middle East and Africa); Greater Asia (which includes Japan and Asia Pacific); Latin America (which includes Mexico, Central America, the Caribbean and South America); and Canada. The principal products sold by BD outside the United States are hypodermic needles and syringes; insulin syringes and pen needles; BD Hypak&#8482; brand prefillable syringe systems; infusion therapy products including Alaris&#174; infusion pumps; pharmacy automation equipment including Pyxis&#8482; systems; BD Vacutainer&#8482; brand blood collection products; diagnostic systems and laboratory equipment and products; flow cytometry instruments and reagents. BD has manufacturing operations outside the United States in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Brazil, Canada, China, Dominican Republic, France, Germany, Hungary, India, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Mexico, the Netherlands, Singapore, Spain, and the United Kingdom. Geographic information with respect to BD&#8217;s operations is included under the heading &#8220;Geographic Information&#8221; in Note 6 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, and is incorporated herein by reference. 

Foreign economic conditions and exchange rate fluctuations have caused the profitability related to foreign revenues to fluctuate more than the profitability related to domestic revenues. BD believes its activities in some countries outside the United States involve greater risk than its domestic business due to the factors cited herein, as well as the economic environment, local commercial and economic policies and political uncertainties. See further discussion of this risk in Item 1A. Risk Factors. 

Distribution 

BD&#8217;s products are marketed in the United States and internationally through independent distribution channels and directly to end-users by BD and independent sales representatives. Order backlog is not material to BD&#8217;s business inasmuch as orders for BD products generally are received and filled on a current basis, except for items temporarily out of stock. BD&#8217;s worldwide sales are not generally seasonal, with the exception of certain medical devices in the Medication and Procedural Solutions Business Unit, and respiratory and flu diagnostic products in the Diagnostic Systems Business Unit, which relate to seasonal diseases such as influenza. 

Raw Materials 

BD purchases many different types of raw materials, including plastics, glass, metals, textiles, paper products, agricultural products, electronic and mechanical sub-assemblies and various biological, chemical and petrochemical products. BD seeks to ensure continuity of raw material supply by securing multiple options for sourcing. However, there are situations where raw materials are only available from one supplier, which are referred to as sole sourced. The use of sole sourced materials may be due to sourcing of proprietary and/or patented technology and processes that are intended to provide a unique market differentiation to our product. In other cases, while a raw material can be sourced from multiple manufacturers, only one supplier is qualified due to quality assurance, cost or other considerations. In order to provide alternate sources of raw materials, BD must complete a rigorous qualification process, which most often includes completion of regulatory registration and approval. If clinical trials are not required, this qualification process can take 3-18 months depending on the criticality of the change. When clinical trials are required, this process may lengthen the qualification phase from one to three years. BD continuously assesses its sole sourced raw materials and maintains business continuity plans with our suppliers. BD&#8217;s continuity plans may include securing secondary supply with alternate suppliers, qualification of alternate manufacturing facilities, maintaining contingency stock, internal development of supply and establishment of technology escrow accounts. While BD works closely with its suppliers, there may nonetheless be events that cause supply interruption, reduction or termination that adversely impacts BD&#8217;s ability to manufacture and sell certain products. 

Research and Development 

BD conducts its research and development (&#8220;R&#38;D&#8221;) activities at its operating units and at BD Technologies in Research Triangle Park, North Carolina. The majority of BD&#8217;s R&#38;D activities are conducted in North America. Outside North America, BD conducts R&#38;D activities in China, France, India, Ireland and Singapore. BD also collaborates with certain universities, medical centers and other entities on R&#38;D programs and retains individual consultants and partners to support its efforts in specialized fields. BD spent approximately $828 million, $632 million and $550 million on research and development during the fiscal years ended September 30, 2016, 2015, and 2014, respectively. 

Intellectual Property and Licenses 

BD owns significant intellectual property, including patents, patent applications, technology, trade secrets, know-how, copyrights and trademarks in the United States and other countries. BD is also licensed under domestic and foreign patents, patent applications, technology, trade secrets, know-how, copyrights and trademarks owned by others. In the aggregate, these intellectual property assets and licenses are of material importance to BD&#8217;s business. BD believes, however, that no single patent, technology, trademark, intellectual property asset or license is material in relation to BD&#8217;s business as a whole, or to any business segment. 

Competition 

BD operates in the increasingly complex and challenging medical technology marketplace. Technological advances and scientific discoveries have accelerated the pace of change in medical technology, the regulatory environment of medical products is becoming more complex and vigorous, and economic conditions have resulted in a challenging market. Companies of varying sizes compete in the global medical technology field. Some are more specialized than BD with respect to particular markets, and some have greater financial resources than BD. New companies have entered the field, particularly in the areas of molecular diagnostics, safety-engineered devices and in the life sciences, and established companies have diversified their business activities into the medical technology area. Other firms engaged in the distribution of medical technology products have become manufacturers of medical devices and instruments as well. Acquisitions and collaborations by and among companies seeking a competitive advantage also affect the competitive environment. In addition, the entry into the market of manufacturers located in China and other low-cost manufacturing locations are creating increased pricing pressures, particularly in developing markets. Some competitors have also established manufacturing sites or have contracted with suppliers located in these countries as a means to lower their costs. 

BD competes in this evolving marketplace on the basis of many factors, including price, quality, innovation, service, reputation, distribution and promotion. The impact of these factors on BD&#8217;s competitive position varies among BD&#8217;s various product offerings. In order to remain competitive in the industries in which it operates, BD continues to make investments in research and development, quality management, quality improvement, product innovation and productivity improvement in support of its core strategy - to increase revenue growth by focusing on products that deliver greater benefits to patients, healthcare workers and researchers. 

Third-Party Reimbursement 

A majority of BD&#8217;s customers rely on third-party payers, including government programs and private health insurance plans, to reimburse some or all of the cost of the procedures, products and services they provide. Our technologies are subject to worldwide regulations regarding reimbursement developed by government agencies, including the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) in the United States; the National Health Service in the United Kingdom; the Joint Federal Committee in Germany; the Commission d&#8217;Evaluation des Produits et prestations in France; the Ministry for Health, Labor and 

Welfare in Japan; the Ministry of Health and the National Development and Reform Commission in China; among many others. In addition, our technologies are also subject to reimbursement policies issued by private insurance companies and managed care organizations. 

BD is actively engaged in identifying and communicating value propositions of its products for payer, provider, and patient stakeholders, and it employs various efforts and resources to positively impact coverage, coding and payment pathways. However, BD has no direct control over payer decision-making with respect to coverage and payment levels for BD products. The manner and level of reimbursement in any given case may depend on the site of care, the procedure(s) performed, the final patient diagnosis, the device(s) and/or drug(s) utilized, the available budget, or a combination of these factors, and coverage and payment levels are determined at each payer&#8217;s discretion. As BD&#8217;s product offerings are diverse across a variety of healthcare settings, they are affected to varying degrees by the many payment pathways that impact the decisions of healthcare providers regarding which medical products they purchase and the prices they are willing to pay for those products. Therefore, changes in reimbursement levels or methods may either positively or negatively impact sales of BD products in any given country for any given product. 

As government programs seek to expand healthcare coverage for their citizens, they have at the same time sought to control costs by limiting the amount of reimbursement they will pay for particular procedures, products or services. Many third-party payers have developed specific payment and delivery mechanisms to support these cost control efforts and to focus on paying for value. These mechanisms include payment reductions, pay for performance measures, quality-based performance payments, restrictive coverage policies, bidding and tender mechanics, studies to compare the effectiveness of therapies and use of technology assessments. These changes have created an increased emphasis on the delivery of more cost-effective and quality-driven healthcare. 

In addition, as a result of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (&#8220;PPACA&#8221;), the U.S. is now moving beyond value based payment methodologies and seeking to create alternative payment models such as bundled payments to continue to drive improved value. We see other governments around the world considering similar bundling reform measures, including the development of the Diagnosis Related Group (&#8220;DRG&#8221;) as a payment mechanism to drive toward quality and resource based reimbursement. 

See Item 1A. Risk Factors for a further discussion. 

Regulation 

BD&#8217;s medical technology products and operations are subject to regulation by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (&#8220;FDA&#8221;) and various other federal and state agencies, as well as by foreign governmental agencies. These agencies enforce laws and regulations that govern the development, testing, manufacturing, labeling, advertising, marketing and distribution, and market surveillance of BD&#8217;s medical products. The scope of the activities of these agencies, particularly in the Europe, Japan, and Asia Pacific regions in which BD operates, has been increasing. 

BD actively maintains FDA/ISO Quality Systems that establish standards for its product design, manufacturing, and distribution processes. Prior to marketing or selling most of its products, BD must secure approval from the FDA and counterpart non-U.S. regulatory agencies. Following the introduction of a product, these agencies engage in periodic reviews and inspections of BD&#8217;s quality systems, as well as product performance and advertising and promotional materials. These regulatory controls, as well as any changes in FDA policies, can affect the time and cost associated with the development, introduction and continued availability of new products. Where possible, BD anticipates these factors in its product development and planning processes. These agencies possess the authority to take various administrative and legal actions against BD, such as product recalls, product seizures and other civil and criminal sanctions. BD also undertakes voluntary compliance actions such as voluntary recalls. 

BD also is subject to various federal and state laws, and laws outside the United States, concerning healthcare fraud and abuse (including false claims laws and anti-kickback laws), global anti-corruption, transportation, safety and health, and customs and exports. Many of the agencies enforcing these laws have increased their enforcement activities with respect to medical device manufacturers in recent years. This appears to be part of a general trend toward increased regulation and enforcement activity within and outside the United States. 

In addition, as part of PPACA, the federal government has enacted the Sunshine Act provisions requiring BD to publicly report gifts and payments made to physicians and teaching hospitals. Many of these provisions are new and uncertain, and failure to comply could result in a range of fines, penalties and/or other sanctions. 

Our infusion pump business unit is operating under an amended consent decree entered into by CareFusion with the FDA in 2007. CareFusion&#8217;s consent decree with the FDA related to its Alaris SE infusion pumps. In February 2009, CareFusion and the FDA amended the consent decree to include all infusion pumps manufactured by or for CareFusion 303, Inc., the business unit that manufactures and sells infusion pumps in the United States. The amended consent decree does not apply to intravenous administration sets and accessories. 

While this BD business unit remains subject to the amended consent decree, which includes the requirements of the original consent decree, it has made substantial progress in its compliance efforts. However, we cannot predict the outcome of this matter, and the amended consent decree authorizes the FDA, in the event of any violations in the future, to order us to cease manufacturing and distributing infusion pumps, recall products and take other actions. We may be required to pay damages of $15,000 per day per violation if we fail to comply with any provision of the amended consent decree, up to $15 million per year. 

We also cannot currently predict whether additional monetary investment will be incurred to resolve this matter or the matter&#8217;s ultimate impact on our business. We may be obligated to pay more costs in the future because, among other things, the FDA may determine that we are not fully compliant with the amended consent decree and therefore impose penalties under the amended consent decree, and/or we may be subject to future proceedings and litigation relating to the matters addressed in the amended consent decree. As of September 30, 2016, we do not believe that a loss is probable in connection with the amended consent decree, and accordingly, we have no accruals associated with compliance with the amended consent decree. 

See also Item 3. Legal Proceedings. 

Employees 

As of September 30, 2016, BD had 50,928 employees, of which 18,480 were employed in the U.S. (including Puerto Rico). BD believes that its employee relations are satisfactory. 

Available Information 

BD maintains a website at www.bd.com. BD also makes available its Annual Reports on Form 10-K, its Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, and its Current Reports on Form 8-K (and amendments to those reports) as soon as reasonably practicable after those reports are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (&#8220;SEC&#8221;). These filings may be obtained and printed free of charge at www.bd.com/investors. In addition, the written charters of the Audit Committee, the Compensation and Management Development Committee, the Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee, the Executive Committee and the Science, Marketing, Innovation and Technology Committee of the Board of Directors, BD&#8217;s Corporate Governance Principles and its Code of Conduct, are available at BD&#8217;s website at www.bd.com/investors/corporate_governance/. Printed copies of these materials, this 2016 Annual Report on Form 10-K, and BD&#8217;s reports and statements filed with, or furnished to, the SEC, may be obtained, without charge, by contacting the Corporate Secretary, BD, 1 Becton Drive, Franklin Lakes, New Jersey 07417-1880, telephone 201-847-6800. In addition, the SEC maintains an internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at www.sec.gov. 

BD also routinely posts important information for investors on its website at www.bd.com/investors. BD may use this website as a means of disclosing material, non-public information and for complying with its disclosure obligations under Regulation FD adopted by the SEC. Accordingly, investors should monitor the Investor Relations portion of BD&#8217;s website noted above, in addition to following BD&#8217;s press releases, SEC filings, and public conference calls and webcasts. Our website and the information contained therein or connected thereto shall not be deemed to be incorporated into this Annual Report. 

Forward-Looking Statements 

BD and its representatives may from time-to-time make certain forward-looking statements in publicly-released materials, both written and oral, including statements contained in filings with the SEC and in its reports to shareholders. Additional information regarding BD&#8217;s forward-looking statements is contained in Item 7, Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 

&#160; 

