 Item 1. Business 

ORGANIZATION 

Main Street Capital Corporation ("MSCC") is a principal investment firm primarily focused on providing customized debt and equity financing to lower middle market ("LMM") companies and debt capital to middle market ("Middle Market") companies. The portfolio investments of MSCC and its consolidated subsidiaries are typically made to support management buyouts, recapitalizations, growth financings, refinancings and acquisitions of companies that operate in diverse industry sectors. MSCC seeks to partner with entrepreneurs, business owners and management teams and generally provides "one stop" financing alternatives within its LMM portfolio. MSCC and its consolidated subsidiaries invest primarily in secured debt investments, equity investments, warrants and other securities of LMM companies based in the United States and in secured debt investments of Middle Market companies generally headquartered in the United States. 

MSCC was formed in March 2007 to operate as an internally managed business development company ("BDC") under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended (the "1940 Act"). MSCC wholly owns several investment funds, including Main Street Mezzanine Fund, LP ("MSMF") and Main Street Capital II, LP ("MSC II" and, together with MSMF, the "Funds"), and each of their general partners. The Funds are each licensed as a Small Business Investment Company ("SBIC") by the United States Small Business Administration ("SBA"). Because MSCC is internally managed, all of the executive officers and other employees are employed by MSCC. Therefore, MSCC does not pay any external investment advisory fees, but instead directly incurs the operating costs associated with employing investment and portfolio management professionals. 

MSC Adviser I, LLC (the "External Investment Manager") was formed in November 2013 as a wholly owned subsidiary of MSCC to provide investment management and other services to parties other than MSCC and its subsidiaries or their portfolio companies ("External Parties") and receive fee income for such services. MSCC has been granted no-action relief by the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") to 

allow the External Investment Manager to register as a registered investment adviser ("RIA") under Investment Advisers Act of 1940, as amended (the "Advisers Act"). Since the External Investment Manager conducts all of its investment management activities for External Parties, it is accounted for as a portfolio investment of MSCC and is not included as a consolidated subsidiary of MSCC in MSCC's consolidated financial statements. 

MSCC has elected to be treated for U.S. federal income tax purposes as a regulated investment company ("RIC") under Subchapter M of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"). As a result, MSCC generally will not pay corporate-level U.S. federal income taxes on any net ordinary income or capital gains that it distributes to its stockholders. 

MSCC has certain direct and indirect wholly owned subsidiaries that have elected to be taxable entities (the "Taxable Subsidiaries"). The primary purpose of the Taxable Subsidiaries is to permit MSCC to hold equity investments in portfolio companies which are "pass-through" entities for tax purposes. The External Investment Manager and Main Street Capital Partners, LLC, ("MSCP") are also direct wholly owned subsidiaries that have elected to be taxable entities. The Taxable Subsidiaries, MSCP and the External Investment Manager are each taxed at their normal corporate tax rates based on their taxable income. 

Unless otherwise noted or the context otherwise indicates, the terms "we," "us," "our" and "Main Street" refer to MSCC and its consolidated subsidiaries, which include the Funds and the Taxable Subsidiaries and, beginning April 1, 2013, MSCP. 

The following diagram depicts Main Street's organizational structure: 

* Each of the Taxable Subsidiaries is directly or indirectly wholly owned by MSCC. ** Accounted for as a portfolio investment at fair value, as opposed to a consolidated subsidiary. CORPORATE INFORMATION 

Our principal executive offices are located at 1300 Post Oak Boulevard, 8 th floor, Houston, Texas 77056. We maintain a Web site on the Internet at www.mainstcapital.com . We make available free of charge on our Web site our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission. You may read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. You may obtain information regarding the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. Information contained on our Web site is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and you should not consider that information to be part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

OVERVIEW OF OUR BUSINESS 

Our principal investment objective is to maximize our portfolio's total return by generating current income from our debt investments and capital appreciation from our equity and equity related investments, including warrants, convertible securities and other rights to acquire equity securities in a portfolio company. Our LMM companies generally have annual revenues between $10 million and $150 million, and our LMM portfolio investments generally range in size from $5 million to $50 million. Our Middle Market investments are made in businesses that are generally larger in size than our LMM portfolio companies, with annual revenues typically between $150 million and $1.5 billion, and our Middle Market investments generally range in size from $3 million to $15 million. Our private loan ("Private Loan") portfolio investments are primarily debt securities which have been originated through strategic relationships with other investment funds on a collaborative basis. Private Loan investments are typically similar in size, structure, terms and conditions to investments we hold in our LMM portfolio and Middle Market portfolio. 

We seek to fill the financing gap for LMM businesses, which, historically, have had more limited access to financing from commercial banks and other traditional sources. The underserved nature of the LMM creates the opportunity for us to meet the financing needs of LMM companies while also negotiating favorable transaction terms and equity participations. Our ability to invest across a company's capital structure, from secured loans to equity securities, allows us to offer portfolio companies a comprehensive suite of financing options, or a "one stop" financing solution. Providing customized, "one stop" financing solutions is important to LMM portfolio companies. We generally seek to partner directly with entrepreneurs, management teams and business owners in making our investments. Our LMM portfolio debt investments are generally secured by a first lien on the assets of the portfolio company and typically have a term of between five and seven years from the original investment date. We believe that our LMM investment strategy has limited correlation to the broader debt and equity markets. 

Our Middle Market portfolio investments primarily consist of direct investments in or secondary purchases of interest bearing debt securities in privately held companies that are generally larger in size than the companies included in our LMM portfolio. Our Middle Market portfolio debt investments are generally secured by either a first or second priority lien on the assets of the portfolio company and typically have an expected duration of between three and seven years from the original investment date. 

Our Private Loan portfolio investments are primarily debt securities which have been originated through strategic relationships with other investment funds on a collaborative basis, and are often referred to in the debt markets as "club deals." Private Loan investments are typically similar in size, structure, terms and conditions to investments we hold in our LMM portfolio and Middle Market portfolio. Our Private Loan portfolio debt investments are generally secured by either a first or second priority lien on the assets of the portfolio company and typically have a term of between three and seven years from the original investment date. 

Our other portfolio ("Other Portfolio") investments primarily consist of investments which are not consistent with the typical profiles for our LMM, Middle Market or Private Loan portfolio investments, including investments which may be managed by third parties. In our Other Portfolio, we may incur indirect fees and expenses in connection with investments managed by third parties, such as investments in other investment companies or private funds. 

Our external asset management business is conducted through our External Investment Manager. The External Investment Manager earns management fees based on the assets of the funds under management and may earn incentive fees, or a carried interest, based on the performance of the funds managed. We have entered into an agreement to provide the External Investment Manager with asset management service support in connection with its asset management business generally, and specifically for its relationship with HMS Income Fund, Inc. ("HMS Income"). Through this agreement, we provide management and other services to the External Investment Manager, as well as access to our employees, infrastructure, business relationships, management expertise and capital raising capabilities. In the first quarter of 2014, we began charging the External Investment Manager for these services. 

Our portfolio investments are generally made through MSCC and the Funds. MSCC and the Funds share the same investment strategies and criteria, although they are subject to different regulatory regimes (see "Regulation"). An investor's return in MSCC will depend, in part, on the Funds' investment returns as they are wholly owned subsidiaries of MSCC. 

The level of new portfolio investment activity will fluctuate from period to period based upon our view of the current economic fundamentals, our ability to identify new investment opportunities that meet our investment criteria, and our ability to consummate the identified opportunities. The level of new investment activity, and associated interest and fee income, will directly impact future investment income. In addition, the level of dividends paid by portfolio companies and the portion of our portfolio debt investments on non-accrual status will directly impact future investment income. While we intend to grow our portfolio and our investment income over the long term, our growth and our operating results may be more limited during depressed economic periods. However, we intend to appropriately manage our cost structure and liquidity position based on applicable economic conditions and our investment outlook. The level of realized gains or losses and unrealized appreciation or depreciation on our investments will also fluctuate depending upon portfolio activity, economic conditions and the performance of our individual portfolio companies. The changes in realized gains and losses and unrealized appreciation or depreciation could have a material impact on our operating results. 

Because we are internally managed, we do not pay any external investment advisory fees, but instead directly incur the operating costs associated with employing investment and portfolio management professionals. We believe that our internally managed structure provides us with a beneficial operating expense structure when compared to other publicly traded and privately held investment firms which are externally managed, and our internally managed structure allows us the opportunity to leverage our non-interest operating expenses as we grow our Investment Portfolio. 

During May 2012, we entered into an investment sub-advisory agreement with HMS Adviser, LP ("HMS Adviser"), which is the investment advisor to HMS Income, a non-publicly traded BDC whose registration statement on Form N-2 was declared effective by the SEC in June 2012, to provide certain investment advisory services to HMS Adviser. In December 2013, after obtaining required no-action relief from the SEC to allow us to own a registered investment adviser, we assigned the sub-advisory agreement to the External Investment Manager since the fees received from such arrangement could otherwise have negative consequences on our ability to meet the source-of-income requirement necessary for us to maintain our RIC tax treatment. Under the investment sub-advisory agreement, the External Investment Manager is entitled to 50% of the base management fee and the incentive fees earned by HMS Adviser under its advisory agreement with HMS Income. 

During April 2014, we received an exemptive order from the SEC permitting co-investments by us and HMS Income in certain negotiated transactions where co-investing would otherwise be prohibited under the 1940 Act. We have made, and in the future intend to continue to make, such co-investments with HMS Income in accordance with the conditions of the order. The order requires, among other things, that we and the External Investment Manager consider whether each such investment opportunity is appropriate for HMS Income and, if it is appropriate, to propose an allocation of the investment opportunity between us and HMS Income. Because the External Investment Manager may receive performance-based fee compensation from HMS Income, this may provide it an incentive to allocate opportunities to HMS Income instead of us. 

RECENT DEVELOPMENTS 

During January 2016, we fully exited our debt and equity investments in Southern RV, LLC, a four-location dealer of new and used recreational vehicles ("RV") and its affiliated real estate entity (together, "Southern RV") through a sale of Southern RV's assets and business. Southern RV has facilities in Tyler, TX, Bossier City, LA, Lafayette, LA, and Biloxi, MS and also engages in financing, parts sales and RV services. Southern RV's predecessor was originally founded in 2000 and offers its customers a variety of Travel Trailers, Fifth Wheels, Toy Haulers, Class A Motorhomes, and Class C Motorhomes from top-selling 

manufacturers. We made our initial investment in Southern RV in August 2013 and realized a gain of approximately $14.4 million on the exit of our equity investments in Southern RV. 

During February 2016, we led a new portfolio investment totaling $15.0 million of invested capital in UniRush, LLC ("UniRush") to fund UniRush's growth initiatives and refinance existing debt, with us funding $12.0 million of the investment. The investment in UniRush consisted of first-lien, senior secured term debt. In addition, we and our co-investor provided UniRush a $5.0 million delayed draw term loan facility to support its future growth opportunities. Headquartered in Cincinnati, Ohio and founded in 2003, UniRush is a leading provider of prepaid debit card solutions branded under the "RushCard" and "Rapid PayCard". RushCard was one of the first prepaid, reloadable Visa debit card programs, and provides financial services for the more than 65 million individuals in the United States who cannot or choose not to establish a traditional banking relationship. Rapid PayCard is a provider of prepaid, payroll debit cards for employers as an alternative to issuing paper checks to employees. 

During February 2016, we declared regular monthly dividends of $0.180 per share for each of April, May and June 2016. These regular monthly dividends equal a total of $0.540 per share for the second quarter of 2016. The second quarter 2016 regular monthly dividends represent a 2.9% increase from the dividends declared for the second quarter of 2015. Including the dividends declared for the second quarter of 2016, we will have paid $16.960 per share in cumulative dividends since our October 2007 initial public offering. 

BUSINESS STRATEGIES 

Our principal investment objective is to maximize our portfolio's total return by generating current income from our debt investments and realizing capital appreciation from our equity and equity-related investments, including warrants, convertible securities and other rights to acquire equity securities in a portfolio company. We have adopted the following business strategies to achieve our investment objective: 

&#149; Deliver Customized Financing Solutions in the Lower Middle Market. We offer LMM portfolio companies customized debt and equity financing solutions that are tailored to the facts and circumstances of each situation. We believe our ability to provide a broad range of customized financing solutions to LMM companies sets us apart from other capital providers that focus on providing a limited number of financing solutions. Our ability to invest across a company's capital structure, from senior secured loans to subordinated debt to equity securities, allows us to offer LMM portfolio companies a comprehensive suite of financing options, or a "one-stop" financing solution. &#149; Focus on Established Companies. We generally invest in companies with established market positions, experienced management teams and proven revenue streams. We believe that those companies generally possess better risk-adjusted return profiles than newer companies that are building their management teams or are in the early stages of building a revenue base. We also believe that established companies in our targeted size range also generally provide opportunities for capital appreciation. &#149; Leverage the Skills and Experience of Our Investment Team. Our investment team has significant experience in lending to and investing in LMM and Middle Market companies. The members of our investment team have broad investment backgrounds, with prior experience at private investment funds, investment banks and other financial services companies, and currently include five certified public accountants and three Chartered Financial Analyst&#174; (CFA) charter holders. The expertise of our investment team in analyzing, valuing, structuring, negotiating and closing transactions should provide us with competitive advantages by allowing us to consider customized financing solutions and non-traditional or complex structures for our portfolio companies. Also, the reputation of our investment team has and should continue to enable us to generate additional revenue in the form of management and incentive fees in connection with us providing advisory services to other investment funds. &#149; Invest Across Multiple Companies, Industries, Regions and End Markets. We seek to maintain a portfolio of investments that is appropriately balanced among various companies, industries, geographic 5 

regions and end markets. This portfolio balance is intended to mitigate the potential effects of negative economic events for particular companies, regions, industries and end markets. 

&#149; Capitalize on Strong Transaction Sourcing Network. Our investment team seeks to leverage its extensive network of referral sources for portfolio company investments. We have developed a reputation in our marketplace as a responsive, efficient and reliable source of financing, which has created a growing stream of proprietary deal flow for us. &#149; Benefit from Lower, Fixed, Long-Term Cost of Capital. The SBIC licenses held by the Funds have allowed them to issue SBA-guaranteed debentures. SBA-guaranteed debentures carry long-term fixed interest rates that are generally lower than interest rates on comparable bank loans and other debt. Because lower cost SBA leverage is, and will continue to be, a significant part of our capital base through the Funds, our relative cost of debt capital should be lower than many of our competitors. In addition, the SBIC leverage that we receive through the Funds represents a stable, long-term component of our capital structure with proper matching of duration and cost compared to our LMM portfolio investments. We also maintain an investment grade rating from Standard &#38; Poor's Ratings Services which provides us the opportunity and flexibility to obtain additional, attractive long-term financing options to supplement our capital structure. INVESTMENT CRITERIA 

Our investment team has identified the following investment criteria that it believes are important in evaluating prospective portfolio companies. Our investment team uses these criteria in evaluating investment opportunities. However, not all of these criteria have been, or will be, met in connection with each of our investments: 

&#149; Proven Management Team with Meaningful Equity Stake. We look for operationally-oriented management with direct industry experience and a successful track record. In addition, we expect the management team of each LMM portfolio company to have meaningful equity ownership in the portfolio company to better align our respective economic interests. We believe management teams with these attributes are more likely to manage the companies in a manner that both protects our debt investment and enhances the value of our equity investment. &#149; Established Companies with Positive Cash Flow. We seek to invest in established companies with sound historical financial performance. We typically focus on LMM companies that have historically generated EBITDA of $3 million to $20 million and commensurate levels of free cash flow. We also pursue investments in debt securities of Middle Market companies that are generally established companies with sound historical financial performance that are generally larger in size than LMM companies. We generally do not invest in start-up companies or companies with speculative business plans. &#149; Defensible Competitive Advantages/Favorable Industry Position. We primarily focus on companies having competitive advantages in their respective markets and/or operating in industries with barriers to entry, which may help to protect their market position and profitability. &#149; Exit Alternatives. We exit our debt investments primarily through the repayment of our investment from internally generated cash flow of the portfolio company and/or a refinancing. In addition, we seek to invest in companies whose business models and expected future cash flows may provide alternate methods of repaying our investment, such as through a strategic acquisition by other industry participants or a recapitalization. INVESTMENT PORTFOLIO 

The Investment Portfolio, as used herein, refers to all of our investments in LMM portfolio companies, investments in Middle Market portfolio companies, Private Loan portfolio investments, Other Portfolio investments, and the investment in the External Investment Manager, but excludes all "Marketable securities 

and idle funds investments". Our LMM portfolio investments primarily consist of secured debt, equity warrants and direct equity investments in privately held, LMM companies based in the United States. Our Middle Market portfolio investments primarily consist of direct investments in or secondary purchases of interest-bearing debt securities in privately held companies based in the United States that are generally larger in size than the companies included in our LMM portfolio. Our Private Loan portfolio investments primarily consist of investments in interest-bearing debt securities in companies that are consistent with the size of companies in our LMM portfolio or our Middle Market portfolio, but are investments that we originate on a collaborative basis with other investment funds, and are often referred to in the debt markets as "club deals." Our Other Portfolio investments primarily consist of investments which are not consistent with the typical profiles for our LMM, Middle Market and Private Loan portfolio investments, including investments which may be managed by third parties. In our Other Portfolio, we may incur indirect fees and expenses in connection with investments managed by third parties, such as investments in other investment companies or private funds. 

Debt Investments 

Historically, we have made LMM debt investments principally in the form of single tranche debt. Single tranche debt financing involves issuing one debt security that blends the risk and return profiles of both first-lien secured and subordinated debt. We believe that single tranche debt is more appropriate for many LMM companies given their size in order to reduce structural complexity and potential conflicts among creditors. 

Our LMM debt investments generally have a term of five to seven years from the original investment date, with limited required amortization prior to maturity, and provide for monthly or quarterly payment of interest at fixed interest rates generally between 10% and 14% per annum, payable currently in cash. In some instances, we have provided floating interest rates for our single tranche debt securities. In addition, certain LMM debt investments may have a form of interest that is not paid currently but is accrued and added to the loan balance and paid at maturity. We refer to this form of interest as payment-in-kind, or PIK, interest. We typically structure our LMM debt investments with the maximum seniority and collateral that we can reasonably obtain while seeking to achieve our total return target. In most cases, our LMM debt investment will be collateralized by a first priority lien on substantially all the assets of the portfolio company. In addition to seeking a senior lien position in the capital structure of our LMM portfolio companies, we seek to limit the downside potential of our LMM debt investments by negotiating covenants that are designed to protect our LMM debt investments while affording our portfolio companies as much flexibility in managing their businesses as is reasonable. Such restrictions may include affirmative and negative covenants, default penalties, lien protection, change of control or change of management provisions, key-man life insurance, guarantees, equity pledges, personal guaranties, where appropriate, and put rights. In addition, we typically seek board representation or observation rights in all of our LMM portfolio companies. 

While we will continue to focus our LMM debt investments primarily on single tranche debt investments, we also anticipate structuring some of our debt investments as mezzanine loans. We anticipate that these mezzanine loans will be primarily junior secured or unsecured, subordinated loans that provide for relatively high fixed interest rates payable currently in cash that will provide us with significant interest income plus the additional opportunity for income and gains through PIK interest and equity warrants and other similar equity instruments issued in conjunction with these mezzanine loans. These loans typically will have interest-only payments in the early years, with amortization of principal deferred to the later years of the mezzanine loan term. Typically, our mezzanine loans will have maturities of three to five years. We will generally target fixed interest rates of 12% to 14%, payable currently in cash for our mezzanine loan investments with higher targeted total returns from equity warrants or PIK interest. 

We also pursue debt investments in Middle Market companies. Our Middle Market portfolio investments primarily consist of direct investments or secondary purchases of interest-bearing debt securities in privately held companies based in the United States that are generally larger in size than the companies included in our LMM portfolio. Our Middle Market portfolio debt investments are generally secured by either a first or second priority lien on the assets of the portfolio company and typically have a term of between three and 

seven years from the original investment date. The debt investments in our Middle Market portfolio have rights and protections that are similar to those in our LMM debt investments, which may include affirmative and negative covenants, default penalties, lien protection, change of control provisions, guarantees and equity pledges. The Middle Market debt investments generally have floating interest rates at LIBOR plus a margin, and are typically subject to LIBOR floors. 

Our Private Loan portfolio investments primarily consist of investments in interest-bearing debt securities in companies that are consistent with the size of companies in our LMM portfolio or our Middle Market portfolio, but are investments which have been originated through strategic relationships with other investment funds on a collaborative basis. Our Private Loan portfolio debt investments are generally secured by either a first or second priority lien and typically have a term of between three and seven years from the original investment date. 

Warrants 

In connection with a portion of our LMM debt investments, we have historically received equity warrants to establish or increase our equity interest in the LMM portfolio company. Warrants we receive in connection with a LMM debt investment typically require only a nominal cost to exercise, and thus, as a LMM portfolio company appreciates in value, we may achieve additional investment return from this equity interest. We typically structure the warrants to provide provisions protecting our rights as a minority-interest holder, as well as secured or unsecured put rights, or rights to sell such securities back to the LMM portfolio company, upon the occurrence of specified events. In certain cases, we also may obtain registration rights in connection with these equity interests, which may include demand and "piggyback" registration rights. 

Direct Equity Investments 

We also will seek to make direct equity investments in situations where it is appropriate to align our interests with key management and stockholders of our LMM portfolio companies, and to allow for participation in the appreciation in the equity values of our LMM portfolio companies. We usually make our direct equity investments in connection with debt investments. In addition, we may have both equity warrants and direct equity positions in some of our LMM portfolio companies. We seek to maintain fully diluted equity positions in our LMM portfolio companies of 5% to 50%, and may have controlling equity interests in some instances. We have a value orientation toward our direct equity investments and have traditionally been able to purchase our equity investments at reasonable valuations. 

INVESTMENT PROCESS 

Our investment committee is responsible for all aspects of our LMM investment process. The current members of our investment committee are Vincent D. Foster, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Dwayne L. Hyzak, our President, Chief Operating Officer and Senior Managing Director, Curtis L. Hartman, our Vice Chairman, Chief Credit Officer and Senior Managing Director, and David Magdol, our Vice Chairman, Chief Investment Officer and Senior Managing Director. 

Our credit committee is responsible for all aspects of our Middle Market portfolio investment process. The current members of our credit committee are Messrs. Foster, Hartman and Rodger A. Stout, our Executive Vice President. 

Investment process responsibility for each Private Loan portfolio investment is delegated to either the investment committee or the credit committee based upon the nature of the investment and the manner in which it was originated. Similarly, the investment processes for each Private Loan portfolio investment, from origination to close and to eventual exit, will follow the processes for our LMM portfolio investments or our Middle Market portfolio investments as outlined below, or a combination thereof. 

Our investment strategy involves a "team" approach, whereby potential transactions are screened by several members of our investment team before being presented to the investment committee or the credit 

committee, as applicable. Our investment committee and credit committee each meet on an as needed basis depending on transaction volume. We generally categorize our investment process into seven distinct stages: 

Deal Generation/Origination 

Deal generation and origination is maximized through long-standing and extensive relationships with industry contacts, brokers, commercial and investment bankers, entrepreneurs, service providers such as lawyers, financial advisors, accountants and current and former portfolio companies and investors. Our investment team has focused its deal generation and origination efforts on LMM and Middle Market companies, and we have developed a reputation as a knowledgeable, reliable and active source of capital and assistance in these markets. 

Screening 

During the screening process, if a transaction initially meets our investment criteria, we will perform preliminary due diligence, taking into consideration some or all of the following information: 

&#149; a comprehensive financial model based on quantitative analysis of historical financial performance, projections and pro forma adjustments to determine the estimated internal rate of return; &#149; a brief industry and market analysis; &#149; direct industry expertise imported from other portfolio companies or investors; &#149; preliminary qualitative analysis of the management team's competencies and backgrounds; &#149; potential investment structures and pricing terms; and &#149; regulatory compliance. Upon successful screening of a proposed LMM transaction, the investment team makes a recommendation to our investment committee. If our investment committee concurs with moving forward on the proposed LMM transaction, we typically issue a non-binding term sheet to the company. For Middle Market portfolio investments, the initial term sheet is typically issued by the borrower, through the syndicating bank, and is screened by the investment team which makes a recommendation to our credit committee. 

Term Sheet 

For proposed LMM transactions, the non-binding term sheet will include the key economic terms based upon our analysis performed during the screening process as well as a proposed timeline and our qualitative expectation for the transaction. While the term sheet for LMM investments is non-binding, we typically receive an expense deposit in order to move the transaction to the due diligence phase. Upon execution of a term sheet, we begin our formal due diligence process. 

For proposed Middle Market transactions, the initial term sheet will include key economic terms and other conditions proposed by the borrower and its representatives and the proposed timeline for the investment, which are reviewed by our investment team to determine if such terms and conditions are in agreement with our investment objectives. 

Due Diligence 

Due diligence on a proposed LMM investment is performed by a minimum of two of our investment professionals, whom we refer to collectively as the investment team, and certain external resources, who together conduct due diligence to understand the relationships among the prospective portfolio company's 

business plan, operations and financial performance. Our LMM due diligence review includes some or all of the following: 

&#149; site visits with management and key personnel; &#149; detailed review of historical and projected financial statements; &#149; operational reviews and analysis; &#149; interviews with customers and suppliers; &#149; detailed evaluation of company management, including background checks; &#149; review of material contracts; &#149; in-depth industry, market and strategy analysis; &#149; regulatory compliance analysis; and &#149; review by legal, environmental or other consultants, if applicable. Due diligence on a proposed Middle Market investment is generally performed on materials and information obtained from certain external resources and assessed internally by a minimum of two of our investment professionals, who work to understand the relationships among the prospective portfolio company's business plan, operations and financial performance using the accumulated due diligence information. Our Middle Market due diligence review includes some or all of the following: 

&#149; detailed review of historical and projected financial statements; &#149; in-depth industry, market, operational and strategy analysis; &#149; regulatory compliance analysis; and &#149; detailed review of the company's management team and their capabilities. During the due diligence process, significant attention is given to sensitivity analyses and how the company might be expected to perform given downside, base-case and upside scenarios. In certain cases, we may decide not to make an investment based on the results of the diligence process. 

Document and Close 

Upon completion of a satisfactory due diligence review of a proposed LMM portfolio investment, the investment team presents the findings and a recommendation to our investment committee. The presentation contains information which can include, but is not limited to, the following: 

&#149; company history and overview; &#149; transaction overview, history and rationale, including an analysis of transaction strengths and risks; &#149; analysis of key customers and suppliers and key contracts; &#149; a working capital analysis; &#149; an analysis of the company's business strategy; &#149; a management and key equity investor background check and assessment; &#149; third-party accounting, legal, environmental or other due diligence findings; &#149; investment structure and expected returns; &#149; anticipated sources of repayment and potential exit strategies; &#149; pro forma capitalization and ownership; 10 

&#149; an analysis of historical financial results and key financial ratios; &#149; sensitivities to management's financial projections; &#149; regulatory compliance analysis findings; and &#149; detailed reconciliations of historical to pro forma results. Upon completion of a satisfactory due diligence review of a proposed Middle Market portfolio investment, the investment team presents the findings and a recommendation to our credit committee. The presentation contains information which can include, but is not limited to, the following: 

&#149; company history and overview; &#149; transaction overview, history and rationale, including an analysis of transaction strengths and risks; &#149; analysis of key customers and suppliers; &#149; an analysis of the company's business strategy; &#149; investment structure and expected returns; &#149; anticipated sources of repayment and potential exit strategies; &#149; pro forma capitalization and ownership; &#149; regulatory compliance analysis findings; and &#149; an analysis of historical financial results and key financial ratios. If any adjustments to the transaction terms or structures are proposed by the investment committee or credit committee, as applicable, such changes are made and applicable analyses are updated prior to approval of the transaction. Approval for the transaction must be made by the affirmative vote from a majority of the members of the investment committee or credit committee, as applicable, with the committee member managing the transaction, if any, abstaining from the vote. Upon receipt of transaction approval, we will re-confirm regulatory compliance, process and finalize all required legal documents, and fund the investment. 

Post-Investment 

We continuously monitor the status and progress of the portfolio companies. We generally offer managerial assistance to our portfolio companies, giving them access to our investment experience, direct industry expertise and contacts. The same investment team that was involved in the investment process will continue its involvement in the portfolio company post-investment. This provides for continuity of knowledge and allows the investment team to maintain a strong business relationship with key management of our portfolio companies for post-investment assistance and monitoring purposes. As part of the monitoring process of LMM portfolio investments, the investment team will analyze monthly and quarterly financial statements versus the previous periods and year, review financial projections, meet and discuss issues or opportunities with management, attend board meetings and review all compliance certificates and covenants. While we maintain limited involvement in the ordinary course operations of our LMM portfolio companies, we maintain a higher level of involvement in non-ordinary course financing or strategic activities and any non-performing scenarios. We also monitor the performance of our Middle Market portfolio investments; however, due to the larger size and higher sophistication level of these Middle Market companies in comparison to our LMM portfolio companies, it is not necessary or practical to have as much direct management interface. 

We utilize an internally developed investment rating system to rate the performance of each LMM portfolio company and to monitor our expected level of returns on each of our LMM investments in relation to our expectations for the portfolio company. The investment rating system takes into consideration various factors, including, but not limited to, each investment's expected level of returns, the collectability of our debt investments and the ability to receive a return of the invested capital in our equity investments, comparisons 

to competitors and other industry participants, the portfolio company's future outlook and other factors that are deemed to be significant to the portfolio company. 

&#149; Investment Rating 1 represents a LMM portfolio company that is performing in a manner which significantly exceeds expectations. &#149; Investment Rating 2 represents a LMM portfolio company that, in general, is performing above expectations. &#149; Investment Rating 3 represents a LMM portfolio company that is generally performing in accordance with expectations. &#149; Investment Rating 4 represents a LMM portfolio company that is underperforming expectations. Investments with such a rating require increased monitoring and scrutiny by us. &#149; Investment Rating 5 represents a LMM portfolio company that is significantly underperforming. Investments with such a rating require heightened levels of monitoring and scrutiny by us and involve the recognition of significant unrealized depreciation on such investment. All new LMM portfolio investments receive an initial Investment Rating of 3. 

Exit Strategies/Refinancing 

While we generally exit most investments through the refinancing or repayment of our debt and redemption of our equity positions, we typically assist our LMM portfolio companies in developing and planning exit opportunities, including any sale or merger of our portfolio companies. We may also assist in the structure, timing, execution and transition of the exit strategy. The refinancing or repayment of Middle Market debt investments typically does not require our assistance due to the additional resources available to these larger, Middle Market companies. 

DETERMINATION OF NET ASSET VALUE AND INVESTMENT PORTFOLIO VALUATION PROCESS 

We determine the net asset value per share of our common stock on a quarterly basis. The net asset value per share is equal to our total assets minus liabilities and any noncontrolling interests outstanding divided by the total number of shares of common stock outstanding. 

We are required to report our investments at fair value. As a result, the most significant determination inherent in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements is the valuation of our Investment Portfolio and the related amounts of unrealized appreciation and depreciation. We follow the provisions of the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") Accounting Standards Codification ("Codification" or "ASC") 820, Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures ("ASC 820"). ASC 820 defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value, establishes a fair value hierarchy based on the quality of inputs used to measure fair value, and enhances disclosure requirements for fair value measurements. ASC 820 requires us to assume that the portfolio investment is to be sold in the principal market to independent market participants, which may be a hypothetical market. Market participants are defined as buyers and sellers in the principal market that are independent, knowledgeable and willing and able to transact. 

We determine in good faith the fair value of our Investment Portfolio pursuant to a valuation policy in accordance with ASC 820 and a valuation process approved by our Board of Directors and in accordance with the 1940 Act. Our valuation policies and processes are intended to provide a consistent basis for determining the fair value of our Investment Portfolio. See "Note B.1. &#151; Valuation of the Investment Portfolio" in the notes to consolidated financial statements for a detailed discussion of our investment portfolio valuation process and procedures. 

Due to the inherent uncertainty in the valuation process, our determination of fair value for our Investment Portfolio may differ materially from the values that would have been determined had a ready market for the securities existed. In addition, changes in the market environment, portfolio company performance and other events that may occur over the lives of the investments may cause the gains or losses ultimately realized on these investments to be materially different than the valuations currently assigned. We determine the fair value of each individual investment and record changes in fair value as unrealized appreciation or depreciation. 

As described below, we undertake a multi-step valuation process each quarter in connection with determining the fair value of our investments, with our Board of Directors having final responsibility for overseeing, reviewing and approving, in good faith, our determination of the fair value for our Investment Portfolio and our valuation procedures, consistent with 1940 Act requirements. In addition, the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors periodically evaluates the performance and methodologies of the financial advisory services firm that we consult in connection with valuing our LLM portfolio company investments. 

&#149; Our quarterly valuation process begins with each LMM and Private Loan portfolio company investment being initially valued by the investment team responsible for monitoring the portfolio investment; &#149; The fair value determination for our Middle Market and Other Portfolio debt and equity investments and our investment in the External Investment Manager consists of unobservable and observable inputs which are initially reviewed by the investment professionals responsible for monitoring the portfolio investment; &#149; Preliminary valuation conclusions are then reviewed by and discussed with senior management, and the investment team considers and assesses, as appropriate, any changes that may be required to the preliminary valuations to address any comments provided by senior management; &#149; A nationally recognized independent financial advisory services firm performs certain mutually agreed upon limited procedures on a selection of management's LMM portfolio company valuation conclusions; &#149; The Audit Committee of our Board of Directors reviews management's valuations, and the investment team and senior management consider and assess, as appropriate, any changes that may be required to management's valuations to address any comments provided by the Audit Committee; and &#149; The Board of Directors assesses the valuations and ultimately approves the fair value of each investment in our portfolio in good faith. Determination of fair value involves subjective judgments and estimates. The notes to our financial statements refer to the uncertainty with respect to the possible effect of such valuations, and any change in such valuations, on our financial results and financial condition. 

COMPETITION 

We compete for investments with a number of investment funds (including private equity funds, mezzanine funds, BDCs, and SBICs), as well as traditional financial services companies such as commercial banks and other sources of financing. Many of the entities that compete with us are larger and have more resources available to them. We believe we are able to be competitive with these entities primarily on the basis of our focus toward the underserved LMM, the experience and contacts of our management team, our responsive and efficient investment analysis and decision-making processes, our comprehensive suite of customized financing solutions and the investment terms we offer. 

We believe that some of our competitors make senior secured loans, junior secured loans and subordinated debt investments with interest rates and returns that are comparable to or lower than the rates and returns that we target. Therefore, we do not seek to compete primarily on the interest rates and returns that we offer to potential portfolio companies. For additional information concerning the competitive risks we 

face, see "Risk Factors &#151; Risks Related to Our Business and Structure &#151; We may face increasing competition for investment opportunities". 

EMPLOYEES 

As of December 31, 2015, we had 50 employees. These employees include investment and portfolio management professionals, operations professionals and administrative staff. As necessary, we will hire additional investment professionals and administrative personnel. All of our employees are located in our Houston, Texas office. 

REGULATION 

Regulation as a Business Development Company 

We have elected to be regulated as a BDC under the 1940 Act. The 1940 Act contains prohibitions and restrictions relating to transactions between BDCs and their affiliates, principal underwriters and affiliates of those affiliates or underwriters. The 1940 Act requires that a majority of the members of the board of directors of a BDC be persons other than "interested persons," as that term is defined in the 1940 Act. In addition, the 1940 Act provides that we may not change the nature of our business so as to cease to be, or to withdraw our election as, a BDC unless approved by a majority of our outstanding voting securities. 

The 1940 Act defines "a majority of the outstanding voting securities" as the lesser of (i) 67% or more of the voting securities present at a meeting if the holders of more than 50% of our outstanding voting securities are present or represented by proxy or (ii) more than 50% of our outstanding voting securities. 

Qualifying Assets 

Under the 1940 Act, a BDC may not acquire any asset other than assets of the type listed in Section 55(a) of the 1940 Act, which are referred to as qualifying assets, unless, at the time the acquisition is made, qualifying assets represent at least 70% of the company's total assets. The principal categories of qualifying assets relevant to our business are any of the following: 

(1) Securities purchased in transactions not involving any public offering from the issuer of such securities, which issuer (subject to certain limited exceptions) is an eligible portfolio company (as defined below), or from any person who is, or has been during the preceding 13 months, an affiliated person of an eligible portfolio company, or from any other person, subject to such rules as may be prescribed by the SEC. (2) Securities of any eligible portfolio company that we control. (3) Securities purchased in a private transaction from a U.S. issuer that is not an investment company or from an affiliated person of the issuer, or in transactions incident thereto, if the issuer is in bankruptcy and subject to reorganization or if the issuer, immediately prior to the purchase of its securities was unable to meet its obligations as they came due without material assistance other than conventional lending or financing arrangements. (4) Securities of an eligible portfolio company purchased from any person in a private transaction if there is no ready market for such securities and we already own 60% of the outstanding equity of the eligible portfolio company. (5) Securities received in exchange for or distributed on or with respect to securities described in (1) through (4) above, or pursuant to the exercise of warrants or rights relating to such securities. (6) Cash, cash equivalents, U.S. government securities or high-quality debt securities maturing in one year or less from the time of investment. 14 

In addition, a BDC must have been organized and have its principal place of business in the United States and must be operated for the purpose of making investments in the types of securities described in (1), (2) or (3) above. 

An eligible portfolio company is defined in the 1940 Act as any issuer which: 

(a) is organized under the laws of, and has its principal place of business in, the United States; (b) is not an investment company (other than a small business investment company wholly owned by the BDC) or a company that would be an investment company but for certain exclusions under the 1940 Act; and (c) satisfies any of the following: (i) does not have any class of securities that is traded on a national securities exchange or has a class of securities listed on a national securities exchange but has an aggregate market value of outstanding voting and non-voting common equity of less than $250 million; (ii) is controlled by a BDC or a group of companies including a BDC and the BDC has an affiliated person who is a director of the eligible portfolio company; or (iii) is a small and solvent company having total assets of not more than $4 million and capital and surplus of not less than $2 million. Managerial Assistance to Portfolio Companies 

As noted above, a BDC must be operated for the purpose of making investments in the type of securities described in (1), (2) or (3) above under the heading entitled "&#151; Qualifying Assets." In addition, BDCs must generally offer to make available to such issuer of the securities (other than small and solvent companies described above) significant managerial assistance; except that, where we purchase such securities in conjunction with one or more other persons acting together, one of the other persons in the group may make available such managerial assistance. Making available managerial assistance means, among other things, any arrangement whereby the BDC, through its directors, officers or employees, offers to provide, and, if accepted, does so provide, significant guidance and counsel concerning the management, operations or business objectives and policies of a portfolio company. 

Temporary Investments 

Pending investment in "qualifying assets," as described above, our investments may consist of cash, cash equivalents, U.S. government securities and high quality debt securities maturing in one year or less from time of investment therein, so that 70% of our assets are qualifying assets. 

Senior Securities 

We are permitted, under specified conditions, to issue multiple classes of debt and one class of stock senior to our common stock if our asset coverage, as defined in the 1940 Act, is at least equal to 200% of all debt and/or senior stock immediately after each such issuance. In addition, while any senior securities remain outstanding (other than senior securities representing indebtedness issued in consideration of a privately arranged loan which is not intended to be publicly distributed), we must make provisions to prohibit any distribution to our stockholders or the repurchase of such securities or shares unless we meet the applicable asset coverage ratios at the time of the distribution or repurchase. We may also borrow amounts up to 5% of the value of our total assets for temporary or emergency purposes without regard to asset coverage. For a discussion of the risks associated with leverage, see "Risk Factors &#151; Risks Relating to Our Business and Structure," including, without limitation, "&#151; Because we borrow money, the potential for gain or loss on amounts invested in us is magnified and may increase the risk of investing in us." 

We have previously received an exemptive order from the SEC to exclude debt securities issued by MSMF and any other wholly owned subsidiaries of ours which operate as SBICs from the asset coverage requirements of the 1940 Act as applicable to Main Street. The exemptive order provides for the exclusion of all debt securities issued by the Funds, including the $225.0 million of currently outstanding debt, related to their participation in the SBIC program. This exemptive order provides us with expanded capacity and flexibility in obtaining future sources of capital for our investment and operational objectives. 

Common Stock 

We are not generally able to issue and sell our common stock at a price below net asset value per share. We may, however, sell our common stock, warrants, options or rights to acquire our common stock, at a price below the current net asset value of the common stock if our board of directors determines that such sale is in our best interests and that of our stockholders, and our stockholders approve such sale. In any such case, the price at which our securities are to be issued and sold may not be less than a price which, in the determination of our board of directors, closely approximates the market value of such securities (less any distributing commission or discount). We did not seek stockholder authorization to sell shares of our common stock below the then current net asset value per share of our common stock at our 2015 annual meeting of stockholders because our common stock price per share had been trading significantly above the current net asset value per share of our common stock, and we do not currently expect to seek such approval at our 2016 annual meeting of stockholders for the same reason. Our stockholders have previously approved a proposal that authorizes us to issue securities to subscribe to, convert to, or purchase shares of our common stock in one or more offerings. We may also make rights offerings to our stockholders at prices per share less than the net asset value per share, subject to applicable requirements of the 1940 Act. See "Risk Factors &#151; Risks Relating to Our Business and Structure &#151; Stockholders may incur dilution if we sell shares of our common stock in one or more offerings at prices below the then current net asset value per share of our common stock or issue securities to subscribe to, convert to or purchase shares of our common stock." 

Code of Ethics 

We have adopted a code of ethics pursuant to Rule 17j-1 under the 1940 Act that establishes procedures for personal investments and restricts certain personal securities transactions. Personnel subject to the code may invest in securities for their personal investment accounts, including securities that may be purchased or held by us, so long as such investments are made in accordance with the code's requirements. You may read and copy the code of ethics at the SEC's Public Reference Room located at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. You may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. In addition, the code of ethics is available on the EDGAR Database on the SEC's Web site at http://www.sec.gov. 

Proxy Voting Policies and Procedures 

We vote proxies relating to our portfolio securities in a manner in which we believe is consistent with the best interest of our stockholders. We review on a case-by-case basis each proposal submitted to a stockholder vote to determine its impact on the portfolio securities held by us. Although we generally vote against proposals that we expect would have a negative impact on our portfolio securities, we may vote for such a proposal if there exists compelling long-term reasons to do so. 

Our proxy voting decisions are made by the investment team which is responsible for monitoring each of our investments. To ensure that our vote is not the product of a conflict of interest, we require that: (i) anyone involved in the decision-making process to disclose to our chief compliance officer any potential conflict of which he or she is aware and any contact that he or she has had with any interested party regarding a proxy vote and (ii) employees involved in the decision making process or vote administration are prohibited from revealing how we intend to vote on a proposal in order to reduce any attempted influence from interested parties. 

Stockholders may obtain information, without charge, regarding how we voted proxies with respect to our portfolio securities by making a written request for proxy voting information to: Chief Compliance Officer, 1300 Post Oak Boulevard, 8th floor, Houston, Texas 77056. 

Other 1940 Act Regulations 

We are also prohibited under the 1940 Act from knowingly participating in certain transactions with our affiliates without the prior approval of our Board of Directors who are not interested persons and, in some cases, prior approval by the SEC. 

We are required to provide and maintain a bond issued by a reputable fidelity insurance company to protect us against larceny and embezzlement. Furthermore, as a BDC, we are prohibited from protecting any director or officer against any liability to us or our stockholders arising from willful misfeasance, bad faith, gross negligence or reckless disregard of the duties involved in the conduct of such person's office. 

We are required to adopt and implement written policies and procedures reasonably designed to prevent violation of the federal securities laws, review these policies and procedures annually for their adequacy and the effectiveness of their implementation, and to designate a chief compliance officer to be responsible for administering the policies and procedures. 

We may be periodically examined by the SEC for compliance with the 1940 Act. 

Small Business Investment Company Regulations 

Each of the Funds is licensed by the SBA to operate as a SBIC under Section 301(c) of the Small Business Investment Act of 1958. MSMF obtained its SBIC license in 2002. MSC II obtained its license in 2006. 

SBICs are designed to stimulate the flow of private equity capital to eligible small businesses. Under SBIC regulations, SBICs may make loans to eligible small businesses, invest in the equity securities of such businesses and provide them with consulting and advisory services. Each of the Funds has typically invested in secured debt, acquired warrants and/or made equity investments in qualifying small businesses. 

Under present SBIC regulations, eligible small businesses generally include businesses that (together with their affiliates) have a tangible net worth not exceeding $19.5 million and have average annual net income after U.S. federal income taxes not exceeding $6.5 million (average net income to be computed without benefit of any carryover loss) for the two most recent fiscal years. In addition, an SBIC must devote 25% of its investment activity to "smaller" concerns as defined by the SBA. A smaller concern generally includes businesses that have a tangible net worth not exceeding $6 million and have average annual net income after U.S. federal income taxes not exceeding $2 million (average net income to be computed without benefit of any net carryover loss) for the two most recent fiscal years. SBIC regulations also provide alternative size standard criteria to determine eligibility for designation as an eligible small business or smaller concern, which criteria depend on the primary industry in which the business is engaged and are based on such factors as the number of employees and gross revenue. However, once an SBIC has invested in a company, it generally may continue to make follow on investments in the company, regardless of the size of the portfolio company at the time of the follow on investment, up to the time of the portfolio company's initial public offering. 

The SBA prohibits an SBIC from providing funds to small businesses for certain purposes, such as relending and investment outside the United States, to businesses engaged in a few prohibited industries, and to certain "passive" (non-operating) companies. In addition, without prior SBA approval, an SBIC may not invest an amount equal to more than approximately 30% of the SBIC's regulatory capital in any one portfolio company and its affiliates. 

The SBA places certain limitations on the financing terms of investments by SBICs in portfolio companies (such as limiting the permissible interest rate on debt securities held by an SBIC in a portfolio 

company). Included in such limitations are SBA regulations which allow an SBIC to exercise control over a small business for a period of seven years from the date on which the SBIC initially acquires its control position. This control period may be extended for an additional period of time with the SBA's prior written approval. 

The SBA restricts the ability of an SBIC to lend money to any of its officers, directors and employees or to invest in affiliates thereof. The SBA also prohibits, without prior SBA approval, a "change of control" of an SBIC or transfers that would result in any person (or a group of persons acting in concert) owning 10% or more of a class of equity of a licensed SBIC. A "change of control" is any event which would result in the transfer of the power, direct or indirect, to direct the management and policies of an SBIC, whether through ownership, contractual arrangements or otherwise. 

An SBIC may generally have outstanding debentures guaranteed by the SBA in amounts up to twice the amount of the privately-raised funds of the SBIC(s). Debentures guaranteed by the SBA have a maturity of ten years, require semi-annual payments of interest, do not require any principal payments prior to maturity, and are not subject to prepayment penalties. As of December 31, 2015, we, through the Funds, had $225.0 million of outstanding SBA-guaranteed debentures, which had an annual weighted-average interest rate of approximately 4.2%. 

SBICs must invest idle funds that are not being used to make loans in investments permitted under SBIC regulations in the following limited types of securities: (i) direct obligations of, or obligations guaranteed as to principal and interest by, the United States government, which mature within 15 months from the date of the investment; (ii) repurchase agreements with federally insured institutions with a maturity of seven days or less (and the securities underlying the repurchase obligations must be direct obligations of or guaranteed by the federal government); (iii) certificates of deposit with a maturity of one year or less, issued by a federally insured institution; (iv) a deposit account in a federally insured institution that is subject to a withdrawal restriction of one year or less; (v) a checking account in a federally insured institution; or (vi) a reasonable petty cash fund. 

SBICs are periodically examined and audited by the SBA's staff to determine their compliance with SBIC regulations and are periodically required to file certain financial information and other documents with the SBA. 

Neither the SBA nor the U.S. government or any of its agencies or officers has approved any ownership interest to be issued by us or any obligation that we or any of our subsidiaries may incur. 

Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Sarbanes-Oxley Act Compliance 

We are subject to the reporting and disclosure requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act"), including the filing of quarterly, annual and current reports, proxy statements and other required items. In addition, we are subject to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which imposes a wide variety of regulatory requirements on publicly-held companies and their insiders. For example: 

&#149; pursuant to Rule 13a-14 of the Exchange Act, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer are required to certify the accuracy of the financial statements contained in our periodic reports; &#149; pursuant to Item 307 of Regulation S-K, our periodic reports are required to disclose our conclusions about the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures; &#149; pursuant to Rule 13a-15 of the Exchange Act, our management is required to prepare a report regarding its assessment of our internal control over financial reporting, and our independent registered public accounting firm separately audits our internal control over financial reporting; and &#149; pursuant to Item 308 of Regulation S-K and Rule 13a-15 of the Exchange Act, our periodic reports must disclose whether there were significant changes in our internal control over financial reporting or in other factors that could significantly affect these controls subsequent to the date of their evaluation, including any corrective actions with regard to significant deficiencies and material weaknesses. 18 

The New York Stock Exchange Corporate Governance Regulations 

The New York Stock Exchange ("NYSE") has adopted corporate governance regulations that listed companies must comply with. We believe we are in compliance with such corporate governance listing standards. We intend to monitor our compliance with all future listing standards and to take all necessary actions to ensure that we stay in compliance. 

Investment Adviser Regulations 

The External Investment Manager, which is wholly owned by us, is subject to regulation under the Advisers Act. The Advisers Act establishes, among other things, recordkeeping and reporting requirements, disclosure requirements, limitations on transactions between the adviser's account and an advisory client's account, limitations on transactions between the accounts of advisory clients, and general anti-fraud prohibitions. The External Investment Manager may be examined by the SEC from time to time for compliance with the Advisers Act. 

Taxation as a Regulated Investment Company 

MSCC has elected to be treated for U.S. federal income tax purposes as a regulated investment company ("RIC") under Subchapter M of the Internal Revenue Code (the "Code"). MSCC's taxable income includes the taxable income generated by MSCC and certain of its subsidiaries, including the Funds, which are treated as disregarded entities for tax purposes. As a RIC, MSCC generally will not pay corporate-level U.S. federal income taxes on any income that we distribute to our stockholders as dividends. To qualify as a RIC, we must, among other things, meet certain source-of-income and asset diversification requirements (as described below). In addition, in order to obtain RIC tax treatment, we must distribute to our stockholders, for each taxable year, at least 90% of our "investment company taxable income," which is generally our net ordinary taxable income plus the excess of realized net short-term capital gains over realized net long-term capital losses, and 90% of our tax exempt income (the "Annual Distribution Requirement"). 

For any taxable year in which we qualify as a RIC and satisfy the Annual Distribution Requirement, we will not be subject to U.S. federal income tax on the portion of our income or capital gains we distribute (or are deemed to distribute) to stockholders. We will be subject to U.S. federal income tax at the regular corporate rates on any income or capital gains not distributed (or deemed distributed) to our stockholders. 

We will be subject to a 4% nondeductible U.S. federal excise tax on certain undistributed income unless we distribute in a timely manner an amount at least equal to the sum of (1) 98% of our net ordinary income for each calendar year, (2) 98.2% of our capital gain net income for the one-year period ending December 31 in that calendar year and (3) any income recognized, but not distributed, in preceding years (the "Excise Tax Avoidance Requirement"). Dividends declared and paid by us in a year will generally differ from taxable income for that year as such dividends may include the distribution of current year taxable income, exclude amounts carried over into the following year, and include the distribution of prior year taxable income carried over into and distributed in the current year. For amounts we carry over into the following year, we will be required to pay the 4% U.S. federal excise tax based on 98% of our annual taxable income and 98.2% of our capital gain net income in excess of distributions for the year. 

In order to qualify as a RIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we must, among other things: 

&#149; continue to qualify as a BDC under the 1940 Act at all times during each taxable year; &#149; derive in each taxable year at least 90% of our gross income from dividends, interest, payments with respect to certain securities, loans, gains from the sale of stock or other securities, net income from certain "qualified publicly traded partnerships," or other income derived with respect to our business of investing in such stock or securities (the "90% Income Test"); and 19 

&#149; diversify our holdings so that at the end of each quarter of the taxable year: &#149; at least 50% of the value of our assets consists of cash, cash equivalents, U.S. Government securities, securities of other RICs, and other securities if such other securities of any one issuer do not represent more than 5% of the value of our assets or more than 10% of the outstanding voting securities of the issuer; and &#149; no more than 25% of the value of our assets is invested in the securities, other than U.S. government securities or securities of other RICs, (i) of one issuer, (ii) of two or more issuers that are controlled, as determined under applicable Code rules, by us and that are engaged in the same or similar or related trades or businesses or (iii) of certain "qualified publicly traded partnerships" (collectively, the "Diversification Tests"). In order to comply with the 90% Income Test, we formed the Taxable Subsidiaries as wholly owned taxable subsidiaries, for the primary purpose of permitting us to own equity interests in portfolio companies which are "pass through" entities for tax purposes. Absent the taxable status of the Taxable Subsidiaries, a portion of the gross income from such portfolio companies would flow directly to us for purposes of the 90% Income Test. To the extent such income did not consist of income derived from securities, such as dividends and interest, it could jeopardize our ability to qualify as a RIC and, therefore, cause us to incur significant U.S. federal income taxes. The Taxable Subsidiaries are consolidated with Main Street for generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America ("U.S. GAAP") purposes and are included in our consolidated financial statements, and the portfolio investments held by the Taxable Subsidiaries are included in our consolidated financial statements. The Taxable Subsidiaries are not consolidated with Main Street for income tax purposes and may generate income tax expense, or benefit, as a result of their ownership of the portfolio investments. The income tax expense, or benefit, if any, and any related tax assets and liabilities, are reflected in our consolidated financial statements. 

In order to comply with the 90% Income Test, the External Investment Manager and MSCP have elected to be taxable entities. Absent the taxable status of the External Investment Manager and MSCP, the gross income from the External Investment Manager and MSCP would flow directly to us for purposes of the 90% Income Test. Since such income would likely not consist of income derived from securities, such as dividends and interest, it could jeopardize our ability to qualify as a RIC and, therefore, cause us to incur significant U.S. federal income taxes. The External Investment Manager is accounted for as a portfolio investment for U.S. GAAP purposes. Beginning April 1, 2013, MSCP is consolidated with Main Street for U.S. GAAP purposes and included in our consolidated financial statements and any income tax expense, or benefit, and any related tax assets and liabilities of MSCP are reflected in our consolidated financial statements. The External Investment Manager and MSCP are not consolidated with MSCC for income tax purposes and may generate income tax expense, or benefit, as a result of their operating activities. 

We may be required to recognize taxable income in circumstances in which we do not receive cash. For example, if we hold debt obligations that are treated under applicable tax rules as having original issue discount (such as debt instruments issued with warrants) and debt securities invested in at a discount to par, we must include in income each year a portion of the original issue discount that accrues over the life of the obligation, regardless of whether cash representing such income is received by us in the same taxable year. We may also have to include in income other amounts that we have not yet received in cash such as PIK interest, cumulative dividends or amounts that are received in non-cash compensation such as warrants or stock. Because any original issue discount or other amounts accrued will be included in our investment company taxable income for the year of accrual, we may be required to make a distribution to our stockholders in order to satisfy the Annual Distribution Requirement, even though we will not have received any corresponding cash amount. 

Although we do not presently expect to do so, we are authorized to borrow funds and to sell assets in order to satisfy distribution requirements. However, under the 1940 Act, we are not permitted to make distributions to our stockholders in certain circumstances while our debt obligations and other senior securities are outstanding unless certain "asset coverage" tests are met. See "Regulation &#151; Regulation as a 

Business Development Company &#151; Senior Securities." Moreover, our ability to dispose of assets to meet our distribution requirements may be limited by (1) the illiquid nature of our portfolio and/or (2) other requirements relating to our status as a RIC, including the Diversification Tests. If we dispose of assets in order to meet the Annual Distribution Requirement or the Excise Tax Avoidance Requirement, we may make such dispositions at times that, from an investment standpoint, are not advantageous. 

We may distribute taxable dividends that are payable in part in our stock. Under certain applicable provisions of the Code and the Treasury regulations, distributions payable by us in cash or in shares of stock (at the stockholders election) would satisfy the Annual Distribution Requirement. The Internal Revenue Service has issued private rulings indicating that this rule will apply even where the total amount of cash that may be distributed is limited to no more than 20% of the total distribution. Under these rulings, if too many stockholders elect to receive their distributions in cash, each such stockholder would receive a pro rata share of the total cash to be distributed and would receive the remainder of their distribution in shares of stock. Taxable stockholders receiving such dividends will be required to include the full amount of the dividend (whether received in cash, our stock, or a combination thereof) as (i) ordinary income (including any qualified dividend income that, in the case of a noncorporate stockholder, may be eligible for the same reduced maximum tax rate applicable to long-term capital gains to the extent such distribution is properly reported by us as qualified dividend income and such stockholder satisfies certain minimum holding period requirements with respect to our stock) or (ii) long-term capital gain (to the extent such distribution is properly reported as a capital gain dividend), to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits for U.S. federal income tax purposes. As a result, a U.S. stockholder may be required to pay tax with respect to such dividends in excess of any cash received. If a U.S. stockholder sells the stock it receives in order to pay this tax, the sales proceeds may be less than the amount included in income with respect to the dividend, depending on the market price of our stock at the time of the sale. Furthermore, with respect to non-U.S. stockholders, we may be required to withhold U.S. tax with respect to such dividends, including in respect of all or a portion of such dividend that is payable in stock. In addition, if a significant number of our stockholders determine to sell shares of our stock in order to pay taxes owed on dividends, it may put downward pressure on the trading price of our stock. 

Failure to Qualify as a RIC 

If we fail to satisfy the 90% Income Test or the Diversification Tests for any taxable year, we may nevertheless continue to qualify as a RIC for such year if certain relief provisions are applicable (which may, among other things, require us to pay certain corporate-level U.S. federal taxes or to dispose of certain assets). 

If we were unable to qualify for treatment as a RIC and the foregoing relief provisions are not applicable, we would be subject to tax on all of our taxable income at regular corporate rates. We would not be able to deduct distributions to stockholders, nor would they be required to be made. If we were subject to tax on all of our taxable income at regular corporate rates, then distributions we make after being subject to such tax would be taxable to our stockholders and, provided certain holding period and other requirements were met, could qualify for treatment as "qualified dividend income" eligible for the maximum 20% rate (plus a 3.8% Medicare surtax, if applicable) applicable to qualified dividends to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits. Subject to certain limitations under the Code, corporate distributions would be eligible for the dividends-received deduction. Distributions in excess of our current and accumulated earnings and profits would be treated first as a return of capital to the extent of the stockholder's tax basis, and any remaining distributions would be treated as a capital gain. To requalify as a RIC in a subsequent taxable year, we would be required to satisfy the RIC qualification requirements for that year and dispose of any earnings and profits from any year in which we failed to qualify as a RIC. Subject to a limited exception applicable to RICs that qualified as such under Subchapter M of the Code for at least one year prior to disqualification and that requalify as a RIC no later than the second year following the nonqualifying year, we could be subject to tax on any unrealized net built-in gains in the assets held by us during the period in which we failed to qualify as a RIC that are recognized within the subsequent 10 years, unless we made a special election to pay corporate-level tax on such built-in gain at the time of our requalification as a RIC. 

