 ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

Overview 

GTT Communications, Inc. (&#8220;GTT,&#8221; the "Company," &#8220;we&#8221; or &#8220;us&#8221;) is a provider of cloud networking services. We offer multinational clients a broad portfolio of global communications services including: EtherCloud&#174; wide area network services; Internet services; managed network and security services; and voice and unified communication services. 

Our global Tier 1 IP network delivers connectivity for our clients around the world. We provide services to leading multinational enterprises, carriers and government customers in over 100 countries. We differentiate ourselves from our competition by delivering service to our clients with simplicity, speed and agility. 

We are a Delaware corporation founded in 2005. As of December 31, 2015, we had 572 full-time equivalent employees. 

Strategy 

Multinational clients are shifting greater amounts of traffic to cloud-based applications and outsourcing IT infrastructure services, which creates significant opportunities for GTT. Our network connectivity services are designed to capitalize on these growing market demands. We believe our global networking services provide a better way for multinational clients to reach the cloud. 

Our strategy is focused on three key elements: 

Expanding cloud networking services to multinational clients. Our network assets and services are built to serve the requirements of large, global clients. These organizations have increasing demands for networking bandwidth due to the rapid adoption of cloud-based applications and increasing data usage across locations driven by increasing file sizes, voice, video conferencing and real-time collaboration tools. In addition, enterprise CIOs and technology executives are increasingly outsourcing network and IT operations so their teams can focus on application development and performance. We are one of the few non-incumbent providers with the product breadth, global scope and operating experience to meet the sophisticated networking needs of the world&#8217;s most demanding multinational clients, and we will continue to look for ways to expand our portfolio of services to meet our clients&#8217; needs. 

Extending secure network connectivity to any location in the world and any application in the cloud. We operate one of the five largest IP networks in the world and our global access footprint is one of the broadest in the industry, with services available from approximately 2,000 access suppliers around the world. This enables us to connect our clients&#8217; locations anywhere they may be located. Network connectivity is a fundamental requirement for clients to realize the full benefits of cloud computing, and they are increasingly demanding dedicated, secure and high-bandwidth connectivity between their various office locations and leading cloud service providers for mission-critical applications and services. We will continue to seek opportunities to expand our global footprint to enable our clients to connect to the cloud more efficiently and cost effectively. 

Delivering outstanding client experience by living our core values of Simplicity, Speed and Agility. We strive to be easy to work with, fast and responsive, and to say &#8220;yes&#8221; to our clients. We are committed to delivering high-quality, reliable and secure services that will continue to attract new clients and create additional opportunities with existing clients. We believe that by operating all areas of our business with simplicity, speed and agility, we are able to offer customers a better service experience than legacy, incumbent providers. 

We execute on this strategy both organically and through strategic acquisitions. We have completed many acquisitions throughout our history, and we believe we have consistently demonstrated an ability to acquire and effectively integrate companies, realize cost synergies, and organically grow revenue post-acquisition. Acquisitions have the ability to increase the scale of our operations, which in turn affords us the ability to expand our operating leverage, extend our network reach, and broaden our customer base. We believe our ability to realize significant cost synergies through acquisitions provides us with a competitive advantage in future consolidation opportunities within our industry. We will continue to evaluate potential acquisition opportunities and are regularly involved in acquisition discussions. We will evaluate these opportunities based on a number of criteria, including the strategic fit within our existing businesses, ability to integrate people, systems and network quickly, and the opportunity to create value through the realization of cost synergies. 

Global Network 

Our global network assets are deployed in North America, South America, Europe, Asia and Australia. Our Tier 1 IP network consists of over 250 points of presence in top data centers around the world, connected with resilient and redundant transport. Based on industry data, our IP backbone is consistently ranked a top five network in terms of routes. 

Our private, long-haul optical network provides the foundation for a multiprotocol label switching ("MPLS") mesh between core backbone routers in each market. We engineer our network to provide high levels of capacity and performance, even when utilizing enhanced services such as traffic analysis and filtering. We route network traffic to ensure customer applications take the shortest path possible through the network, ensuring performance, reliability and security. 

We employ a "capex light" model, which leverages the sophisticated routing and switching infrastructure in our core global network, then integrates network access leased from last mile telecommunications carriers to reach client locations. This business model benefits us and our customers. We are able to quickly add capacity as needed, avoid significant infrastructure deployment, maintenance and replacement costs, and focus solely on designing the best network solutions for our clients' specific needs. 

Service Offerings 

We deliver four primary service offerings to our customers: 

EtherCloud Services 

We provide Layer 2 (Ethernet) and Layer 3 (MPLS) solutions to meet the growing needs of multinational clients regardless of location. We design and implement custom private, public and hybrid cloud network solutions, offering bandwidth speeds from 10 Mbps to 100 Gbps per port with burstable and aggregate bandwidth capabilities. Using our advanced multipoint and VPLS functionality, customers can directly connect locations anywhere in the world with a single Ethernet port at each location, sharing information between locations as easily as over a local network. Our Ethercloud service is available in point-to-point, point-to-multipoint, multipoint-to-multipoint, and MPLS IP VPN configurations. All services are available on a protected basis with the ability to specify pre-configured alternate routes to minimize the impact of any network disruption. 

Internet Services 

We offer customers scalable, high-bandwidth global Internet connectivity and IP transit with guaranteed availability and packet delivery. Our Internet services offer flexible connectivity with multiple port interfaces including Fast Ethernet, Gigabit Ethernet, 10 Gigabit Ethernet and 100 Gigabit Ethernet. We also offer broadband and wireless access services. We support a dual stack of IPv4 and IPv6 protocols, enabling the delivery of seamless IPv6 services alongside existing IPv4 services. 

Managed Services 

We offer fully managed network services, including managed equipment, managed security services and managed secure access, enabling customers to focus on their core business. These end-to-end services cover the design, procurement, implementation, monitoring and maintenance of a customer&#8217;s network. 

&#8226; 

Managed CPE. Managed CPE provides a turnkey solution for the end-to-end management of customer premise equipment, from premises through the core network. This includes the design, procurement, implementation, monitoring and maintenance of equipment including routers, switches, servers and Wi-Fi access points. 

&#8226; 

Security Services. Our cloud-based and premises-based security services provide a comprehensive, multi-layered security solution that protects the network while meeting the most stringent security standards. Our Unified Threat Management (&#8220;UTM&#8221;) services include advanced firewall, intrusion detection, anti-virus, web filtering and anti-spam. UTM services also cover a broad range of compliance requirements, offering customers Security-as-a-Service versions of managed logging, vulnerability scanning and security information management that meet numerous security standards. As the first communications provider to achieve Payment Card Industry / Cardholder Information Security Program ("PCI/CISP") compliance in 2003, we have significant experience working with clients across many different verticals to develop and deploy their networks to achieve and maintain PCI compliance. 

&#8226; 

Managed Secure Access. Our Managed Secure Access service provides clients of all sizes with secure remote access to their network applications from any device, anywhere, anytime from any authorized user. Managed Secure Access extends network reach, allowing trusted users to establish a secure data connection from any browser or device using Transport Layer Security to encrypt all traffic and protect the network from unauthorized users. 

Voice and Unified Communication Services 

&#8226; 

SIP Trunking. Our SIP Trunking service is an enterprise-built unified communications offering that integrates voice, video and chat onto a single IP connection, driving efficiency and productivity organization-wide. The service is interoperable with key Unified Communications (UC) platforms such as Cisco, Avaya, ShoreTel, Siemens and Microsoft to support collaboration requirements, as well as with legacy infrastructure. SIP Trunking brings substantial cost savings by eliminating legacy infrastructure and providing more predictable local and long-distance costs. SIP Trunking is delivered over our fully redundant and robust global network that is purpose-built to handle bandwidth-intensive communication services. The service includes a full suite of international telephony services, including direct inward dialing ("DIDs"), toll-free numbers, termination and emergency services. We also offer customized redundancy options to meet clients' most stringent disaster recovery requirements, as well as a secure trunking option for encryption of sensitive call signaling and media. 

&#8226; 

Enterprise PBX. Our Enterprise PBX service allows clients to eliminate traditional voice infrastructure with communication services delivered through the cloud. The offering includes fully hosted and hybrid models for maximum flexibility. Enterprise PBX includes full PBX features, such as call transfer, music on hold, voicemail, unified messaging, company directory, auto attendant and enhanced call routing. The user management portal provides integrated and consistent functionality, regardless of user location. Clients can further expand capabilities through additional cloud-based features, such as contact center and audio conferencing. 

Operations 

Supplier Management 

We have strong, long-standing relationships with a diverse group of over 2,000 suppliers from which the Company sources global network connectivity, last-mile bandwidth capacity and other services. We maintain multiple supply leases covering diverse routes throughout our network to ensure service continuity, competitive pricing, bandwidth capacity and improved carrier responsiveness. 

For our core global network, supplier contracts are typically one year commitments with an option to renew, which enables us to (i) maintain significant flexibility regarding the amount of bandwidth purchased and (ii) consistently benefit from the latest competitive pricing. For last-mile connections, we typically structure the lease term to match the term of the underlying customer contract. 

Our supplier management team continually monitors supplier performance, network information and pricing to provide greater choice, flexibility and cost savings for our customers. 

Network and Security Operations 

Our network is supported by global Network Operations Centers (NOCs) located in Austin, Texas; Belfast, Northern Ireland; Lemont Furnace, Pennsylvania; and Seattle, Washington. The NOCs provide active monitoring, prioritization and resolution of network-related events 24 hours per day, 365 days per year. Our NOCs also respond to customer network inquiries, and coordinate and notify customers of maintenance activities. 

IT Systems 

We provide customers with advanced routing control and visibility into their network performance. Our proprietary online client portal provides customers with online access to monitor their network performance and track real-time statistics. 

We have developed a comprehensive Customer Management Database (CMD) that manages our network, customer and supplier contracts, sales quoting, service provisioning, and customer and supplier invoicing. CMD also supports our financial reporting and other operational processes. Our CMD system has been in operation since our inception, and its capabilities and processes are continually enhanced and automated. The CMD system provides our management team with visibility into all areas of our operations and allows us to operate with simplicity, speed and agility. 

Sales and Marketing 

We market our products and services through a global direct sales force and indirect sales channels. We have sales representatives throughout North America; Europe, Middle East, and Africa ("EMEA"); and Asia Pacific ("APAC"). Our sales activities are specifically focused on building relationships with new clients and driving expansion within existing client accounts. Because we typically sell to large, global clients and our markets are highly competitive, we believe that personal relationships and quality of service delivery remain important in winning new and repeat customer business. We supplement our direct sales approach with a small but growing trusted community of agents and integrators who already have personal relationships with many leading multinationals. 

Our sales force is supported by global service delivery organization and other support teams. The service delivery team ensures the successful implementation of customer services after the sale. A service delivery manager is assigned to each customer order to ensure that the underlying network facilities required for the solution are provisioned, that the customer is provided with status reports on its service, and that any difficulties related to the installation of a customer order are proactively managed. 

Marketing activities are designed to generate awareness and familiarity with our value proposition to multinational clients, develop new products to meet customer needs and communicate to key customer decision makers. 

Customers 

Our customer base consists of enterprise, carrier and government clients in over 100 countries. Our multinational enterprise client base includes leading organizations in financial services, healthcare, technology, manufacturing, retail and business services verticals. Carrier customers include some of the largest telecommunications firms in the world, who rely on our global network to extend their reach. 

Our customer contracts for network services are generally for initial terms of three years, with some contracts at one year, and others at five years or more. Following the initial terms, these agreements typically provide for automatic renewal for specified periods ranging from one month to one year. Our prices are fixed for the duration of the contract, and we typically bill monthly in advance for such services. If a customer terminates its agreement, the terms of our customer contracts typically require full recovery of any amounts due for the remainder of the term or, at a minimum, our liability to any underlying suppliers. 

Competition 

We operate in a highly competitive industry. Our competitors include incumbent local exchange carriers, competitive local exchange carriers, Internet service providers and other facilities-based operators. Many of these competitors are large, well-capitalized, have strong market presence, brand recognition and existing customer relationships. We also face competition from smaller providers who offer network services and managed enterprise solutions similar to ours. Specific competitors vary based on geography and product offerings. 

Regulatory Matters 

We are subject to federal, state and foreign regulations. In the United States, the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) has jurisdiction over interstate telecommunications and international telecommunications that originate or terminate in the United States. State Public Utilities Commissions (PUCs) have similar powers with respect to intrastate telecommunications. A foreign country&#8217;s laws and regulations apply to telecommunications that originate or terminate in, or in some instances traverse, that country. The regulation of the telecommunications industry is constantly evolving, and varies from state to state and from country to country. 

Where certification, licensing or authorization is required, carriers are required to comply with certain ongoing responsibilities. For example, we may be required to submit periodic reports to various telecommunications regulatory authorities relating to the provision of services within the relevant jurisdiction. Another potential ongoing responsibility relates to payment of regulatory fees and the collection and remittance of surcharges and fees associated with the provision of telecommunications services. Some of our services are subject to these assessments, depending upon the jurisdiction, the type of service and the type of customer. 

Intellectual Property 

We do not own any patent registrations, applications or licenses. 

Available Information 

We make available, through our website, www.gtt.net , our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, promptly after they are electronically filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"). We caution you that the information on our website is not part of this or any other report we file with, or furnish to, the SEC. 

In addition to our website, you may read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at www.sec.gov. 

