 Item 1. &#32; 

BUSINESS. 

Overview 

I nterDigital, Inc. ("InterDigital") designs and develops advanced technologies that enable and enhance wireless communications and capabilities. Since our founding in 1972, our engineers have designed and developed a wide range of innovations that are used in digital cellular and wireless products and networks, including 2G, 3G, 4G and IEEE 802-related products and networks. We are a leading contributor of intellectual property to the wireless communications industry . &#32; 

Given our long history and focus on advanced research and development, InterDigital has one of the most significant patent portfolios in the wireless industry. As of December 31, 2015, InterDigital's wholly owned subsidiaries held a portfolio of approximately 20,400 patents and patent applications related to a range of technologies including the fundamental technologies that enable wireless communications. In that portfolio are a number of patents and patent applications that we believe are or may be essential or may become essential to cellular and other wireless standards, including 3G, 4G and the IEEE 802 suite of standards, as well as patent applications that we believe may become essential to 5G standards that are under development. That portfolio has largely been built through internal development, supplemented by joint development projects with other companies as well as select patent acquisitions. Products incorporating our patented inventions include: mobile devices, such as cellular phones, tablets, notebook computers and wireless personal digital assistants; wireless infrastructure equipment, such as base stations; and components, dongles and modules for wireless devices. &#32; 

InterDigital derives revenues primarily from patent licensing and sales, with contributions from technology solutions licensing and sales and engineering services. In 2015 , our total revenues were $441.4 million , an increase of $25.6 million &#32;compared to 2014 . Our recurring revenues, consisting of current patent royalties and current technology solutions revenue, in 2015 &#32;were $372.8 million , an increase of $84.0 million compared to 2014 . Additional information about our revenues, profits and assets, as well as additional financial data, is provided in the selected financial data in Part II, Item 6, and in the financial statements and accompanying Notes in Part II, Item 8, of this Form 10-K. 

Our Strategy 

Our objective is to continue to be a leading designer and developer of technology solutions and intellectual property for the mobile industry and to monetize those solutions and intellectual property through a combination of licensing, sales and other revenue opportunities. 

To execute our strategy, we intend to: 

&#8226; 

Develop and source innovative technologies related to wireless. &#32; &#32; We intend to grow or maintain a leading position in advanced mobile technology, the Internet of Things (IoT) and other related technology areas by leveraging our expertise to guide internal research and development capabilities and direct our efforts in partnering with leading inventors and industry players to source new technologies. 

&#8226; 

Establish and grow our patent-based revenue. &#32;&#32;We intend to grow our licensing revenue base by adding licensees, expanding into adjacent technology areas that align with our intellectual property position and leveraging the continued growth of the overall mobile technology market. Those licensing efforts can be self-driven or executed in conjunction with licensing partnerships, trusts and other efforts, and may involve the vigorous defense of our intellectual property through litigation and other means. We also believe that our ongoing research efforts and associated patenting activities enable us to sell patent assets that are not vital to our core licensing programs, as well as to execute patent swaps that can strengthen our overall portfolio. 

&#8226; 

Pursue &#32; commercial opportunities for our advanced platforms and solutions. &#160; &#32;We intend to pursue the commercialization of technology platforms and solutions that arise from our research efforts. As part of our ongoing research and development efforts, InterDigital often builds out entire functioning platforms in various technology areas. We seek to bring those technologies, as well as other technologies we may develop or acquire, to market through various methods including technology licensing, stand-alone commercial initiatives, joint ventures and partnerships. 

&#8226; 

Maintain a collaborative relationship with key industry players and worldwide standards bodies. &#32; We intend to continue contributing to the ongoing process of defining mobile standards and other industry-wide efforts and incorporating our inventions into those technology areas. Those efforts, and the knowledge gained through them, support internal development efforts and also help guide technology and intellectual property sourcing through partners and other external sources. 

Technology Research and Development 

InterDigital pursues a diversified approach to sourcing the innovations that underpin our business. That approach incorporates internally driven research and development efforts by InterDigital Labs, as well as externally focused efforts by our Innovation Partners unit. Our efforts are guided by our vision of the future of mobile communications - Creating the Living Network TM &#32;- which is articulated around the variables of content, context and connectivity, and how the interplay of these elements drives future technology capabilities and needs. 

As of December 31, 2015 , our patent portfolio consisted of close to 2,200 U.S. patents (approximately 210 of which were issued in 2015 ) and approximately 10,900 non-U.S. patents (approximately 1,300 of which were issued in 2015 ). As of the same date, we also had numerous patent applications pending worldwide, with close to 1,200 applications pending in the United States and approximately 6,100 pending non-U.S. applications. The patents and applications comprising our portfolio relate predominantly to digital wireless radiotelephony technology (including, without limitation, 3G and 4G technologies). Issued patents expire at differing times ranging from 2016 through 2034. We operate six research and development facilities in four countries: King of Prussia, PA; Melville, NY; San Diego, CA; Montreal, Canada; London, UK; and Seoul, South Korea. 

InterDigital Labs &#160; 

As an early and ongoing participant in the digital wireless market, InterDigital developed pioneering solutions for the primary cellular air interface technologies in use today, TDMA and CDMA. That early involvement, our continued development of those advanced digital wireless technologies and innovations in OFDM/OFDMA and MIMO technologies have enabled us to create our significant worldwide portfolio of patents. In addition, InterDigital was among the first companies to participate in standardization and platform development efforts related to Machine-to-Machine (M2M) communications and IoT technology. In conjunction with our participation in certain standards bodies, we have filed declarations stating that we have patents that we believe are or may be essential or may become essential to cellular and other wireless standards and that, with respect to our essential patents, we are prepared to grant licenses on fair, reasonable and non-discriminatory terms or similar terms consistent with the requirements of the respective standards organizations. 

Our capabilities in the development of advanced mobile technologies are based on the efforts of a highly specialized engineering team, leveraging leading-edge equipment and software platforms. As of December 31, 2015 , InterDigital employed approximately 170 engineers, approximately 80% of whom hold advanced degrees (including 57 doctorate degrees). Over the last three years, investment in development has ranged from $64.7 million &#32;to $75.3 million , and the largest portion of this expense has been personnel costs. Additional information about our development expenses is provided in the results of operations, under the heading "Operating Expenses," in Part II, Item 7, of this Form 10-K. 

Our current research efforts are focused on two main technology areas: cellular wireless technology and IoT technology. 

Cellular Wireless Technology 

We have a long history of developing cellular technologies, including those related to CDMA and TDMA and, more recently, OFDM/OFDMA and MIMO. A number of our inventions are being used in all 2G, 3G and 4G wireless networks and mobile terminal devices. We led the industry in establishing TDMA-based TIA/EIA/IS-54 as a U.S. digital wireless standard in the 1980s and developed a substantial portfolio of TDMA-based patented inventions. These inventions include or relate to fundamental elements of TDMA-based systems in use around the world. We have also developed and patented innovative CDMA and OFDM/OFDMA technology solutions and today, we hold a significant worldwide portfolio of patents and patent applications for these technologies. Similar to our TDMA inventions, we believe that a number of our CDMA and OFDM/OFDMA inventions are, may be or may become essential to the implementation of CDMA and OFDM/OFDMA-based systems in use today. 

We also continue to be engaged in development efforts to build and enhance our technology portfolio in areas including LTE, LTE-Advanced, and emerging 5G technologies for 3GPP. Some of our LTE inventions include or relate to MIMO technologies for reducing interference and increasing data rates; power control; hybrid-ARQ for fast error correction; control channel structures for efficient signaling; multi-carrier operation; low-complexity devices; vehicular-centric communications (V2X); and other areas. We also continue to develop additional technologies in response to existing or perceived challenges of connectivity, many of them within the scope of our efforts to define future generations of wireless including 5G. These include air interface enhancements, policy-driven bandwidth management, cognitive radio and optimized data delivery. We are developing technologies that will enable efficient multimedia content delivery across heterogeneous devices and networks, and creating evolved system architectures that enable operation in small cells and additional frequency bands and improved cell-edge performance as well as device-to-device communications. 

Our strong wireless background includes engineering and corporate development activities that focus on solutions that apply to other wireless market segments. These segments primarily fall within the continually expanding scope of the IEEE 802, IETF and ETSI standards. We are building a portfolio of technology related to Wi-Fi, WLAN, WMAN and WRAN that 

includes, for example, improvements to the IEEE 802.11 PHY and MAC to increase peak data rates, the use of lower frequency bands for IoT and other new use cases such as TV-Whitespace (802.11af) and sub 1 GHz (802.11ah), and fast initial link setup (802.11ai) to enhance hotspot operation (WFA HOTSPOT 2.0). 

IoT Technology 

In the field of machine-to-machine (M2M) and IoT applications, we are developing technologies to enable seamless interconnection for multiple access types (cellular, WLAN, WPAN) and M2M service frameworks that can be managed by a customer and leveraged by a diverse set of vertical applications. These technologies build on our expertise in developing platforms and contributing technologies towards the advancement of global M2M and IoT standards. As part of, and in addition to, InterDigital&#8217;s standards-focused development, we have developed two solutions that are being made available commercially. 

In 2015, we launched our oneMPOWER&#8482; platform, which enables interoperability and scalability across diverse verticals, networks, and devices. InterDigital&#8217;s oneMPOWER platform is a secure and scalable horizontal platform that helps businesses launch and manage IoT data and applications. It features a comprehensive suite of application enabling services that span connectivity, device, data, security, and transaction management. Our oneMPOWER platform complies with oneM2M, the global standard for horizontal IoT platforms, and is designed for interoperability across diverse vertical markets, networks, and devices. The solution is based on an open standard with a long-term features roadmap, which interworks with many existing industry protocols and alliances. 

The wot.io TM &#32;data service exchange TM &#32;for connected device platforms was launched in 2014. The wot.io platform provides a common interface to multiple service providers, allowing companies to monetize IoT data in a simpler fashion via a real-time, low-latency service-oriented architecture. 

Other &#32; Technology Areas and Sources 

Because mobile technology today and into the future encompasses a very broad range of areas, we are also developing a range of technologies in the areas of video compression and delivery, security, analytics, and other areas. Some of those efforts are related to technology standards. In addition, to supplement our own development efforts, our Innovation Partners unit pursues an external sourcing model based around partnerships with leading inventors and research organizations, as well as the acquisition of technology and patent portfolios that align with InterDigital's roadmap. In 2015, in addition to existing relationships with VTT Technical Research Centre of Finland, BIO-key International Inc., McGill University and the Institute for Management Cybernetics (IfU), an elite private research institution in Germany, Innovation Partners added relationships with the Florida Institute for Human and Machine Cognition (IHMC) and igolgi, Inc., a provider of high-quality media transformation solutions. 

Our Revenue Sources 

Patent-Based Revenue 

We believe that companies making, importing, using or selling products compliant with the standards covered by our patent portfolio, including all manufacturers of mobile handsets, tablets and other devices, require a license under our patents and will require licenses under patents that may issue from our pending patent applications. We have successfully entered into license agreements with many of the leading mobile communications companies globally, including Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. ("Samsung"), Sony Corporation of America ("Sony"), Kyocera Corporation (&#8220;Kyocera&#8221;), HTC Corporation and BlackBerry Limited, among others. 

Most of our patent license agreements are structured on a royalty-bearing basis, while others are structured on a paid-up basis or a combination thereof. Upon entering into a new patent license agreement, the licensee typically agrees to pay consideration for sales made prior to the effective date of the license agreement (i.e., past patent royalties) and also agrees to pay royalties or license fees on licensed products sold during the term of the agreement. We expect that, for the most part, new license agreements will follow this model. Almost all of our patent license agreements provide for the payment of royalties based on sales of licensed products designed to operate in accordance with particular standards (convenience-based licenses), as opposed to the payment of royalties if the manufacture, sale or use of the licensed product infringes one of our patents (infringement-based licenses). 

In most cases, we recognize the revenue from per-unit royalties in the period when we receive royalty reports from licensees. In circumstances where we receive consideration for past patent royalties, we recognize such payments as revenue in the period in which the patent license agreement is signed. Some of these patent license agreements provide for the non-refundable prepayment of royalties that are usually made in exchange for prepayment discounts. As the licensee reports sales of covered products, the royalties are calculated and either applied against any prepayment or become payable in cash or other consideration. Additionally, royalties on sales of licensed products under the license agreement become payable or applied against prepayments based on the royalty formula applicable to the particular license agreement. These formulas include flat 

dollar rates per unit, a percentage of sales, a percentage of sales with a per-unit cap and other similar measures. The formulas can also vary by other factors, including territory, covered standards, quantity and dates sold. 

Some of our patent licenses are paid up, requiring no additional payments relating to designated sales under agreed upon conditions. Those conditions can include paid-up licenses for a period of time, for a class of products, for a number of products sold, under certain patents or patent claims, for sales in certain countries or a combination thereof. Licenses have become paid-up based on the payment of fixed amounts or after the payment of royalties for a term. With the exception of amounts allocated to past patent royalties, we recognize revenues related to fixed amounts on a straight-line basis. Our license agreements typically contain provisions that give us the right to audit our licensees' books and records to ensure compliance with the licensees' reporting and payment obligations under those agreements. From time to time, these audits reveal underreporting or underpayments under the applicable agreements. In such cases, we seek payment for the amount owed and enter into negotiations with the licensee to resolve the discrepancy. 

In addition, in 2013, InterDigital formed the Signal Trust for Wireless Innovation (the "Signal Trust"). The goal of the Signal Trust is to monetize a large patent portfolio related to cellular infrastructure. More than 500 patents and patent applications were transferred from InterDigital to the Signal Trust, focusing primarily on 3G and LTE technologies and developed by InterDigital's engineers and researchers over more than a decade. A number of these innovations have been contributed to the worldwide standards process, resulting in a portfolio that includes patents for pioneering inventions that we believe are used pervasively in the cellular wireless industry. InterDigital is the primary beneficiary of the Signal Trust. The distributions from the Signal Trust will support continued research related to cellular wireless technologies. A small portion of the proceeds from the Signal Trust will be used to fund, through the Signal Foundation for Wireless Innovation, scholarly analysis of intellectual property rights and the technological, commercial and creative innovations they facilitate. 

We also pursue, on occasion, targeted sales of portions of our patent portfolio. This strategy is based on the expectation that our portfolio and continued research efforts extend well beyond the requirements for a successful licensing program. In addition, the strategy leverages the desire from new entrants in the mobile technology space to build strong intellectual property positions to support their businesses. 

Other &#32; Potential Revenue Sources 

Our strong technology expertise and research and development team also form the basis for other potential revenue opportunities, focused around areas such as engineering services, research joint ventures and the continued development, commercialization and licensing of research and development projects that have progressed to a pre-commercial or commercial phase. We also currently recognize revenue from the licensing of technology that has been developed by our engineering teams and is integrated into other companies&#8217; technology products. 

In both its cellular wireless and IoT technology areas, we work to incubate and commercialize market-ready technologies. These include technologies that were developed as part of our standards development efforts, as well as technologies developed outside the scope of those efforts. 

In certain cases where we have identified a potential commercial opportunity, we have chosen to establish a separate commercial initiative focused on the specific opportunity and developing commercial products to address the identified need. For example, in 2014, XCellAir, Inc. was established. The XCellAir&#8482; product is a cloud-based, multi-vendor, multi-technology mobile network management and optimization solution that enables mobile network operators, mobile system operators and Internet service providers to manage, optimize and monetize heterogeneous network resources. Although this and similar initiatives are in their early stages, they are potential revenue sources for the Company. 

In 2012, we formed of a joint venture with Sony called Convida Wireless. The joint venture combined InterDigital's advanced M2M research capabilities with Sony's consumer electronics expertise with the purpose of driving new research in IoT communications and other connectivity areas. In 2015, this joint venture was renewed, and its focus was expanded to include advanced research and development into 5G and future wireless technologies. 

Wireless Communications Industry Overview 

The wireless communications industry continues to experience rapid growth worldwide, as well as an expansion of device types entering the market. In smartphones alone, the market continues to see growth, with growth focused on higher-end 4G devices. 

In addition, new markets are emerging related to wireless connectivity. IoT is an important new market in the technology field, which is expected to result in a significant increase in the number of connections, and unlock new business capabilities. IoT is currently in its earliest stages, and estimates vary broadly as far as how many connections it will yield. IHS estimates that the IoT market will grow an installed base of more than 70 billion connected devices by 2025, with total new device shipments reaching more than 20 billion yearly by 2025 and particularly high growth in the automotive, industrial and medical fields. Shipments of 3G, 4G and 802.11 IoT connected devices alone are expected to reach close to 6 billion by 2019. 

To achieve economies of scale and support interoperability among different participants, products for the wireless industry have typically been designed to operate in accordance with certain standards. Wireless communications standards are formal guidelines for engineers, designers, manufacturers and service providers that regulate and define the use of the radio frequency spectrum in conjunction with providing detailed specifications for wireless communications products. A primary goal of the standards is to ensure interoperability of products marketed by multiple companies. A large number of international and regional wireless Standards Development Organizations (&#8220;SDOs&#8221;), including the ITU, ETSI, TIA (USA), IEEE, ATIS (USA), 

TTA (Korea), ARIB (Japan) and ANSI, have responsibility for the development and administration of wireless communications standards. New standards are typically adopted with each new generation of products, are often compatible with previous generations and are defined to ensure equipment interoperability and regulatory compliance. 

Standards have evolved in response to consumer demand for services and expanded capabilities of mobile devices. Cellular standards have evolved from voice-oriented services to multimedia services that exploit the higher speeds offered by newer technologies, such as LTE. The wireless communications industry has also made significant advances in non-cellular wireless technologies. In particular, IEEE 802.11 WLAN has gained momentum in recent years as a wireless broadband solution in the home, office and select public areas. 

SDOs typically ask participating companies to declare formally whether they believe they hold patents or patent applications essential to a particular standard and whether they are willing to license those patents on either a royalty-bearing basis on fair, reasonable and nondiscriminatory terms or on a royalty-free basis. To manufacture, have made, sell, offer to sell or use such products on a non-infringing basis, a manufacturer or other entity doing so must first obtain a license from the holder of essential patent rights. The SDOs do not have enforcement authority against entities that fail to obtain required licenses, nor do they have the ability to protect the intellectual property rights of holders of essential patents. 

InterDigital often publicly characterizes aspects of its business, including license agreements and development projects, as pertaining to broad mobile industry standards such as, for example, 3G, 4G and Wi-Fi. In doing this, we generally rely on the positions of the applicable standards-setting organizations in defining the relevant standards. However, the definitions may evolve or change over time, including after we have characterized certain transactions. 

Business Activities 

2015 &#32;Patent Licensing Activity 

During third quarter 2015, we entered into a new patent license agreement with Sony (the "new Sony PLA"). In addition, we renewed our joint venture with Sony, Convida Wireless, to continue investments in the development of IoT technologies and expanded it to include development efforts in 5G technologies. The new Sony PLA covers the sale by Sony of covered products for the three-year period that commenced on December 1, 2015. In addition, the new Sony PLA covers Sony's covered product sales that occurred during certain prior periods and that were not covered under our prior agreement with Sony. 

During fourth quarter 2015, we entered into a new worldwide, non-exclusive, royalty bearing patent license agreement with Kyocera. The agreement covers Kyocera's sale of certain cellular terminal unit products. 

Customers Generating Revenues Exceeding 10% of Total 2015 &#32;Revenues 

Pegatron Corporation ("Pegatron"), Samsung and Sony comprised approximately 31%, 16% and 14% of our total 2015 &#32;revenues, respectively. 

In 2008, we entered into a patent license agreement with Pegatron (the &#8220;2008 Pegatron PLA&#8221;) that covers Pegatron and its affiliates. Under the terms of the 2008 Pegatron PLA, we granted Pegatron a non-exclusive, non-transferable, world-wide royalty-bearing license covering the sale of certain products designed to operate in accordance with 2G and 3G wireless standards ("Licensed Products"). In second quarter and fourth quarter 2013, we received arbitration awards in separate proceedings we initiated against Pegatron and Apple, respectively. Taken together, these arbitration awards clarified that Pegatron owes us royalties on certain products it produces for Apple. The Pegatron arbitration award confirmed that, to the extent that Pegatron manufactures Licensed Products for Apple that are not licensed under our 2007 patent license agreement with Apple (the "2007 Apple PLA"), those products are covered by the 2008 Pegatron PLA and are royalty bearing under that agreement. Upon the expiration of the 2007 Apple PLA at the end of June 2014, Apple has become unlicensed as to all products that were covered under the agreement and therefore all Apple sales are unlicensed, except to the extent certain products are licensed under the terms of our license agreements with certain Apple suppliers, including Pegatron. In 2015, we recognized $137.9 million of revenue under the 2008 Pegatron PLA, all of which was associated with sales of Apple products. We are engaged in a legal dispute with Pegatron, a Taiwan-based company, regarding, among other things, the terms of the 2008 Pegatron PLA, and we are the subject of an investigation by the Taiwan Fair Trade Commission. See Item 3, Legal Proceedings in this Form 10-K for a discussion of these matters. 

In second quarter 2014, we entered into a patent license agreement with Samsung. The multi-year agreement also resolved all pending litigation between the companies. The royalty-bearing license agreement sets forth terms covering the sale by Samsung of 3G, 4G and certain future generation wireless products. The agreement provides Samsung the ability to terminate certain rights and obligations under the license for the period after 2017 but has the potential to provide a license to 

Samsung for a total of ten years, including 2013. During 2015, we recognized $69.0 million of revenue associated with this agreement. 

As discussed above, during third quarter 2015, we entered into the new Sony PLA. Our prior fixed-fee patent license agreement with Sony, entered into in fourth quarter 2012, expired at the end of November 2015. During 2015, we recognized a total of $60.1 million of revenue associated with this prior agreement and the new Sony PLA, which included $21.8 million of past sales under the new Sony PLA. 

Patent Infringement and Declaratory Judgment Proceedings 

From time to time, if we believe any party is required to license our patents in order to manufacture, use and/or sell certain products and such party refuses to do so, we may agree with such party to have royalty rates, or other terms, set by third party adjudicators (such as arbitrators) or, in certain circumstances, we may institute legal action against them. This legal action has typically taken the form of a patent infringement lawsuit or an administrative proceeding such as a Section 337 proceeding before the United States International Trade Commission (&#8220;USITC&#8221; or the "Commission"). In a patent infringement lawsuit, we would typically seek damages for past infringement and an injunction against future infringement. In a USITC proceeding, we would seek an exclusion order to bar infringing goods from entry into the United States, as well as a cease and desist order to bar further sales of infringing goods that have already been imported into the United States. Parties may bring administrative and/or judicial challenges to the validity, enforceability, essentiality and/or applicability of our patents to their products. Parties may also allege that our efforts to enter into a license with that party do not comply with any obligations we may have in connection with our participation in standards-setting organizations, and therefore that we are not entitled to the relief that we seek. For example, a party may allege that we have not complied with an obligation to offer a license to that party on fair, reasonable and non-discriminatory terms and conditions, and may also file antitrust claims or regulatory complaints on that or other bases, and may seek damages or other relief based on such claims. In addition, a party might file a declaratory judgment action to seek a court's declaration that our patents are invalid, unenforceable, not infringed by the other party's products or are not essential. Our response to such a declaratory judgment action may include claims of infringement. When we include claims of infringement in a patent infringement lawsuit, a favorable ruling for the Company can result in the payment of damages for past patent royalties, the setting of a royalty for future sales or issuance by the court of an injunction enjoining the infringer from manufacturing, using and/or selling the infringing product. 

Contractual Arbitration Proceedings 

We and our customers, in the normal course of business, may have disagreements as to the rights and obligations of the parties under applicable agreements. For example, we could have a disagreement with a licensee as to the amount of reported sales and royalties. Our license agreements typically provide for audit rights as well as private arbitration as the mechanism for resolving disputes. Arbitration proceedings can be resolved through an award rendered by the arbitrators or by settlement between the parties. Parties to arbitration might have the right to have the award reviewed in a court of competent jurisdiction. However, based on public policy favoring the use of arbitration, it is generally difficult to have arbitration awards vacated or modified. The party securing an arbitration award may seek to have that award converted into a judgment through an enforcement proceeding. The purpose of such a proceeding is to secure a judgment that can be used for, if need be, seizing assets of the other party. 

Competition 

With respect to our technology development activities, we face competition from companies, including in-house development teams at other wireless device companies and semiconductor companies and wireless operators, developing other and similar technologies that are competitive with our solutions that we may market or set forth into the standards-setting arena. 

Due to the exclusionary nature of patent rights, we do not compete, in a traditional sense, with other patent holders for licensing relationships or sale transactions. Other patent holders do not have the same rights to the inventions and technologies encompassed by our patent portfolio. In any device or piece of equipment that contains intellectual property, the manufacturer may need to obtain licenses from multiple holders of intellectual property. In licensing our patent portfolio, we compete with other patent holders for a share of the royalties that certain licensees may argue to be the total royalty that is supported by a certain product or products, which may face practical limitations. We believe that licenses under a number of our patents are required to manufacture and sell 3G, 4G and other wireless products. However, numerous companies also claim that they hold 3G, 4G and other wireless patents that are or may be essential or may become essential to cellular and other wireless standards. To the extent that multiple parties all seek royalties on the same product, the manufacturers could claim to have difficulty in meeting the financial requirements of each patent holder. In the past, certain manufacturers have sought antitrust exemptions to act collectively on a voluntary basis. In addition, certain manufacturers have sought to limit aggregate licensing fees or rates 

for essential patents. Similarly, potential purchasers of our patents often amass patent portfolios for defensive and/or cross-licensing purposes and could choose to acquire patent assets within the same general technology space from other patent holders. 

Employees 

As of December 31, 2015, we had approximately 330 employees. None of our employees are represented by a collective bargaining unit. 

Geographic Concentrations 

See Note 4, " Geographic/Customer Concentration ," in the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8, of this Form 10-K for financial information about geographic areas for the last three years. 

Corporate Information 

The ultimate predecessor company of InterDigital, Inc. was incorporated in 1972 under the laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania and conducted its initial public offering in November 1981. Our corporate headquarters and administrative offices are located in Wilmington, Delaware, USA. Our research and technology development centers are located in the following locations: King of Prussia, Pennsylvania, USA; Melville, New York, USA; San Diego, California, USA; Montreal, Quebec, Canada; London, England, United Kingdom; and Seoul, South Korea. 

Our Internet address is www.interdigital.com , &#32;where, in the &#8220;Investors&#8221; section , &#32;we make available, free of charge, our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, certain other reports and filings required to be filed under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and all amendments to those reports or filings as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the United States Securities and Exchange Commission. The information contained on or connected to our website is not incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K. 

