 Item 1. Business Company Overview 

We are a provider of wireless handsets (which may be referred to herein as &#147;phones&#148;, &#147;cell phones&#148;, &#147;mobile phones&#148;, &#147;feature phones&#148; and &#147;smartphones&#148;), tablets and accessories to carriers and distributors in Latin America and the United States. We define, source and sell our proprietary line of products under the verykool &#174; brand, with the goal to provide the market with products that are unique, handsomely designed, feature rich and provide exceptional &#147;value&#148; for the consumer. Our verykool &#174; products include a wide range of GSM feature phones and Android-based smartphones. 

Our corporate headquarters are in San Diego, California. We have wholly owned subsidiaries in Mexico, Central America and South America, which conduct some of our business activities in their respective regions, as well as subsidiaries in Hong Kong and China where we source our verykool &#174; products, oversee production at manufacturers, conduct quality control and monitor third party logistics and warehousing for shipment to our customers. We also have sales representatives, field engineers and marketing resources located throughout Latin America, our principal market. 

Prior to 2012, the majority of our business was derived from the distribution of wireless handsets supplied by major manufacturers, primarily Samsung. However, this business was concluded on March 31, 2012 with the termination of our Samsung distribution agreement. Since then, our business has been centered on our verykool &#174; product line. In April 2010, in order to better control our product roadmap, we established an in-house design center in China where we designed a number of phones in our product portfolio. During 2014, we closed the design center and now work solely with independent design houses and original design manufacturers (&#147;ODMs&#148;). 

We incorporated under the laws of the State of California on February 7, 1994, under the name InfoSonics Corporation. On September 11, 2003, we reincorporated under the same name under the laws of and into the State of Maryland. 

&#160;

Global Wireless Industry 

Today&#146;s wireless handsets can be segmented into two primary categories: feature phones and smartphones. The distinguishing characteristics of smartphones are that they are built on a mobile operating system and are generally more sophisticated, have higher computing power and are more expensive than feature phones. Rapid technological developments within the wireless telecommunications industry have allowed wireless subscribers to talk, send and receive text messages, send and receive e-mails, capture and transmit digital images, send and receive multimedia messages, play games, listen to music, watch visual content, run application programs and browse the Internet using all-in-one wireless handsets. Wireless handsets, accessories and services also are being used around the world to provide remote monitoring, point-of-sale transaction processing, inter-device communications, local area networks, location monitoring, sales force automation, and customer relationship management. While current demand for some of these more advanced services and features is not as strong in certain of the price-sensitive foreign markets we serve, the cost of producing smartphones continues to decline and we believe demand will continue to increase in these types of markets in the future as smartphones become more affordable and consumers upgrade from existing feature phones. 

According to International Data Corporation (&#147;IDC&#148;), worldwide shipments of smartphones during 2015 increased by 10.1% to an estimated 1.433 billion devices compared to 1.301 billion units in 2014. This represented a continued slowing of growth from 27.6% in 2014. Mature markets have become increasingly dependent on replacement purchases, and although first-time buyers provide momentum in emerging markets, the focus there has shifted toward low-cost devices. IDC also estimates that 2015 shipments of Android-based smartphones reached 1.161 billion devices and represented 81.2% of the total smartphone market. It estimates that Android will hold a dominant share of the smartphone operating system space for the foreseeable future. 

Our Business and Strategy 

The worldwide market for wireless handsets and tablets is extremely competitive. It is characterized by a large number of providers, often with very similar products, that ultimately compete on price at very thin margins. The capabilities and features of the phones are primarily a function of the chipset manufacturers, and it is difficult to achieve differentiation. Despite this, we still believe differentiation is possible through a combination of factors, including (1) a consistent, attractive industrial design, (2) a compelling combination of hardware and software features, (3) a quality product with low failure rate, and (4) an attractive price point, which together provide exceptional &#147;value&#148; to the consumer and which we hope will set our phones apart from the competition. 

Our strategy includes the following elements: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Consistent introduction of new models to our verykool &#174; portfolio to keep it refreshed and attractive to customers. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Maintenance of a broad selection of smartphones across various price points in response to the affordability and popularity of smartphones in worldwide markets. In addition, we will add more big-screen phones to fill the elevated consumer appetite for such devices. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Expansion of our retail sales channel throughout Latin America, building upon our success in Mexico. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Expansion of our on-line retail sales channel in the United States. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Increase our presence in social media and other selected outlets to promote greater brand awareness of verykool &#174; . &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Expansion of our design partnerships and other relationships to enhance our design capabilities and product offerings. &#160;

Smartphones vs. Feature Phones. 

Technological advances and affordability in smartphones, including the pervasiveness of the open source Android operating system, are driving the global wireless industry. The popularity of smartphones is gaining dramatically in developed countries with broader-based consumer purchasing power. However, in certain geographic regions, including Latin America, the market is extremely price sensitive and the current price points of traditional smartphones are beyond the reach of most consumers. With increasing volumes and lower production costs for smartphones, we intend to expand our portfolio of affordable smartphones. We will also continue to provide low-end feature phones, but have substantially replaced more expensive feature phones with entry-level smartphones. 

Channel Expansion. 

In the coming year we plan to focus additional resources to capitalize on our success in the retail sales channel in Mexico and expand our customer base in the retail channel in other Latin American countries. In addition, we will also continue our efforts to expand our U.S. presence through a focus on the on-line retail channel. We believe there are many opportunities for us in the U.S. market driven by the shift in the market to unlocked phones and prepaid, no-contract and BYOD (Bring Your Own Device) wireless plans. 

Increased Branding Efforts. 

Although the verykool &#174; brand name is fairly well known in our traditional Latin America markets, it is not so well known in the United States. In 2016 and the years ahead, we plan to continue to build and leverage the brand equity we have built in Latin America to increase awareness in the U.S. through social media and other marketing strategies. 

Design Partnerships. 

The pace of technological advancement in the wireless industry is remarkable. We recognize that our resources are limited in comparison to some of our competitors. We must collaborate with our technology partners to leverage our resources beyond our core team and expand our capabilities. We are constantly evaluating new technology partners to raise the design and production quality of our products and make them more attractive in the marketplace. 

Customers 

Our current Latin American customers include carriers, distributors and resellers. In the United States, our customers include distributors who primarily supply regional carriers. We sell our products pursuant to customer purchase orders and ship products by common carrier based on customer-specified delivery dates. During 2015, we sold products to approximately 60 customers. Our three largest customers in 2015 represented 18%, 15% and 10% of our net sales, respectively. Our largest customer was an open market distributor and our second and third largest customers were big box retailers. 

Purchasing and Suppliers 

We have established key relationships with a number of independent design houses and ODMs in China who design and manufacture wireless handsets to our specifications or based upon their own criteria. In 2015, we purchased products from 21 manufacturers, the top three representing 16%, 15% and 12%, respectively, of our cost of sales. 

We purchase products from manufacturers pursuant to purchase orders placed from time to time in the ordinary course of business. Purchase orders are typically filled, based on manufacturing lead times, and shipped 

&#160;

to our designated warehouses by common freight carriers. We believe that our relationships with our suppliers are generally good. Any failure or delay by our suppliers in supplying us with products on favorable terms and at competitive prices may severely diminish our ability to obtain and deliver products to our customers on a timely and competitive basis. Although there are a number of such suppliers available to provide or manufacture our products, the establishment of these relationships typically requires a significant investment of time by both parties, and a change in suppliers could cause a delay in or loss of sales and adversely affect our results. 

Sales and Marketing 

We believe that direct selling and one-on-one relationships, as well as in-depth product and competitive landscape knowledge, are important factors in the marketing of the products we sell. Accordingly, in our business-to-business environment, we promote relationship building and maintenance through personal customer contact by our in-country sales and marketing professionals. Additionally, in order to promote our verykool &#174; brand, we advertise in certain of the geographies where we do business in industry publications, both print and online, on billboards and by attending industry trade shows. Further, we may participate in co-op advertising sponsored by our customers in other forms of media. During 2016, we plan to further increase our branding efforts in the U.S. through the use of social media and other marketing strategies. 

As of December 31, 2015, we employed or contracted with 16 sales, marketing and merchandizing professionals who are assigned specific geographic territories, most of whom reside in-country. Each salesperson is generally compensated with a base salary or retainer plus a commission or bonus based on sales in his or her territory. 

Research and Development 

In previous years we maintained an in-house design team in China to develop certain of our products, including our ruggedized line of xTreme products. However, during 2013, we reduced the size of the team and in 2014, we reduced it further and then fully phased it out. R&#38;D expenses for the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013 were $588,000 and $1,336,000, respectively. There were no R&#38;D expenses in 2015. 

Financial and Other Information about Our Business 

Other information, including financial, customer, competitive and geographic information is incorporated by reference herein from Items 1A, 7 and 7A hereof and Note 11 to our Consolidated Audited Financial Statements. 

Seasonality 

Our operations may be influenced by a number of seasonal factors in the countries and markets in which we operate. Our business historically has experienced increased sales during the fourth quarter of the calendar year due to the Christmas holiday season. On the supply side of our business, because all manufacturing of our branded verykool &#174; phones is done in China, the first quarter of the calendar year can be a difficult time during closure of factories for the Chinese New Year. We strive to manage around the closure, but if factories have difficulty starting back up, we could experience delays in getting product and satisfying customer orders, which could have a material adverse effect on our results. 

Competition 

The industry and markets where we operate are highly competitive and such competition may increase in the future. We compete for sales of wireless handsets and accessories with well-established large manufacturers, many small brands and independent design houses. Wireless handsets are subject to price competition and price erosion over the lives of the products. We compete on a number of factors, including product design and features, product pricing, product quality, level of services offered, market and product knowledge, customer service, 

&#160;

product availability and overall value provided to our customers. Our competitors often possess substantially greater financial, technological, marketing, personnel and other resources than we do, which could enable them to withstand substantial price competition, launch new products and implement extensive advertising and promotional campaigns. Historically, the barriers to entry into the sourcing and distribution of wireless handsets have been relatively low. Our ability to continue to compete successfully in the wireless handset business is largely dependent on our ability to anticipate and respond to various competitive and other factors affecting the industry, including new or changing outsourcing requirements, new technology requirements, new and differentiated product introductions, inconsistent or inadequate supply of product, changes in consumer preferences, demographic trends, regional and local economic conditions, and discount pricing strategies and promotional activities by competitors. 

Employees 

As of December 31, 2015, we had 52 employees and contractors. Of these employees and contractors, 2 were in executive management positions, 16 were engaged in sales and marketing, 3 were in service operations, 6 were in finance and administration, and 25 were in product development, logistics and field engineering. From time to time, we utilize temporary employees to perform warehouse functions. Our employees and contractors are not covered by a collective bargaining agreement. We believe that our relations with our employees and contractors are good. 

Available Information 

Our website at www.infosonics.com provides a link to the Securities and Exchange Commission&#146;s website where our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to these reports (as well as exhibits and supplementary schedules) filed with or furnished to the SEC can be accessed free of charge. Our website also provides links to the charters for our Audit, Compensation and Nominating &#38; Governance Committees as well as our Codes of Business Conduct and of Ethics, which can be accessed free of charge at http://www.infosonics.com/index.php/investors/corporate-governance . 

&#160;

