 Item 1. 

&#160; BUSINESS 

Our Business

Vishay Intertechnology, Inc. ("Vishay," the "Company," "we," "us," or "our") is a leading global manufacturer and supplier of discrete semiconductors and passive components. Semiconductors include MOSFETs, diodes, and optoelectronic components. Passive components include resistive products, capacitors, and inductors. Discrete semiconductors and passive components are essential elements of virtually every type of electronic circuit. They support the microprocessor chips and other integrated circuits ("ICs") that coordinate and control the functions of electronic devices and equipment. We offer our customers "one-stop shop" access to one of the most comprehensive electronic component product lines of any manufacturer in the United States, Europe, and Asia.

Our semiconductor components are used for a wide variety of functions, including power control, power conversion, power management, signal switching, signal routing, signal blocking, signal amplification, two-way data transfer, one-way remote control, and circuit isolation. Our passive components are used to restrict current flow, suppress voltage increases, store and discharge energy, control alternating current ("AC") and voltage, filter out unwanted electrical signals, and perform other functions. Our components are used in virtually every type of product that contains electronic circuitry, in the industrial, computing, automotive, consumer, telecommunications, power supplies, military, aerospace, and medical markets.

The Vishay Story

In the 1950's, the late Dr. Felix Zandman, Vishay's founder, was issued patents for his PhotoStress&#174; coatings and instruments, used to reveal and measure the distribution of stresses in structures such as airplanes and cars under live load conditions. His research in this area led him to develop Bulk Metal&#174; foil resistors &#8211; ultra-precise, ultra-stable resistors with performance far beyond any other resistor available to date.

In 1962, Dr. Zandman, with a loan from the late Alfred P. Slaner, founded Vishay to develop and manufacture Bulk Metal foil resistors. Concurrently, J.E. Starr developed foil resistance strain gages, which also became part of Vishay. Throughout the 1960's and 1970's, Vishay established itself as a technical and market leader in foil resistors, PhotoStress products, and strain gages. These products were included with the measurements and foil resistor businesses that we spun off into an independent, publicly-traded company named Vishay Precision Group, Inc. ("Vishay Precision Group" or "VPG") through a tax-free stock dividend to our stockholders on July 6, 2010.

In 1985, Vishay began to expand its product line through various strategic acquisitions, including the resistor companies Dale Electronics, Draloric Electronic, and Sfernice. In the early 1990's, Vishay applied its acquisition strategy to the capacitor market, with the major acquisitions of Sprague Electric, Roederstein, and Vitramon. In 2002, Vishay acquired BCcomponents, the former passive components business of Philips Electronics and Beyschlag, which greatly enhanced Vishay's global market position in passive components. Over the years, we have made several smaller passive components acquisitions to gain market share, penetrate different geographic markets, enhance new product development, round out our product lines, or grow our high margin niche businesses. These include Electro-Films, Cera-Mite, and Spectrol in 2000; Tansitor and North American Capacitor Company (Mallory) in 2001; the thin film interconnect business of Aeroflex in 2004; Phoenix do Brasil in 2006; the wet tantalum capacitor business of KEMET Corporation in 2008; the resistor businesses of Huntington Electric in 2011; HiRel Systems in 2012; MCB Industrie in 2013; and Holy Stone Polytech in 2014.

In the late 1990's, Vishay began expanding its product lines to include discrete semiconductors. In 1998, Vishay acquired the Semiconductor Business Group of TEMIC, which included Telefunken and an 80.4% interest in Siliconix, producers of MOSFETs, RF transistors, diodes, optoelectronics, and power and analog switching integrated circuits. Vishay's next semiconductor acquisition came in 2001, with the purchase of the infrared components business of Infineon Technologies, which was followed the same year by Vishay's acquisition of General Semiconductor, a leading global manufacturer of rectifiers and diodes. In 2005, Vishay made a successful tender offer for the minority interest in Siliconix. In 2007, Vishay acquired the Power Control Systems business of International Rectifier, further enhancing our product offerings. These acquisitions propelled Vishay into the top ranks of discrete semiconductor manufacturers. In 2014, Vishay increased its position in optoelectronic sensors through its acquisition of Capella, a fabless IC design company specializing in optoelectronic components.

We continue to implement the vision, strategy, and culture articulated by Dr. Zandman as we continue to work tirelessly to enhance value for our stockholders.

Vishay was incorporated in Delaware in 1962 and maintains its principal executive offices at 63 Lancaster Avenue, Malvern, Pennsylvania 19355-2143. Our telephone number is (610) 644-1300.

Our Competitive Strengths

Global Technology Leader

We were founded based on the inventions of Dr. Felix Zandman and we continue to emphasize technological innovation as a driver of growth. Many of our products and manufacturing techniques, technologies, and packaging methods have been invented, designed, and developed by Dr. Zandman, our engineers, and our scientists. We are currently a worldwide technology and market leader in wirewound and other power resistors, leaded film resistors, thin film SMD resistors, wet and conformal-coated tantalum capacitors, capacitors for power electronics, power rectifiers, low-voltage power MOSFETs, and infrared components.

Research and Development Provides Customer-Driven Growth Solutions

We maintain strategically placed application and product support centers where proximity to customers and our manufacturing locations enables us to more easily gauge and satisfy the needs of local markets. The breadth of our product portfolio along with the proximity of our field application engineers to customers provides increased opportunities to have our components selected and designed into new end products by customers in all relevant market segments. We also maintain research and development personnel and promote programs at a number of our production facilities to develop new products and new applications of existing products, and to improve manufacturing processes and technologies. We plan to grow our business and increase earnings per share, in part, through accelerating the development of new products and technologies and increasing design-in opportunities by expanding our technical resources for providing solutions to customers.

Operational Excellence

We are a leading manufacturer in our industry, with a broad product portfolio, access to a wide range of end markets and sales channels, and geographic diversity. We have solid, well-established relationships with our customers and strong distribution channels. Our senior management team is highly experienced, with deep industry knowledge. Over the past two decades, our management team has successfully restructured our company and integrated several acquisitions. We can adapt our operations to changing economic conditions, as demonstrated by our ability to remain profitable and generate cash through the volatile economic cycle of the recent past.

Broad Market Penetration

We have one of the broadest product lines of discrete semiconductors and passive components among our competitors. Our broad product portfolio allows us to penetrate markets in all industry segments and all regions, which reduces our exposure to a particular end market or geographic location. We plan to grow our business and increase earnings per share, in part, through improving market penetration by expanding manufacturing facilities for our most successful products, increasing technical resources, and developing markets for specialty products in Asia. Our net revenues for the following applicable periods were attributable to customers in the following regions:

&#160; &#160; Years Ended December 31,

&#160; &#160; &#160; 2015

&#160; &#160; 2014

&#160; &#160; 2013

&#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; Asia

&#160; &#160; 40

%

&#160; &#160; 39

%

&#160; &#160; 38

%

Europe

&#160; &#160; 34

%

&#160; &#160; 37

%

&#160; &#160; 37

%

Americas

&#160; &#160; 26

%

&#160; &#160; 24

%

&#160; &#160; 25

%

The share of net revenues by end market was as follows:

&#160; &#160; Years Ended December 31,

&#160; &#160; &#160; 2015

&#160; &#160; 2014

&#160; &#160; 2013

&#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; Industrial

&#160; &#160; 35

%

&#160; &#160; 34

%

&#160; &#160; 29

%

Automotive

&#160; &#160; 26

%

&#160; &#160; 24

%

&#160; &#160; 21

%

Telecommunications

&#160; &#160; 10

%

&#160; &#160; 10

%

&#160; &#160; 11

%

Computing

&#160; &#160; 8

%

&#160; &#160; 9

%

&#160; &#160; 13

%

Consumer Products

&#160; &#160; 7

%

&#160; &#160; 9

%

&#160; &#160; 8

%

Power Supplies

&#160; &#160; 5

%

&#160; &#160; 5

%

&#160; &#160; 8

%

Military and Aerospace

&#160; &#160; 5

%

&#160; &#160; 5

%

&#160; &#160; 6

%

Medical

&#160; &#160; 4

%

&#160; &#160; 4

%

&#160; &#160; 4

%

Strong Track Record of Growth through Acquisitions

Since 1985, we have expanded our product line through various strategic acquisitions, growing from a small manufacturer of precision resistors and resistance strain gages to one of the world's largest manufacturers and suppliers of a broad line of electronic components. We have successfully integrated the acquired companies within our existing management and operational structure, reducing selling, general, and administrative expenses through the integration or elimination of redundant sales and administrative functions, creating manufacturing synergies, while improving customer service. We plan to grow our business and increase earnings per share, in part, through targeted acquisitions. We have often targeted high margin niche business acquisitions, such as Huntington Electric, HiRel Systems, and MCB Industrie. In 2014, we made strategic acquisitions of Holy Stone Polytech and Capella, and plan to use the technology and engineering capabilities acquired to further grow our business. The 2014 acquisitions accounted for 2.2% of 2015 revenues.

Strong Free Cash Flow Generation

We refer to the amount of cash generated from operations in excess of our capital expenditure needs and net of proceeds from the sale of assets as "free cash." Due to our strong operational management, cost control measures, efficient capital expenditures, broad product portfolio, and strong market position, we have generated positive "free cash" in each of the past 19 years and "free cash" in excess of $80 million in each of the past 14 years. We expect the benefits of our restructuring and other cost cutting measures (see "Cost Management" included in Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations") to contribute to our "free cash" generation going forward.

Financial Strength and Flexibility

As of December 31, 2015, our cash and short-term investment balance exceeded our debt balance by $657.8 million. We also maintain a credit facility, which provides a revolving commitment of up to $640 million through December 10, 2020, of which $442.7 million was available as of December 31, 2015. Our net cash position and short-term investment balance, available revolving commitment, and strong "free cash" flow generation provide financial strength and flexibility and reduce our exposure to future economic uncertainties.

Our Key Challenges

Economic Environment

Our business and operating results have been and will continue to be impacted by the global economy and the local economies in which our customers operate. Our revenues are dependent on end markets that are impacted by fluctuating consumer and industrial demand, and our operating results can be adversely affected by reduced demand in those markets.

Competition

Our business is highly competitive worldwide, with low transportation costs and few import barriers. Our major competitors, some of which are larger than us, have significant financial resources and technological capabilities. To continue to grow our business successfully, we need to continually develop, introduce, and market new and innovative products, modify existing products, respond to technological change, and customize certain products to meet customer requirements.

Continuous Innovation and Protection of Intellectual Property

Our ability to compete effectively with other companies depends, in part, on our ability to maintain the proprietary nature of our technology. Although we have been awarded, have filed applications for, or have licenses to use, numerous patents in the United States and other countries, there can be no assurance concerning the degree of protection afforded by these patents or the likelihood that pending patents will be issued.

Continuing to Grow through Acquisitions

Our long-term historical growth in revenues and net earnings has resulted in large part from our strategy of growth through acquisitions. For this strategy to remain successful, we need to continue to identify attractive and available acquisition candidates, complete acquisitions on favorable terms, and integrate new businesses, manufacturing processes, employees, and logistical arrangements into our existing management and operating infrastructure.

For a more detailed discussion of the risks and uncertainties inherent in our business, which could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition, see "Risk Factors" in Item 1A.

Key Business Strategies

Since our first acquisition in 1985, we have pursued a business strategy that principally consists of the following elements:

Invest in Innovation to Drive Growth

We plan to continue to use our research and development ("R&#38;D"), engineering, and product marketing resources to continually roll out new and innovative products. As part of our plan to foster intensified internal growth, we have increased our R&#38;D and engineering technical staff by approximately 20% since 2009. In addition, we are increasing our technical field sales force in Asia by about 25% to increase opportunities to design-in our products in local markets. Our ability to react to changing customer needs and industry trends will continue to be key to our success. We intend to leverage our insights into customer demand to continually develop new innovative products within our existing lines and to modify our existing core products to make them more appealing, addressing changing customer needs and industry trends.

We are directing increased funding and are focusing on developing products to capitalize on the connectivity, mobility, and sustainability growth drivers of our business.

Cost Management

We place a strong emphasis on controlling our costs. We focus on controlling fixed costs and reducing variable costs. When our ongoing cost management activites are not adequate, we take actions to maintain our cost competitiveness including restructuring our business to improve efficiency and operating performance.

Growth through Strategic Acquisitions

We plan to continue to expand within the electronic components industry, through the acquisition of other manufacturers of electronic components that have established positions in major markets, reputations for product innovation, quality, and reliability, strong customer bases, and product lines with which we have substantial marketing and technical expertise.

Customer Service Excellence

We maintain significant production facilities in those regions where we market the bulk of our products in order to enhance the service and responsiveness that we provide to our customers. We aim to further strengthen our relationships with customers and strategic partners by providing broad product lines that allow us to provide "one-stop shop" service, whereby they can streamline their design and purchasing processes by ordering multiple types of products.

Our growth plan was designed based on the tenets of the key business strategies listed above.

Products

We design, manufacture, and market electronic components that cover a wide range of functions and technologies. Our product portfolio includes:

MOSFETs Segment 

Resistors &#38; Inductors Segment 

MOSFETs

Film Resistors

&#8226; Low-Voltage TrenchFET&#174; Power MOSFETs

&#8226; Metal Film Resistors

&#8226; Medium-Voltage Power MOSFETs

&#8226; Thin Film Resistors

&#8226; High-Voltage Planar MOSFETs

&#8226; Thick Film Resistors

&#8226; High-Voltage Super Junction MOSFETs

&#8226; Power Thick Film Resistors

&#8226; Automotive-Grade MOSFETs

&#8226; Metal Oxide Film Resistors

ICs

&#8226; Carbon Film Resistors

&#8226; VRPower&#174; DrMOS Integrated Power Stages

&#160; &#8226; Power Management and Power Control ICs

Wirewound Resistors

&#8226; Smart Load Switches

&#8226; Vitreous, Cemented, and Housed Resistors

&#8226; Analog Switches and Multiplexers

&#8226; Braking and Neutral Grounding Resistors

&#160; &#8226; Custom Load Banks

Diodes Segment 

Power Metal Strip&#174; Resistors

Rectifiers

Battery Management Shunts

&#8226; Schottky Rectifiers

Crowbar and Steel Blade Resistors

&#8226; Ultra-Fast Recovery Rectifiers

Thermo Fuses

&#8226; Standard and Fast Recovery Rectifiers

Chip Fuses

&#8226; High-Power Rectifiers/Diodes

Pyrotechnic Initiators / Igniters

&#8226; Bridge Rectifiers

Variable Resistors

Small-Signal Diodes

&#8226; Cermet Variable Resistors

&#8226; Schottky and Switching Diodes

&#8226; Wirewound Variable Resistors

&#8226; Zener Diodes

&#8226; Conductive Plastic Variable Resistors

&#8226; RF PIN Diodes

&#8226; Contactless Potentiometers

Protection Diodes

&#8226; Hall Effect Position Sensors

&#8226; TVS Diodes or TRANSZORB&#174; (uni-directional, bi-directional)

&#8226; Precision Magnetic Encoders

&#8226; ESD Protection Diodes (including arrays)

Networks/Arrays

Thyristors/SCR

Non-Linear Resistors

&#8226; Phase-Control Thyristors

&#8226; NTC Thermistors

&#8226; Fast Thyristors

&#8226; PTC Thermistors

IGBTs

&#8226; Thin Film RTDs

&#8226; Field Stop Trench

&#8226; Varistors

&#8226; Punch Through Trench

Magnetics

Power Modules

&#8226; Inductors

&#8226; Input Modules (diodes and thyristors)

&#8226; Wireless Charging Coils

&#8226; Output &#38; Switching Modules (contain MOSFETs, IGBTs, and diodes)

&#8226; Planar Devices

&#8226; Custom Modules

&#8226; Transformers

&#160; &#8226; Custom Magnetics

Optoelectronic Components Segment 

Connectors

Infrared Emitters and Detectors

&#160; Optical Sensors

Capacitors Segment 

&#8226; Proximity

Tantalum Capacitors

&#8226; Ambient Light

&#8226; Molded Chip Tantalum Capacitors

&#8226; Light Index (RGBW, UV, IR)

&#8226; Molded Chip Polymer Tantalum Capacitors

&#8226; Humidity

&#8226; Coated Chip Tantalum Capacitors

&#8226; Quadrant Sensors

&#8226; Solid Through-Hole Tantalum Capacitors

&#8226; Transmissive

&#8226; Wet Tantalum Capacitors

&#8226; Reflective

Ceramic Capacitors

Infrared Remote Control Receivers

&#8226; Multilayer Chip Capacitors

Optocouplers

&#8226; Disc Capacitors

&#8226; Phototransistor, Photodarlington

&#8226; Multilayer Chip RF Capacitors

&#8226; Linear

&#8226; Chip Antennas

&#8226; Phototriac

&#8226; Thin Film Capacitors

&#8226; High Speed

Film Capacitors

&#8226; IGBT and MOSFET Driver

Power Capacitors

Solid-State Relays

Heavy-Current Capacitors

LEDs and 7-Segment Displays

Aluminum Electrolytic Capacitors

Infrared Data Transceiver Modules

ENYCAP TM Energy Storage Capacitors

Custom Products

&#160; 

We promote our ability to provide "one-stop shop" service to customers, whereby they can streamline their design and purchasing processes by ordering multiple types of products from Vishay. Our technical sales force consisting of field application engineers offers customers the complete breadth of the Vishay portfolio for their applications. We aim to use this broad portfolio to increase opportunities to have our components selected and "designed in" to new end products.

Product Segments

Our products can be divided into two general classes: semiconductors and passive components. Semiconductors are sometimes referred to as "active components" because they require power to function whereas passive components do not require power to function. &#160; Our semiconductor and passive components products are further categorized based on their functionality for financial reporting purposes. See Note 15 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information on revenues, income, and total assets by segment.

Semiconductors

Our semiconductor products include MOSFETs, Diodes, and Optoelectronic Components. Semiconductors are typically used to perform functions such as switching, amplifying, rectifying, routing, or transmitting electrical signals, power conversion, and power management.

MOSFETs Segment 

Our MOSFETs business includes both the commodity and non-commodity markets in which we believe that we enjoy a good reputation and strong brand recognition (Siliconix). MOSFETs function as solid-state switches to control power in multiple applications, including mobile phones, notebook and desktop computers, tablet computers, digital cameras, televisions, DC/DC and AC/DC switch mode power supplies, solar inverters, automotive and industrial systems. We are a leader in low-voltage TrenchFET MOSFETs and also offer high-voltage MOSFETs. Our MOSFETs product line includes low- and medium-voltage TrenchFET MOSFETs, high-voltage planar MOSFETs, high voltage Super Junction MOSFETs, power integrated circuits (power ICs), and integrated function power devices. We are one of the technology leaders in MOSFETs, with a tradition of innovation in wafer design, packaging, and performance.

Diodes Segment 

Our Diodes business is a solid business with a strong market presence in both the commodity and non-commodity markets. The products that comprise our Diodes business represent our broadest product line and include rectifiers, small signal diodes, protection diodes, thyristors/SCRs and power modules. The primary application of rectifiers, found inside the power supplies of virtually all electronic equipment, is to derive DC power from the AC supply. Vishay is the worldwide leader in rectifiers, having a broad technology base and a good position in automotive, industrial, computing and consumer markets. Our rectifier innovations include TMBS&#174; using Trench MOS barrier Schottky rectifier technology, which reduces power loss and improves the efficiency of end systems and eSMP&#174;, the best in class high-current density surface mount packages. Our wide selection of small signal diodes consist of the following functions: switching, tuning, band-switching, RF attenuation and voltage regulation (Zener). They are available in various glass and plastic packaging options and generally are used in electronic circuits, where small currents and high frequencies are involved. Vishay is also one of the market leaders for TVS (transient voltage suppressor) diodes. The portfolio of protection diodes includes ESD protection and EMI filter. Our thyristors or SCR (silicon-controlled rectifiers) are very popular in the industrial high-voltage AC power control applications. The fast growing markets of solar inverter and HEV/EV are the focus of our power modules business (IGBT or MOSFET modules). These modules can be customized to fit in different customer design requirements.

Optoelectronic Components Segment 

Our Optoelectronic Components business has a strong market presence in both the commodity and non-commodity markets. Optoelectronic components emit light, detect light, or do both. Our broad range of standard and customer specific optoelectronic components includes infrared ("IR") emitters and detectors, IR remote control receivers, optocouplers, solid-state relays, optical sensors, light-emitting diodes ("LEDs"), 7-segment displays, and IR data transceiver modules (IrDA&#174;). Our IR remote control receivers are designed for use in infrared remote control, data transmission, and light barrier applications in end products including televisions, set-top boxes, notebook computers, and audio systems. We are the leading manufacturer of IR remote control receivers. Our optocouplers electrically isolate input and output signals. Uses include switch-mode power supplies, consumer electronics, telecommunications equipment, solar inverters, and industrial systems. Our IR data transceiver modules are used for short range, two-way, high-speed, and secure wireless data transfer between electronic devices such as home medical appliances, mobile phones, industrial data loggers, and metering. Our optical sensors product line was considerably strengthened by our acquisition of Capella in 2014. Our optical sensors products include ambient light sensors, optical encoders, integrated photodiode and I/V amplifiers, proximity sensors, color sensors, and UV sensors. Applications include telecommunications, mobile phones, smartphone, handheld devices, digital cameras, laptops, desktop computers, LED backlighting, office automation equipment, household electrical appliance and automotive electronics. Our LEDs are designed for backlighting and illumination in automotive and other applications. Our LEDs include ultra-bright as well as small surface-mount packages, with products available in all standard colors including white.

Passive Components

Our passive components include resistors, capacitors, and magnetics such as inductors and transformers. Passive components are used to store electrical charges, to limit or resist electrical current, and to help in filtering, surge suppression, measurement, timing, and tuning applications.

Resistors and Inductors Segment 

Our Resistors and Inductors business is our original business. We maintain the broadest portfolio of resistor products worldwide. Under current market conditions, the business is solid, predictable, and growing at relatively stable selling prices. We are a market leader with a strong technology base, many specialty products, and strong brand recognition (such as our Dale, Draloric, Beyschlag, Sfernice, and HiRel Systems brands). We focus on higher value markets in specialized industries, while maintaining a complete portfolio of commodity products. We do not aim to be the volume leader in commodity markets.

Resistors are basic components used in all forms of electronic circuitry to adjust and regulate levels of voltage and current. They vary widely in precision and cost, and are manufactured from numerous materials and in many forms. Linear resistive components are classified as variable or fixed, depending on whether or not their resistance is adjustable. Non-linear resistors function by varying in resistance under influence of temperature (thermistors) or voltage (varistors). They can be used in temperature-measuring applications or as current or voltage-limiting devices. We manufacture virtually all types of fixed resistors, both in discrete and network forms, as well as many variable types.

Vishay resistor innovations include Power Metal Strip&#174; technology. These resistors feature very low resistance and are used to measure changes in current flow (current sensing) or divert current flow (shunting).

Inductors use an internal magnetic field to change AC current phase and resist AC current. Inductor applications include controlling AC current and voltage, filtering out unwanted electrical signals, and energy storage. Vishay inductor innovations include IHLP&#174; low-profile, high-current inductor technology with industry-leading specifications, which is patented and generates royalty revenue. Our low-profile, high-current inductors save circuit board space and power in voltage regulator module ("VRM") and DC to DC converter applications. In addition, we are a worldwide leader in custom magnetic solutions focusing on high performance and high reliability. This field has been substantially strengthened, with the 2012 acquisition of HiRel Systems, broadening our portfolio, customer, and market segment reach.

Capacitors Segment 

Our Capacitors business consists of a broad range of reliable, high-quality products. We have a strong presence worldwide in specialty markets based on our product performance and reliability and strong brand recognition (including our Sprague, Vitramon, Roederstein, BCcomponents, and ESTA brands). We focus on higher value markets in specialized industries, while maintaining a complete portfolio of commodity products. We do not aim to be the volume leader in commodity markets. Capacitors are used in almost all electronic circuits. They store energy and discharge it when needed. Important applications for capacitors include electronic filtering for linear and switching power supplies; decoupling and bypass of electronic signals for integrated circuits and circuit boards; and frequency control, timing and conditioning of electronic signals for a broad range of applications.

We manufacture products based on all major capacitor technologies: tantalum (molded chip tantalum, coated chip tantalum, solid through-hole tantalum, wet tantalum, and polymer), ceramic (multilayer chip and ceramic disc), film, power, heavy-current, and aluminum electrolytic. Our capacitors range from tiny surface-mount devices for hearing aids and mobile devices to large power correction capacitors used in renewable energy, heavy industry, and electrical power grids. We are a recognized technology leader in many product ranges, securing our strong position in military and medical markets, and in a wide range of industrial and automotive applications. Our wet tantalum and MicroTan&#8482; technologies are market leaders.

Military Qualifications

We have qualified certain of our products under various military specifications approved and monitored by United States government agencies, and under certain European military specifications. Qualification levels are based in part upon the rate of failure of products. In order to maintain the classification level of a product, we must continuously perform tests on the product and the results of these tests must be reported to the government agencies. If the product fails to meet the requirements for the applicable classification level, the product's classification may be reduced to a lower level. During the time that the classification level is reduced for a product with military application, net revenues and earnings attributable to that product may be adversely affected.

Manufacturing Operations

In order to better serve our customers, we maintain production facilities in locations where we market the bulk of our products, such as the United States, Germany, and Asia. To optimize production efficiencies, we have whenever practicable established manufacturing facilities in countries, such as the Czech Republic, Hungary, India, Israel, Malaysia, Mexico, the People's Republic of China, and the Philippines, where we can benefit from lower labor and tax costs and also benefit from various government incentives, including grants and tax relief.

One of our most sophisticated manufacturing operations is the production of power semiconductor components. This manufacturing process involves two phases of production: wafer fabrication and assembly (or packaging). Wafer fabrication subjects silicon wafers to various thermal, metallurgical, and chemical process steps that change their electrical and physical properties. These process steps define cells or circuits within numerous individual devices (termed "dies" or "chips") on each wafer. Assembly is the sequence of production steps that divides the wafer into individual chips and encloses the chips in structures (termed "packages") that make them usable in a circuit. Both wafer fabrication and assembly phases incorporate wafer level and device level electrical testing to ensure that device design integrity has been achieved.

In the United States, our manufacturing facilities are located in California, Minnesota, Nebraska, New Hampshire, New York, Rhode Island, South Dakota, Vermont, and Wisconsin. In Asia, our main manufacturing facilities are located in the People's Republic of China, the Republic of China (Taiwan), India, and Malaysia. In Europe, our main manufacturing facilities are located in Germany, France, and the Czech Republic. We have substantial manufacturing facilities in Israel. We also have manufacturing facilities in Austria, Dominican Republic, Japan, Hungary, Italy, Mexico, the Netherlands, Portugal, and the Philippines. Over the past several years, we have invested substantial resources to increase the efficiency of our plants, which we believe will further reduce production costs.

All of our manufacturing operations have received ISO 9001 certification. &#160; ISO 9001 is a comprehensive set of quality program standards developed by the International Standards Organization.

See Note 15 to our consolidated financial statements for financial information by geographic area.

Sources of Supplies

Although most materials incorporated in our products are available from a number of sources, certain materials, including plastics and metals, are available only from a relatively limited number of suppliers or are subject to significant price volatility.

Silicon wafers are the most important raw material for the manufacturing of our semiconductor products. Silicon wafers are manufactured from high-purity silicon, a metalloid. There have at times been industry-wide shortages of high-purity silicon resulting primarily from growing demand of the electronic component and solar power industries, and limited growth in high-purity silicon manufacturing capacities. Shifts in demand for high-purity silicon and in turn, silicon wafers, have resulted in significant fluctuation in prices of silicon wafers.

We are a major consumer of the world's annual production of tantalum, a metal used in the manufacturing of tantalum capacitors. There are few suppliers that process tantalum ore into capacitor grade tantalum powder.

Certain materials, in addition to tantalum and including tin, tungsten, and gold are available only from a relatively limited number of suppliers, the source for which may be in the Democratic Republic of the Congo ("DRC") or an adjoining country. We are working toward the elimination of materials that directly or indirectly finance or benefit armed groups in the DRC or adjoining countries from our supply chain.

Palladium, a metal used to produce multi-layer ceramic capacitors, is currently found primarily in South Africa and Russia. Palladium is a commodity metal that is subject to price volatility. We periodically enter into short-term commitments to purchase palladium.

Certain metals used in the manufacture of our products, such as copper, are traded on active markets, and can be subject to significant price volatility. Our policy is to enter into short-term commitments to purchase defined portions of annual consumption of these metals if market prices decline below budget.

Inventory and Backlog

We manufacture both standardized products and those designed and produced to meet customer specifications. We maintain an inventory of standardized components and monitor the backlog of outstanding orders for our products.

We include in our backlog only open orders that we expect to ship in the next twelve months. Many of our customers encounter uncertain and changing demand for their products. They typically order products from us based on their forecasts. If demand falls below customers' forecasts, or if customers do not control their inventory effectively, they may cancel or reschedule the shipments included in our backlog, in many instances without the payment of any penalty. Therefore, our backlog at any point in time is not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected for future periods.

Customers and Marketing

We sell our products to original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs"), electronic manufacturing services ("EMS") companies, which manufacture for OEMs on an outsourcing basis, and independent distributors that maintain large inventories of electronic components for resale to OEMs and EMS companies. The distribution of sales by customer type for 2015 is shown below:

Distributors

&#160; &#160; 53

%

OEMs

&#160; &#160; 39

%

EMS companies

&#160; &#160; 8

%

Our sales organizations are regionally based. While our sales and support procedures are typically similar across all regions, we remain flexible in our ability to offer programs tailored to our customers' specific support requirements in each local area. The aim of our sales organizations is supporting our customers across all product lines, developing new design wins, negotiating contracts, and providing general commercial support as would normally be expected of a large multi-national sales force.

We have an established Strategic Global Account program, which provides each of our top customers with a dedicated Strategic Global Account Manager. Our Strategic Global Account Managers are typically highly experienced salesmen or saleswomen who are capable of providing key customers with the coordination and management visibility required in a complex multi-product business relationship. They typically coordinate the sales, pricing, contract, logistic, quality, and other aspects of the customer's business requirements. The Strategic Global Account Manager normally is the focal point of communication between Vishay and our main customers. We maintain a similar program for our strategic distributors as well.

We work with our customers so that our products are incorporated into the design of electronic equipment at the earliest stages of development and to provide technical and applications support. In addition to our staff of direct field sales personnel, independent manufacturers' representatives, and distributors, our Business Development group maintains teams of dedicated Field Application Engineers ("FAEs") to assist our customers in solving technical problems and in developing products to meet specific customer application needs using our entire product portfolio to provide support for our customers' engineering needs. Organized by market segment, our Business Development FAEs bring specific knowledge of component applications in their areas of expertise in the automotive, telecommunications, computer, consumer/entertainment, industrial, peripherals, digital consumer, and other market segments. With the ultimate goal of a Vishay "design-in" &#8211; the process by which our customers specify a Vishay component in their products &#8211; this program offers our customers enhanced access to all Vishay technologies while at the same time increasing design wins, and ultimately sales, for us. Most importantly, the process is closely monitored via a proprietary database developed by our Business Development group. Our database captures specific design activities and allows for real-time measurement of new business potential for our management team. Our 2014 acquisition of Capella greatly increased our in-house design capabilities, particularly for optoelectronic components.

Our top 30 customers have been relatively stable despite not having long-term commitments to purchase our products. With selected customers, we have signed longer term (greater than one year) contracts for specific products. Net revenues from our top 30 customers represent approximately 70% of our total net revenues. No single customer comprises more than 10% of our total net revenues.

In certain areas we also work with sales representatives. The commission expense for these sales representatives is not material.

Research and Development

Many of our products and manufacturing techniques, technologies, and packaging methods have been invented, designed, and developed by Dr. Felix Zandman, our engineers, and our scientists. We maintain strategically placed design centers where proximity to customers enables us to more easily gauge and satisfy the needs of local markets. These design centers are located predominantly in the United States, Germany, Italy, Israel, the People's Republic of China, France, and the Republic of China (Taiwan).

We also employ research and development personnel and promote programs at a number of our production facilities to develop new products and new applications of existing products and to improve manufacturing processes and technologies. This decentralized system encourages product development at individual manufacturing facilities, closer to our customers.

Competition

We face strong competition in various product lines from both domestic and foreign manufacturers. Our primary competitors by product type include:

&#183; MOSFETs: Fairchild Semiconductor, Infineon, NXP Semiconductors, ON Semiconductor, Rohm, STMicroelectronics, Toshiba. 

&#183; Diodes: Diodes, Inc., Infineon, NXP Semiconductors, ON Semiconductor, STMicroelectronics. 

&#183; Optoelectronic Components: Avago, OSRAM Opto Semiconductors, Rohm, Sharp, Toshiba. 

&#183; Resistors and Inductors: KOA, Murata, Panasonic, Rohm, TDK-EPCOS, Yageo. 

&#183; Capacitors: AVX, KEMET, Murata, Nichicon, Panasonic, TDK-EPCOS, Yageo. 

There are many other companies that produce products in the markets in which we compete.

Our competitive position depends on our ability to maintain a competitive advantage on the basis of product quality, know-how, proprietary data, market knowledge, service capability, technological innovation, business reputation, and price competitiveness. Our sales and marketing programs aim to compete by offering our customers a broad range of world-class technologies and products, superior global sales and distribution support, and a secure and multi-location source of product supply.

Patents and Licenses

We have made a significant investment in securing intellectual property protection for our technology and products. We seek to protect our technology by, among other things, filing patent applications for technology considered important to the development of our business. We also rely upon trade secrets, unpatented know-how, continuing technological innovation, and the aggressive pursuit of licensing opportunities to help develop and maintain our competitive position.

Our ability to compete effectively with other companies depends, in part, on our ability to maintain the proprietary nature of our technology. Although we have been awarded, have filed applications for, or have been licensed under, numerous patents in the United States and other countries, there can be no assurance concerning the degree of protection afforded by these patents or the likelihood that pending patents will be issued.

We require all of our technical, research and development, sales and marketing, and management employees and most consultants and other advisors to execute confidentiality agreements upon the commencement of employment or consulting relationships with us. These agreements provide that all confidential information developed or made known to the entity or individual during the course of the entity's or individual's relationship with us is to be kept confidential and not disclosed to third parties except in specific circumstances. Substantially all of our technical, research and development, sales and marketing, and management employees have entered into agreements providing for the assignment to us of rights to inventions made by them while employed by us.

When we believe other companies are misappropriating our intellectual property rights, we vigorously enforce those rights through legal action, and we intend to continue to do so. See Item 3, "Legal Proceedings."

Although we have numerous United States and foreign patents covering certain of our products and manufacturing processes, no particular patent is considered individually material to our business.

Employees

As of December 31, 2015, we employed approximately 22,400 full time employees, of whom approximately 89% were located outside the United States. Our future success is substantially dependent on our ability to attract and retain highly qualified technical and administrative personnel. Some of our employees outside the United States are members of trade unions, and employees at one U.S. facility are represented by a trade union. Our relationship with our employees is generally good. However, no assurance can be given that, if we continue to restructure our operations and/or reduce employee hours in response to changing economic conditions, labor unrest or strikes will not occur.

Environment, Health and Safety

We have adopted an Environmental Health and Safety Corporate Policy that commits us to achieve and maintain compliance with applicable environmental laws, to promote proper management of hazardous materials for the safety of our employees and the protection of the environment, and to minimize the hazardous materials generated in the course of our operations. This policy is implemented with accountability directly to the Board of Directors. In addition, our manufacturing operations are subject to various federal, state, and local laws restricting discharge of materials into the environment.

We are involved in environmental remediation programs at various sites currently or formerly owned by us and our subsidiaries both within and outside of the U.S., in addition to involvement as a potentially responsible party ("PRP") at Superfund sites. Certain obligations as a PRP have arisen in connection with business acquisitions. The remediation programs are on-going and the ultimate cost of site cleanup is difficult to predict given the uncertainties regarding the extent of the required cleanup, the interpretation of applicable laws and regulations and alternative cleanup methods. See Item 3, "Legal Proceedings."

We are not involved in any pending or threatened proceedings that would require curtailment of our operations. We continually expend funds to ensure that our facilities comply with applicable environmental regulations. While we believe that we are in material compliance with applicable environmental laws, we cannot accurately predict future developments and do not necessarily have knowledge of all past occurrences on sites that we currently occupy. More stringent environmental regulations may be enacted in the future, and we cannot determine the modifications, if any, in our operations that any such future regulations might require, or the cost of compliance with such regulations. Moreover, the risk of environmental liability and remediation costs is inherent in the nature of our business and, therefore, there can be no assurance that material environmental costs, including remediation costs, will not arise in the future.

With each acquisition, we attempt to identify potential environmental concerns and to minimize, or obtain indemnification for, the environmental matters we may be required to address. In addition, we establish reserves for specifically identified potential environmental liabilities. We believe that the reserves we have established are adequate. Nevertheless, we have in the past and may in the future inherit certain pre-existing environmental liabilities, generally based on successor liability doctrines. Although we have never been involved in any environmental matter that has had a material adverse impact on our overall operations, there can be no assurance that in connection with any past or future acquisition we will not be obligated to address environmental matters that could have a material adverse impact on our operations.

Company Information and Website

We file annual, quarterly, and current reports, proxy statements, and other documents with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The public may read and copy any materials that we file with the SEC at the SEC's Public Reference Room at Station Place, 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. Also, the SEC maintains an Internet website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers, including us, that file electronically with the SEC. The public can obtain any documents that we file with the SEC at http://www.sec.gov.

In addition, our company website can be found on the Internet at www.vishay.com. The website contains information about us and our operations. Copies of each of our filings with the SEC on Form 10-K, Form 10-Q, and Form 8-K, and all amendments to those reports, can be viewed and downloaded free of charge as soon as reasonably practicable after the reports and amendments are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. To view the reports, access ir.vishay.com and click on "SEC Filings."

The following corporate governance related documents are also available on our website:

&#183; Corporate Governance Principles 

&#183; Code of Business Conduct and Ethics 

&#183; Code of Ethics Applicable to the Company's Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Principal Accounting Officer or Controller and Financial Managers 

&#183; Audit Committee Charter 

&#183; Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee Charter 

&#183; Compensation Committee Charter 

&#183; Policy on Director Attendance at Annual Meetings 

&#183; Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee Policy Regarding Qualification of Directors 

&#183; Procedures for Securityholders' Submissions of Nominating Recommendations 

&#183; Securityholder Communications with Directors and Interested Party Communication with Non-Management Directors 

&#183; Whistleblower and Ethics Hotline Procedures 

&#183; Related Party Transaction Policy 

To view these documents, access ir.vishay.com and click on "Corporate Governance."

Any of the above documents can also be obtained in print by any stockholder upon request to our Investor Relations Department at the following address:

Corporate Investor Relations

Vishay Intertechnology, Inc.

63 Lancaster Avenue

Malvern, PA 19355-2143

