 ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

Since its incorporation, the Company has developed its business plan, appointed officers and directors, engaged initial project consultants and entered into negotiations and contracts for related and ancillary business. The Company is in the process of developing proposals for high-speed rail service related transportation and infrastructure projects. 

&#160;

On June 12, 2012, Ameri Metro, Inc. ("Ameri Metro 2010") merged with Yellowwood Acquisition Corporation, a public reporting company. As part of the merger, Yellowwood Acquisition Corporation, the surviving entity, changed its name to Ameri Metro, Inc. and changed its fiscal year end to July 31. Yellowwood had no ongoing business or operations and was established for the purpose of completing mergers and acquisitions with a target company, such as the former Ameri Metro 2010. 

The Business 

The Company, is focused on development of transportation facilities, including but not limited to high-speed rail for passenger and freight transportation and related and ancillary transportation businesses, inland ports, sea ports, airports, and toll roads. The Company intends to secure manufacturing and technologies together with ancillary land development projects, sale of goods and services to government, civilian and commercial end users. 

The Company anticipates that it will, directly or through subsidiaries or affiliates, develop plans, and then coordinate and supervise the financing, construction and development of such transportation projects by bringing together the resources, plans, financing, approvals and technology needed to implement such transportation systems.

The Company has not yet commenced its revenue producing operations; however, it has been meeting with and making presentations to parties associated with projects it intends to develop, including parties in the United States related to a sea port and a rail project. The Company believes that the need, demand and usage of alternative transportation such as high speed rail, ports and toll roads are increasingly important as the United States adopts policies to attempt to reduce its dependency on fossil fuels and to improve its infrastructure and transportation systems. The Company intends to develop and prepare the designs and concepts for feasible and profitable regional transportation and infrastructure related projects utilizing existing and new infrastructure. The Company will prepare the complete project package including appraisals and estimates and will obtain contracts for the development of the facilities and infrastructure and purchase of the equipment. The Company will present the complete project, working as project supervisor and coordinator, to municipalities and regional government agencies. 

Funding for individual projects of the Company will occur from bond offerings, as organized through various nonprofit entities, High Speed Rail Facilities Inc., High Speed Rail Facilities Provider Inc., Alabama Toll Facilities Inc., Global Infrastructure Development &#38; Finance Authority Inc. and organizations sponsored or affiliated with municipal and government agencies as well as from issuances of stock and debt-financing. Certain of these nonprofit entities or organizations may themselves be affiliated with, or related to, the Company and assist, or work in conjunction with, the Company in securing contracts and funds to develop projects. 

Through its subsidiary, GTI, the Company is also involved in the planning of the future development of a new toll road in the southeast United States. The Company through assignment of rights from Penndel Land Company, to finance, develop and construction a 357 mile toll road in the State of Alabama as outlined in Alabama House Joint Resolution H. J. R. 459 &#38; H. J. R. 456. The Company acquired from Penndel Land Company (majority owned by the former CEO of ARMT) the contract rights to a construction agreement with the ATFI, a non-profit company supported by the State of Alabama to act as the exclusive entity as set forth in H.J.R 459 and H.J.R. 456 project developer for such a toll road an on which the former CEO of ARMT served as one of its four directors. When the Company secures financing, ATFI will effect a bond offering to purchase the land on which the toll road is to be located. 

&#160;

In support of H.J.R. 459 and H.J.R.456 the following ancillary projects are being planned.

1.

Design built inland port called Port De Claudius 

2.

Design built airport called Sarah Jewel Mathias International Airport (KSJM)

3.

Design built air cargo port called Port of Ostia 

4.

Design built railroad and train stations 

5.

Design built Fiber Optic Lines 

6.

Design built All Utilities underground or overhead 

7.

Design built Power Grids 

8.

Design built Cell Phone Towers 

9.

Design built Motels, Travel Plazas, Fast Food Establishments

10.

Design built Outdoor Advertisements, Signage 

11.

Design built Natural Gas Pipelines &#38; Distillate Pipelines 

Shah Mathias, founder of the Company, has established a series of corporations with which to effect the transactions and development of the projects envisioned by the Company including the Port Trajan Facility, high speed rail projects and the Alabama Toll Road. The Company has envisioned long-range ideas and plans to develop currently undeveloped areas through which the planned Alabama toll road will traverse. These plans include the development of an airport, sea shipping port and a high speed rail line. Ameri Metro only owns 25% of all of the following companies, and that Shah and related parties own the remaining 75% . 

1.

HSR Freight line, Inc. Designed to handle all services for use of track time and trains for freight and freight forwarding services.

2.

HSR Passenger Services, Inc. Designed to handle rail ticketing booking, reservations, and food services.

3.

HSR Technologies, Inc. Designed to handle all building of suites and manufacturing of trains and rail tracks and provide fiber optics, telecommunications, and related technologies services.

4.

HSR Logistics, Inc. Designed to handle all purchasing functions.

5.

KSJM International Airport, Inc. Designed to eventually create an airport facility in inland Alabama

6.

Port Of Ostia, Inc. Designed to handle all air cargo if and when an airport facility is created.

7.

Port of De Claudius, Inc. Designed to handle sea container and port operations.

8.

AMERI Cement, Inc. Designed to handle cement needs for building projects including Alabama toll road.

9.

Lord Chauffeurs LTD: Designed to operate all passenger ground transportation.

10.

Atlantic Energy &#38; Utility Products, Inc. Designed to provide utility and maintenance service to above entities.

11.

Penn Insurance Services LLC. Designed to provide insurance service to above entities.

12.

Cape Horn Abstracting, Co. Designed to land title examination services.

13.

Eastern Development &#38; Design, Inc. Designed to provide all civil engineering and architectural service.

14.

Slater &#38; West, Inc. Designed to handle contract administration services and work force H R matters.

15.

Malibu Homes, Inc. Designed to establish residential home building services.

16.

Platinum Media, Inc. Designed to provide all media related services.

Eastern Development and Design (ED&#38;D) (Other Related Party Agreements) to do all the civil engineering work for the toll road, Port De Claudius, KSJM and Port of Ostia. ED&#38;D is an experienced civil engineering company that has been operating since 1993. 

The Company has, via ED&#38;D, engaged Armstrong Consulting Inc., for the airport engineering and planning. Armstrong Consulting Inc. is an experienced airport planning and engineer design company. It will engineer and design standards from FAA AC150/5300-13 airport design and FAR PART 77. 

&#160;

The Company has approached a major aircraft manufacturer to help launch air cargo operation at KSJM and Port of Ostia. A major aircraft manufacturer has indicated that the Company should move forward with its business plan. 

Relco has been engaged by HSR Technologies, to provide exclusive use of DMU rail technologies and use its know-how for manufacturing of train sets meeting the 49 CFR Part 238 compliant DMU in current venue service that meets or exceeds new Federal Rail Administration (FRA) and America Public Transportation Association (APTA) structural safety specification. Relco is a fifty year old company and has provided services for Union Pacific, CSX Transportation, Burlington Northern Santa Fe, Kansas City Southern Railway, Canadian National and numerous others. 

The Company will build seventeen hundred miles of railroad tracks in parallel with ATFI. The Company has plans, through its affiliates, to build four tracks north and south bound, two tracks for passenger services and two tracks for freight. Volkmann Railroad Builders has been engaged by ARMT to construct and built the railroad. Volkmann is a thirty five year old company that has built railroads for NASA, the mining industry, oil and gas exploration and freight carriers. 

The Company has engaged consultants such as Transportation Economics Management System Inc. (TEMS). TEMS (Other Related Party Agreements) is a global transportation consulting firm. It is responsible for the transportation planning and system analysis, which includes the development of the passenger and freight forecasting models. 

The Company has engaged with Inchcape Shipping Services (ISS), to manage and act as port agent at Port Claudius and Port Of Ostia. ISS is a global operation from sixty eight countries, six hundred ports that directs traffic from sea and air cargo to and from the ports. They have been in business since 1875. 

NP&#38;G Innovations Inc. has been engaged to manufacturer railroad ties for the company, through HSR Technologies. NP&#38;G is the original inventors of green technology railroad ties. Marshalls Composite Technologies LLC (MCT) has been engaged to manufacture the composite rebar, through HSR Technologies for the company. MCT is the original developer of technology of the composite rebar. The Company will need approximately four hundred million linear feet of composite rebar to be used in building the Alabama Toll Road.

ARMT entered into a contract on June 10, 2010 for the acquisition of the patents, rights, titles, and business of Damar Corporation LLC, the inventor/developer/manufacturer of Damar TruckDeck. The Damar TruckDeck is a flexible truck deck storage and organization system with an integrated frame allowing the cargo deck to be used as a hauling surface. 

ARMT shall receive all rights and title to the patents, the TruckDeck system, and all related assets for a purchase price of $750,000 payable as $500,000 cash and the remaining $250,000 payable in the form of 7,500 shares of ARMT &#146; s common stock. The cash portion is payable within 90 days of the successful completion of the registration as a publicly traded company pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933. 

PAYMENT: $500,000

Purchase Secured the technology to manufacture composite Re-bar. (C RB).

PAYMENT: $4,750,000 

On March 1, 2011, the Company entered into a three month agreement with Transportation Economics &#38; Management Systems, Inc. (TEMS) regarding consulting services in relation to the development of high-speed rail and other transportation projects by the Company. The agreement was initially extended until March 1, 2012 and subsequently extended until September 2013. Compensation for services under the agreement may not exceed $135,408 unless otherwise authorized by a supplemental agreement. Currently, the project is anticipated to cost $460,000 and will take six months to complete including presentation to potential investors.

PAYMENT: $460,000

NPG. / HSR Technologies, Inc. RAIL TIE Licensing of Intellectual exclusive licensing agreement involving two US patents.

&#160;

PAYMENT: $8,000,000.

US Railcar Company. HSR Technologies, Inc. Exclusive Technology use Agreement For exclusive use of DMU rail technologies and use of its know-how for manufacturingOf train sets meeting the 49 CFR Part 238 compliant DMU in current revenue service That meets or exceeds new Federal Rail Administration (FRA) and American Public Transportation Association (APTA) structural safety specifications.

PAYMENT: $25,000,000. 

Business Plan 

The Company will facilitate the development of transportation facilities, including but not limited to high-speed rail for passenger and freight transportation and related and ancillary transportation businesses, inland ports, sea ports, airports, and toll roads. The Company intends to secure manufacturing and technologies together with ancillary land development projects, sale of goods and services to government, civilian and commercial end users. The high-speed rail plan to be presented by the Company will likely utilize existing rail rights-of-way to connect several metropolitan areas and states serving expanding populations. 

Funding for individual projects of the Company will occur from bond offerings organized through various nonprofit entities, High Speed Rail Facilities Inc., High Speed Rail Facilities Provider Inc., Alabama Toll Facilities Inc., Global Infrastructure Development &#38; Finance Authority Inc. and organizations sponsored or affiliated with municipal and government agencies as well as from issuances of stock and debt-financing. Certain of these nonprofit entities or organizations may themselves be affiliated with, or related to, the Company and assist, or work in conjunction with, the Company in securing contracts and funds to develop projects. The major elements of the plan would include:

High Speed Rail 

&#183;

Introduction of modern rail equipment operating at speeds up to 250 mph

&#183;

Use of existing rail rights-of-way to connect rural, small urban and major metropolitan areas

&#183;

Track improvement, including replacement and upgrades, additional sidings, signal and communications systems, and grade-crossing improvements

&#183;

Construction or improvement of railroad grade crossings and passenger stations

&#183;

Acquiring new train equipment including train sets and spares

Supporting Ancillary Development 

&#183;

Development or expansion of a feeder bus system linking outlying areas to railroad stations

&#183;

Operation of a "hub-and-spoke" passenger rail system providing service to and through one or more major hubs to locations throughout the United States

&#183;

Provision of multi-modal connections to improve system access, hotels, retail, parking garages, sorting facilities / distribution facilities

Supporting Transportation Systems 

&#183;

Ancillary development opportunities, airports, inland ports, sea ports, toll roads and technology parks

The following discussion outlines the steps as the Company anticipates that will occur in regard to the adoption and implementation of a high-speed rail system by a regional or local municipality. To date, the Company has not developed any rail systems. 

The Company plans that it will prepare the feasibility study and locate contractors and manufacturers to complete and work and provide cost estimates. Because highspeed rail travel is already inplace in much of Europe and Asia, the 

Company anticipates working with European companies to furnish the highspeed equipment, such as locomotives and passenger cars.

The Company will put proposed contracts together with the supporting feasibility study, appraisals, cost/benefit analysis, TEMS study, transportation history and other data to create a complete regional project proposal. The Company will then present such project proposals to the municipalities (state or local) as a complete and finished project. The local or regional municipality will then independently analyze and discuss the Company's proposal. If accepted, the Company anticipates that, upon approval, the local municipality will effectuate a bond offering for the funding of the high-speed rail project. The Company anticipates that the projects will be financed by bonds or indentures offered by sponsored or affiliated non-profit organizations of the applicable local or municipal government or agency. Such non-profit entities may also be affiliates or companies related to the Company.

Once a proposed high-speed rail project is accepted and a financing bond issue is effected by the municipality, the Company will act as the project manager and oversee the entire project including not only the development of the project but its continued operations as well. The Company will also serve as the main central point for coordination of and between the municipalities, contractors, and operators of the project and, once established, the rail system.

Hi Speed Rail Facilities, Inc. 

In 2010, the Company entered into an agreement with HSRF (one of the Company's related nonprofit companies) for the purpose of construction of projects consisting of the financing, construction and operation of high speed rail and related projects across the United States. HSRF is designed to focus on the building of train tracks and stations. Pursuant to the agreement between the Company and HSRF, the Company will act as the agent and representative of HSRF to perform all required tasks and actions to develop and construct such projects. The Company anticipates that having this agreement in place and by having HSRF already organized will expedite the process of commencing a project once the Company designs and develops and secures or raises funds to commence a project.

Hi Speed Rail Facilities Provider, Inc. 

In 2010, the Company entered into a written agreement with HSRFP (one of the Company's related nonprofit companies) for the purpose of construction of projects consisting of the financing, construction and operation of various high speed rail and related projects across the United States. Pursuant to such agreement between the Company and HSRFP, the Company was appointed as the agent and representative of HSRFP to perform all required tasks and actions to develop and construct such projects. HSRFP was organized to provide a vehicle to issue bonds and help secure infrastructure projects for the Company focusing on facilities ancillary to the high speed rail such as rail yards rail, rail assembly plants maintenance facilities. The Company anticipates that having this agreement in place and by having HSRF already organized will expedite the process of commencing a project once the Company secures or raises funds to commence a project.

Master Trust Indenture Agreement 

On December 1, 2010, HSRF entered into a Master Trust Indenture agreement providing that HSRF serve as trustee for a bond offering of $15,000,000,000 of HSRF Revenue Bonds Series 2010. In April 2012 this Indenture was amended to reflect a Master Indenture of $20,000,000,000. The Company will act as developer for the project financed by the Hi Speed Indenture. The Master Trust Indenture provides the basic terms and conditions of any bond issuance such as use of an escrow agent, rights of bond holders, sale of bonds, etc. 

ING Investment Management 

Each of the nonprofits has entered into an investment management agreement with ING Investment Management to manage any funds raised in bond offerings and to provide its investment advisory services. This non-binding agreement would only take effect upon the raising of revenues bonds. ING Investment Management would serve to invest, reinvest and supervise the management of any such funds while such funds were held in an investment account and until use for the intended purposes.

&#160;

Alabama Toll Road 

The Company is working to develop a project to build a toll road in the State of Alabama, but still needs funding for this project. Ameri Metro in 2010 was developing this project at the time of the merger with Yellowood. The planned toll road is designated as a 352 mile 4-lane road designed to be built from Orange Beach, Alabama to the Tennessee state line with the intent of connecting various rural sections of Alabama to Tennessee and more urban areas. The toll road that would connect various rural sections of Alabama to Tennessee and with its more urban areas.

As its first step, Alabama Toll Facilities, Inc. (ATFI) was created and obtained status as a nonprofit corporation pursuant to Section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code. As a nonprofit corporation, ATFI is allowed to make bond offerings in order to finance the cost of acquisition and construction and equipping of the toll road project. Mr. Shah Mathias (the founder of the Company) was one of the directors of ATFI and has subsequently resigned his position.

In 2007, the toll road project was presented to the Alabama legislature which on June 7, 2007, adopted Act no. 2007-506 entitled "Expressing Support for the Alabama Toll Road Project". This Act stated that it recognized the need to utilize other financial resources to meet the needs of that highways and other infrastructure items such as that offered by ATFI. The Act urged approval of the bonds offered by ATFI as special revenue bonds with the project eventually vesting to the state upon retirement of the bonds. The Act further supports designating ATFI as the exclusive entity for creation and development of the toll road project.

As a second step, on September 23, 2009, Penndel Land Company ( &#147; Penndel &#148; ), a company wholly owned by Shah Mathias entered into an agreement with ATFI by which Penndel was appointed as the agent and representative of ATFI to perform all required tasks and actions to develop and construct the toll road. 

Thirdly, on December 1, 2010, the Company formed a wholly-owned subsidiary, Global Transportation &#38; Infrastructure, Inc. ("GTI") in the state of Delaware to provide development and construction services for the Alabama highway project and to include securing financing for the design, planning, engineering and related costs of construction.

In December 2010, Penndel assigned its agreements with ATFI to GTI. As such the Company, through its subsidiary, GTI, has the development rights for such toll road. Under the terms of the agreement, GTI will provide development and construction services. GTI will also act as an agent and representative to take actions necessary to secure the first and future phases of the financing applicable to the design, planning, engineering and related soft and hard costs of the construction of a toll road in the state of Alabama and related activities.

Alabama Indenture Agreement 

On December 1, 2010, ATFI entered into a Master Trust Indenture agreement with as HSRF Trustee, which has agreed to serve as the trustee for the bond offering of up to $7,000,000,000 of ATFI Revenue Bonds once it determines to effect such an offering if ever. The Alabama Indenture indicates that the developer for the project will be GTI. In April 2012 the Alabama Indenture was amended to reflect a Master Indenture of $20,000,000,000. The Master Agreement provides the basic terms and conditions of any bond issuance such as use of an escrow agent, rights of bond holders, sale of bonds, etc. At the time that any bonds are to be issued, the Company will engage an asset manager and trustee for the indenture. 

Damar Truck Deck 

The Company also plans to develop projects as opportunities are presented related or ancillary to the transportation or transportation-related fields. The Company entered into a contract for the acquisition of the patents, rights, titles, and business of Damar Corporation LLC, the inventor, developer and manufacturer of Damar Truck Deck. (See www.damartruckdeck.com). The Damar Corporation was incorporated in 2007 to develop, manufacture and market the truck deck component invented and developed by its owner. The Damar Corporation has filed a patent application covering its truck deck system. The Damar Truck Deck is a flexible truck deck storage and organization system that with an integrated frame allowing the cargo deck to be used as a hauling surface. The system has many configurations to fit a wide variety of uses (hunting, construction, moving, hauling, etc.) in various truck deck sizes. The Damar Truck Deck primarily consists of lockable repositionable storage units.

&#160;

The Company cannot effect this agreement until its raises the funds necessary to the acquisition of such assets as listed in the agreement.

In October 2014, HSR Technology, Inc. as the equitable owner of four tax parcels located within West Manchester Township, York, PA filed a request for landowner curative amendment with the local township, with the intent of constructing facilities on the properties for the fabrication, assembly and welding of steel, aluminum and stainless steel assemblies with no foundry or casting operations. The use will include the fabrication and assembly of composite rebar, composite rail, bed liners and rail car assemblies received pre-prepared. The rail access is critical to the procurement of the land, as the products manufactured on site will be directly related to the company purpose of creating global economic development and promoting trade by bringing people together through innovative ideas and advanced technology. HSR Technology, Inc. proposes the initial construction of a transfer and storage building with a rail siding into the building. Manufacturing and assembly buildings would be added in stages, eventually employing up to 2,800 workers.

Port Trajan Project 

The Port Trajan 5 project is a transportation project located in the Antrim Township, Greencastle, Pennsylvania on the Interstate 81 corridor and the railroad "Crescent Corridor", a 2,500 mile network of rail and terminals. Norfolk Southern is operating a rail-truck facility in this corridor and the State of Pennsylvania has provided funding toward the development of additional facilities along this corridor. The Company envisions the development of the land next to such corridor, which it has termed the Port Trajan Project. The Company anticipates that it will construct a distribution center consisting of a terminal and a rail line between the main rail tracks to the highway for the transition of shipping containers from the rail line to waiting trucks. The distribution center will provide the facility for repackaging the shipments into containers or other shipments destined for final destination by truck. 

The Company anticipates that such project will be completed in phases the first of which is the purchase of an initial 345 acres at $350,000 per acre. The purchase price will include all on-site horizontal improvements. Off-site improvements will be acquired at an additional $20,000,000. The land is currently owned by a related company and the Company has entered into a letter of intent for its purchase.

On January 9, 2013, the Company signed a letter of intent with a related party to purchase land for a potential future project. The Company was unable to meet the deposit requirements of this contract, and so in November 2013 the deposit requirements were amended to require a cash deposit of $1,000, which has been paid, to hold the purchase option open for the Company until institutional funding is acquired. Future plans are to issue in excess of 10,000,000 shares of common stock to aid in funding the land purchase. 

On January 13, 2013 the Company entered into a Letter of Intent with a related party, to contract for services for the build out of the Port Trajan 5 Terminals.

On February 19, 2014, the Company entered into a Master Agreement for Production Services with Platinum Media whereby Platinum Media will provide the Company with all of its media development needs for a 5 year term. The agreement states that the fees charged to the Company will be no less than $12,000,000 per year, once we have received funding and begun executing on our business plan and Platinum Media has begun providing substantial services to ARMT. At July 31, 2016, the Company has not incurred fees to by Platinum Media.

The Market 

The Company believes that the United States suffers from an overburdened transportation infrastructure and that a fundamental overhaul of the dilapidated national transportation structure is needed according to Society of Civil Engineering reports ( http://www.infrastructurereportcard.org/ ). The Company anticipates that it will be able to assist in this &#147; fundamental overhaul &#148; by providing both the hands-on expertise and investment resources to establish an intermodal grid comprised of transportation and support services extending to urban and outlying areas alike.

The infrastructure experts believe that there is a compelling need to revitalize America &#146; s transportation infrastructure. As all levels of government are facing increasing economic crisis, the Company anticipates that such revitalization will be the result of public-private partnerships and alliances to create the basis for developing such an infrastructure. Organizations, 

such as the Company, are accordingly poised to play a significant role in the redevelopment and improvement of the nation &#146; s transportation infrastructure.

The 2009 David R. Goode National Transportation Policy Conference held at the Miller Center of Public Affairs at the University of Virginia, outlined the compelling need to revitalize America &#146; s transportation infrastructure and recommended that &#147; Public private partnerships need to emerge from the laboratory of pilot programs to play a much larger role as a core element of America &#146; s transport investment strategy. &#148; Organizations, such as the Company, are accordingly poised to play a significant role in the redevelopment and improvement of the nation &#146; s transportation infrastructure. The same transportation conference also noted that, &#147; Lacking a coherent vision for our transportation future and chronically short of resources, we defer new investments, fail to plan, and allow existing systems to fall into disrepair. This shortsightedness and under investment &#151; at the planning level and on our nation &#146; s roads, rails, airports and waterways &#151; costs the country dearly. It compromises our productivity and ability to compete internationally; transportation users pay for the system &#146; s inefficiencies in lost time, money and safety. Rural areas are cut off from economic opportunities and even urbanites suffer from inadequate public transportation options. Meanwhile, transportation-related pollution exacts a heavy toll on our environment and public health. &#148; 

Furthermore, the conference report was equally insistent on the need for private sector funding. In &#147; Recommendation 8: Connecting the Dots, &#148; the co-chairs wrote: &#147; Resolving the controversy over private equity contributions to the transport system is essential to meet the nation &#146; s pressing transportation challenges, as is recognizing the appropriate role of public-private partnerships (PPPs) in taking on those challenges. &#148; They added, &#147; PPPs need to emerge from the laboratory of pilot programs to play a much larger role as a core element of America &#146; s transport investment strategy. &#148; 

To resolve this crisis will require a massive infusion of capital. The National Surface Transportation Infrastructure Financing Commission, in its 2009 report Paying Our Way estimates the total shortfall between what is required and what is available, at all levels of government, just for maintaining the current system range from $134 billion to $194 billion per year for the period 2008 to 2035. If the goal is to improve existing transportation systems, the shortfall is even larger: $189 &#150; $262 billion per year over the same time period.

The main problem is that the funds to either maintain or improve existing transportation systems are simply not available from traditional sources. Taxpayers at all levels of government are loath to support any tax increases for infrastructure projects. New transportation systems are frequently discussed at all levels of government but the public funding for implementing such plans is usually non-existent.

The Company has met recently with Appalachian Regional Commission. Their region consists of 420 counties in 13 states, serving more than 25 million people. Political pressure is increasing to find alternate transportation systems as the price of gas and environmental risk of drilling and using petroleum products rises. Highway maintenance is increasingly expensive as the price of materials and labor increases. Highway congestion is an increasing urban problem. The Company presented a project as a total package thereby providing the municipalities with the complete overview and relieving it of the time and costs involved in studying the proposal, seeking pricing information and projecting results. In addition, the Company believes that it may be able to effect economies of scale by purchasing new and renovating existing equipment and facilities on an integrated regional basis rather than in fractured individual areas or small municipalities. The project also creates many jobs in the areas that the facilities are located in.

The Non-Profit High speed Rail Facilities Inc., has been identified in House Resolution 948 of the 2016 Georgia Legislative Session. High speed rail will connect freight and passenger services from Georgia to Alabama and throughout Georgia. 

The Company has met recently with Port of Freeport and Brazoria-Fort Bend Rail District, , to expand the port operations along with passenger and freight rail. "Forecasts from the Texas Comptroller of Public Accounts predict that the U.S. and Texas economies will rebound from the current recession (in terms of GSP and GDP), and grow at 2.6 percent and 3.37 percent, respectively, on average, per year between 2010 and 2035. An efficient and well-maintained transportation system is vital to the state &#145; s ability to remain economically competitive at home and abroad." 

&#160;

Boeing is expected to introduce 34,000 new airplanes in the next 15 years. TEMS, consultants to the Company, has met recently with authorities in Texas concerning a freight airport. 

Philadelphia, PA &#150; &#147; Governor Tom Wolf today announced his strategic plan for sustained management, maintenance, and development of the Port of Philadelphia &#148; . The governor emphasized his key priorities of investing in infrastructure, creating jobs, and keeping Pennsylvania economically competitive. The Company has been in discussions with elected officials concerning expansion of the port. 

Michigan &#150; Coast to Coast Passenger Rail Ridership and Cost Estimate Study, prepared by TEMS, consultants to the Company, is ready for design build upon funding being available. 

The New York - Washington Corridor is the highest ranking corridor in the US and is the only corridor that could be developed without or only limited government funds, according to a feasibility study prepared by TEMS, consultants to the Company. As such, the corridor provides an operating cash flow that can pay back the 35 Billion capital cost from the fare box. 

High Speed Rail Technologies Inc. to provide technology services of intellectual property use for the Company operations. That will include composite rebar manufacturing plant and product for the Alabama Toll Way Facility and rail car technology for DMU (Diesel Multi Unit Technology) along with composite rail road ties. 

TEMS- Transportation Economics Management Systems, identified projects for the Company focus as part of the growth strategy.

The Company is facing solid growth for next 20 years or more. According to &#147; McKinsey Global Institute- The McKinsey Infrastructure Practice Report- January 2013; confirms that $57 to $67 trillion dollars of investment is needed for infrastructure from 2013 to 2030. Due to robust infrastructure market and a tremendous back log of infrastructure projects on hand, along with anticipated projects identified by the Company &#146; s infrastructure projects consultants, TEMS, Inc., management believed that market conditions warranted that the Company reconsider its capital structure and in September 2014 we amended our Certificate of Incorporation to increase our authorized shares. Market conditions were further supported by &#147; The Boeing Current Market Outlook 2012-2013 report &#148; which shows an 80 % growth over next 20 years for cargo fleet.

Entry of the Company into the Market 

The Company anticipates that it can offer a comprehensive, innovative approach to resolving the nation &#146; s transportation crisis. And it proposes doing so without the necessity of the government increasing taxes at any level, or in any manner. In short, the Company suggests replacing public financing with private funding.

The primary competitive barrier most companies face in attempting to impact the nation &#146; s infrastructure crisis is that they approach the overall problem in disparate segments. For example, one provider proposes building railroad cars, while another proposes laying tracks. A third is interested in depots, while a fourth focuses on accommodations. None bring a comprehensive plan for full-funding to the mix. On the other hand, the Company takes an intermodal approach to providing seamless service with a scale of economy. For example the high-speed rail plan will utilize existing rail rights-of-way to connect several metropolitan areas and states serving expanding populations.

The Company through related parties also foresees pursuing joint ventures with other industries related to the transportation industry. For example, HSR Technologies it is currently finalizing an arrangement with a major manufacturer of certain materials used in the construction of highways and other transportation systems. The discussions contemplate a two-fold transaction by which the Company would initially buy the manufacturing plant and then subsequently purchase the remaining non-cash assets of the company. 

Competition 

&#160;

The Company may face significant competition from other companies that may be developing competing transportation systems. The Company will, however, face competition in the allocation of monetary resources from governmental agencies, at the local, regional, state and federal levels. The Company believes that government agencies will strongly endorse its proposed plan for high-speed regional rail systems, but believes that, given the economic environment, there may be few or no funds available for such development.

Nevertheless, as an example, traditionally significant competition generally exists in the industry, from government agencies and entities. Due to the federal budgetary constraints, henceforth any completion would come from private or public entities. On the heels of the Department of Transportation &#146; s recent request for high-speed rail proposals, its Federal Railroad Administration received 132 applications from 32 states totaling $8.8 billion. That was more than three times the $2.4 billion available. During the first round of awards in the fall of 2009, applicants submitted more than $55 billion in project proposals. That was nearly six times the initial $8 billion available from the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act. Unfortunately, due to federal budgetary setbacks, as of 2016, very little of this has come to fruition.

Trading Market 

While there currently is no market for the shares, a market maker has filed the initial Form 15c2-11 with FINRA. 

Employees 

In addition to the Chief Executive Officer, the Company has a few paid employees and approximately twenty six other persons who are working on behalf of the Company to assist in the development of its initial high-speed rail project. None of these people currently receive salaries or other compensation. Certain employee salaries are being accrued. The Company has also issued stock to employees for their consulting and professional services. At the time the Company launches its planned IPO, the Company will pay these employees.

Subsidiaries 

The Company has one subsidiary, Global Transportation &#38; Infrastructure Inc. ( &#147; GTI &#148; ) incorporated in the state of Delaware. GTI is a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company. The Company owns 25% of each of the companies listed in the section &#147; Related Companies &#148; . 

Reports to Security Holders 

The Company is a reporting company pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and files with the Securities and Exchange Commission quarterly, annual, periodic and other reports. The Company intends to deliver a copy of its annual report to its security holders, and will voluntarily send a copy of the annual report, including audited financial statements, to any registered shareholder who requests. The Company &#146; s documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission may be inspected at the Commission &#146; s principal office in Washington, D.C. Copies of all or any part of the registration statement may be obtained from the Public Reference Section of the Securities and Exchange Commission, 100 F Street N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. Call the Commission at 1-800-SEC-0330 for further information on the operation of the public reference rooms. The Securities and Exchange Commission also maintains a web site at http://www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy statements and information regarding registrants that file electronically with the Commission. All of the Company &#146; s filings may be located under the CIK number 0001534155.

