 Item 1. 

Business 

Cautionary Note Regarding Forward Looking Statements 

This Report on Form 10-K contains certain statements that are &#147;forward-looking&#148; within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (the &#147;Litigation Reform Act&#148;). These forward looking statements and other information are based on our beliefs as well as assumptions made by us using information currently available.

The words &#147;anticipate,&#148; &#147;believe,&#148; &#147;estimate,&#148; &#147;expect,&#148; &#147;intend,&#148; &#147;will,&#148; &#147;should&#148; and similar expressions, as they relate to us, are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Such statements reflect our current views with respect to future events and are subject to certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may vary materially from those described herein as anticipated, believed, estimated, expected, intended or using other similar expressions.

In accordance with the provisions of the Litigation Reform Act, we are making investors aware that such forward-looking statements, because they relate to future events, are by their very nature subject to many important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this Report on Form 10-K. For example, we may encounter competitive, technological, financial and business challenges making it more difficult than expected to continue to develop and market our products; the market may not accept our existing and future products; we may not be able to retain our customers; we may be unable to retain existing key management personnel; and there may be other material adverse changes in our operations or business. Certain important factors affecting the forward-looking statements made herein also include, but are not limited to (i) continued downward pricing pressures in our targeted markets, (ii) the continued acquisition of our customers by certain of our competitors, and (iii) continued periods of net losses, which could require us to find additional sources of financing to fund operations, implement our financial and business strategies, meet anticipated capital expenditures and fund research and development costs. In addition, assumptions relating to budgeting, marketing, product development and other management decisions are subjective in many respects and thus susceptible to interpretations and periodic revisions based on actual experience and business developments, the impact of which may cause us to alter our marketing, capital expenditure or other budgets, which may in turn affect our financial position and results of operations. For all of these reasons, the reader is cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements contained herein, which speak only as of the date hereof. In addition, you should read and carefully consider the Risk Factors discussed in Part I, Item 1A of this Form 10K. We assume no responsibility to update any forward-looking statements as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise except as required by law.

General 

Overview 

We develop advanced polymer materials which provide critical characteristics in the design and development of medical devices. Our biomaterials are used in devices that are designed for treating a broad range of anatomical sites and disease states. Our business model leverages our proprietary materials science technology and manufacturing expertise in order to expand our product sales and royalty and license fee income.

Our leading edge technology, notably products such as ChronoFlex&#174;, ChronoSil TM , HydroMed&#153;, and HydroThane&#153;, has been developed to overcome a wide range of design and functional challenges, from the need for dimensional stability, ease of manufacturability and demanding physical properties to overcoming environmental stress cracking and providing heightened lubricity for ease of insertion. Our polymer product lines are compliant with measures applying to the processing of certain animal waste to protect against transmissible spongiform encephalopathies as set forth in European Council Decision 1999/534/EC. Our new product extensions allow us to customize our proprietary polymers for specific customer applications in a wide range of device categories.

History 

We were founded in 1993 as a subsidiary of PolyMedica Corporation (&#147;PolyMedica&#148;). In June 1996, PolyMedica distributed all of the shares of CardioTech International, Inc.&#146;s (&#147;CardioTech&#148;) common stock, par value $0.01 per share, which PolyMedica owned, to PolyMedica stockholders of record. Our materials science technology is principally based upon the ChronoFlex TM proprietary polymers which represent our core technology.

In July 1999, we acquired the assets of Tyndale-Plains-Hunter (&#147;TPH&#148;), a manufacturer of specialty hydrophilic polyurethanes.

- 3 -

In July 1999, Dermaphylyx International, Inc. (&#147;Dermaphylyx&#148;) was formed by certain of our affiliates to develop advanced wound healing products. Dermaphylyx was merged with and into us, effective March 2004, as a wholly-owned subsidiary. In June 2006, our Board of Directors decided to cease the operations of Dermaphylyx. We considered the net assets of Dermaphylyx to be immaterial.

In April 2001, we acquired Catheter and Disposables Technology, Inc. (&#147;CDT&#148;). CDT, which was located in Minnesota, was an original equipment manufacturer and supplier of private-label advanced disposable medical devices from concept to finished packaged and sterilized products, providing engineering services and contract manufacturing. In the development of our business model, we reviewed the strategic fit of our various business operations and determined that CDT did not fit our strategic direction. CDT was sold in March 2008.

In April 2003, we acquired Gish Biomedical, Inc. (&#147;Gish&#148;). Gish was located in southern California and manufactured single use cardiopulmonary bypass products having a disposable component. In the development of our business model, we reviewed the strategic fit of our various business operations and determined that Gish did not fit our strategic direction. Gish was sold in July 2007.

At our 2007 Annual Meeting, our stockholders approved our reincorporation from Massachusetts to Delaware. Our Articles of Charter Surrender in Massachusetts and Certificate of Incorporation and Certificate of Conversion in Delaware were effective as of October 26, 2007. We changed our name from CardioTech International, Inc. to AdvanSource Biomaterials Corporation, effective October 15, 2008, and filed our Certificate of Amendment to our Certificate of Incorporation filed with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware.

Business Strategy 

Our vision is to be a world-class, technology company focused on customer-driven solutions in the medical device industry. Our unique materials science strengths are marketed to our existing customer base and to a broader range of medical device developers. We believe there exists a major void in the marketplace that could be filled with our strong materials science capabilities to maximize the early development phase of devices that utilize polymers.

Technology 

Our unique materials science strengths are embodied in our family of proprietary polymers. We manufacture and sell our custom polymers under the trade names ChronoFilm, ChronoFlex, ChronoThane, ChronoPrene, ChronoSil, HydroThane, and PolyBlend. The ChronoFlex family of polymers is marketed to an expanding customer base. Our goal is to fulfill the market&#146;s need for advanced materials science capabilities, thereby enabling customers to improve devices that utilize polymers. Our chemists continue to develop the ChronoFlex family of medical-grade polymers. Conventional polymers are susceptible to degradation resulting in catastrophic failure of long-term implantable devices such as pacemaker leads. ChronoFlex and ChronoThane polymers are designed to overcome such degradation and reduce the incidents of infections associated with invasive devices.

Key characteristics of our polymers include i) optional use as lubricious coatings for smooth insertion of a device into the body and ii) mechanical properties, such as hardness and elasticity sufficient to meet engineering requirements. We believe our technology has wide application in increasing biocompatibility, drug delivery, and expanding the utility of complex devices in the hospital and clinical environment.

We also manufacture and sell our proprietary HydroThane polymers to medical device manufacturers that are evaluating HydroThane for use in their products. HydroThane is a thermoplastic, water-absorbing, polyurethane elastomer possessing properties which we believe make it well suited for the complex requirements of a variety of catheters. In addition to its physical properties, we believe HydroThane exhibits an inherent degree of bacterial resistance, clot resistance and biocompatibility. When hydrated, HydroThane has elastic properties similar to living tissue.

We also manufacture specialty hydrophilic polyurethanes that are primarily sold to customers as part of exclusive arrangements. Specifically, one customer is supplied tailored, patented hydrophilic polyurethanes in exchange for a multi-year, royalty-bearing exclusive supply contract which generates royalty income for us.

ChronoFilm is a registered trademark of PolyMedica. ChronoFlex is our registered trademark. ChronoThane, ChronoPrene, ChronoSil, HydroThane, and PolyBlend are our trade names.

Intellectual Property 

We own or license four patents relating to our vascular graft manufacturing and polymer technology and products. While we believe our patents secure our exclusivity with respect to certain of our technologies, there can 

- 4 -

be no assurance that any patents issued would not afford us adequate protection against competitors which sell similar inventions or devices, nor can there be any assurance that our patents will not be infringed upon or designed around by others. However, we intend to vigorously enforce all patents issued to us.

In August 2010, the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office issued us a U.S. patent on our proprietary antimicrobial formulation for ChronoFlex. Current technology in the marketplace uses antibiotic drugs. The antimicrobial component of our polymers has been designed to be non-leaching as a result of the polymerization process.

In October 2009, we filed for a U.S. patent on ChronoSil, our silicone-urethane copolymer product, and methods for making ChronoSil. ChronoSil can have many physical properties which are usually associated with polyurethanes, but also the feel and characteristics of silicones.

In addition, PolyMedica has granted us an exclusive, perpetual, worldwide, royalty-free license for the use of one polyurethane patent and related technology in the field consisting of the development, manufacture and sale of implantable medical devices and biodurable polymer material to third parties for the use in medical applications (the &#147;Implantable Device and Materials Field&#148;). PolyMedica also owns, jointly with Thermedics, Inc., an unrelated company that manufactures medical grade polyurethane, the ChronoFlex polyurethane patents relating to the ChronoFlex technology. PolyMedica has granted us a non-exclusive, perpetual, worldwide, royalty-free sublicense of these patents for use in the Implantable Devices and Materials Field.

Manufacturing and Service Operations 

We manufacture polymers at our leased facility in Wilmington, Massachusetts.

Product and Services 

Materials Science Technology 

We manufacture polymeric materials with a wide-range of physical and biological properties. Our polymers are available with a variety of hardness and mechanical strengths and possess unique characteristics such as biodurability, biocompatibility, lubricity and antimicrobial properties. These polymeric materials may be used as structural engineering polymers or as coatings for metallic and polymeric surfaces and have a history of use in both short and long-term implant applications.

We have been provided exclusive and non-exclusive perpetual, world-wide, royalty-free license and sublicense rights for the use of polyurethane patents and related technology for the development, manufacture and sale of implantable medical devices and biodurable polymer material. As a result, we are able to enter into license and royalty arrangements for the exclusive use of our customized polymers. During the years ended March 31, 2016 and 2015, we generated revenues from license, royalty and development fees of $618,000 and $775,000, respectively.

We have established a concept center in our Massachusetts facility which enables customers to access technical expertise in advanced biomaterials development and processing to help develop product ideas, refine concepts and/or solve the technical problems to enable the customer to bring their product to market. The center is focused on better combining core polymer technology with new product applications to expand customer access to our materials sciences and product development expertise, establish new customer relationships and deepen those with existing customers. 

Marketing and Sales 

We sell our polymers directly to our customers from our Massachusetts facility. Our Senior Vice President of Commercial Operations has primary responsibilities in our sales, marketing and business development efforts. Our domestic sales distribution includes two independent sales engineers responsible for our regional sales efforts in the Eastern and Western U.S. Our international sales distribution includes an independent distributor based in China.

We have not experienced, and do not expect to experience, in any material respect, seasonality in sales of our products.

We perform ongoing credit evaluations and maintain allowances for potential credit losses. As of March 31, 2016, we had accounts receivable-trade of $46,000, or 65%, due from four customers. As of March 31, 2015, we had accounts receivable-trade of $133,000, or 62%, due from two customers.

As of March 31, 2016, we had $121,000 due from two customers related to receivables on license fees and royalties. As of March 31, 2015, we had $76,000 due from two customer related to receivables on license fees and royalties. These amounts are classified as accounts receivable-other in our balance sheets.

- 5 -

We do not have any facilities, property or other assets located in any geographic area other than the United States of America.

Contracts and Material Relationships 

In the normal course of business, we have entered and will continue to enter into development, licensing and royalty agreements. In addition, we have certain customers that represent a significant component of our revenue. For the year ended March 31, 2016, two customers represented 52% and 13% of revenues, respectively. For the year ended March 31, 2015, three customers represented 42%, 14% and 11%, respectively, of our revenues.

Revenues 

Our revenues were $3,181,000 and $2,574,000 for the years ended March 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively.

Competition 

Competition in the medical device industry, in general, is intense and based primarily on scientific and technological factors, the availability of patent and other protection for technology and products, the ability to commercialize technological developments and the ability to obtain governmental approval for testing, manufacturing and marketing products.

Competition among products is based, among other things, on product efficacy, safety, reliability, availability, price and patent position. An important factor is the timing of the market introduction of our products or the products of competitors. Accordingly, the relative speed with which we can develop products and supply commercial quantities of the products to the market is expected to be an important competitive factor. Our competitive position depends upon our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel, to obtain patent protection or otherwise develop proprietary products or processes, and to secure sufficient capital resources for the often substantial period between technological conception and commercial sales.

Research and Development, Regulatory and Engineering 

Our development decisions are based on: (i) development costs, (ii) product need, (iii) third-party interest, (iv) funding availability, and (v) regulatory considerations. Research, development and regulatory expenditures for the years ended March 31, 2016 and 2015 were $310,000 and $356,000, respectively, and consisted primarily of salaries and related costs (79% and 69% of research and development expenses in fiscal 2016 and 2015, respectively), and are expensed as incurred.

Government Regulation 

From time to time, legislation is drafted and introduced in Congress that could significantly change the statutory provisions governing the approval, manufacturing and marketing of drug products and medical devices.

Backlog 

Our backlog in the ordinary course of business for biomaterial products is approximately $179,000 at March 31, 2016. 

Environmental Compliance 

Our direct expenditures for environmental compliance were not material in the two most recent fiscal years. However, certain costs of manufacturing have increased due to environmental regulations placed upon suppliers of components and services.

Employees 

As of March 31, 2016, we had 12 full-time employees at our leased facility in Wilmington, Massachusetts in the following positions: (i) five in production, (ii) two in research and development, (iii) three in sales and marketing, and (iv) two in administration.

None of these employees are covered by a collective bargaining agreement, and management considers its relations with its employees to be good.

- 6 -

