 Item 1. Business. 

Business Overview 

Icahn Enterprises L.P. (&#8220;Icahn Enterprises&#8221;) is a master limited partnership formed in Delaware on February 17, 1987. Icahn Enterprises Holdings L.P. (&#8220;Icahn Enterprises Holdings&#8221;) is a limited partnership formed in Delaware on February 17, 1987. References to "we," "our" or "us" herein include both Icahn Enterprises and Icahn Enterprises Holdings and their subsidiaries, unless the context otherwise requires. 

Icahn Enterprises owns a 99% &#32;limited partner interest in Icahn Enterprises Holdings. Icahn Enterprises G.P. Inc. (&#8220;Icahn Enterprises GP&#8221;), which is owned and controlled by Mr. Carl C. Icahn, owns a 1% &#32;general partner interest in each of Icahn Enterprises and Icahn Enterprises Holdings. Icahn Enterprises Holdings and its subsidiaries own substantially all of our assets and liabilities and conduct substantially all of our operations. Therefore, the financial results of Icahn Enterprises and Icahn Enterprises Holdings are substantially the same, with differences relating primarily to debt, as discussed further in Note 10 , " Debt ," to the consolidated financial statements, and to the allocation of the general partner interest, which is reflected as an aggregate 1.99% &#32;general partner interest in the financial statements of Icahn Enterprises. In addition to the above, as of February 29, 2016 , Mr. Icahn and his affiliates owned 117,033,818 , or approximately 89.0% , of Icahn Enterprises' outstanding depositary units. 

Mr. Icahn's estate has been designed to assure the stability and continuation of Icahn Enterprises with no need to monetize his interests for estate tax or other purposes. In the event of Mr. Icahn's death, control of Mr. Icahn's interests in Icahn Enterprises and its general partner will be placed in charitable and other trusts under the control of senior Icahn Enterprises executives and family members. 

We are a diversified holding company owning subsidiaries currently engaged in the following continuing operating businesses: Investment, Automotive, Energy, Metals, Railcar, Gaming, Mining, Food Packaging, Real Estate and Home Fashion. Segment and geographic information for our reporting segments, as of December 31, 2015 &#32;and 2014 &#32;and for each of the three years ended December 31, 2015 &#32;is presented in Note 13 , &#8220; Segment and Geographic Reporting ,&#8221; to the consolidated financial statements, included in Item 8 of this Report. Also, refer to Note 3 , &#8220; Operating Units ,&#8221; for additional information for each of our reporting segments. 

Business Strategy and Core Strengths 

The Icahn Strategy 

Across all of our businesses, our success is based on a simple formula: we seek to find undervalued companies in the Graham &#38; Dodd tradition, a methodology for valuing stocks that primarily looks for deeply depressed prices. However, while the typical Graham &#38; Dodd value investor purchases undervalued securities and waits for results, we often become actively involved in the companies we target. That activity may involve a broad range of approaches, from influencing the management of a target to take steps to improve shareholder value, to acquiring a controlling interest or outright ownership of the target company in order to implement changes that we believe are required to improve its business, and then operating and expanding that business. This activism has brought about very strong returns over the years. 

Today, we are a diversified holding company owning subsidiaries engaged in the following operating businesses: Investment, Automotive, Energy, Metals, Railcar, Mining, Gaming, Food Packaging, Real Estate and Home Fashion. Through our Investment segment, as of December 31, 2015 , we have significant positions in various investments, which include American International Group (AIG), Apple Inc. (AAPL), Cheniere Energy, Inc. (LNG), Chesapeake Energy (CHK), Freeport-McMoRan Inc. (FCX), Gannett Co., Inc. (GCI), Herbalife Ltd. (HLF), Hertz Global Holdings, Inc. (HTZ), Hologic Inc. (HOLX), Nuance Communications, Inc. (NUAN), Navistar International Corp. (NAV), PayPal Holdings, Inc. (PYPL), Tegna Inc. (TGNA), Transocean Ltd. (RIG), Mentor Graphics Corporation (MENT), Manitowoc Company Inc. (MTW), Seventy Seven Energy Inc. (SSE) and Xerox Corporation (XRX). 

Several of our operating businesses started out as investment positions in debt or equity securities, held either directly by our Investment segment or Mr. Icahn. Those positions ultimately resulted in control or complete ownership of the target 

company. In 2012, we acquired a controlling interest in CVR Energy, Inc. (&#8216;&#8216;CVR&#8217;&#8217;) which started out as a position in our Investment segment and is now an operating subsidiary that comprises our Energy segment. 

As of December 31, 2015 , based on the closing sale price of CVR stock and distributions since we acquired control, we had a gain of approximately $2.2 billion. The acquisition of CVR, like our other operating subsidiaries, reflects our opportunistic approach to value creation, through which returns may be obtained by, among other things, promoting change through minority positions at targeted companies in our Investment segment or by acquiring control of those target companies that we believe we could run more profitably ourselves. 

In 2000, we began to expand our business beyond our traditional real estate activities, and to fully embrace our activist strategy. On January 1, 2000, the closing sale price of our depositary units was $7.625 per depositary unit. On December 31, 2015 , our depositary units closed at $61.30 per depositary unit, representing an increase of approximately 1,024% since January 1, 2000 (including reinvestment of distributions into additional depositary units and taking into account in-kind distributions of depositary units). Comparatively, the S&#38;P 500, Dow Jones Industrial and Russell 2000 indices increased approximately 89%, 122% and 178%, respectively, over the same period (including reinvestment of distributions into those indices). 

During the next several years, we see a favorable opportunity to follow an activist strategy that centers on the purchase of target stock and the subsequent removal of any barriers that might interfere with a friendly purchase offer from a strong buyer. Alternatively, in appropriate circumstances, we or our subsidiaries may become the buyer of target companies, adding them to our portfolio of operating subsidiaries, thereby expanding our operations through such opportunistic acquisitions. We believe that the companies that we target for our activist activities are undervalued for many reasons, often including inept management. Unfortunately for the individual investor, in particular, and the economy, in general, many poor management teams are often unaccountable and very difficult to remove. 

Unlike the individual investor, we have the wherewithal to purchase companies that we feel we can operate more effectively than incumbent management. In addition, through our Investment segment, we are in a position to pursue our activist strategy by purchasing stock or debt positions and trying to promulgate change through a variety of activist approaches, ranging from speaking and negotiating with the board and CEO to proxy fights, tender offers and taking control. We work diligently to enhance value for all shareholders and we believe that the best way to do this is to make underperforming management teams and boards accountable or to replace them. 

The Chairman of the Board of our general partner, Carl C. Icahn, has been an activist investor since 1980. Mr. Icahn believes that the current environment continues to be conducive to activism. Many major companies have substantial amounts of cash. We believe that they are hoarding cash, rather than spending it, because they do not believe investments in their business will translate to earnings. 

We believe that one of the best ways for many cash-rich companies to achieve increased earnings is to use their large amounts of excess cash, together with advantageous borrowing opportunities, to purchase other companies in their industries and take advantage of the meaningful synergies that could result. In our opinion, the CEOs and Boards of Directors of undervalued companies that would be acquisition targets are the major road blocks to this logical use of assets to increase value, because we believe those CEOs and boards are not willing to give up their power and perquisites, even if they have done a poor job in administering the companies they have been running. In addition, acquirers are often unwilling to undertake the arduous task of launching a hostile campaign. This is precisely the situation in which a strong activist catalyst is necessary. 

We believe that the activist catalyst adds value because, for companies with strong balance sheets, acquisition of their weaker industry rivals is often extremely compelling financially. We further believe that there are many transactions that make economic sense, even at a large premium over market. Acquirers can use their excess cash, that is earning a very low return, and/or borrow at the advantageous interest rates now available, to acquire a target company. In either case, an acquirer can add the target company&#8217;s earnings and the income from synergies to the acquirer&#8217;s bottom line, at a relatively low cost. But for these potential acquirers to act, the target company must be willing to at least entertain an offer. We believe that often the activist can step in and remove the obstacles that a target may seek to use to prevent an acquisition. 

It is our belief that our strategy will continue to produce strong results into the future, and that belief is reflected in the action of the board of directors of our general partner, which announced in March 2014, a decision to modify our distribution policy to increase our annual distribution to $6.00 per depositary unit. We believe that the strong cash flow and asset coverage from our operating segments will allow us to maintain a strong balance sheet and ample liquidity. 

In our view Icahn Enterprises is in a virtuous cycle. We believe that our depositary units will give us another powerful activist tool, allowing us both to use our depositary units as currency for tender offers and acquisitions (both hostile and friendly) where appropriate. All of these factors will, in our opinion, contribute to making our activism even more efficacious, which we expect to enhance our results and stock value. 

Core Strengths 

We believe that our core strengths include: identifying and acquiring undervalued assets and businesses, often through the purchase of distressed securities; increasing value through management, financial or other operational changes; and managing complex legal, regulatory or financial issues, which may include bankruptcy or insolvency, environmental, zoning, permitting and licensing issues. 

The key elements of our business strategy include the following: 

Capitalize on Growth Opportunities in our Existing Businesses . We believe that we have developed a strong portfolio of businesses with experienced management teams. We may expand our existing businesses if appropriate opportunities are identified, as well as use our established businesses as a platform for additional acquisitions in the same or related areas. 

Drive Accountability and Financial Discipline in the Management of our Business. &#32; Our Chief Executive Officer is accountable directly to our board of directors, including the Chairman, and has day-to-day responsibility, in consultation with our Chairman, for general oversight of our business segments. We continually evaluate our operating subsidiaries with a view towards maximizing value and cost efficiencies, bringing an owner's perspective to our operating businesses. In each of these businesses, we assemble senior management teams with the expertise to run their businesses and boards of directors to oversee the management of those businesses. Each management team is responsible for the day-to-day operations of their businesses and directly accountable to its board of directors. 

Seek to Acquire Undervalued Assets . We intend to continue to make investments in businesses that we believe are undervalued and have potential for growth. We also seek to capitalize on investment opportunities arising from market inefficiencies, economic or market trends that have not been identified and reflected in market value, or complex or special situations. Certain opportunities may arise from companies that experience disappointing financial results, liquidity or capital needs, lowered credit ratings, revised industry forecasts or legal complications. We may acquire businesses or assets directly or we may establish an ownership position through the purchase of debt or equity securities in the open market or in privately negotiated transactions. 

Use Activism to Unlock Value. &#32;&#32;As described above, we become actively involved in companies in which we invest. Such activism may involve a broad range of activities, from trying to influence management in a proxy fight, to taking outright control of a company in order to bring about the change we think is required to unlock value. The key is flexibility, permanent capital and the willingness and ability to have a long-term investment horizon. 

Investment 

Background 

Our Investment segment is comprised of various private investment funds, including Icahn Partners L.P. ("Icahn Partners"), Icahn Partners Master Fund LP, Icahn Partners Master Fund II LP and Icahn Partners Master Fund III LP (collectively, the "Master Funds", and together with Icahn Partners, the "Investment Funds"), through which we invest our proprietary capital. Effective January 1, 2014, Icahn Partners Master Fund II LP and Icahn Partners Master Fund III LP were merged with and into Icahn Partners. We and certain of Mr. Icahn's wholly owned affiliates are the sole investors in the Investment Funds. Icahn Onshore LP and Icahn Offshore LP (together, the "General Partners") act as the general partner of Icahn Partners and the Master Funds, respectively. The General Partners provide investment advisory and certain administrative and back office services to the Investment Funds but do not provide such services to any other entities, individuals or accounts. Interests in the Investment Funds are not offered to outside investors. 

The Investment Funds returned all fee-paying capital to their investors during 2011. Payments were funded through cash on hand and borrowings under existing credit lines. 

Investment Strategy 

The investment strategy of the General Partners is set and led by Mr. Icahn. The Investment Funds seek to acquire securities in companies that trade at a discount to inherent value as determined by various metrics, including replacement cost, break-up value, cash flow and earnings power and liquidation value. 

The General Partners utilize a process-oriented, research-intensive, value-based investment approach. This approach generally involves three critical steps: (i) fundamental credit, valuation and capital structure analysis; (ii) intense legal and tax analysis of fulcrum issues such as litigation and regulation that often affect valuation; and (iii) combined business valuation analysis and legal and tax review to establish a strategy for gaining an attractive risk-adjusted investment position. This approach focuses on exploiting market dislocations or misjudgments that may result from market euphoria, litigation, complex contingent liabilities, corporate malfeasance and weak corporate governance, general economic conditions or market cycles and complex and inappropriate capital structures. 

The Investment Funds are often activist investors ready to take the steps necessary to seek to unlock value, including tender offers, proxy contests and demands for management accountability. The Investment Funds may employ a number of strategies and are permitted to invest across a variety of industries and types of securities, including long and short equities, long and short bonds, bank debt and other corporate obligations, &#32; options, swaps and other derivative instruments thereof, risk arbitrage and capital structure arbitrage and other special situations. The Investment Funds invest a material portion of their capital in publicly traded equity and debt securities of companies that the General Partners believe to be undervalued by the marketplace. The Investment Funds often take significant positions in the companies in which they invest. 

Income 

Since April 1, 2011, the results of our Investment segment have primarily been driven by the performance of the Investment Funds and our interests therein; the General Partners no longer receive special profits interest allocations or incentive allocations. Prior to March 31, 2011, income from our Investment segment was principally derived from three sources: (1) special profits interest allocations; (2) incentive allocations; and (3) gains and losses from our interests in the Investment Funds. 

Prior to March 31, 2011, incentive allocations generally ranged from 15% to 25% of the net profits (both realized and unrealized) generated by fee-paying investors in the Investment Funds and were generally subject to a &#8220;high watermark," whereby the General Partners did not earn incentive allocations during a particular year even though the fund had a positive return in such year until losses in prior periods were recovered. In general, these allocations had been calculated and distributed to the General Partners annually other than incentive allocations earned as a result of investor redemption events during interim periods. For the period January 1, 2008 through March 31, 2011, the Investment Fund Limited Partnership Agreements provided that the applicable General Partner was eligible to receive a special profits interest allocation at the end of each calendar year from each applicable fee-paying capital account maintained at the Investment Fund. Special profits interest allocations ranged from 1.5% to 2.5% per annum and were allocated to the General Partners to the extent the Investment Funds had sufficient profits to cover such amounts. 

Affiliate Investments 

We and Mr. Icahn, along with the Investment Funds, have entered into a covered affiliate agreement, which was amended on March 31, 2011, pursuant to which Mr. Icahn agreed (on behalf of himself and certain of his affiliates, excluding Icahn Enterprises, Icahn Enterprises Holdings and their subsidiaries) to be bound by certain restrictions on their investments in any assets that the General Partners deem suitable for the Investment Funds, other than government and agency bonds and cash equivalents, unless otherwise approved by our Audit Committee. In addition, Mr. Icahn and such affiliates continue to have the right to co-invest with the Investment Funds. We have no interest in, nor do we generate any income from, any such co-investments, which have been and may continue to be substantial. 

Employees 

Our Investment segment is supported by an experienced team of 21 professionals as of December 31, 2015 , including an investment, legal and operations group. In many cases, team members have worked together successfully and have provided business, investing and legal services for a number of years with respect to the Investment Funds' operations. 

Automotive 

Background 

We conduct our Automotive segment through our majority ownership in Federal-Mogul Holdings Corporation ("Federal-Mogul"), our wholly owned subsidiary IEH Auto Parts Holding LLC ("IEH Auto"), effective June 1, 2015, and our wholly owned subsidiary Pep Boys - Manny, Moe and Jack ("Pep Boys"), effective February 3, 2016. 

On February 28, 2016, Icahn Enterprises issued a proposal to the board of directors of Federal-Mogul to purchase the shares of Federal-Mogul common stock not owned by us in a merger transaction pursuant to which Federal-Mogul shareholders would receive $7.00 per share in cash for their Federal-Mogul shares. 

Federal-Mogul is operated independently from IEH Auto and Pep Boys. See below discussion regarding our business strategies for each of Federal-Mogul, IEH Auto and Pep Boys. 

On April 15, 2014, Federal-Mogul completed a holding company reorganization (the &#8220;Federal-Mogul Reorganization&#8221;). As a result of the Federal-Mogul Reorganization, the outstanding shares of Federal-Mogul Corporation common stock were automatically converted on a one-for-one basis into shares of Federal-Mogul Holdings Corporation common stock, and all of the stockholders of Federal-Mogul Corporation immediately prior to the Reorganization automatically became stockholders of Federal-Mogul Holdings Corporation. References herein to &#8220;Federal-Mogul&#8221; are to Federal-Mogul Corporation for the period 

prior to the effective time of the Federal-Mogul Reorganization on April 15, 2014 and to Federal-Mogul Holdings Corporation for the period after the effective time of the Federal-Mogul Reorganization. As of December 31, 2015 , we owned approximately 82.0% &#32;of the outstanding common stock of Federal-Mogul. 

On June 1, 2015, IEH Auto acquired substantially all of the auto parts assets in the United States of Uni-Select, Inc., a leading automotive parts distributor for domestic and imported vehicles. 

On February 3, 2016, pursuant to a tender offer, Icahn Enterprises acquired a majority of the outstanding shares of Pep Boys - Manny, Moe &#38; Jack ("Pep Boys"), a leading aftermarket provider of automotive service, tires, parts and accessories across the United States and Puerto Rico. On February 4, 2016, Icahn Enterprises completed the acquisition of the remaining outstanding shares of Pep Boys and our wholly owned subsidiary, IEP Parts Acquisition LLC, merged with and into Pep Boys, with Pep Boys surviving the merger as a wholly owned subsidiary of Icahn Enterprises Holdings. The total value for the acquisition of Pep Boys was approximately $1.2 billion , including the fair value of our equity interest in Pep-Boys just prior to our acquisition of a controlling interest. 

Refer to Note 3 , &#8220; Operating Units &#32;- Automotive,&#8221; to the consolidated financial statements, included in Item 8 of this Report for further discussion of these acquisitions. 

Business 

Federal-Mogul 

Federal-Mogul is a leading global supplier of technology and innovation in vehicle and industrial products for fuel economy, emissions reduction and safety systems. Federal-Mogul serves original equipment manufacturers (&#8220;OEM&#8221;) and servicers (&#8220;OES&#8221;) (collectively &#8220;OE&#8221;) of automotive, light, medium and heavy-duty commercial vehicles, off-road, agricultural, marine, rail, aerospace, power generation and industrial equipment, as well as the worldwide aftermarket. Federal-Mogul seeks to participate in both of these markets by leveraging its original equipment product engineering and development capability, manufacturing know-how, and expertise in managing a broad and deep range of replacement parts to service the aftermarket. Federal-Mogul is a leading technology supplier and a market share leader in several product categories. As of December 31, 2015 , Federal-Mogul had current OEM products included on more than 300 global vehicle platforms and more than 700 global powertrains used in light, medium and heavy-duty vehicles. Federal-Mogul offers premium brands, OE replacement and entry/mid level products for all aftermarket customers. Therefore, Federal-Mogul can be first to the aftermarket with new products, service expertise and customer support. 

Federal-Mogul operates with two end-customer focused businesses. The Powertrain business focuses on original equipment powertrain products for automotive, heavy-duty and industrial applications. The Motorparts business sells and distributes a broad portfolio of products in the global aftermarket, including more than 20 globally-recognized brands. Federal-Mogul also serves original equipment manufacturers with products including braking, wipers and a limited range of chassis. This organizational model allows for a strong product line focus benefiting both original equipment and aftermarket customers and enables Federal-Mogul to be responsive to customers&#8217; needs for superior products and to promote greater identification with Federal-Mogul premium brands. Additionally, this organizational model enhances management focus to capitalize on opportunities for organic or acquisition growth, profit improvement, capital allocation and business model optimization in line with the unique requirements of the two different customer bases and business models. 

Federal-Mogul has manufacturing facilities and distribution centers in 25 countries and, accordingly, Federal-Mogul&#8217;s businesses derive sales from both domestic and international markets. The attendant risks of Federal-Mogul&#8217;s international operations are primarily related to currency fluctuations, changes in local economic and political conditions, extraterritorial effects of United States laws such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and changes in laws and regulations. 

Federal-Mogul is a reporting company under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, and files annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") that are publicly available. 

IEH Auto and Pep Boys 

IEH Auto is a leading distributor of automotive replacement parts to the automotive aftermarket in the United States. IEH Auto has 34 &#32;distribution centers and satellite locations and 264 &#32;corporate-owned jobber stores in the United States and supports a network of more than 2,000 &#32;independent wholesalers. 

Pep Boys has 806 locations in the automotive aftermarket industry located throughout the United States and Puerto Rico. Pep Boys stores are organized into a hub and spoke network consisting of Supercenters and Service &#38; Tire Centers. Supercenters average approximately 20,000 square feet and combine a parts and accessories store with professional service centers that perform a full range of automotive maintenance and repair services. Most of the Pep Boys Supercenters also have a commercial sales program that provides prompt delivery of parts, tires and equipment to automotive repair shops and dealers. 

Service &#38; Tire Centers, which average approximately 6,000 square feet, provide automotive maintenance and repair services in neighborhood locations that are conveniently located where our customers live or work. 

Acquisitions 

In addition to the IEH Auto and Pep Boys acquisitions described above, Federal-Mogul acquired several businesses throughout 2014 and 2015. The combination of these acquisitions add new product lines to our Automotive segment, providing operating synergies, strengthening distribution channels and enhancing our Automotive segment's ability to better service its customers. Refer to Note 3 , &#8220; Operating Units ,&#8221; to the consolidated financial statements, included in Item 8 of this Report for further discussion. 

Strategy &#32; 

Federal-Mogul 

Federal-Mogul's strategy is designed to create sustainable global profitable growth, by leveraging existing and developing new competitive advantages. This strategy consists of the following primary elements: 

&#8226; 

Provide value-added products to customers in all markets served through leading technology and innovation; 

&#8226; 

Develop products to enable increased fuel economy and reduce vehicle emissions, plus enable the use of alternative energies; 

&#8226; 

Utilize Federal-Mogul's leading technology resources to develop advanced and innovative products, processes and manufacturing capabilities; 

&#8226; 

Extend Federal-Mogul's global reach to support its OE and aftermarket customers, furthering its relationships with leading Asian OEs and strengthening market share with U.S. and European OEs; 

&#8226; 

Assess acquisition and investment opportunities that provide product line expansion, technological advancements, geographic positioning, penetration of emerging markets (including India and China) and market share growth; 

&#8226; 

Invest in world-class distribution and online capabilities to meet delivery expectations of Federal-Mogul's customers by enhancing its distribution footprint to improve its distribution capabilities, strengthen delivery performance and engage end customers; 

&#8226; 

Leverage the strength of Federal-Mogul's global aftermarket leading brand positions, product portfolio and range, marketing and selling expertise, and distribution and logistics capabilities; 

&#8226; 

Expand Federal-Mogul's coverage in existing product lines and add new product lines which are critical to maintaining its leadership position and leveraging its distribution and sales network; 

&#8226; 

Continue to invest in product innovation to support Federal-Mogul's premium brands and to enhance its marketing initiatives to more effectively communicate the value proposition of its branded products to end customers; and 

&#8226; 

Aggressively pursue cost competitiveness in all business segments by continuing to drive productivity in existing operations, consolidating and relocating manufacturing operations to best cost countries, utilizing Federal-Mogul's strategic joint ventures and alliances, and rationalizing business resources and infrastructure. 

IEH Auto and Pep Boys 

The automotive aftermarket industry is in the mature stage of its life cycle. Over the past decade, consumers have moved away from do-it-yourself (&#8220;DIY&#8221;) toward do-it-for-me (&#8220;DIFM&#8221;) due to increasing vehicle complexity and electronic content, as well as decreasing availability of diagnostic equipment and know-how. Consistent with this long-term trend, IEH Auto's and Pep Boys' long-term strategy is to grow their sales to DIFM distributors and DIFM service professionals, grow their automotive service business, and maintain their DIY customer bases by offering the newest and broadest product assortment in the automotive aftermarket. IEH Auto and Pep Boys provide their customers with access to over two million replacement parts for domestic and imported vehicles through an extensive network of suppliers. They seek to provide (i) an extensive selection of product offerings; (ii) competitive pricing; (iii) exceptional in-store service experience; and (iv) superior delivery to their customers. 

Research and Development 

Federal-Mogul&#8217;s research and development activities are conducted at its research and development locations. Within the United States, these centers are located in Skokie, Illinois; Ann Arbor, Michigan; Plymouth, Michigan; St. Louis, Missouri; Exton, Pennsylvania; and Waupun, Wisconsin. Internationally, Federal-Mogul's research and development centers are located in Araras, Brazil; Aubange, Belgium; Chapel-en-le-Frith, United Kingdom; Coventry, United Kingdom; Burscheid, Germany; Nuremberg, Germany; Wiesbaden, Germany; Bad Camberg, Germany; Glinde, Germany; Kostelec, Czech Republic; and Shanghai, China. 

Each of Federal-Mogul's business units is engaged in engineering, research and development efforts and works closely with customers to develop custom solutions to meet their needs. Total expenditures for research and development activities, including product engineering and validation costs, were $189 million , $192 million &#32;and $177 million &#32;for the years ended December 31, 2015 , 2014 &#32;and 2013 , respectively. 

IEH Auto and Pep Boys do not conduct research and development. 

Restructuring Activities 

Federal-Mogul's restructuring activities are undertaken as necessary to execute its strategy and streamline operations, consolidate and take advantage of available capacity and resources, and ultimately to achieve net cost reductions and productivity improvements. These restructuring activities include efforts to integrate and rationalize businesses and to relocate manufacturing operations to best cost markets. 

Federal-Mogul's restructuring activities are further discussed in Item 7, &#8220;Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,&#8221; and in Note 3 , &#8220; Operating Units ,&#8221; to the consolidated financial statements, included in Item 8 of this Report. 

IEH Auto and Pep Boys do not have restructuring activities. 

Products and Services 

Federal-Mogul is engaged in the manufacture and distribution of automotive parts. The following provides an overview of products manufactured and distributed by Federal-Mogul by product group: 

&#8226; 

Powertrain. &#32; Federal-Mogul's Powertrain business primarily represents its OE business. The Powertrain business offers a diverse array of market-leading products for OE applications, including pistons, piston rings, piston pins, cylinder liners, valve seats and guides, ignition products, dynamic seals, bonded piston seals, combustion and exhaust gaskets, static gaskets and seals, rigid heat shields, engine bearings, industrial bearings, bushings and washers, element resistant systems protection sleeving products, acoustic shielding and flexible heat shields. Comprehensive design capability and an extensive product portfolio enable effective delivery of a broad range of engine and driveline components as well as engineered solutions to improve fuel economy, reduce emissions or enhance vehicle performance and durability. The Powertrain business' products are used in automotive, motorcycle, light truck, heavy-duty, industrial, commercial equipment (construction, agricultural, power generation, marine and railway), aerospace, and small air-cooled engine applications. 

&#8226; 

Motorparts. Federal-Mogul's &#32; Motorparts business sells and distributes a broad portfolio of products in the global vehicle aftermarket while also serving the OE market with products including braking, wipers and chassis.. The Motorparts business&#8217; products are utilized widely in vehicle braking systems and chassis, as well as in engine and sealing applications and general service. The Motorparts business operates 32 manufacturing sites in 15 countries and 35 distribution centers and warehouses in 13 countries. 

IEH Auto and Pep Boys do not manufacture parts but are engaged in the distribution of automotive parts in the aftermarket. Pep Boys also provides automotive services to its customers. Each service location performs a full range of automotive maintenance and repair services (except body work) and installs tires, parts and accessories. 

Customers 

The automotive light vehicle market, as well as the medium duty/heavy duty commercial market, is comprised of two primary businesses: the OE market in which Federal-Mogul&#8217;s products are used in the manufacture of new vehicles and OE dealer service parts, and the global aftermarket, in which Federal-Mogul&#8217;s, IEH Auto's and Pep Boys' products are used as replacement parts for all vehicles in operation on the road, including all previous models. 

&#8226; 

The OE Market . Demand for component parts in the OE market is generally a function of the number of new vehicles produced. Although OE demand is tied to planned vehicle production, parts suppliers also have the opportunity to grow through increasing their product content per vehicle, by increasing market share and by expanding into new or emerging markets. Companies with a global presence, leading technology and innovation, and advanced product engineering, manufacturing and customer support capabilities are best positioned to take advantage of these opportunities. Federal-Mogul supplies OEs with a wide variety of technologically innovative parts, substantially all of which are manufactured by it. Federal-Mogul&#8217;s OE customers consist of automotive and heavy-duty vehicle manufacturers as well as agricultural, off-highway, marine, railroad, aerospace, high performance and industrial application manufacturers. Federal-Mogul has well-established relationships with substantially all major American, European and Asian automotive OEs. 

&#8226; 

The Aftermarket Business. &#32;Products for the global vehicle aftermarket are sold directly to a wide range of distributors, retail parts stores and mass merchants that distribute these products to professional service providers, &#8220;do-it-yourself&#8221; consumers and in some cases, directly to service chains. Demand for aftermarket products historically has been driven by three primary factors: (i) the number of vehicles in operation; (ii) the average age of vehicles in operation; and (iii) vehicle usage trends. Federal-Mogul&#8217;s aftermarket customers include independent warehouse distributors who redistribute products to local parts suppliers, distributors of heavy-duty vehicular parts, engine rebuilders, retail parts stores and mass merchants. The breadth of Federal-Mogul&#8217;s product lines, the strength of its leading brand names, marketing expertise, sizable sales force, and its distribution and logistics capability are central to the success of Federal-Mogul&#8217;s Motorparts operations. IEH Auto and Pep Boys distribute automotive parts in the aftermarket to commercial customers in the DIFM market as well as the retail and DIY markets. Pep Boys also provides automotive services to its customers. 

No individual customer accounted for more than 10% of Federal-Mogul&#8217;s net sales during 2015. Federal-Mogul's customers include IEH Auto and Pep Boys. No individual customer accounted for more than 6% of IEH Auto&#8217;s net sales during the period June 1, 2015 through December 31, 2015. No individual customer accounted for more than 6% of Pep Boys' net sales during 2015. 

Competition 

The global vehicular parts business is highly competitive. Federal-Mogul competes with many independent manufacturers and distributors of component parts globally. In general, competition for sales is based on price, product quality, technology, delivery, customer service and the breadth of products offered by a given supplier. Federal-Mogul is meeting these competitive challenges by developing leading technologies, efficiently integrating and expanding its manufacturing and distribution operations, widening its product coverage within its core businesses, restructuring its operations and transferring production to best cost countries, and utilizing its worldwide technical centers to develop and provide value-added solutions to its customers. A summary of Federal-Mogul's primary independent competitors by its businesses is set forth below. 

&#8226; 

Powertrain . Primary competitors include AGM Automotive, Art Metal, Bergmann, BinZou, Bleistahl, Bosch, Daido, Dana, Dana-Reinz, Delfingen, Denso, DongYang, ElringKlinger, FNOK, Freudenberg, Kaco/Sabo, Kolbenschmidt, Mahle, Miba, NGK, NOK, NPR, Relats, Sinteron, SKF, Taiho, and Vitrica. 

&#8226; 

Motorparts . Primary competitors include Akebono Brake Corporation, Autolite, Brake Parts Inc., Bosch Group, Centric Parts, Crowne Group LLC, Delphi Automotive LLP, Denso Corporation, Dorman Products, Inc., GRI Engineering and Development LLC (MAT Holdings, Inc.), Mahle GmbH, Mevotech Inc., NGK Spark Plug Co., Ltd., NTN Bearing Corporation, Neapco Inc., Old World Industries, LLC, Phillips Industries, Pylon Manufacturing Corporation, Rain-X (ITW Global Brands), SKF Group, Osram Sylvania Ltd., The Timken Company, Trico Products Corporation, Valeo Group, Dana Corporation (Victor Reinz brand), and ZF TRW Automotive Holdings Corp. 

IEH Auto and Pep Boys operate in a highly competitive environment. IEH Auto and Pep Boys encounter competition from national and regional chains, automotive dealerships and from local independent service providers and merchants. Their competitors include general, full range and discount department stores and online retailers which carry automotive parts and accessories and/or have automotive service centers, as well as specialized automotive retailers. IEH Auto and Pep Boys believe that their operations in both DIFM and DIY differentiate them from most of their competitors. 

Raw Materials and Suppliers 

Federal-Mogul purchases various raw materials and component parts for use in its manufacturing processes, including ferrous and non-ferrous metals, non-metallic raw materials, stampings, castings and forgings. Federal-Mogul has not experienced any significant shortages of raw materials, components or finished parts and normally does not carry inventories of raw materials or finished parts in excess of those reasonably required to meet its production and shipping schedules. Federal-Mogul, along with IEH Auto and Pep Boys, also purchase parts manufactured by other manufacturers for sale in the aftermarket. 

In 2015, no outside supplier of Federal-Mogul provided products that accounted for more than 3% of Federal-Mogul&#8217;s annual purchases. 

For the period June 1, 2015 through December 31, 2015, IEH Auto's ten largest suppliers accounted for approximately 54% of the merchandise purchased. Federal-Mogul is a supplier to IEH Auto and individually accounted for 11% of the merchandise purchased. 

Historically, Pep Boys purchased a significant portion of its inventory from a limited number of suppliers. During fiscal 2015, Pep Boys' ten largest suppliers accounted for approximately 45% of the merchandise purchased. Only one of Pep Boys' suppliers accounted for more than 10% of its purchases. Federal-Mogul is a supplier to Pep Boys. 

Seasonality 

Federal-Mogul&#8217;s business is moderately seasonal because many North American OE customers typically close assembly plants for two weeks in July for model year changeovers, and for an additional week during the December holiday season. OE customers in Europe historically shut down vehicle production during portions of July and August and one week in December. Shut-down periods in the Rest of World generally vary by country. Our Automotive segments' aftermarket business experiences seasonal fluctuations in sales due to demands caused by weather and driving patterns. Historically, Federal-Mogul&#8217;s sales and operating profits have been the strongest in the second quarter. 

In addition, IEH Auto's sales and operating profits have been the strongest in the second quarter. Pep Boys' sales and operating profits are earned evenly throughout the year. 

Impact of Environmental Regulations 

Our Automotive segments' operations, consistent with those of the manufacturing sector in general, are subject to numerous existing and proposed laws and governmental regulations designed to protect the environment, particularly regarding plant wastes and emissions and solid waste disposal. Capital expenditures for property, plant and equipment for environmental control activities did not have a material impact on our Automotive segments' financial position or cash flows in 2015 and are not expected to have a material impact on its financial position or cash flows in 2016. 

Intellectual Property 

Federal-Mogul holds in excess of 6,300 patents and patent applications on a worldwide basis, of which more than 1,200 have been filed in the United States. Of the approximately 6,300 patents and patent applications, approximately 30% are in production use and/or are licensed to third parties, and the remaining 70% are being considered for future production use or provide a strategic technological benefit to Federal-Mogul. 

Federal-Mogul does not materially rely on any single patent, nor will the expiration of any single patent materially affect its business. Federal-Mogul&#8217;s current patents expire over various periods into the year 2036. Federal-Mogul is actively introducing and patenting new technology to replace formerly patented technology before the expiration of the existing patents. In the aggregate, Federal-Mogul&#8217;s worldwide patent portfolio is materially important to its business because it enables it to achieve technological differentiation from its competitors. 

Federal-Mogul also maintains more than 6,600 active trademark registrations and applications worldwide. Over 90% of these trademark registrations and applications are in commercial use by Federal-Mogul or are licensed to third parties. 

IEH Auto and Pep Boys do not hold any patents. 

Employees 

Our Automotive segment had approximately 57,437 employees at December 31, 2015 , of which 53,700 were employed by Federal-Mogul and 3,737 were employed by IEH Auto. As of February 4, 2016, Pep Boys had approximately 17,000 employees. 

Various unions represent approximately 28% of Federal-Mogul's U.S. hourly employees and approximately 87% of Federal-Mogul's non-U.S. hourly employees. With the exception of two facilities in the United States, most of Federal-Mogul's unionized manufacturing facilities have their own contracts with their own expiration dates, and as a result, no contract expiration date affects more than one facility. 

&#32;Neither IEH Auto nor Pep Boys had any union employees. 

Energy 

Background 

We conduct our Energy segment through our majority ownership in CVR. We acquired a controlling interest in CVR on May 4, 2012. 

CVR is a diversified holding company primarily engaged in the petroleum refining and nitrogen fertilizer manufacturing industries through its holdings in CVR Refining, LP (&#8220;CVR Refining&#8221;) and CVR Partners, LP (&#8220;CVR Partners&#8221;), respectively. CVR Refining is an independent petroleum refiner and marketer of high value transportation fuels. CVR Partners produces nitrogen fertilizers in the form of urea ammonium nitrate ("UAN") and ammonia. As of December 31, 2015 , CVR owned 100% of the general partners of CVR Refining and CVR Partners and approximately 66% &#32;of the outstanding common units of CVR Refining and 53% &#32;of the outstanding common units of CVR Partners. Subsequent to the completion of the pending mergers as discussed below, it is estimated that CVR will hold approximately 34% of the outstanding common units of CVR Partners and 100% of the general partner interest. 

On August 9, 2015, CVR Partners entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger with Rentech Nitrogen Partners, L.P. ("Rentech Nitrogen") and Rentech Nitrogen GP, LLC ("Rentech Nitrogen GP"), pursuant to which CVR Partners would acquire Rentech Nitrogen and Rentech Nitrogen GP by merging two newly-created direct wholly-owned subsidiaries of CVR Partners with and into those entities with Rentech Nitrogen and Rentech Nitrogen GP continuing as surviving entities and wholly-owned subsidiaries of CVR Partners (together, the "CVR Partners Mergers"). Refer to Note 3 , " Operating Units &#32;- Energy," to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of the CVR Partners Mergers. 

CVR is a reporting company under the Exchange Act and files annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the SEC that are publicly available. 

As of December 31, 2015 , Icahn Enterprises owned 82.0% &#32;of the total outstanding common stock of CVR. In addition, as of December 31, 2015 , we directly owned approximately 4.0% &#32;of the total outstanding common units of CVR Refining. 

Petroleum Business 

The petroleum business consists of our and CVR's interest in CVR Refining. 

CVR's petroleum business includes a 115,000 &#32;barrels per calendar day ("bpcd") rated capacity complex full coking medium-sour crude oil refinery in Coffeyville, Kansas and a 70,000 &#32;bpcd rated capacity complex crude oil refinery in Wynnewood, Oklahoma. The combined crude capacity represents approximately 22% of the region's refining capacity. The Coffeyville refinery located in southeast Kansas is approximately 100 miles from Cushing, Oklahoma, a major crude oil trading and storage hub. The Wynnewood refinery is located approximately 65 miles south of Oklahoma City, Oklahoma and approximately 130 miles from Cushing, Oklahoma. 

The petroleum business also includes the following auxiliary operating assets: 

&#8226; 

Crude Oil Gathering System. The petroleum business owns and operates a crude oil gathering system serving Kansas, Nebraska, Oklahoma, Missouri, Colorado and Texas. The gathering system includes approximately 336 miles of active owned and leased pipelines and approximately 150 crude oil transports and associated storage facilities, which allows it to gather crude oils from independent crude oil producers. The crude oil gathering system has a gathering capacity of over 65,000 barrels per day ("bpd"). Gathered crude oil provides an attractive and competitive base supply of crude oil for the Coffeyville and Wynnewood refineries. During 2015, the petroleum business gathered an average of approximately 69,000 bpd. 

&#8226; 

Pipelines and Storage Tanks. The petroleum business owns a proprietary pipeline system capable of transporting approximately 170,000 bpd of crude oil from its Broome Station facility located near Caney, Kansas to its Coffeyville refinery. Crude oils sourced outside of the proprietary gathering system are delivered by common carrier pipelines into various terminals in Cushing, Oklahoma, where they are blended and then delivered to the Broome Station tank farm via a pipeline owned by Plains Pipeline L.P. ("Plains"). The petroleum business owns approximately (i) 1.5 million barrels of crude oil storage capacity that supports the gathering system and the Coffeyville refinery, (ii) 0.9 million barrels of crude oil storage capacity at the Wynnewood refinery and (iii) 1.5 million barrels of crude oil storage capacity in Cushing, Oklahoma. The petroleum business also leases additional crude oil storage capacity of approximately (iv) 2.8 million barrels in Cushing, (v) 0.2 million barrels in Duncan, Oklahoma and (vi) 0.1 million barrels at the Wynnewood refinery. In addition to crude oil storage, the petroleum business owns over 4.5 million barrels of combined refined products and feedstocks storage capacity. 

Crude and Feedstock Supply 

The Coffeyville refinery has the capability to process blends of a variety of crude oil ranging from heavy sour to light sweet crude oil. Currently, the Coffeyville refinery crude oil slate consists of a blend of mid-continent domestic grades and various Canadian medium and heavy sours, and it has recently introduced North Dakota Bakken and other similarly sourced crudes into its crude slate. While crude oil has historically constituted over 90% of the Coffeyville refinery's total throughput over the last five years, other feedstock inputs include normal butane, natural gasoline, alkylation feeds, naphtha, gas oil and vacuum tower bottoms. 

The Wynnewood refinery has the capability to process blends of a variety of crude oil ranging from medium sour to light sweet crude oil, although isobutane, gasoline components, and normal butane are also typically used. Historically most of the Wynnewood refinery's crude oil has been acquired domestically, mainly from Texas and Oklahoma, but the refinery can also access and process various light and medium Canadian grades. 

Crude oil is supplied to the Coffeyville and Wynnewood refineries through the wholly-owned gathering system and by pipeline. The petroleum business has continued to increase the number of barrels of crude oil supplied through its crude oil gathering system in 2015 and it now has the capacity of supplying over 65,000 bpd of crude oil to the refineries. For the year 

ended December 31, 2015, the gathering system supplied approximately 39% of both of the Coffeyville and Wynnewood refineries' crude oil demand. 

Crude Oil Supply Agreement 

On August 31, 2012, Coffeyville Resources Refining and Marketing, LLC ("CRRM") and Vitol Inc. ("Vitol") entered into an Amended and Restated Crude Oil Supply Agreement (as amended, the "Vitol Agreement"). Under the Vitol Agreement, Vitol supplies the petroleum business with crude oil and intermediation logistics, which helps the petroleum business to reduce its inventory position and mitigate crude oil pricing risk. The Vitol Agreement will automatically renew for successive one-year terms (each such term, a "Renewal Term") unless either party provides the other with notice of nonrenewal at least 180 days prior to expiration of any Renewal Term. The Vitol Agreement currently extends through December 31, 2016. 

Marketing and Distribution 

The petroleum business focuses its Coffeyville petroleum product marketing efforts in the central mid-continent area, because of its relative proximity to the refinery and pipeline access. Coffeyville also has access to the Rocky Mountain area. Coffeyville engages in rack marketing, which is the supply of product through tanker trucks directly to customers located in close geographic proximity to the refinery and to customers at throughput terminals on the refined products distribution systems of Magellan and NuStar. Coffeyville also makes bulk sales (sales into third-party pipelines) into the mid-continent markets and other destinations utilizing the product pipeline networks owned by Magellan Midstream Partners, L.P. ("Magellan"), Enterprise Products Partners, L.P. and NuStar Energy, L.P. The outbound Enterprise Pipeline Red Line provides Coffeyville with access to the NuStar Refined Products Pipeline system. This allows gasoline and ULSD product sales from Kansas up into North Dakota. 

The Wynnewood refinery ships its finished product via pipeline, railcar, and truck. It focuses its efforts in the southern portion of the Magellan system which covers all of Oklahoma, parts of Arkansas as well as eastern Missouri, and all other Magellan terminals. The pipeline system is also able to flow in the opposite direction, providing access to Texas markets as well as some adjoining states with pipeline connections. Wynnewood also sells jet fuel to the U.S. Department of Defense via its segregated truck rack and can offer asphalts, solvents and other specialty products via both truck and rail. 

Customers 

Customers for the refined petroleum products primarily include retailers, railroads, and farm cooperatives and other refiners/marketers in Group 3 of the PADD II region because of their relative proximity to the refineries and pipeline access. The petroleum business sells bulk products to long-standing customers at spot market prices based on a Group 3 basis differential to prices quoted on the New York Mercantile Exchange ("NYMEX"), which are reported by industry market-related indices such as Platts and Oil Price Information Service. 

The petroleum business also has a rack marketing business supplying product through tanker trucks directly to customers located in proximity to the Coffeyville and Wynnewood refineries, as well as to customers located at throughput terminals on refined products distribution systems run by Magellan and NuStar. Rack sales are at posted prices that are influenced by competitor pricing and Group 3 spot market differentials. Additionally, the Wynnewood refinery supplies jet fuel to the U.S. Department of Defense. For the year ended December 31, 2015, the two largest customers accounted for approximately 14% and 9% of the petroleum business net sales and approximately 53% of the petroleum business net sales were made to its ten largest customers. 

Competition 

The petroleum business competes primarily on the basis of price, reliability of supply, availability of multiple grades of products and location. The principal competitive factors affecting its refining operations are cost of crude oil and other feedstock costs, refinery complexity, refinery efficiency, refinery product mix and product distribution and transportation costs. The location of the refineries provides the petroleum business with a reliable supply of crude oil and a transportation cost advantage over its competitors. The petroleum business primarily competes against five refineries operated in the mid-continent region. In addition to these refineries, the refineries compete against trading companies, as well as other refineries located outside the region that are linked to the mid-continent market through an extensive product pipeline system. These competitors include refineries located near the Gulf Coast and the Texas panhandle region. The petroleum business refinery competition also includes branded, integrated and independent oil refining companies, such as Phillips 66 Company, HollyFrontier Corporation, CHS Inc., Valero Energy Corporation and Flint Hills Resources LLC. 

Seasonality 

The petroleum business experiences seasonal effects as demand for gasoline products is generally higher during the summer months than during the winter months due to seasonal increases in highway traffic and road construction work. Demand for diesel fuel is higher during the planting and harvesting seasons. As a result, the petroleum business' results of operations for the first and fourth calendar quarters are generally lower compared to its results for the second and third calendar 

quarters. In addition, unseasonably cool weather in the summer months and/or unseasonably warm weather in the winter months in the markets in which the petroleum business sells its petroleum products can impact the demand for gasoline and diesel fuel. The demand for asphalt is also seasonal and is generally higher during the months of March through October. 

Nitrogen Fertilizer Business 

CVR owns its nitrogen fertilizer business through its interest in CVR Partners. The nitrogen fertilizer business is the only nitrogen fertilizer plant in North America that utilizes a pet coke gasification process to produce nitrogen fertilizer products, which are used primarily by farmers to improve the yield and quality of their crops. The nitrogen fertilizer facility includes a 1,300 ton-per-day ammonia unit, a 3,000 ton-per-day UAN unit and a gasifier complex having a capacity of 89 million standard cubic feet per day of hydrogen. The nitrogen fertilizer business' principal products are UAN and ammonia which are manufactured at its facility in Coffeyville, Kansas and sold on a wholesale basis. The nitrogen fertilizer business' product sales are heavily weighted toward UAN. 

Raw Material Supply 

The nitrogen fertilizer facility's primary input is pet coke. In contrast, substantially all of the nitrogen fertilizer business' competitors use natural gas as their primary raw material feedstock. Historically, pet coke has been less expensive than natural gas on a per ton of fertilizer produced basis. The nitrogen fertilizer facility's pet coke gasification process results in a significantly higher percentage of fixed costs than a natural gas-based fertilizer plant. 

During the past five years, over 70% of the nitrogen fertilizer business' pet coke requirements on average were supplied by CVR Refining's adjacent crude oil refinery pursuant to a renewable long-term agreement. Historically the nitrogen fertilizer business has obtained the remainder of its pet coke requirements from third parties such as other Midwestern refineries or pet coke brokers at spot-prices. CVR Partners is party to a pet coke supply agreement with HollyFrontier Corporation. The term of this agreement expires in December 2016. If necessary, the gasification process can be modified to operate on coal as an alternative, which provides an additional raw material source. There are significant supplies of coal within a 60-mile radius of the nitrogen fertilizer plant. 

Distribution, Sales and Marketing 

The primary geographic markets for the nitrogen fertilizer business' fertilizer products are Kansas, Missouri, Nebraska, Iowa, Illinois, Colorado and Texas. The nitrogen fertilizer business markets the UAN products to agricultural customers and the ammonia products to industrial and agricultural customers. 

UAN and ammonia are distributed by truck or by railcar. If delivered by truck, products are sold on a freight-on-board basis, and freight is normally arranged by the customer. The nitrogen fertilizer business leases and owns a fleet of railcars for use in product delivery. The nitrogen fertilizer business operates eight rail loading and two truck loading racks for UAN. It also operates four rail loading and two truck loading racks for ammonia. 

The nitrogen fertilizer business owns all of the truck and rail loading equipment at the nitrogen fertilizer facility. The nitrogen fertilizer business also utilizes two separate UAN storage tanks and related truck and railcar load-out facilities. Each of these facilities, located in Phillipsburg and Dartmouth, Kansas, has a UAN storage tank that has a capacity of two million gallons, or approximately 10,000 tons. The Phillipsburg property that the terminal was constructed on is owned by a subsidiary of CVR Refining, which operates the terminal. The Dartmouth terminal is located on leased property owned by the Pawnee County Cooperative Association, which operates the terminal. The purpose of the UAN terminals is to collectively distribute approximately 40,000 tons of UAN fertilizer annually. 

The nitrogen fertilizer business markets agricultural products to destinations that produce strong margins. The UAN market is primarily located near the Union Pacific Railroad lines or destinations that can be supplied by truck. The ammonia market is primarily located near the Burlington Northern Santa Fe or Kansas City Southern Railroad lines or destinations that can be supplied by truck. 

The nitrogen fertilizer business often uses forward sales of fertilizer products to optimize its asset utilization, planning process and production scheduling. These sales are made by offering customers the opportunity to purchase product on a forward basis at prices and delivery dates that it proposes. The nitrogen fertilizer business uses this program to varying degrees during the year and between years depending on market conditions and has the flexibility to increase or decrease forward sales depending on management's view as to whether price environments will be increasing or decreasing. Fixing the selling prices of nitrogen fertilizer products months in advance of their ultimate delivery to customers typically causes the nitrogen fertilizer business reported selling prices and margins to differ from spot market prices and margins available at the time of shipment. 

Customers 

The nitrogen fertilizer business sells UAN products to retailers and distributors. In addition, it sells ammonia to agricultural and industrial customers. Some of its larger customers include Crop Production Services, Inc., Gavilon 

Fertilizer, LLC, Interchem, J.R. Simplot, Inc., MFA Incorporated and United Suppliers, Inc. Given the nature of its business, and consistent with industry practice, the nitrogen fertilizer business does not have long-term minimum purchase contracts with its UAN and ammonia customers. 

For the year ended December 31, 2015 , the top five customers of the nitrogen fertilizer business in the aggregate represented 39% of the nitrogen fertilizer business' net sales. The nitrogen fertilizer business' top two customers accounted for approximately 14% and 10%, respectively, of the nitrogen fertilizer business' net sales. 

Competition 

Competition in the nitrogen fertilizer industry is dominated by price considerations. However, during the spring and fall application seasons, farming activities intensify and delivery capacity is a significant competitive factor. The nitrogen fertilizer business maintains a large fleet of leased and owned railcars and seasonally adjusts inventory to enhance its manufacturing and distribution operations. 

The nitrogen fertilizer business' major competitors include Agrium, Inc.; Koch Nitrogen Company, LLC; Potash Corporation of Saskatchewan, Inc.; CF Industries Holdings, Inc. and Terra Nitrogen Company, LP. Domestic competition is intense due to customers' sophisticated buying tendencies and competitor strategies that focus on cost and service. The nitrogen fertilizer business also encounters competition from producers of fertilizer products manufactured in foreign countries. In certain cases, foreign producers of fertilizer who export to the United States may be subsidized by their respective governments. 

Based on third-party expert data regarding total United States demand for UAN and ammonia, CVR Partners estimates that its nitrogen fertilizer plant's UAN capacity in 2015 represented approximately 7% of total U.S. UAN demand and that the net ammonia produced and marketed at its facility represented less than 1% of total U.S. ammonia demand. 

Seasonality 

Because the nitrogen fertilizer business primarily sells agricultural commodity products, its business is exposed to seasonal fluctuations in demand for nitrogen fertilizer products in the agricultural industry. As a result, the nitrogen fertilizer business typically generates greater net sales in the first half of each calendar year, which is referred to as the planting season, and its net sales tend to be lower during the second half of each calendar year, which is referred to as the fill season. 

Environmental Matters 

CVR's petroleum and nitrogen fertilizer businesses are subject to extensive and frequently changing federal, state and local, environmental and health and safety laws and regulations governing the emission and release of hazardous substances into the environment, the treatment and discharge of waste water, the storage, handling, use and transportation of petroleum and nitrogen products, and the characteristics and composition of gasoline and diesel fuels. These laws and regulations, their underlying regulatory requirements and the enforcement thereof impact the petroleum business and operations and the nitrogen fertilizer business and operations by imposing: 

&#8226; 

restrictions on operations or the need to install enhanced or additional controls; 

&#8226; 

the need to obtain and comply with permits, licenses and authorizations; 

&#8226; 

requirements for the investigation and remediation of contaminated soil and groundwater at current and former facilities (if any) and liability for off-site waste disposal locations; and 

&#8226; 

specifications for the products marketed by the petroleum business and the nitrogen fertilizer business, primarily gasoline, diesel fuel, UAN and ammonia. 

CVR's operations require numerous permits, licenses and authorizations. Failure to comply with these permits or environmental laws and regulations could result in fines, penalties or other sanctions or a revocation of CVR's permits. In addition, the laws and regulations to which CVR is subject are often evolving and many of them have become more stringent or have become subject to more stringent interpretation or enforcement by federal or state agencies. The ultimate impact on CVR's compliance with evolving laws and regulations is not always clearly known or determinable due in part to the fact that its operations may change over time and certain implementing regulations for laws, such as the federal Clean Air Act, have not yet been finalized, are under governmental or judicial review or are being revised. These laws and regulations could result in increased capital, operating and compliance costs. 

Renewable Fuel Standards 

Refer to Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors-Energy, If sufficient renewable identification numbers ("RINs") are unavailable for purchase, if the petroleum business has to pay a significantly higher price for RINs or if the petroleum business is otherwise unable to meet the EPA's RFS mandates, the petroleum business' financial condition and results of operations could be 

materially adversely affected, &#32;and Note 17 , " Commitments and Contingencies -Energy," to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of Renewable Fuel Standards ("RFS") of the United States Environmental Protection Agency's ("EPA"). 

Safety, Health and Security Matters 

CVR is subject to a number of federal and state laws and regulations related to safety, including the Occupational Safety and Health Act ("OSHA") and comparable state statutes, the purpose of which are to protect the health and safety of workers. CVR is subject to OSHA Process Safety Management regulations, which are designed to prevent or minimize the consequences of catastrophic releases of toxic, reactive, flammable or explosive chemicals. 

CVR operates a comprehensive safety, health and security program, with participation by employees at all levels of the organization. CVR has developed comprehensive safety programs aimed at preventing OSHA recordable incidents. Despite CVR's efforts to achieve excellence in its safety and health performance, there can be no assurances that there will not be accidents resulting in injuries or even fatalities. CVR routinely audits its programs and consider improvements in its management systems. 

The Wynnewood refinery has been the subject of a number of OSHA inspections since 2006. As a result of these inspections, the Wynnewood refinery entered into four OSHA settlement agreements in 2008, pursuant to which it has agreed to undertake certain studies, conduct abatement activities, and revise and enhance certain OSHA compliance programs. The remaining costs associated with implementing these studies, abatement activities and program revisions are not expected to exceed $1 million. 

Refer to Note 17 , " Commitments and Contingencies -Energy," to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of OSHA matters related to the Wynnewood refinery boiler explosion. 

Employees 

As of December 31, 2015 , our Energy segment had 968 employees. 

As of December 31, 2015 , approximately 54% of the employees at the Coffeyville refinery were covered by a collective bargaining agreement. These employees are affiliated with five unions of the Metal Trades Department of the AFL-CIO ("Metal Trade Unions") and the United Steel, Paper and Forestry, Rubber, Manufacturing, Energy, Allied Industrial and Service Workers International Union, AFL-CIO-CLC ("United Steelworkers"). The petroleum business is a party to a collective bargaining agreement with the Metal Trade Unions covering union members who work directly at the Coffeyville refinery. The agreement expires in March 2019. In addition, a collective bargaining agreement with the United Steelworkers, which covers the balance of the petroleum business' unionized employees who work in crude transportation expires in March 2017 and automatically renews on an annual basis thereafter unless a written notice is received sixty days in advance of the relevant expiration date. 

As of December 31, 2015 , approximately 59% of the employees employed at the Wynnewood refinery were represented by the International Union of Operating Engineers. The collective bargaining agreement with the International Union of Operating Engineers with respect to the Wynnewood refinery expires in June 2017. 

Metals 

Background 

We conduct our Metals segment through our indirect wholly owned subsidiary, PSC Metals, Inc. (&#8220;PSC Metals&#8221;). 

PSC Metals is principally engaged in the business of collecting, processing and selling ferrous and non-ferrous metals, as well as the processing and distribution of steel pipe and plate products. PSC Metals collects industrial and obsolete scrap metal, processes it into reusable forms, and supplies the recycled metals to its customers, including electric-arc furnace mills, integrated steel mills, foundries, secondary smelters and metals brokers. These services are provided through PSC Metals' recycling facilities located in eight states. PSC Metals also operates a steel products business that includes the supply of secondary plate and structural grade pipe that is sold into niche markets for counterweights, piling and foundations, construction materials and infrastructure end-markets. 

The scrap market in which PSC Metals operates is highly dependent on overall economic conditions in the U.S. and other global markets. Economic conditions in the U.S. were mixed in 2015 as compared to 2014 with the first half of 2015 stronger in PSC Metals' markets and the second half of 2015 more challenging. Deteriorating economic conditions outside the U.S. combined with a strong U.S. dollar, weakened an already depressed scrap export market, resulting in tons that would have previously been exported being offered to domestic consumers. The strong dollar also encouraged increased steel imports that put pressure on domestic steel mill capacity utilization and resulted in increasing domestic steel inventories in 2015. Also during 2015, iron ore prices dropped significantly, improving the economics of that alternative to processed scrap for steel 

producers. The combined effect of these events on the scrap market was increased competition for decreasing domestic demand, and scrap prices falling by end of 2015, to the lowest levels since 2009. On the supply side, competition for shredder feedstock remained intense and margins remained under pressure in 2015. Unstable, and decreasing market pricing throughout 2015 had the effect of reducing flows from peddlers and dealers while at the same time reducing margins. We cannot predict whether, or how long, current market conditions will continue to persist. 

The Ferrous Scrap Metal Business 

PSC Metals' ferrous products include busheling, plate and structural, shredded, sheared and bundled scrap metal and other purchased scrap metal such as turnings (steel machining fragments), cast furnace iron and broken furnace iron. PSC Metals processes the scrap into a size, density and purity required by customers to meet their production needs. 

PSC Metals purchases processed and unprocessed ferrous scrap metal from various sources, including individuals and traditional scrap yards as well as industrial manufacturers who recycle the scrap from their metal-forming processes and steel mills who look to PSC Metals to remarket secondary product they would otherwise scrap. PSC Metals sets the price paid to its suppliers based on market factors such as the demand and price for processed material and the underlying metal content of the scrap material being purchased. Changes in scrap prices could cause the collection rates of scrap to increase (when prices are higher) or decrease (when prices are lower). The variation in prices and collection rates can have a significant effect on sales volumes through PSC Metals' scrap yards. Scrap material is processed in PSC Metals' recycling yards where it is shredded, cut, broken, sheared, sorted and classified for use as raw material in the steel-making process. PSC Metals then sells processed ferrous scrap to end-users such as steel producing mini-mills and integrated steel makers and foundries, as well as brokers who aggregate materials for other large users. Additionally, a significant amount of valuable, non-ferrous metal is also recovered as a by-product of the shredding process, which is sold separately as discussed below. 

The Non-ferrous Scrap Metal Business 

The primary non-ferrous commodities that PSC Metals recycles are aluminum, copper, brass, stainless steel and other nickel-bearing metals. Non-ferrous products are a significant raw material in the production of aluminum and copper alloys used in manufacturing. The geographic markets for non-ferrous scrap tend to be larger than those for ferrous scrap due to the higher selling prices of non-ferrous metals relative to their weight, which justify the cost of shipping over greater distances. Non-ferrous scrap is typically sold on a spot basis, either directly or through brokers, to intermediate or end-users, which include smelters, foundries and aluminum sheet and ingot manufacturers. Prices for non-ferrous scrap are driven by demand for finished non-ferrous metal goods and by the general level of economic activity, with prices generally related to the price of the primary metal on the London Metals Exchange, Chicago Mercantile Exchange or the New York Commodity Exchange. 

Strategy 

PSC Metals is focused on growing and diversifying its core ferrous business by improving operating efficiencies through better use of its assets, lowering its cost structure and continuing to expand its non-ferrous business through both acquisitions and organic growth. PSC Metals seeks to acquire companies that will enable it to increase and maintain a consistent supply of scrap and capture efficiencies associated with an appropriate level of vertical integration. 

Raw Materials/Competition 

The scrap metal recycling industry is highly competitive, cyclical in nature, and commodity-based. Operating results tend to reflect and be amplified by changes in general global economic conditions, which in turn drive domestic and overseas manufacturing and the consumption of scrap in the production of steel and foundry products. The demand for product and production activity of PSC Metals' scrap consumers drives market pricing levels in PSC Metals' ferrous and non-ferrous scrap sales. Demand is driven by mill production schedules related to regional manufacturing requirements and service center stocking levels. Due to the lower selling prices of ferrous metals relative to their weight, raw ferrous scrap is generally purchased locally. Ferrous scrap prices are local and regional in nature. Where there are overlapping regional markets, however, prices do not tend to differ significantly between the regions due to the ability of companies to ship scrap metal from one region to another. The most significant limitation on the size of the geographic market for the procurement of ferrous scrap is transportation cost. This leads to significant fluctuations in demand and pricing for PSC Metals' products. The steel products business is less cyclical but is affected by the rate of secondary product generated by steel mills generating these products and the market demands in plate and pipe markets. 

Customers 

Our Metals segment had two customers in 2015 that represented approximately 25% of its net sales, one of which individually accounted for approximately 19% of its net sales. No other customer accounted for more than 6% of our Metals segment's net sales in 2015. 

Employees 

As of December 31, 2015 , PSC Metals had 666 employees, of which 115 employees were covered by collective bargaining agreements. 

Railcar 

Background 

We conduct our Railcar segment through our majority ownership interests in American Railcar Industries, Inc. ("ARI") and American Railcar Leasing, LLC ("ARL"). 

As discussed further in Note 3 , " Operating Units &#32;- Railcar," to the consolidated financial statements, pursuant to a contribution agreement (the "ARL Contribution Agreement") dated September 20, 2013 and with a closing date on October 2, 2013 among AEP Rail Corp. ("AEP"), IRL Holding LLC ("IRL"), ARL and IEP Energy Holding LLC, we acquired a 75% economic interest in the newly capitalized ARL. ARL is considered an entity under common control that requires us to consolidate the financial results of ARL on an as-if-pooling basis. 

On August 17, 2012, AEP Leasing LLC ("AEP Leasing"), a wholly owned subsidiary of Icahn Enterprises, was formed for the purpose of leasing railcars. &#32; &#32;Pursuant to the ARL Contribution Agreement, we contributed AEP Leasing, including its fleet of railcars, to ARL. 

As of December 31, 2015 , we owned approximately 59.8% &#32;of the total outstanding common stock of ARI and had a 75.0% &#32;economic interest in ARL. 

Business 

ARI is one of the leading North American designers and manufacturers of hopper and tank railcars. ARI provides its railcar customers with integrated solutions through a comprehensive set of high-quality products and related services through its manufacturing, leasing and railcar services operations. ARI's manufacturing consists of railcar manufacturing and railcar and industrial component manufacturing. ARI's Railcar services consist of railcar repair, engineering and field services. 

ARL is engaged in the business of leasing railcars to customers with specific requirements whose products require specialized railcars dedicated to transporting, storing, and preserving the integrity of their products. These products are primarily in the energy, food and agriculture, chemical, minerals and petrochemical industries. 

ARI&#8217;s and ARL&#8217;s railcar leasing business consists of railcars manufactured primarily by ARI and leased to third parties under operating leases. ARI&#8217;s leasing business is operated under lease management agreements with ARL through which ARL markets ARI&#8217;s railcars for sale or lease and acts as ARI&#8217;s manager to lease railcars on ARI&#8217;s behalf for a fee. 

ARI is a reporting company under the Exchange Act and files annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the SEC that is publicly available. 

Customers 

Our Railcar segment&#8217;s primary customers include those that use railcars for freight transport, or shippers, leasing companies, industrial companies and Class I railroads. In servicing this customer base our Railcar segment believes its comprehensive railcar services offerings and its railcar components manufacturing operations will help our Railcar segment to further penetrate the general railcar manufacturing and leasing market. 

Products and Services 

ARI designs, manufactures and sells special, customized and general purpose railcars and a wide range of components primarily for the North American railcar and industrial markets. ARI primarily manufactures two types of railcars, hopper and tank railcars, but has the ability to produce additional railcar types. In addition, ARI offers these same railcars for lease. ARI also supports the railcar industry by offering a variety of comprehensive railcar repair services, ranging from full to light repair, engineering and on-site repairs and maintenance through its various repair facilities, including mobile units and mini shops. 

ARI and ARL offer customers the option to lease their railcars through various leasing options, including full service leases. Maintenance of leased railcars can be provided, in part, through ARI's railcar repair and refurbishment facilities. The railcars in ARI's and ARL's lease fleet are leased to shippers with lease terms generally ranging from two to ten years. Our Railcar segment's combined railcar lease fleet consists of 45,050 &#32;railcars as of December 31, 2015 . 

ARI's railcar services group focuses on railcar repair, engineering and field services. Its primary customers for services provided by this group are leasing companies and shippers of specialty hopper and tank railcars. ARI's railcar services provide it insight into its customers' railcar needs. ARI uses this knowledge to improve its service and product offerings. 

Competition 

The railcar manufacturing industry has historically been extremely competitive. ARI competes primarily with Trinity Industries, Inc. ("Trinity"), The Greenbrier Companies, Inc., Freight Car America Inc., National Steel Car Limited and Union Tank Car Company ("Union Tank"). Competitors have expanded and may continue to expand their capabilities in ARI's core railcar markets. 

The railcar leasing industry has also been historically extremely competitive. Both ARI and ARL compete primarily with Wells Fargo Rail Corp., GATX Corp., CIT Group, Trinity and Union Tank in the railcar leasing market. 

Employees 

As of December 31, 2015 , ARI had 2,407 full-time employees, of which approximately 7% were party to domestic collective bargaining agreements. 

As of December 31, 2015 , ARL had 57 full-time employees. 

Gaming 

Background 

We conduct our Gaming segment through our majority ownership in Tropicana Entertainment Inc. ("Tropicana"). 

Tropicana is a reporting company under the Exchange Act and files annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the SEC that are publicly available. 

As of December 31, 2015 , we owned approximately 67.9% &#32;of the total outstanding common stock of Tropicana. 

Business 

Tropicana is an owner and operator of regional casino and entertainment properties located in the United States and one casino resort development located on the island of Aruba. On April 1, 2014, Tropicana acquired an additional casino resort in Missouri. Tropicana primarily caters to local and regional guests to provide a fun and exciting gaming environment with high-quality and high-value lodging, dining, retail and entertainment amenities. Tropicana's properties offer a broad array of gaming options specifically tailored for its patrons in each market. Tropicana's properties include the following casinos: 

&#8226; 

Tropicana Laughlin Hotel and Casino - Laughlin, Nevada ; 

&#8226; 

Lumi&#233;re Place Casino - St. Louis, Missouri; 

&#8226; 

Montbleu Casino Resort &#38; Spa - South Lake Tahoe, Nevada; 

&#8226; 

Tropicana AC - Atlantic City, New Jersey; 

&#8226; 

Tropicana Evansville - Evansville, Indiana; 

&#8226; 

Belle of Baton Rouge Casino and Hotel - Baton Rouge, Louisiana; 

&#8226; 

Tropicana Greenville - Greenville, Mississippi; and 

&#8226; 

Tropicana Aruba - Palm Beach, Aruba. 

Competition 

Tropicana owns land-based and riverboat casino facilities in six states and one casino resort located on the island of Aruba. Tropicana competes with numerous casinos and casino hotels of varying quality and size in the markets in which its properties are located and with other forms of legalized gaming, including state-sponsored lotteries, racetracks, off-track wagering, video lottery, video poker terminals and card parlors. Tropicana also competes with other non-gaming resorts and vacation areas, and with various other entertainment businesses. The casino entertainment business is characterized by competitors that vary considerably by their size, quality of facilities, number of operations, brand identities, marketing and growth strategies, financial strength and capabilities, level of amenities, management talent and geographic diversity. 

In most markets, Tropicana competes directly with other casino facilities operating in the immediate and surrounding market areas, including casinos located on Native American reservations. In some markets, Tropicana faces competition from nearby markets in addition to direct competition within its market areas. 

Tropicana believes competition in existing markets has intensified over the last several years, due to new markets opening for development, overall challenging economic conditions and decreased spending on leisure activities. Many casino operators have invested in expanding existing facilities, developing new facilities, and acquiring established facilities in existing markets. The expansion of casino entertainment at existing properties, the increase in the number of properties and the aggressive marketing strategies of many of our competitors has increased competition in many markets in which Tropicana competes, and it expects this intense competition to continue. 

Tropicana's operating results can be adversely affected by costs associated with advertising, promotions and complimentary services to patrons, the amount and timing of which may be affected by the advertising and complimentary policies and actions of its properties' competitors and its efforts to keep pace with them. If Tropicana's operating revenues are insufficient to allow it to match the promotions of competitors, the number of its casino patrons may decline, which may have a material adverse effect on our Gaming segment's financial performance. In addition, some of Tropicana's competitors have significantly greater financial resources than it does, and as a result Tropicana may not be able to successfully compete with them in the future. 

Trademarks 

Tropicana uses a variety of trade names, service marks and trademarks and has all the rights and licenses necessary to conduct its continuing operations. Tropicana has registered several service marks and trademarks with the United States Patent and Trademark Office or otherwise acquired the licenses to use those which are material to the conduct of its business. Tropicana owns the following federally registered trademarks or service marks that are material to its business: MontBleu, Aztar, Trop, Tropicana, Belle of Baton Rouge, Trop Advantage, the Quarter at Tropicana and Lumi&#233;re. 

Tropicana Trademarks 

Tropicana along with certain entities that own Tropicana Las Vegas (&#8220;Tropicana LV&#8221;) are parties to a trademark Settlement Agreement (the &#8220;Settlement Agreement&#8221;) governing the respective rights of the parties to the &#8220;Tropicana&#8221; trademark. Pursuant to the Settlement Agreement, which became effective on September 28, 2011, the Tropicana LV entities, subject to certain advertising exceptions and other terms and conditions set forth in the Settlement Agreement, have perpetual exclusive rights to use the names, trademarks, and/or service marks (the &#8220;Marks&#8221;) TROPICANA LAS VEGAS (or TROP LAS VEGAS) and TROPICANA LV (or TROP LV) (the &#8220;TLV Marks&#8221;, as defined in the Settlement Agreement) in conjunction with its services (&#8220;Services&#8221;, as defined in the Settlement Agreement) in the City of Las Vegas, Nevada and within a 50-mile radius of the front entrance of the Tropicana Las Vegas Hotel and Casino located at 3801 Las Vegas Boulevard South, Las Vegas, Nevada (the &#8220;TLV Territory&#8221;) along with certain rights to use the TLV Marks on the Internet without geographic limitation and to register the TLV Marks as domain names. Tropicana and its affiliates, subject to certain advertising exceptions and other terms and conditions set forth in the Settlement Agreement, have perpetual exclusive worldwide rights (excluding the TLV Territory) to use the TROPICANA and TROP Marks coupled with either a pre-existing identifier of its Services (such as "TROPICANA ENTERTAINMENT" or "TROP ADVANTAGE") or an accurate geographic identifier of the location of a Tropicana Entertainment property (other than LAS VEGAS or the name of any city within the TLV Territory) (the &#8220;TE Marks&#8221;) along with certain rights to use the TE Marks on the Internet without geographic limitation and to register the TE Marks as domain names. 

Seasonality 

Tropicana's cash flows from operating activities are seasonal in nature. Operating results are traditionally the strongest in the third quarter and traditionally the weakest during the fourth quarter. Any excess cash flows achieved from operations during the peak seasons are used to subsidize non-peak seasons. Performance in non-peak seasons is usually dependent on favorable weather and a long-weekend holiday calendar. In the event that Tropicana is not able to generate excess cash flows during the peak seasons, it may not be able to fully subsidize non-peak seasons. 

Governmental Regulation 

The ownership and operation of Tropicana's gaming facilities are subject to pervasive regulation under the laws and regulations of each of the six states in which it operates as well as in Aruba where Tropicana operates a small casino. Gaming laws generally are based upon declarations of public policy designed to protect gaming consumers and the viability and integrity of the gaming industry. Gaming laws also may be designed to protect and maximize state and local revenues derived through taxes and licensing fees imposed on the gaming industry participants as well as to enhance economic development and tourism. To accomplish these public policy goals, gaming laws establish procedures to ensure that participants in the gaming industry meet certain standards of character and fitness. 

Typically, a jurisdiction's regulatory environment is established by statute and is administered by a regulatory agency with broad discretion to regulate, among other things, the affairs of owners, managers and persons with financial interests in gaming operations. 

Licensing 

Gaming laws require Tropicana and certain of its subsidiaries, as well as its directors, officers (with respect to corporations), managers (with respect to limited liability companies), and certain other key employees and, in some cases, certain of its shareholders (with respect to corporations), members (with respect to limited liability companies), and holders of debt securities, to obtain licenses, findings of suitability or other approvals from gaming authorities. Licenses or findings of 

suitability typically require a determination that the applicant is suitable or otherwise qualified to hold the license or the finding of suitability necessary to hold equity, debt securities or position with the gaming licensee or its affiliated entities. Where not mandated by statute, rule or regulation, gaming authorities generally have broad discretion in determining who must come forward for suitability and whether an applicant qualifies for licensing or should be deemed suitable or otherwise qualified. 

Other Regulations 

Tropicana is subject to various federal, state and local laws and regulations. These laws and regulations include, but are not limited to, restrictions and conditions concerning alcoholic beverages, environmental matters, currency transactions, employees, taxation, zoning and building codes, marketing and advertising, vessels and permanently moored craft. Such laws and regulations could change or could be interpreted differently in the future, or new laws and regulations could be enacted. Material changes, new laws or regulations, or material differences in interpretations by courts or governmental authorities could adversely affect Tropicana's business. 

Employees 

As of December 31, 2015 , Tropicana had approximately 7,100 employees and had collective bargaining agreements with several unions covering approximately 2,700 of those employees, substantially all of whom are employed at Tropicana AC, Lumi&#233;re Place Casino, Belle of Baton Rouge and Tropicana Evansville. Tropicana periodically experiences challenges in negotiating collective bargaining agreements with certain unions. In September 2014, a collective bargaining agreement with UNITE HERE Local 54 covering approximately 1,100 employees at Tropicana AC expired and Tropicana AC is presently operating without an agreement with this union. 

&#160; 

Mining 

Background 

We conduct our Mining segment through our majority ownership in Ferrous Resources Ltd ("Ferrous Resources"). As discussed below, we obtained control of and consolidated the results of Ferrous Resources during the second quarter of 2015. 

Ferrous Resources acquired certain rights to iron ore mineral resources in Brazil and develops mining operations and related infrastructure to produce and sell iron ore products to the global steel industry. Ferrous Resources has acquired significant iron ore assets in the State of Minas Gerais, Brazil, known as Viga, Viga Norte, Esperan&#231;a, Serrinha and Santanense. In addition, Ferrous Resources has acquired certain mineral rights near Jacu&#237;pe in the State of Bahia, Brazil. Of the assets acquired, Viga, Esperan&#231;a and Santanense are already extracting and producing iron ore, while the other assets are at an early stage of exploration. 

In response to the current depressed iron ore price environment, Ferrous Resources decided to temporarily suspend Esperan&#231;a's and Santanense's operations during the first quarter of 2015 in order to study alternatives to further reduce cost of production and improve product quality and therefore to improve profitability and margin per metric ton. 

Acquisition 

On April 25, 2015, IEP Ferrous Brazil LLC ("IEP Ferrous"), a wholly owned subsidiary of ours, entered into an agreement which provided that IEP Ferrous would launch a tender offer to purchase any and all of the outstanding shares of Ferrous Resources for $0.36 per share and backstop a certain rights offering of up to $40 million. 

Prior to the tender offer, IEP Ferrous owned approximately 14.1% of the total outstanding shares of Ferrous Resources. As a result of the tender offer, IEP Ferrous obtained control of Ferrous Resources through the purchase of additional shares of Ferrous Resources on June 8, 2015 (the acquisition date), and additional shares of Ferrous Resources on June 26, 2015 for a combined aggregate tender consideration of $180 million. In addition, on June 26, 2015, pursuant to a certain rights offering, we purchased additional shares of Ferrous Resources for an aggregate consideration of $29 million. 

As of December 31, 2015 , we owned approximately 77.2% &#32;of the total outstanding common stock of Ferrous Resources. 

Strategy 

The economic viability of Ferrous Resources' business is highly dependent on the market price of iron ore. Ferrous Resources' longer-term strategy is to produce and sell iron ore products in the domestic Brazilian market, as well as to the export markets, principally China, Japan, Korea, the Middle East and also potentially Europe. Future revenues will depend on Brazilian and global demand levels for iron ore, iron ore international sales prices, the type of iron ore product it sells and the iron content of those products. Iron ore prices (including sale prices in Brazil) are largely driven by global demand for crude steel, the primary driver for iron ore demand. 

For Ferrous Resources, the key performance driver has historically been from demand for raw materials from Chinese steelmakers. For the period June 1, 2015 through December 31, 2015, Ferrous Resources has been concentrating on sales in Brazil, where the best margins are being captured. During the fourth quarter of 2015, both domestic and global steel industries continued to show weakness as steel mills' utilization rates have not recovered and iron ore prices remain weak. 

Competition 

The iron ore industry is characterized by intense competition and a high level of market concentration. Ferrous Resources competes with a number of large international mining companies, many of which have mineral and financial resources substantially greater than those of Ferrous Resources. 

Customers 

Ferrous Resources currently sells its products in the domestic Brazilian market to two main customers, one of which accounted for 89% of our Mining segment's net sales for the period June 1, 2015 through December 31, 2015. 

Employees 

As of December 31, 2015 , Ferrous Resources had 935 employees. 

Food Packaging 

Background 

We conduct our Food Packaging segment through our majority ownership in Viskase Companies, Inc. ("Viskase"). As of December 31, 2015 , we owned approximately 73.3% &#32;of the total outstanding common stock of Viskase. 

Business 

Viskase is a worldwide leader in the production and sale of cellulosic, fibrous and plastic casings for the processed meat and poultry industry. Viskase operates nine &#32;manufacturing facilities, six &#32;distribution centers and three &#32;service centers throughout North America, Europe, South America and Asia. Viskase provides value-added support services relating to these products for some of the world's largest global consumer products companies. Viskase believes it is one of the two largest worldwide producers of non-edible cellulosic casings for processed meats and one of the three largest manufacturers of non-edible fibrous casings. 

Business Strategy 

Viskase's business strategy is to continue to improve operational efficiencies, product quality and throughput by upgrading existing production facilities and adding resources in high growth markets through new capital investments. Viskase has been successful in implementing production cost-savings initiatives and will continue to pursue similar opportunities that enhance its profitability and competitive positioning as a leader in the casing market. Opportunities to reduce extrusion, shirring and printing waste are also feasible at several of Viskase's facilities through upgraded equipment and an ongoing effort to redefine product mix. 

International 

Viskase has seven manufacturing or finishing facilities located outside the continental United States: Monterrey, Mexico; Beauvais, France; Th&#226;on-les-Vosges, France; Caronno, Italy; Warsaw, Poland; Clark Freeport Zone, Philippines; and Atibaia, Brazil. Viskase continues to explore opportunities to expand in emerging markets. Net sales from customers located outside the United States represented approximately 70% of its total net sales in 2015. Viskase's operations in France are responsible for distributing products, directly or through distributors, in Europe, Africa, the Middle East and parts of Asia. While overall consumption of processed meat products in North America and Western Europe is stable, market growth is driven by increasing demand in Eastern Europe, South America and the Asia Pacific region. 

Employees 

As of December 31, 2015 , Viskase had 2,030 employees worldwide, of which 495 employees were covered under collective bargaining agreements. 

Real Estate 

Background 

Our Real Estate operations consist of rental real estate, property development and associated club activities. 

Our rental real estate operations consist primarily of retail, office and industrial properties leased to single corporate tenants. As of December 31, 2015 , we owned 15 &#32;commercial rental real estate properties. We sold 14 commercial rental properties during the year ended December 31, 2015 . Historically, substantially all of our real estate assets leased to others have been net-leased under long-term leases. With certain exceptions, these tenants are required to pay all expenses relating to the leased property and, therefore, we are typically not responsible for payment of expenses, including maintenance, utilities, taxes, insurance or any capital items associated with such properties. 

Our property development operations are run primarily through Bayswater Development LLC, a real estate investment, management and development subsidiary that focuses primarily on the construction and sale of single-family and multi-family homes, lots in subdivisions and planned communities and raw land for residential development. Our New Seabury development property in Cape Cod, Massachusetts and our Grand Harbor development property in Vero Beach, Florida include land for future residential development of approximately 239 &#32;and 1,128 &#32;units of residential housing, respectively. Both our developments operate golf and club operations as well. During the year ended December 31, 2015 , we sold the Oak Harbor development and operations in Vero Beach, Florida, which was historically operated as part of the Grand Harbor development property. Our long-term investment horizon and operational expertise allow us to acquire properties with limited current income and complex entitlement and development issues. 

In addition, our Real Estate segment owns an unfinished development property and a partially developed casino, located on approximately 23 &#32;acres in Las Vegas, Nevada, which is classified as assets held for sale and is located in other assets in our consolidated balance sheets as of December 31, 2015 . 

Strategy 

Our Real Estate business strategy is based on our long-term investment outlook. We maximize the value of our commercial lease portfolio through effective management of existing properties and disposal of assets on an opportunistic basis. We continue to market our remaining residential product and to build new homes as market conditions warrant. In keeping with the Real Estate business' strategy of investing capital to grow existing operations, we actively pursue prudent acquisitions of additional commercial and residential properties at favorable prospective returns. 

Seasonality 

Resort operations are highly seasonal with peak activity in Cape Cod from June to September and in Florida from November to March. Sales activity for our real estate developments in Cape Cod typically peak in late winter and early spring, while in Florida our peak selling season is during the winter months. 

Employees 

As of December 31, 2015 , our Real Estate segment had 135 employees. No employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. 

Home Fashion 

Background 

We conduct our Home Fashion segment through our indirect wholly owned subsidiary, WestPoint Home LLC (&#8220;WPH&#8221;). 

We acquired a controlling interest in WestPoint International, Inc. ("WPI") out of bankruptcy on August 8, 2005. In addition, we acquired certain preferred shares in WPI (the "Preferred Shares") during 2006. During 2011, we acquired additional shares of WPI common stock. On December 22, 2011, two of our subsidiaries, which held WPI's common and Preferred Shares, merged with and into WPI with WPI surviving the merger. As a result of the merger, among other things, (i) we became the sole owner of WPI, (ii) the Preferred Shares ceased to exist, (iii) any subscription rights to purchase WPI common stock were cancelled and (iv) minority stockholders of WPI became entitled to receive $3.05 per share for their common stock of WPI. 

Effective as of March 1, 2012, pursuant to an internal reorganization, WestPoint Home, Inc. (a wholly owned indirect subsidiary of WPI, which had previously comprised our Home Fashion business) merged into our newly created wholly owned indirect subsidiary (which was formed as a Delaware limited liability company solely for the purposes of such merger) and continued its business as a limited liability company under the name WestPoint Home LLC. In referencing WPH, we refer to WestPoint Home Inc. and WestPoint Home LLC interchangeably because the business profile of our Home Fashion segment's business did not change as a result of this reorganization. 

Business 

WPH's business consists of manufacturing, sourcing, marketing, distributing and selling home fashion consumer products. WPH differentiates itself in the home fashion textile industry based on its 200 plus-year heritage of providing its customers 

with: (1) a full assortment of home fashion products; (2) good customer service; (3) a superior value proposition; and (4) branded and private label products with strong consumer recognition. WPH markets a broad range of manufactured and sourced bed, bath, basic bedding and other textile products, including sheets, pillowcases, bedspreads, quilts, comforters and duvet covers, bath and beach towels, bath accessories, bed skirts, bed pillows, flocked blankets, woven blankets and throws and mattress pads. 

WPH manufactures and sources its products in a wide assortment of colors and patterns from a variety of fabrics, including chambray, twill, sateen, and from a variety of fibers, including cotton, synthetics and cotton blends. WPH seeks to position its business as a single-source supplier to retailers of home fashion products, offering a broad assortment of products across multiple price points. WPH believes that product and price point breadth allows it to provide a comprehensive product offering for each major distribution channel. 

WPH transitioned the majority of its manufacturing to Bahrain , a low-cost country, and continues to maintain its corporate offices and certain distribution operations in the United States. 

Strategy 

Beginning with its purchase of the assets of WestPoint Stevens in 2005, WPH has been focused on restructuring its business by reducing costs and improving profitability. WPH's restructuring process has taken several years and remains on-going. These actions have included moving manufacturing operations overseas, reducing labor costs, attempting to source goods at lower prices and addressing unfavorable licensing arrangements. WPH has also been focused on significant restructuring in the United States, which has included streamlining its merchandising, sales, customer service, finance divisions and its distribution process. 

WPH believes its principal manufacturing facility in Bahrain allows it to benefit from competitive labor rates, attractive incentives, low energy costs and a favorable tax treaty. WPH currently has one non-U.S. manufacturing plant and one manufacturing plant and one distribution center in the United States. WPH regularly reviews the possibility of implementing additional cost-saving measures. 

Brands, Trademarks and Licenses 

WPH markets its products under trademarks, brand names and private labels, which it uses as merchandising tools to assist its customers in coordinating their product offerings and differentiating their products from those of their competitors. 

WPH manufactures and sells its own branded line of home fashion products consisting of merchandise bearing registered trademarks that include WestPoint Home, Grand Patrician, Martex, Luxor, Modern Living and Vellux. 

In addition, some of WPH's home fashion products are manufactured and sold pursuant to licensing agreements under designer and brand names that include, among others, IZOD, Southern Tide, Under the Canopy and Portico. 

Private label brands, also known as &#8220;store brands,&#8221; are controlled by individual retail customers through use of their own brands or through an exclusive license or other arrangement with brand owners. Private label brands provide retail customers with a way to promote consumer loyalty, as the brand is owned and controlled by WPH's retail customers and not by WPH. As WPH's customer base has experienced consolidation, there has been an increasing focus on proprietary branding strategies. 

The percentage of WPH's net sales derived from the sale of private label branded and unbranded products for 2015 was approximately 39%. For 2015, the percentage of WPH net sales derived from sales under brands it owns and controls was approximately 36%, and the percentage of WPH net sales derived from sales under brands owned by third parties pursuant to licensing arrangements with WPH was approximately 25%. 

Customers 

WPH sells its home fashion products to, chain stores, mass merchants, department stores, specialty stores and warehouse clubs, both domestically and internationally. During 2015, WPH's top four &#32;customers accounted for approximately 64% &#32;of its net sales, one of which individually accounted for approximately 25% of its net sales. 

Competition 

The home fashion industry is fragmented and highly competitive. Future success will, to a large extent, depend on WPH's ability to be a competitive low-cost producer. WPH competes with both foreign and domestic companies on, among other factors, the basis of price, quality, design and customer service. WPH may also face competition in the future from companies that are currently third-party suppliers to WPH. Future success depends on the ability to remain competitive in the areas of marketing, product development, price, quality, brand names, manufacturing capabilities, distribution and order processing. 

Employees 

As of December 31, 2015 , WPH had 2,051 employees worldwide. 

Holding Company 

We seek to invest our available cash and cash equivalents in liquid investments with a view to enhancing returns as we continue to assess further acquisitions of, or investments in, operating businesses. 

As of December 31, 2015 , we had investments with a fair market value of approximately $3.4 billion &#32;in the Investment Funds. We may redeem our direct investment in the Investment Funds upon notice. 

We conduct our activities in a manner so as not to be deemed an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, or the Investment Company Act. Generally, this means that we do not invest or intend to invest in securities as our primary business and that no more than 40% of our total assets will be invested in investment securities as such term is defined in the Investment Company Act. In addition, we intend to structure our investments so as to continue to be taxed as a partnership rather than as a corporation under the applicable publicly traded partnership rules of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the Code. 

Available Information 

Icahn Enterprises maintains a website at www.ielp.com . We provide access to our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to those reports free of charge through this website as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with the SEC. Paper copies of annual and periodic reports filed with the SEC may be obtained free of charge upon written request by contacting our headquarters at the address located on the front cover of this report or under Investor Relations on our website. In addition, our corporate governance guidelines, including Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and Audit Committee Charter, are available on our website (under Corporate Governance) and are available in print without charge to any stockholder requesting them. You may obtain and copy any document we furnish or file with the SEC at the SEC's public reference room at 100 F Street, NE, Room 1580, Washington, D.C. 20549. You may obtain information on the operation of the SEC's public reference facilities by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains a website that contains reports, information statements, and other information regarding issuers like us who file electronically with the SEC. The SEC's website is located at www.sec.gov . 

