 Item 1. Business 

The Company was incorporated under the laws of the state of Utah on October 25, 1972, under the name of Electronic Agricultural Machinery Development Corporation. In 1974, the Company changed its name to Zenith Development Corporation. In 1980, the Company changed its name to Alternative Energy Resources, Inc. In 2004, the Company changed its name to Trafalgar Resources, Inc.

Initially, the Company sought to develop and market inventions, including an asparagus harvester, a hot water saving device and a gas alert signal. Ultimately, none of the inventions were successful and they were abandoned. The Company ceased to conduct any business and has not conducted any business during the last three years.

Currently, the Company is in the process of investigating potential business ventures which, in the opinion of management, will provide a source of eventual profit to the Company. Such involvement may take many forms, including the acquisition of an existing business or the acquisition of assets to establish subsidiary businesses. All risks inherent in new and inexperienced enterprises are inherent in the Company&#146;s business. 

The Company is not currently conducting any business, nor has it conducted any business for several years. Therefore, it does not possess products or services, distribution methods, competitive business positions, or major customers. The Company does not possess any unexpired patents or trademarks and any and all of its licensing and royalty agreements from the inventions it sought to market in the past have since expired, and are not currently valid. The Company does not employ any employees. 

The selection of a business opportunity in which to participate is complex and risky. Additionally, as the Company has only limited resources, it may be difficult to find good opportunities. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to identify and acquire any business opportunity which will ultimately prove to be beneficial to the Company and its stockholders. The Company will select any potential business opportunity based on management's business judgment.

The activities of the Company are subject to several significant risks which arise primarily as a result of the fact that the Company has no specific business and may acquire or participate in a business opportunity based on the decision of management which potentially could act without the consent, vote, or approval of the Company's stockholders. The risks faced by the Company are further increased as a result of its lack of resources and its inability to provide a prospective business opportunity with significant capital.

