 ITEM 1. 

BUSINESS 

Crown Holdings, Inc. (the &#8220;Company&#8221; or the &#8220;Registrant&#8221;) (where the context requires, the &#8220;Company&#8221; shall include reference to the Company and its consolidated subsidiary companies) is a Pennsylvania corporation. 

The Company is a worldwide leader in the design, manufacture and sale of packaging products for consumer goods. The Company&#8217;s primary products include steel and aluminum cans for food, beverage, household and other consumer products, glass bottles for beverage products and metal vacuum closures and caps. These products are manufactured in the Company&#8217;s plants both within and outside the U.S. and are sold through the Company&#8217;s sales organization to the soft drink, food, citrus, brewing, household products, personal care and various other industries. At December 31, 2015, the Company operated 147 plants along with sales and service facilities throughout 37 countries and had approximately 24,000 employees. Consolidated net sales for the Company in 2015 were $8.8 billion with 77% derived from operations outside the U.S. 

DIVISIONS AND OPERATING SEGMENTS 

The Company&#8217;s business is organized geographically within three divisions, Americas, Europe and Asia Pacific. Within each Division, the Company is generally organized along product lines. The Company&#8217;s reportable segments within the Americas Division are Americas Beverage and North America Food. The Company&#8217;s reportable segments within the European Division are European Beverage and European Food. The Company's Asia Pacific Division is a reportable segment which primarily consists of beverage can operations and also includes the Company's non-beverage can operations, primarily food cans and specialty packaging. The Company's non-reportable segments include its European aerosol and specialty packaging business, its North American aerosol can business and its tooling and equipment operations in the U.S. and U.K. 

Financial information concerning the Company&#8217;s operating segments is set forth within &#8220;Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations&#8221; of this Annual Report and under Note W &#32;to the consolidated financial statements. 

AMERICAS DIVISION 

The Americas Division includes operations in the U.S., Brazil, Canada, the Caribbean, Colombia and Mexico. These operations manufacture beverage, food and aerosol cans and ends, glass bottles, specialty packaging and metal vacuum closures and caps. At December 31, 2015, the division operated 49 plants in 7 countries and had approximately 7,000 employees. In 2015, the Americas Division had net sales of $3.7 billion. 

Americas Beverage 

The Americas Beverage segment manufactures aluminum beverage cans and ends, glass bottles, steel crowns and aluminum caps. Manufacturing facilities are located in the U.S., Brazil, Canada, Colombia and Mexico. Americas Beverage had net sales in 2015 of $2.8 billion and segment income (as defined under Note W &#32;to the consolidated financial statements) of $427 million. 

North America Food 

The North America Food segment manufactures steel and aluminum food cans and ends and metal vacuum closures in the U.S. and Canada. North America Food had net sales in 2015 of $680 million and segment income (as defined under Note W &#32;to the consolidated financial statements) of $86 million. 

&#160; EUROPEAN DIVISION 

The European Division includes operations in Europe, the Middle East and Africa. These operations manufacture beverage, food and aerosol cans and ends, specialty packaging and metal vacuum closures and caps. At December 31, 2015, the division operated 68 plants in 24 countries and had approximately 12,000 employees. Net sales in 2015 were $3.8 billion. 

European Beverage 

The European Beverage segment manufactures steel and aluminum beverage cans and ends in Europe, the Middle East and North Africa. European Beverage had net sales in 2015 of $1.5 billion and segment income (as defined under Note W &#32;to the consolidated financial statements) of $228 million. 

Crown Holdings, Inc. 

European Food 

The European Food segment manufactures steel and aluminum food cans and ends, and metal vacuum closures, in Europe and Africa. European Food had net sales in 2015 of $2.0 billion and segment income (as defined under Note W &#32;to the consolidated financial statements) of $246 million. 

ASIA PACIFIC DIVISION 

The Asia Pacific Division is a reportable segment which primarily consists of beverage can operations in Cambodia, China, Malaysia, Singapore, Thailand and Vietnam and also includes the Company's non-beverage can operations, primarily food cans and specialty packaging in China, Singapore, Thailand and Vietnam. At December 31, 2015, the division operated 30 plants in 6 countries and had approximately 5,000 employees. Net sales in 2015 were $1.2 billion. 

PRODUCTS 

Beverage Cans and Glass Bottles 

The Company supplies beverage cans, ends and other packaging products to a variety of beverage and beer companies, including Anheuser-Busch InBev, Carlsberg, Coca-Cola, Cott Beverages, Dr Pepper Snapple Group, Heineken, Molson Coors, Pepsi-Cola and SAB Miller among others. The Company&#8217;s beverage can business is built around local, regional and global markets, which has served to develop the Company&#8217;s understanding of global consumer expectations. The Company's glass bottle business is based in Mexico and serves customers in the local market. 

The beverage market is dynamic and highly competitive, with each packaging manufacturer working together with its customers to satisfy consumers&#8217; ever-changing needs. The Company competes by offering its customers broad market knowledge, resources at all levels of its worldwide organization and extensive research and development capabilities that have enabled the Company to provide its customers with innovative products. The Company meets its customers&#8217; beverage packaging needs with an array of two-piece beverage cans and ends and metal bottle caps. Innovations include the SuperEnd&#174; and 360 End&#8482; beverage can ends, shaped beverage cans which include size differentiation, such as slim cans for low calorie products or larger sizes for high volume consumption. The Company expects to continue to add capacity in many of the growth markets around the world. 

Beverage can and glass bottle manufacturing is capital intensive, requiring significant investment in tools and machinery. The Company seeks to effectively manage its invested capital and is continuing its efforts to reduce the metal content of its cans and reduce non-metal costs, including water and energy usage, while improving production processes. 

Food Cans and Closures 

The Company manufactures a variety of food cans and ends, including two-piece and three-piece cans in diverse shapes and sizes, and sells food cans to food marketers such as Abbot Laboratories, Bonduelle, Cecab, Faribault Foods, Mars, Morgan Foods, Nestl&#233;, Princes Group and Simmons Foods, among others. The Company offers a wide variety of metal vacuum closures and sealing equipment solutions to leading marketers such as Abbot Laboratories, Danone, H. J. Heinz, Kraft, Nestl&#233;, and Unilever, among others, from a network of metal vacuum closure plants around the world. The Company supplies total packaging solutions, including metal and composite closures, capping systems and services while working closely with customers, retailers and glass and plastic container manufacturers to develop innovative closure solutions and meet customer requirements. 

Technologies used to produce food cans include three-piece welded, two-piece drawn and wall-ironed and two-piece drawn and redrawn. The Company also offers its LIFTOFF&#8482; series of food ends, including its Easylift&#8482; full aperture steel food can ends, and PeelSeam&#8482;, a flexible aluminum foil laminated end. The Company offers expertise in closure design and decoration, ranging from quality printing of the closure in up to nine colors, to inside-the-cap printing, which offers customers new promotional possibilities, to better product protection through Ideal Closures&#8482;, Orbit&#8482; and Superplus&#8482;. The Company&#8217;s commitment to innovation has led to developments in packaging materials, surface finishes, can shaping, lithography, filling, retorting, sealing and opening techniques and environmental performance. The Company manufactures easy open, vacuum and conventional ends 

for a variety of heat-processed and dry food products including fruits and vegetables, meat and seafood, soups, ready-made meals, infant formula, coffee and pet food. 

Crown Holdings, Inc. 

Aerosol Cans 

The Company&#8217;s customers for aerosol cans and ends include manufacturers of personal care, food, household and industrial products, including Colgate Palmolive, Friesland Campina, Procter &#38; Gamble, SC Johnson and Unilever, among others. The aerosol can business is highly competitive. The Company competes by offering its customers a broad range of products including multiple sizes, multiple color schemes and shaped packaging. 

Specialty Packaging 

The Company&#8217;s specialty packaging business is primarily located in Europe and Asia. The Company produces a wide variety of specialty containers with numerous lid and closure variations. The Company&#8217;s specialty packaging customers include Britvic, Mars, Nestl&#233; and United Biscuits, among others. 

SALES AND DISTRIBUTION 

Global marketers qualify suppliers on the basis of their ability to provide global service, innovative designs and technologies in a cost-effective manner. 

With its global reach, the Company markets and sells products to customers through its own sales and marketing staffs. In some instances, contracts with customers are centrally negotiated, but products are ordered through and distributed directly by the Company&#8217;s local facilities. The Company&#8217;s facilities are generally located in proximity to their respective major customers. The Company works closely with customers in order to develop new business and to extend the terms of its existing contracts. 

Many customers provide the Company with quarterly or annual estimates of product requirements along with related quantities pursuant to which periodic commitments are given. Such estimates assist the Company in managing production and controlling use of working capital. The Company schedules its production to meet customer requirements. Because the production time for the Company&#8217;s products is short, any backlog of customer orders in relation to overall sales is not significant. 

SEASONALITY 

The food packaging business is somewhat seasonal with the first quarter tending to be the slowest period as the autumn packing period in the Northern Hemisphere has ended and new crops are not yet planted. The industry generally enters its busiest period in the third quarter when the majority of fruits and vegetables are harvested. Due to this seasonality, inventory levels increase in the first half of the year to meet peak demand in the second and third quarters. Weather represents a substantial uncertainty in the yield of food products and is a major factor in determining the demand for food cans in any given year. Generally, beverage products are consumed in greater amounts during the warmer months of the year in the Northern Hemisphere and sales and earnings have generally been higher in the second and third quarters of the calendar year. 

The Company&#8217;s other businesses primarily include aerosol and specialty packaging and canmaking equipment, which tend not to be as significantly affected by seasonal variations. 

COMPETITION 

Most of the Company&#8217;s products are sold in highly competitive markets, primarily based on price, quality, service and performance. The Company competes with other packaging manufacturers as well as with fillers, food processors and packers, some of whom manufacture containers for their own use and for sale to others. The Company&#8217;s competitors include, but are not limited to, Ardagh Group, Ball Corporation, BWAY Corporation, Can-Pack S.A., Metal Container Corporation, Rexam PLC and Silgan Holdings Inc. 

CUSTOMERS 

The Company&#8217;s largest customers consist of many of the leading manufacturers and marketers of packaged consumer products in the world. Consolidation trends among beverage and food marketers have led to a concentrated customer base. The Company&#8217;s top ten global customers represented in the aggregate approximately 33% of its 2015 net sales. In each of the years in the period 2013 through 2015, no one customer accounted for more than ten percent of the Company&#8217;s net sales. Each operating segment of the Company has major customers and the loss of one or more of these major customers could have a material adverse effect on an individual segment or the Company as a whole. Major customers include those listed above under the Products discussion. In addition to sales to Coca-Cola and Pepsi-Cola, the Company also supplies independent licensees of Coca-Cola and Pepsi-Cola. 

Crown Holdings, Inc. 

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT 

The Company's principal Research, Development &#38; Engineering (RD&#38;E) Centers are located in Alsip, Illinois and Wantage, United Kingdom. The Company utilizes its centralized RD&#38;E capabilities to advance and deliver technologies for the Company's worldwide packaging activities that (1) promote development of value-added metal packaging systems for its customers, (2) design cost-efficient manufacturing processes, systems and materials that further the sustainability of metal packaging, (3) provide continuous quality and/or production efficiency improvements in its manufacturing facilities, (4) advance customer and vendor relationships, and (5) provide value-added engineering services and technical support. These capabilities facilitate (1) the identification of new and/or expanded market opportunities by working directly with customers to develop new packaging products or enhance existing packaging products through the application of new technologies that better differentiate our customers' products in the retail environment (for example, the creation of new packaging shapes or novel decoration methods) and/or the incorporation of consumer-valued features (for example, improved openability and/or ease of use) and (2) the reduction of manufacturing costs by reducing the material content of the Company's products (while retaining necessary performance characteristics), reducing spoilage, and increasing operating efficiencies in our manufacturing facilities. 

The Company maintains a substantial portfolio of patents and other intellectual property (IP) in the field of metal packaging systems and seeks strategic partnerships to extend its IP in existing and emerging markets. As a result, the Company has licensed IP in geographic regions where the Company has a limited market presence today. Existing technologies such as SuperEnd&#174; beverage ends, the 360 End&#8482; beverage end and can shaping have been licensed in Australia, Japan, and Africa to provide customers with global access to Crown's brand building innovations. 

The Company spent $39 million in 2015 and 2014 and $36 million in 2013 in its centralized RD&#38;E activities. Certain of these activities are expected to improve and expand the Company's product lines in the future. These expenditures include projects within the Company's RD&#38;E facilities to improve manufacturing efficiencies, reduce unit costs, and develop new and improved value-added packaging systems. These expenditures do not include related product and process developments occurring within the Company's decentralized business units. 

MATERIALS AND SUPPLIERS 

The Company uses various raw materials, primarily aluminum and steel, in its manufacturing operations. In general, these raw materials are purchased in highly competitive, price-sensitive markets which have historically exhibited price and demand cyclicality. These and other materials used in the manufacturing process have historically been available in adequate supply from multiple sources. 

Generally, the Company&#8217;s principal raw materials are obtained from the major suppliers in the countries in which it operates plants. Some plants in less developed countries, which do not have local mills, obtain raw materials from more developed countries. The Company has agreements for what it considers adequate supplies of raw materials. However, sufficient quantities may not be available in the future due to, among other things, shortages due to excessive demand, weather or other factors, including disruptions in supply caused by raw material transportation or production delays. From time to time, some of the raw materials have been in short supply but, to date, these shortages have not had a significant impact on the Company&#8217;s operations. 

In 2015, consumption of steel and aluminum represented 23% and 41%, respectively, of consolidated cost of products sold, excluding depreciation and amortization. Due to the significance of these raw materials to overall cost of products sold, raw material efficiency is a critical cost component of the products manufactured. Supplier consolidations, changes in ownership, government regulations, political unrest and increased demand for raw materials in the packaging and other industries, among other risk factors, provide uncertainty as to the availability of and the level of prices at which the Company might be able to source such raw materials in the future. Moreover, the prices of aluminum and steel can be subject to significant volatility. The Company&#8217;s raw material supply contracts vary as to terms and duration, with steel contracts typically one year in duration with fixed prices or set repricing dates, and aluminum contracts typically multi-year in duration with fluctuating prices based on aluminum ingot costs. The Company generally attempts to mitigate its steel and aluminum price risk by matching its purchase obligations with its sales agreements; however, there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to fully mitigate that risk. 

The Company, in agreement with customers in many cases, also uses commodity and foreign currency forwards in an attempt to manage its exposure to aluminum price volatility. 

There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to fully recover from its customers the impact of aluminum and steel price increases or that the use of derivative instruments will effectively manage the Company&#8217;s exposure to price volatility. In addition, if the Company is unable to purchase steel and aluminum for a significant period of time, its operations would be disrupted and if the Company were unable to fully recover the higher cost of steel and aluminum, its financial results may be adversely 

Crown Holdings, Inc. 

affected. The Company continues to monitor this situation and the effect on its operations. As a result of continuing global supply and demand pressures, other commodity-related costs affecting the Company&#8217;s business may increase as well, including natural gas, electricity and freight-related costs. The Company will attempt to increase prices on its products accordingly in order to recover these costs. 

In response to the volatility of raw material prices, ongoing productivity and cost reduction efforts in recent years have focused on improving raw material cost management. 

The Company&#8217;s manufacturing facilities are dependent, in varying degrees, upon the availability of water and processed energy, such as natural gas and electricity. Certain of these may become difficult or impossible to obtain on acceptable terms due to external factors which could increase the Company&#8217;s costs or interrupt its business. 

Aluminum and steel, by their very nature, can be recycled at high effectiveness and can be repeatedly reused to form new consumer packaging with minimal or no degradation in performance, quality or safety. By recycling these metals, large amounts of energy can be saved and significant water use and carbon dioxide emissions avoided. 

SUSTAINABILITY AND ENVIRONMENTAL, HEALTH AND SAFETY MATTERS 

The Company&#8217;s operations are subject to numerous laws and regulations governing the protection of the environment, disposal of waste, discharges into water, emissions into the atmosphere and the protection of employee health and safety. Future regulations may impose stricter environmental requirements on the packaging industry and may require additional capital investment. Anticipated future restrictions in some jurisdictions on the use of certain coatings may require the Company to employ additional control equipment or process modifications. The Company has a Corporate Sustainability Policy and a Corporate Environmental Protection Policy. Environmental awareness is a key component of sustainability. Environmental considerations are among the criteria by which the Company evaluates projects, products, processes and purchases. The Company is committed to continuous improvement in product design and manufacturing practices to provide the best outcome for the human and natural environment, both now and in the future. By reducing the per-unit amount of raw materials used in manufacturing its products, the Company can significantly reduce the amount of energy, water and other resources and associated emissions necessary to manufacture metal containers. The Company aims to continue that process of improvement in its manufacturing process to assure that consumers and the environment are best served through the use of metal packaging. The Company is also committed to providing a safe work environment for its employees through programs that emphasize safety awareness and the elimination of injuries and incidents. There can be no assurance that current or future environmental laws or liabilities will not have a material effect on the Company&#8217;s financial condition, liquidity or results of operations. Discussion of the Company&#8217;s environmental matters is contained within &#8220;Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations&#8221; of this Annual Report under the caption &#8220;Environmental Matters,&#8221; and under Note M &#32;to the consolidated financial statements. 

&#160; 

WORKING CAPITAL 

The Company generally uses cash during the first nine months of the year to finance seasonal working capital needs. The Company&#8217;s working capital requirements are funded by cash flows from operations, revolving credit facilities and receivables securitization and factoring programs. 

Further information relating to the Company&#8217;s liquidity and capital resources is set forth within &#8220;Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations&#8221; of this Annual Report under the caption &#8220;Liquidity&#8221; and under Note Q &#32;to the consolidated financial statements. 

EMPLOYEES 

At December 31, 2015, the Company had approximately 24,000 employees. Collective bargaining agreements with varying terms and expiration dates cover approximately 16,000 employees. The Company does not expect that renegotiation of the agreements expiring in 2016 will have a material adverse effect on its consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash flow. 

AVAILABLE INFORMATION 

The Company&#8217;s internet website address is www.crowncork.com . Information on the Company&#8217;s website is not incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The Company&#8217;s Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to those reports filed by the Company with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to sections 13(a) and 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, are accessible free of charge through the Company&#8217;s website as soon as reasonably practicable after the documents are filed with, or otherwise furnished to, 

Crown Holdings, Inc. 

the U. S. Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company&#8217;s SEC filings are also available for reading and copying at the SEC&#8217;s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. In addition, the SEC maintains an internet site ( http://www.sec.gov ) containing reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. 

The Company&#8217;s Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, its Corporate Governance Guidelines, and the charters of its Audit, Compensation and Nominating and Corporate Governance committees are available on the Company&#8217;s website. These documents are also available in print to any shareholder who requests them. Amendments to and waivers of the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics requiring disclosure under applicable SEC rules will be disclosed on the Company's website. 

