 ITEM 1: 

BUSINESS 

Overview 

The Company is in the business of selling video and audio capture devices initially targeted to law enforcement agencies. With over 30 years of marketing to law enforcement, the Company&#146;s CEO, Paul Feldman is able to leverage his extensive knowledge and base of contacts to increase sales. The Company has established a web site at www.forceprovideo.com whereby customers can view the Company&#146;s products and place orders. We believe that given recent current events between law enforcement agencies and the public, which has been widely reported by the media, there is a significant market opportunity for the Company&#146;s products. In the first quarter of fiscal 2016, the Company received multiple orders for the LE10 camera System. The LE10 is a small bodied, high definition (HD) camera which is half the size and half the price of most law enforcement cameras currently available. The LE10 and more recent addition the LE50 are rich with features that make them ideal for on-demand video and audio capture. The LE10 and LE50 do not require special software or expensive storage contracts. The video files can quickly be downloaded into a standard law enforcement case file and the micro SD cards are sealed in the provided static evidence bags and then securely stored in the department's evidence locker. The Company&#146;s Video LE10 and LE50 cameras are a rugged design which incorporates Ambarella (NASDAQ &#34;AMBA&#34;) made chips that allow the cameras to record high definition video. 

Product Development and Sales 

Our on-body mini-camera was developed by Paul Feldman, our Chief Executive Officer, President and Director who has significant experience in the development and commercialization of security and surveillance related products. From 2001 through August 2009, Mr. Feldman served as President and a Director of Law Enforcement Associates, Inc., a manufacturer of surveillance products and audio intelligent devices which were sold to the U.S. military and law enforcement. Patent technologies previously developed by Mr. Feldman include U.S. Patent Number 7,631,601 Surveillance Projectile and U.S. Patent Number 2006/0283,345 Surveillance Projectile.

Our video and audio capture devices are compact, ergonomic, tamperproof and designed to capture HD video and/or audio on demand enabling our customers to capture content while engaged in a wide range of activity. We also sell accessories that enhance the functionality and versatility of our products, including mounts, such as the helmet, handlebar, roll bar and tripod mounts, as well as mounts that enable users to wear the camera on their bodies, such as the wrist housing, chest harness and head strap. Other accessories include spare batteries, charging accessories and memory drives. Our products are marketed primarily to law enforcement due to their unique need to capture important events in the course of their duties.

Our primary products consist of video and audio recording devices as follows:

LE10 Law Enforcement Video Recorder . Retail price, $195. The LE10 on-body camera is designed for use by law enforcement and can be mounted on helmets, tactical vest and riot shields. The LE10 provides high quality video and a sensor that allows the device to shoot in full HD at 30 fps, and 8 MP photos with shutter speed of 8fps in burst mode. In photo mode, the user can take pictures with a delayed timer. The device has three (3) resolutions and slow motion capability allowing its user to create highly quality video while engaged in a variety of physical activity. The LE10 has built-in Wi-Fi, providing connectivity with a smartphone or tablet to enable remote control and content viewing functionality. Video taken by the LE10 is stored on a micro HD SD card which can be transferred to a computer for use as evidence. Downloading the video into evidence requires no special software or expensive cloud storage contracts. The LE10 is equipped with a high definition microphone to capture and record audio. The LE10 can also be used only as a standalone audio recorder to record witness statements or conduct interviews.

LE50 HD Body Cam . Retail price, $495. The LE50 includes many of the LE10 features in an on-body camera designed for use by law enforcement which can be mounted on helmets, tactical vest and riot shields. The LE50 provides up to 10 hours of high quality video with a built in audio announcement feature, 50 hours of standby time, sound and vibration operation indication, 2 &#8243; TFT-LCD High Resolution Color Display, 32 GB of internal tamper proof storage, supports up to 128GB of memory, 140 degree field of view, white led illumination, waterproof level of IP65, metal clip with 360 degrees rotation, one button tag of important file feature and GPS recording.

SC1 Sunglass Camera . Retail price, $199.95. The SC1 Sunglass Camera is made from TR90 high impact resistant and flexible material and features a 150&#176; wide-angle full HD 1080p video camera, with one hour record time, built between the eyes with the controls and battery built into the glasses&#146; ultra slim frame. A full range of polarized and clear lenses are available and easily interchangeable. 

Citadel 3G Solar Security Camera . Retail price, $5,995. The Citadel 3G/4G Solar Security Camera is the latest advance in remote wireless surveillance technology. The Citadel Solar Security Camera is a solar powered CCTV security solution which can be mounted anywhere with a 3G/4G cell network or where WiFi is available. The Citadel Solar Security Camera uses no cables or exterior power sources, internet connectivity is not required and it can be set up in minutes with M otion Detection and/or Time Lapse recording. Remote LIVE viewing and access to recordings is possible through our secure portal. The camera also supports USB flash drive recordings that are motion activated at a rate of up to 10 images per second with remote viewing access of the USB stored recordings. The Citadel Solar Security Camera is ideal for any surveillance application, including construction sites, farms and properties, college campuses, shopping centers, boating marinas, building sites, Councils, National Parks &#38; Wildlife, hospitals, Government Agencies, Power Grids and Water authorities, industrial Sites, wildlife monitoring, Graffiti, Bush dumping and unattended machinery to name a few applications. 

Our manufacturer provides a one (1) year warranty for our products.

Our customers include more than twenty-nine (29) state and local law enforcement agencies.

Distribution 

Customers purchase products from our website and by telephone order. All products are shipped from our manufacturer to our facility in North Carolina where we process and ship product to our customers using Federal Express or United Parcel Services. Customers pay all shipping charges.

Manufacturing 

We purchase our finished products on an as needed basis from our manufacturer Shenzhen AEE Technology Co Ltd (&#147;AEE&#148;), in Shenzen China who provides production, labeling and packaging of our finished product according to our specifications. We agree with AEE as to the particular specifications for manufacturing, labeling and packaging of our products at the time each order is placed.

All material used to manufacture our products is located, purchased and paid for by AEE who invoices us only for our finished product.

We order our products on an as needed basis and we are not obligated to purchase any minimum amount of product from AEE. Additionally, AEE is not obligated to manufacture our products in the future. We pay AEE for all products we order at the time the order is placed. Upon placing an order, AEE creates a purchase order reflecting: (i) the product ordered, (ii) price per item (iii) total cost for the order, (iv) total cost to ship product ordered from our manufacturer to our facility, (iv) that immediate payment in required at the time of the order, and (v) the delivery date and delivery address.

AEE&#146;s purchase order also reflects the twelve (12) month warranty of all products manufactured.

Marketing 

Currently, our sales and marketing efforts include print marketing brochures featuring our products to state and local law enforcement agencies. We create and deliver brochures to state and local law enforcement, every four (4) weeks, using U.S. Mail.

We believe that a marketing strategy focused on print marketing to law enforcement will provide our target customers with the opportunity to view our specific information about our products and their features, which is an optimal strategy to increase sales.

Research and Development 

We have not spent any amounts on research and development in the prior two (2) years. All research and development has been completed by Paul Feldman, our Director, President and Chief Executive Officer.

Product Warranty 

We accept returns of products two (2) weeks after purchase. Additionally, our manufacturer provides a twelve (12) month warranty on all products manufactured and the Company offers an extended warranty for year two. The occurrence of any material defects or product recalls could make us liable for damages and warranty claims. Any negative publicity related to the perceived quality of our products could affect our brand image, decrease retailer, distributor and customer demand, and adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Warranty claims may result in litigation, the occurrence of which could adversely affect our business and operating results.

Competition 

The market for on-body cameras is highly competitive. Further, we expect competition to increase in the future as existing competitors introduce new and more competitive offerings alongside their existing products, and as new market entrants introduce new products into our markets. We compete against established, well-known camera manufacturers such as Go Pro, Canon Inc., Nikon Corporation, Olympus Corporation, Polaroid Holding Corporation and Vivitar Corporation, large, diversified electronics companies such as JVC Kenwood Corporation, Panasonic Corporation, Samsung Electronics Co., Sony Corporation and Toshiba Corporation, and specialty companies such as Garmin Ltd. Many of our current competitors have substantial market share, diversified product lines, well- established supply and distribution systems, strong worldwide brand recognition and greater financial, marketing, research and development and other resources than we do.

In addition, many of our existing and potential competitors have substantial competitive advantages, such as:

&#183;

longer operating histories;

&#183;

the capacity to leverage their sales efforts and marketing expenditures across a broader portfolio of products;

&#183;

broader distribution and established relationships with channel partners;

&#183;

access to larger established customer bases;

&#183;

greater financial resources;

&#183;

large intellectual property portfolios; and

&#183;

the ability to bundle competitive offerings with other products and services.

Moreover, smartphones and tablets with photo and video functionality have significantly displaced traditional camera sales. It is possible that, in the future, the manufacturers of these devices, such as Apple Inc. and Samsung, may design them for use in a range of conditions, including challenging physical environments, or develop products similar to ours. In addition to competition or potential competition from large, established companies, new companies may emerge and offer competitive products. Further, we are aware that certain companies have developed cameras designed and labeled to appear similar to our products, which may confuse consumers or distract consumers from purchasing our products.

Increased competition may result in pricing pressures and reduced profit margins and may impede our ability to continue to increase the sales of our products or cause us to lose market share, any of which could substantially harm our business and results of operations

Seasonality 

Our business, as well as the industry in which we operate, is not seasonal.

Intellectual Property 

We have no registered or patented intellectual property. Trademarks and trade names distinguish the various companies from each other. If customers are unable to distinguish our products from those of other companies, we could lose sales to our competitors. We do not have any registered trademarks and trade names, so we only have common law rights with respect to infractions or infringements on its products. Many subtleties exist in product descriptions, offering and names that can easily confuse customers. The name of our principal products may be found in numerous variations of the name and descriptions in various media and product labels. This presents a risk of losing potential customers looking for our products and buying someone else&#146;s because they cannot differentiate between them.

Employees 

As of the date of this report, we have three full time employees including Paul Feldman who is our Director, Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer. Our other two full time employees are sales persons. Mr. Feldman spends approximately forty (40) hours per week on our business. We have one (1) part time employee who provides clerical and administrative services.

None of our employees are represented by a collective bargaining agreement, nor have we experienced any work stoppages. We maintain good relationships with our employees.

