 Item 1: Business 

General 

We are a leading global provider of mission-critical communication infrastructure, devices, accessories, software and services. Our products and services help government, public safety, and commercial customers improve their operations through increased effectiveness, efficiency, and safety of their mobile workforces. We serve our customers with a global footprint of sales in more than 100 countries based on our industry leading innovation and a deep portfolio of products and services. 

We are incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware as the successor to an Illinois corporation, Motorola, Inc., organized in 1928. We changed our name from Motorola, Inc. to Motorola Solutions, Inc. on January 4, 2011. Our principal executive offices are located at 1303 East Algonquin Road, Schaumburg, Illinois 60196. 

Business Organization 

We conduct our business globally and manage it through two segments: Products and Services. 

Products Segment 

The Products segment offers an extensive portfolio of infrastructure, devices, accessories, and software. The primary customers of the Products segment are government, public safety and first-responder agencies, municipalities, and commercial and industrial customers who operate private communications networks and manage a mobile workforce. In 2015 , the segment&#8217;s net sales were $3.7 billion , representing 65% &#32;of our consolidated net sales. The Products segment has the following two principal product lines: 

Devices: &#32;&#32; Devices includes: (i) two-way portable radios and vehicle-mounted radios, (ii) accessories such as speaker microphones, batteries, earpieces, headsets, carry cases and cables, and (iii) software features and upgrades. Devices represented 72% &#32;of the net sales of the Products segment in 2015 . 

Systems: &#32; Systems includes: (i) the radio network core and central processing software, (ii) base stations, (iii) consoles, (iv) repeaters, and (v) software applications and features. Systems represented 28% &#32;of the net sales of the Products segment in 2015 . 

Our Devices and Systems are based on the following industry technology standards: 

Industry standard definition 

The Association of Public Safety Communications Officials Project 25 standard ("APCO-25") 

The European Telecommunications Standards Institute (&#8220;ETSI&#8221;) Terrestrial Trunked Radio standard ("TETRA") 

ETSI, Digital mobile radio ("DMR") and professional commercial radio ("PCR") standards 

Industry standard name 

APCO P25 

TETRA 

DMR 

Motorola Solutions product name 

ASTRO 

Dimetra IP 

PCR MOTOTRBO (Digital) 

Primary end users 

Government, Public Safety 

Government, Public Safety 

Commercial 

Primary geographic region of use 

North America, Latin America, Asia, Middle East, Africa 

Europe, Asia, Latin America, Middle East, Africa 

All regions 

Services Segment 

The Services segment provides a full set of service offerings for government, public safety, and commercial communication networks. In 2015 , the segment&#8217;s net sales were $2.0 billion , representing 35% &#32;of our consolidated net sales. The Services segment has the following principal product lines: 

Integration services 

Integration services includes the implementation, optimization, and integration of systems, devices, software, and applications. Integration services represented 45% of the net sales of the Services segment in 2015. 

Managed &#38; Support services 

Managed &#38; Support services includes a continuum of service offerings beginning with repair, technical support, and hardware maintenance. More advanced offerings include network monitoring, software maintenance, and cyber security services. Managed service offerings range from partial or full operation of customer owned networks to operation of Motorola Solutions owned networks. Services are provided across all radio network technologies, Command Center Consoles, and Smart Public Safety Solutions. Managed &#38; Support services represented 52% of the net sales of the Services segment in 2015. 

iDEN services 

Integrated Digital Enhanced Network (&#8220;iDEN&#8221;) is a Motorola Solutions proprietary push-to-talk technology. iDEN services consist primarily of hardware and software maintenance services for our legacy iDEN customers and represented 3% of the net sales of the Services segment in 2015. 

Strategy and Focus Areas 

Our strategy is to partner with our customers to enable them to efficiently deliver reliable services through our innovative products and best-in-class services. We have a history of delivering these products and services by focusing on the following areas: 

&#8226; 

Building technology that improves productivity and safety; 

&#8226; 

Driving innovation and thought leadership; 

&#8226; 

Ensuring security and resiliency; 

&#8226; 

Providing ongoing support for customer investments; and 

&#8226; 

Delivering complete solutions, comprised of infrastructure, devices, system software and applications, and services to solve complex communication needs. 

This focus provides us with the leadership position we have in our core products. We define our core products as our standards-based voice and data communication devices and systems and the related Integration and Managed &#38; Support services. We expect to demonstrate strong results from our core products and services through: (i) leading the ongoing global migration to digital products, (ii) continuing to innovate APCO P25, TETRA, and DMR standards-based voice and data communication devices and systems, (iii) innovating new products and technologies for the future, (iv) enhancing and expanding our services offerings including Managed &#38; Support services; and (v) expanding our direct sales and channel partner programs both geographically and across new commercial verticals. 

We believe we have the scale and global presence to continue to maintain a leadership position in our core products. We have over 12,000 &#32;systems deployed in over 180 &#32;countries around the world. These systems have a multi-year useful life to the customer. We believe many of our government and commercial customers have yet to replace aged analog communications networks with next-generation digital systems that enable enhanced features and more efficient use of spectrum, providing us opportunities to help customers migrate to these digital systems. In addition, we believe government and commercial customers are just beginning to experience the benefits of converged wireless communications and the efficiencies realized through a connected, mobile workforce, which will provide opportunities for the implementation of new public safety communications systems. We believe we are well-positioned to assist our customers in the deployment of new networks as additional public safety dedicated spectrum becomes available. 

In addition, we continue to innovate around our existing core products and services by finding innovative ways to improve our products by adding features and functionality to improve the user experience. By partnering with customers and observing how our products are used, our goal is to enhance our customers&#8217; experience through future product enhancements and upgrades. 

In addition to focused research and development ("R&#38;D") efforts on existing technologies, our strategy for long-term growth and the evolution of our business includes the development of: (i) next-generation public safety solutions' including public safety Long Term Evolution ("LTE") systems and devices, (ii) Smart Public Safety Solutions including critical command center applications that incorporate voice, data and video, and (iii) new product introductions for expansion into core-adjacent markets and geographic regions. 

We have been investing in next-generation public safety broadband networks based on the LTE standard since 2010, which reflects our belief that broadband is a foundational long-term trend for our government and public safety customers globally. We believe that the application of these new broadband technologies will also generate innovation and lead to new smart public safety technologies, products, and services which will change how government and public safety organizations create, organize, and effectively manage vast amounts of data. These changes will also require a more comprehensive approach to the services required to assist our customers in managing an ever more complex world of real-time, interconnected technology and processes. 

Our strategy includes leveraging our products and services for markets outside of the public safety and commercial markets we traditionally serve. A portion of our new product introductions in recent years include products which may also be used in the hospitality, mining, military, transportation, education, and utility vertical markets ("verticals"). 

Geographical diversification is accelerated by our investments supporting: (i) different regional interfaces, (ii) multiple languages, (iii) tailored form factors, and (iv) unique feature sets. 

In addition to organic development opportunities and growth, we continually evaluate opportunities for inorganic growth through acquisitions or targeted investments in innovative technology companies that align with our strategic initiatives. 

Our Customers and Contracts 

We address the communication needs of government agencies, state and local public safety and first-responder agencies, and commercial and industrial customers who utilize private communications networks and manage a mobile workforce. Our customer base is fragmented and widespread when considering the many levels of governmental and first-responder decision-makers that procure and use our products and services. Serving this global customer base spanning federal, state, county, province, territory, municipal, and departmental independent bodies, along with our commercial and industrial customers, requires a significant go-to-market investment. 

Our sales model includes both direct sales by our in-house sales force, which tends to focus on our largest accounts, and sales through our channel partner program. Our trained channel partners include independent dealers, distributors, and independent software vendors around the world. The dealers and distributors each have their own sales organizations that complement and extend the reach of our sales force. The independent software vendors offer customized applications that meet specific needs in the verticals we serve. 

Our largest customer is the U.S. federal government (through multiple contracts with its various branches and agencies, including the armed services), representing approximately 8% &#32;of our consolidated net sales in 2015 . The loss of this customer could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and earnings over several quarters as some of our contracts with the U.S. federal government are long-term. All contracts with the U.S. federal government, and certain other government agencies, are subject to cancellation at the customer&#8217;s convenience. For a discussion of risks related to government contracting requirements, please refer to &#8220;Item 1A. Risk Factors.&#8221; 

Net sales in North America continued to comprise a significant portion of our business, accounting for 65% , 61% &#32;and 63% &#32;&#32;of our consolidated net sales in 2015 , 2014 , and 2013 , respectively. 

Payment terms with our customers vary worldwide. Generally, contractual payment terms range from 30 to 45 days from the invoice date within North America and typically do not exceed 90 days from the invoice date in regions outside of North America. A portion of our contracts include implementation milestones, such as delivery, installation, and system acceptance, which generally take 30 to 180 days to complete. Invoicing the customer is dependent on completion of the milestones. We generally do not grant extended payment terms. As required for competitive reasons, we may provide long-term financing in connection with equipment purchases. Financing may cover all or a portion of the purchase price. 

Generally, our contracts do not include a right of return, other than for standard warranty provisions. Due to customer purchasing patterns and the cyclical nature of the markets we serve, our sales tend to be somewhat higher in the fourth quarter. 

Competition 

The markets in which we operate are highly competitive. Key competitive factors include: performance, features, quality, availability, warranty, price, vendor financing, availability of service, company reputation and financial strength, partner community, and relationships with customers. Our strong reputation with customers and partners, trusted brand, technology leadership, breadth of portfolio, product performance, and specialized support services position us well for success. 

We experience widespread competition from a growing number of existing and new competitors, including large system integrators and manufacturers of private and public wireless network equipment and devices. Traditional Land Mobile Radio competitors include: Harris, Airbus, Kenwood, Hytera, and Sepura. 

As demand for fully integrated voice, data, and broadband systems continue to grow, we may face additional competition from public telecommunications carriers and telecommunications equipment providers. As we continue to evolve our Integration services and Managed &#38; Support services strategy, we may work with other companies on a consortium or joint venture basis as customers' delivery needs become more complex to fulfill. 

Several other competitive factors may have an impact on our future business including: evolving spectrum mandates by government regulators, increasing investment by broadband and IP solution providers, and new low-tier competitors. 

Other Information 

Backlog 

Our backlog for the Products and Services segments includes all product and service orders that have been received and are believed to be firm. As of December 31, 2015 &#32;and December 31, 2014 &#32;our backlog was as follows: 

&#160; 

December 31 

(In millions) 

&#160; 

Products 

$ 

1,234 

&#160; 

$ 

1,194 

Services 

5,241 

&#160; 

4,582 

&#160; 

$ 

6,475 

&#160; 

$ 

5,776 

Approximately 52% &#32;of the Products segment backlog and 22% &#32;of the Services segment backlog is expected to be recognized as revenue during 2016 . The forward-looking estimate of the firmness of such orders is subject to future events that may cause the amount recognized to change. 

Research and Development 

We continue to prioritize investments in R&#38;D to expand and improve our portfolio of products through both new product introductions and continuous enhancements to our core products. Our R&#38;D programs are focused on the development of: (i) new public safety devices, infrastructure, and solutions, (ii) public safety broadband solutions based on the LTE technology, and (iii) smart public safety applications that include voice, data, and video. 

R&#38;D expenditures were $620 million &#32;in 2015 , $681 million &#32;in 2014 , and $761 million &#32;in 2013 . As of December 31, 2015 , we had approximately 5,000 &#32;employees engaged in R&#38;D activities. In addition, we engage in R&#38;D activities with joint development and manufacturing partners and outsource certain activities to engineering firms to further supplement our internal spend. 

Intellectual Property Matters 

Patent protection is an important aspect of our operations. We have a portfolio of U.S. and foreign utility and design patents relating to our products, systems, and technologies, including research developments in radio frequency technology and circuits, wireless network technologies, over-the-air protocols, mission critical communications, software and services, and next-generation public safety. We have filed new patent applications with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and foreign patent offices. 

We license some of our patents to third-parties, but licensing revenue is not a significant source of revenue. We are also licensed to use certain patents owned by others. Royalty and licensing fees vary from year-to-year and are subject to the terms of the agreements and sales volumes of the products subject to the license. Motorola Solutions has a royalty free-license under all of the patents and patent applications assigned to Motorola Mobility at the time of the separation of the two businesses in 2011. 

We actively participate in the development of standards for interoperable, mission-critical digital two-way radio systems. Our patents are used in standards in which our products and services are based. We offer standards-based licenses to those patents on fair, reasonable, and non-discriminatory terms. 

We believe that our patent portfolio will continue to provide us with a competitive advantage in our core product areas as well as provide leverage in the development of future technologies. Furthermore, we believe we are not dependent upon a single patent or even a few patents. Our success depends more upon our extensive know-how, innovative culture, technical leadership, and distribution channels. We do not rely primarily on patents or other intellectual property rights to protect or establish our market position; however, we will enforce our intellectual property rights in certain technologies when attempts to negotiate mutually agreeable licenses are not successful. 

We seek to obtain patents and trademarks to protect our proprietary positions whenever possible and wherever practical. As of December 31, 2015 , we owned approximately 4,440 &#32;granted patents in the U.S. and in foreign countries. As of December 31, 2015 , we had approximately 1,315 &#32;U.S. and foreign patent applications pending. Foreign patents and patent applications are mostly counterparts of our U.S. patents. During 2015 , we were granted approximately 415 &#32;patents in the U.S. and in foreign countries. 

We no longer own certain logos and other trademarks, trade names and service marks, including MOTOROLA, MOTO, MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS and the Stylized M logo and all derivatives thereof (&#8220;Motorola Marks&#8221;) and we license the Motorola Marks from Motorola Mobility, which is currently owned by Lenovo. 

Inventory and Raw Materials 

Our practice is to carry reasonable amounts of inventory to meet customers&#8217; delivery requirements. We provide custom products which require the stocking of inventories and a large variety of piece parts and replacement parts in order to meet delivery and warranty requirements. To the extent suppliers&#8217; product life cycles are shorter than ours, stocking of lifetime buy inventories is required to meet long-term warranty and contractual requirements. In addition, replacement parts are stocked for delivery on customer demand within a short delivery cycle. 

Availability of required materials and components is generally dependable; however, fluctuations in supply and market demand could cause selective shortages and affect our results of operations. We currently procure certain materials and components from single-source vendors. A material disruption from a single-source vendor may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. If certain single-source suppliers were to become capacity constrained or insolvent, it could result in a reduction or interruption in supplies, or an increase in the price of supplies, and adversely impact our financial results. 

Natural gas, electricity and, to a lesser extent, oil are the primary sources of energy for our manufacturing operations. Each of these resources is currently in adequate supply for our operations. The cost to operate our facilities and freight costs are dependent on world oil prices. Given current oil spot rates, we anticipate cost savings. Labor is generally available in reasonable proximity to our manufacturing facilities and the manufacturing facilities of our largest outsourced manufacturing suppliers. Difficulties in obtaining any of the aforementioned resources, or a significant cost increase, could affect our financial results. 

Environmental Quality and Regulatory Matters 

Some of our operations use substances regulated under various federal, state, local, and international laws governing the environment and worker health and safety, including those governing the discharge of pollutants into the ground, air, and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes, and the cleanup of contaminated sites, as well as relating to the protection of the environment. Certain of our products are subject to various federal, state, local, and international laws governing chemical substances in electronic products. During 2015 , compliance with these U.S. federal, state, and local, and international laws did not have a material effect on our capital expenditures, earnings, or competitive position. 

Radio spectrum is required to provide wireless voice, data, and video communications service. The allocation of spectrum is regulated in the U.S. and other countries and limited spectrum space is allocated to wireless services and specifically to public safety users. In the U.S., the Federal Communications Commission (&#8220;FCC&#8221;) and the National Telecommunications and Information Administration (&#8220;NTIA&#8221;) regulate spectrum use by non-federal entities and federal entities, respectively. Similarly, countries around the world have one or more regulatory bodies that define and implement the rules for use of radio spectrum, pursuant to their respective national laws and international coordination under the International Telecommunications Union (&#8220;ITU&#8221;). We manufacture and market products in spectrum bands already made available by regulatory bodies. These include voice and data infrastructure, mobile radios, and portable or hand-held devices. Consequently, our results could be positively or negatively affected by the rules and regulations adopted from time to time by the FCC, NTIA, ITU, or regulatory agencies in other countries. Our products operate both on licensed and unlicensed spectrum. The availability of additional radio spectrum may provide new business opportunities. Conversely, the loss of available radio spectrum may result in the loss of business opportunities. Regulatory changes in current spectrum bands may also provide opportunities or may require modifications to some of our products so they can continue to be manufactured and marketed. 

As television transmission and reception technology transitions from analog to more efficient digital modes, various countries around the world are examining, and in some cases already pursuing, the redevelopment of portions of the television spectrum. In the U.S., spectrum historically used for broadcast television, known as the 700MHz band, has been redeveloped and deployed for new uses (the so-called &#8220;digital dividend&#8221; spectrum), including broadband and narrowband wireless communications. In 2016, this trend continues and additional TV spectrum in the 600MHz band will be auctioned for broadband communications (part of the &#8220;Broadcast Incentive Auction&#8221;). 

In the U.S., thirty-four MHz of spectrum in the 700 MHz band is now allocated to support public safety narrowband and broadband communications systems. This includes 24 MHz of spectrum previously allocated by the FCC and an additional ten MHz of spectrum (the &#8220;D block&#8221;) allocated in February 2012 as part of the Middle Class Tax Relief and Job Creation Act of 2012 in response to public safety requests for additional broadband spectrum. The resulting law also identified up to $7 billion in funding for the nationwide public safety broadband network. The law further provides for the establishment of a centralized governance model through an independent authority within NTIA designated as the &#8220;First-Responder Network Authority&#8221; or &#8220;FirstNet&#8221; to manage deployment and operation of the network. Additional work, currently ongoing in FirstNet, is required to enable deployment of the nationwide public safety broadband network. FirstNet released its network Request for Proposal in early 2016. 

The law allows for states to opt out of the plan to develop a nationwide public safety network and perform their own competitive procurements if certain criteria are met. States that opt out would still be eligible for funding and would also be allowed to generate revenue through leases to secondary users. FirstNet and the FCC have also enabled the early deployment of broadband systems in several areas so that field experience can be gained regarding the benefits of broadband communications for public safety operations. In September 2012, the State of Texas received a Special Temporary Authorization ("STA") for deployment of 14 broadband sites in the Harris County area around Houston. A Spectrum Manager Lease Agreement ("SMLA") was signed in August 2014, with FirstNet and the State of Texas on behalf of Harris County, extending the access to this spectrum for three years. The State of Texas and Harris County, with assistance from Motorola Solutions, have deployed broadband equipment and applications and successfully demonstrated the benefits such systems can bring to FirstNet and other officials. FirstNet also entered into a spectrum lease with the State of California on behalf of Los Angeles Regional Interoperable Communications System Authority ("LA-RICS") to allow for a radio system that will provide mission critical communications for the region&#8217;s more than 34,000 law enforcement, fire service and health service professionals and more than 80 public safety agencies. LA-RICS selected Motorola Solutions to develop this radio system. 

Although the law has been enacted, the implementation of a nationwide public safety network under FirstNet has been slow to progress. For a discussion of risks related to the implementation of a nationwide public safety network, please refer to "Item 1A, Risk Factors." 

Internationally, the ITU World Radio Conference ("WRC") is held every three to four years to discuss and promote global agreement on the use and cooperation of spectrum usage. The recent WRC-15 was held in November 2015. During this conference, leaders from United Nations member countries considered a number of initiatives, including whether to allocate additional spectrum for commercial broadband use as well as whether to allocate spectrum dedicated for public safety broadband. The WRC has agreed to support countries making individual decisions to allocate spectrum for public safety broadband in the 700MHz and 800MHz spectrum bands. Studies are underway to assess whether and how much spectrum is needed and to develop recommendations on where in the spectrum range the spectrum should be allocated (taking into account regional and global harmonization to the extent practicable). Motorola Solutions continues to work with its customers and governments around the world to advocate for future allocations of dedicated broadband spectrum for public safety which will provide new business opportunities for us in the future. 

Several major markets including: Australia, Canada, the United States, Mexico, and South Korea have already set aside broadband spectrum for use by public safety and the wider first-responder community. We believe this trend will continue over time and the planned implementation of nationwide broadband public safety networks provides new opportunities for our broadband portfolio and services growth strategy. 

In addition, certain countries, in response to increasing security concerns, already have spectrum landscapes that permit country administrations to allocate public safety spectrum quickly without a protracted process or agreement. 

Employees 

At December 31, 2015 , we had approximately 14,000 employees, compared to 15,000 employees at December 31, 2014 . 

Material Dispositions 

&#8226; 

On October 27, 2014, we completed the sale of certain assets and liabilities of the Enterprise business to Zebra Technologies Corporation ("Zebra"). The financial results of the disposed business have been reclassified to discontinued operations for all periods presented. The results of discontinued operations are discussed in further detail in the &#8220;Discontinued Operations&#8221; footnote included in Item 8. 

&#8226; 

On January 1, 2012, we completed a series of transactions which resulted in exiting the amateur, marine, and airband radio businesses. 

&#8226; 

On October 28, 2011, we completed the sale of our wireless broadband businesses. 

&#8226; 

On April 29, 2011, we completed the sale of certain assets and liabilities of our Networks business to Nokia Siemens Networks ("NSN"). 

&#8226; 

On January 4, 2011, the distribution of Motorola Mobility was completed. The stockholders of record as of the close of business on December 21, 2010 received one (1) share of Motorola Mobility common stock for each eight (8) shares of our common stock held. 

Financial Information About Geographic Areas 

The response to this section of Item 1 incorporates by reference Note 11, &#8220;Commitments and Contingencies&#8221; and Note 12, &#8220;Information by Segment and Geographic Region&#8221; of Part II, "Item 8: Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" of this document, the &#8220;Results of Operations&#8212; 2015 &#32;Compared to 2014 &#8221; and &#8220;Results of Operations&#8212; 2014 &#32;Compared to 2013 &#8221; sections of Part II, &#8220;Item 7: Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations&#8221; and &#8220;Item 1A: Risk Factors&#8221; of this document. 

Financial Information About Segments &#160; 

The response to this section of Item 1 incorporates by reference Note 12, &#8220;Information by Segment and Geographic Region,&#8221; of Part II, "Item 8: Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" of this document. 

Available Information 

We make available free of charge through our website, www.motorolasolutions.com/investors , &#32;our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements, other reports filed under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (&#8220;Exchange Act&#8221;), and all amendments to those reports simultaneously or as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. Our reports are also available free of charge on the SEC&#8217;s website, www.sec.gov. &#32;Also available free of charge on our website are the following corporate governance documents: 

&#8226; 

Motorola Solutions, Inc. Restated Certificate of Incorporation with Amendments 

&#8226; 

Conformed Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Motorola Solutions, Inc. (amended Jan. 4, 2011) 

&#8226; 

Certificate of Amendment to the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Motorola, Inc. (effective Jan. 4, 2011) 

&#8226; 

Certificate of Ownership and Merger of Motorola Name Change Corporation into Motorola, Inc. (effective Jan. 4, 2011) 

&#8226; 

Motorola Solutions, Inc. Amended and Restated Bylaws 

&#8226; 

Board Governance Guidelines 

&#8226; 

Director Independence Guidelines 

&#8226; 

Principles of Conduct for Members of the Motorola Solutions, Inc. Board of Directors 

&#8226; 

Motorola Solutions Code of Business Conduct, which is applicable to all Motorola Solutions employees, including the principal executive officers, the principal financial officer and the controller (principal accounting officer) 

&#8226; 

Audit Committee Charter 

&#8226; 

Compensation and Leadership Committee Charter 

&#8226; 

Governance and Nominating Committee Charter 

All of our reports and corporate governance documents may also be obtained without charge by contacting Investor Relations, Motorola Solutions, Inc., Corporate Offices, 1303 East Algonquin Road, Schaumburg, Illinois 60196, E-mail: investors@motorolasolutions.com . This annual report on Form 10-K and Definitive Proxy Statement are available on the Internet at www.motorolasolutions.com/investors and may also be requested in hardcopy by completing the on-line request form available on our website at www.motorolasolutions.com/investors. Our Internet website and the information contained therein or incorporated therein are not intended to be incorporated into this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

