 Item 1. Business 

&#160; This report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. We intend the forward-looking statements contained in this report to be covered by the safe harbor provisions of such Acts. All statements other than statements of historical fact in this report or referred to or incorporated by reference into this report are "forward-looking statements" for purposes of these sections. These statements include, among other things, any predictions of earnings, revenues, expenses or other financial items, plans or expectations with respect to development activities, clinical trials or regulatory approvals, any statements of plans, strategies and objectives of management for future operations, any statements concerning our future operations, financial conditions and prospects, and any statements of assumptions underlying any of the foregoing. These statements can sometimes be identified by the use of the forward-looking words such as "may," "believe," "will," "expect," "project," "estimate," "should," "anticipate," "plan," "goal," "continue," "seek," "pro forma," "forecast," "intend," "guidance," "optimistic," "aspire," "confident," other forms of these words or similar words or expressions or the negative thereof. Investors are cautioned not to unduly rely on such forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are subject to substantial risks and uncertainties that could cause our results or future business, financial condition, results of operations or performance to differ materially from the our historical results or experiences or those expressed or implied in any forward-looking statements contained in this report. See "Risk Factors" in Part I, Item 1A below for a further discussion of these risks, as well as our subsequent reports on Forms 10-Q and 8-K. These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date on which they are made and we do not undertake any obligation to update any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances after the date of the statement. If we do update or correct one or more of these statements, investors and others should not conclude that we will make additional updates or corrections. 

Overview 

Edwards Lifesciences Corporation is the global medical technology leader in patient-focused innovations for structural heart disease and critical illness. Driven by a passion for patients, we collaborate with the world&#8217;s leading clinicians and researchers to address unmet needs in heart valves and critical care, helping to improve patient outcomes and save and enhance lives. A pioneer in the development of heart valve therapies, we are the world's leading manufacturer of heart valve systems and repair products used to replace or repair a patient's diseased or defective heart valve. Our innovative work in heart valves encompasses both surgical and transcatheter therapies for heart valve replacement. We are also a global leader in hemodynamic monitoring systems used to measure a patient's cardiovascular function in the hospital setting. 

Cardiovascular disease is the number-one cause of death in the world, and is the top disease in terms of health care spending in nearly every country. Cardiovascular disease is progressive in that it tends to worsen over time and often affects the structure of &#32; an individual's heart. 

Patients undergoing treatment for cardiovascular disease can be treated with a number of our medical technologies. For example, an individual with a heart valve disorder may have a faulty valve that is affecting the function of their heart or blood flow throughout their body. A clinician may elect to remove the valve and replace it with one of our bioprosthetic surgical tissue heart valves, surgically re-shape and repair the faulty valve with an Edwards Lifesciences annuloplasty ring, or implant an Edwards Lifesciences transcatheter valve via a catheter-based system that does not require traditional open-heart surgery and can be done while the heart continues to beat. Patients in the hospital setting, including high-risk patients in the operating room or intensive care unit, are candidates for having their cardiac function or fluid levels monitored by our Critical Care products. These technologies enable proactive clinical decisions and may be important for improving diagnoses and developing individualized therapeutic management plans for patients. 

Segment and Geographical Information 

We conduct operations worldwide and are managed in the following geographical regions: United States, Europe, Japan, and Rest of World. All regions sell products that are used to treat advanced cardiovascular disease. Additional segment and geographical information is incorporated herein by reference to Note 18 to the " Consolidated Financial Statements. " See also the risk factor " Our business is subject to economic, political, and other risks associated with international sales and operations, including risks arising from currency exchange rate fluctuations " in Part I, Item 1A, " Risk Factors ," for information regarding risks involving our international operations. 

Corporate Background 

Edwards Lifesciences Corporation was incorporated in Delaware on September 10, 1999. Unless otherwise indicated or otherwise required by the context, the terms "we," "our," "it," "its," "Company," "Edwards," and "Edwards Lifesciences" refer to Edwards Lifesciences Corporation and its subsidiaries. 

Our principal executive offices are located at One Edwards Way, Irvine, California 92614. The telephone number at that address is (949) 250-2500. We make available, free of charge on our website located at www.edwards.com, our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after filing such reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). The contents of our website are not incorporated by reference into this report. 

Edwards Lifesciences' Product and Technology Offerings 

The following discussion summarizes the main areas of products and technologies we offer to treat advanced cardiovascular disease. These are categorized into three main areas: Transcatheter Heart Valve Therapy, Surgical Heart Valve Therapy, and Critical Care. For more information on net sales from these three main areas, see "Net Sales by Product Group " in Part II, Item 7 " Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ." 

Transcatheter Heart Valve Therapy 

We have leveraged the knowledge and experience from our Surgical Heart Valve Therapy portfolio to optimize transcatheter heart valve replacement technology, designed for the nonsurgical replacement of heart valves. We produce pericardial valves from biologically inert animal tissue sewn onto proprietary wireform stents. The Edwards SAPIEN family of valves , including Edwards SAPIEN XT &#32;and Edwards SAPIEN 3 &#32;transcatheter aortic heart valves and their respective delivery systems, are used to treat heart valve disease using catheter-based approaches for certain patients deemed at high risk for traditional open-heart surgery. Delivered while the heart is beating, these valves can enable patients to experience a better quality of life sooner than patients receiving traditional surgical therapies. We began offering our transcatheter heart valves to patients commercially in Europe in 2007, in the United States in 2011, and in Japan in 2013. As of December 31, 2015 , our transcatheter aortic heart valves were available in more than 65 countries. Supported by extensive customer training and service, and a growing body of compelling clinical evidence, our SAPIEN &#32;family of transcatheter aortic heart valves are the most widely prescribed transcatheter heart valves in the world. 

Sales of our transcatheter heart valves represented 47% , 41% , and 35% &#32;of our net sales in 2015 , 2014 , and 2013 , respectively. 

Surgical Heart Valve Therapy 

The core of our surgical tissue heart valve product line is the Carpentier-Edwards PERIMOUNT &#32;pericardial valve platform, including the line of PERIMOUNT Magna Ease &#32;valves, the newest generation pericardial valves for aortic and mitral surgical valve replacement. With more long-term clinical publications on durability and performance than any other surgical valve, PERIMOUNT &#32;valves are the most widely implanted surgical tissue heart valves in the world. Our EDWARDS INTUITY Elite Valve System, which is available in Europe and is pending United States Food and Drug Administration ("FDA") approval in the United States, is a minimally invasive aortic heart valve system designed to enable faster procedures, shorter patient times on cardiopulmonary bypass, and smaller incisions. In addition to our replacement valves, we pioneered and are the worldwide leader in surgical heart valve repair therapies, including annuloplasty rings and systems. We are also a global leader in cardiac cannula devices and offer a variety of innovative procedure-enabling platforms to advance minimally invasive surgery. 

Sales of our surgical tissue heart valve products represented 28%, 31%, and 34% of our net sales in 2015 , 2014 , and 2013 , respectively. 

Critical Care 

We are a world leader in hemodynamic monitoring systems used to measure a patient's heart function in surgical and intensive care settings. Hemodynamic monitoring enables a clinician to balance the supply and demand of oxygen in critically ill patients, and plays an important role in enhancing surgical recovery by enabling appropriate tissue and organ perfusion, and ultimately improving patient outcomes and survival. Our hemodynamic monitoring technologies are used before, during, and 

after surgeries, such as open-heart, major vascular, major abdominal, neurological, and orthopedic surgical procedures; as well as for acutely ill patients with conditions such as sepsis, shock, acute respiratory distress syndrome, and multi-organ failure. 

Edwards&#8217; complete hemodynamic portfolio helps clinicians make proactive clinical decisions for their patients, and includes the minimally invasive FloTrac &#32;system and the noninvasive ClearSight &#32;system. Our hemodynamic monitoring portfolio also comprises the Swan -Ganz &#32;line of pulmonary artery catheters and the PreSep &#32;continuous venous oximetry catheter for measuring central venous oxygen saturation. Our EV1000 clinical monitoring platform displays a patient's physiological status and integrates many of our sensors and catheters into one platform, giving clinicians multiple options to meet their clinical and patient needs. 

We are also the global leader in disposable pressure monitoring devices and innovative closed blood sampling systems to help protect both patients and clinicians from the risk of infection. 

Sales of our core hemodynamic products represented 13%, 15%, and 17% of our net sales in 2015 , 2014 , and 2013 , respectively. 

We manufacture and sell a variety of peripheral vascular products used to treat endolumenal occlusive disease, including the Fogarty &#32;line of embolectomy catheters, which has been an industry standard for removing blood clots from peripheral blood vessels for more than 40 years. 

Competition 

The medical technology industry is highly competitive. We compete with many companies, including divisions of companies much larger than us and smaller companies that compete in specific product lines or certain geographies. Furthermore, new product development and technological change characterize the areas in which we compete. Our present or future products could be rendered obsolete or uneconomical as a result of technological advances by one or more of our present or future competitors or by other therapies, including drug therapies. We must continue to develop and commercialize new products and technologies to remain competitive in the cardiovascular medical technology industry. We believe that we compete primarily on the basis of clinical superiority supported by extensive data, and innovative features that enhance patient benefit, product performance, and reliability. Customer and clinical support, and cost-effectiveness are additional aspects of competition. 

The cardiovascular segment of the medical technology industry is dynamic and subject to significant change due to cost-of-care considerations, regulatory reform, industry and customer consolidation, and evolving patient needs. The ability to provide products and technologies that demonstrate value and improve clinical outcomes is becoming increasingly important for medical technology manufacturers. 

&#160; 

We believe that we are a leading global competitor in each of our product lines. In Transcatheter Heart Valve Therapy, our primary competitors include Medtronic PLC, Boston Scientific Corporation, St. Jude Medical, Inc., and Symetis SA. In Surgical Heart Valve Therapy, our primary competitors include Medtronic PLC, St. Jude Medical, Inc., and LivaNova PLC. In Critical Care, we compete primarily with a variety of companies in specific product lines including ICU Medical, Inc., PULSION Medical Systems SE, a subsidiary of Getinge AB, and LiDCO Group PLC. 

Sales and Marketing 

We have a number of broad product lines that require a sales and marketing strategy tailored to our customers in order to deliver high-quality, cost-effective products and technologies to all of our customers worldwide. Our portfolio includes some of the most recognizable product brands in cardiovascular devices today. To help broaden awareness of our products and technologies, we conduct educational symposia and provide training to our customers. 

Because of the diverse global needs of the population that we serve, our distribution system consists of several direct sales forces as well as independent distributors. We are not dependent on any single customer and no single customer accounted for 10% or more of our net sales in 2015 . 

Where we choose to market our products is also influenced by the existence of, or potential for, adequate reimbursement to hospitals by national healthcare systems. Sales personnel work closely with the customers who purchase our products, which primarily include physicians, nurses, and other clinical personnel, but can also include decision makers such as material managers, biomedical staff, hospital administrators and executives, purchasing managers, and ministries of health. Also, for certain of our products and where appropriate, our corporate sales team actively pursues approval of Edwards Lifesciences as a 

qualified supplier for hospital group purchasing organizations ("GPOs") that negotiate contracts with suppliers of medical products. Additionally, we have contracts with a number of United States and European national and regional buying groups. 

United States. In the United States, we sell substantially all of our products through our direct sales forces. In 2015 , 51% &#32;of our sales were derived from sales to customers in the United States. 

International. In 2015 , 49% &#32;of our sales were derived internationally through our direct sales forces and independent distributors. Of the total international sales, 58% &#32;were in Europe, 20% &#32;were in Japan, and 22% &#32;were in Rest of World. We sell our products in approximately 100 countries, and our major international markets include Australia, Canada, China, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, Spain, and the United Kingdom. A majority of the sales and marketing approach outside the United States is direct sales, although it varies depending on each country's size and state of development. 

Raw Materials and Manufacturing 

We operate manufacturing facilities in various geographies around the world. Our Transcatheter Heart Valve Therapy and Surgical Heart Valve Therapy products are manufactured primarily in the United States (California and Utah), Switzerland, and Singapore. Critical Care products are manufactured primarily in our facilities located in Puerto Rico and the Dominican Republic. 

We use a diverse and broad range of raw and organic materials in the design, development, and manufacture of our products. Our non-implantable products are manufactured from man-made raw materials including resins, chemicals, electronics, and metals. Most of our Transcatheter Heart Valve Therapy and Surgical Heart Valve Therapy products are manufactured from natural tissues harvested from animal tissue, as well as man-made materials. We purchase certain materials and components used in manufacturing our products from external suppliers. In addition, we purchase certain supplies from single sources for reasons of quality assurance, sole source availability, cost effectiveness, or constraints resulting from regulatory requirements. 

We work closely with our suppliers to mitigate risk and seek continuity of supply while maintaining uncompromised quality and reliability. Alternative supplier options are generally considered and identified, although we do not typically pursue immediate regulatory qualification of alternative sources due to the strength of our existing supplier relationships and the time and expense associated with the regulatory validation process. 

We follow rigorous sourcing and manufacturing procedures intended to safeguard humans from potential risks associated with diseases such as bovine spongiform encephalopathy ("BSE"). We comply with all current global guidelines regarding risks for products intended to be implanted in humans. We obtain bovine tissue used in our pericardial tissue valve products only from sources within the United States and Australia, where strong control measures and surveillance programs exist. In addition, bovine tissue used in our pericardial tissue valve products is from tissue types considered by global health and regulatory organizations to have shown no risk of infectibility. Our manufacturing and sterilization processes are designed to render tissue biologically safe from all known infectious agents and viruses, and exceed the worldwide standard for sterile medical products. 

Quality Assurance 

We are committed to providing to our customers quality products that comply with the FDA and other applicable regulations. To meet this commitment, we have implemented modern quality systems and concepts throughout the organization. The quality system starts with the initial product specification and continues through the design of the product, component specification processes, and the manufacturing, sales, and servicing of the product. The quality system is intended to design quality into products and utilizes continuous improvement concepts, including Lean/Six Sigma principles, throughout the product lifecycle. 

Our operations are inspected by the FDA and are designed to comply with all applicable international quality systems standards, including the International Organization for Standardization ("ISO") 13485. These standards require, among other items, quality system controls that are applied to product design, component material, suppliers, and manufacturing operations. These regulatory approvals and ISO certifications can be obtained only after a complete audit of a company's quality system has been conducted by regulatory or independent outside auditors. Periodic reexamination by an independent outside auditor is required to maintain these certifications. 

Environmental, Health, and Safety 

We are committed to providing a safe and healthy workplace, promoting environmental excellence in our communities, and complying with all relevant regulations and medical device industry standards. Through our corporate and site level Environmental, Health, and Safety functions, we establish and monitor programs to reduce pollution, prevent injuries, and maintain compliance. In order to measure performance, we monitor and report on a number of metrics, including regulated and non-regulated waste disposal, energy usage, water consumption, air toxic emissions, and injuries from our production activities. Each of our manufacturing sites is evaluated regularly with respect to a broad range of Environmental, Health, and Safety criteria. 

Research and Development 

We are engaged in ongoing research and development to deliver clinically advanced new products, to enhance the effectiveness, ease of use, safety, and reliability of our current leading products, and to expand the applications of our products as appropriate. We focus on opportunities within specific areas of structural heart disease and critical care monitoring, and we are dedicated to developing novel technologies to better enable clinicians to treat patients. 

We invested $383.1 million &#32;in research and development in 2015 , $346.5 million &#32;in 2014 , and $323.0 million &#32;in 2013 &#32;( 15.4% , 14.9% , and 15.8% &#32;of net sales, respectively). The majority of our research and development investment has been applied to strengthen our leadership position in transcatheter heart valve replacement technologies, surgical tissue heart valve and heart valve repair therapies, and hemodynamic monitoring products. We have also dedicated a sizable portion of our research and development investment to developing additional advanced technologies designed to address unmet clinical needs within our areas of strategic focus. A considerable portion of our research and development investment includes clinical trials and the collection of evidence that provide data for use in regulatory submissions, and required post-market approval studies involving applications of our products. 

We are also making significant investments in the development of transcatheter heart valve technologies designed to treat mitral and tricuspid valve diseases and other structural heart conditions. In 2015, we acquired CardiAQ Valve Technologies ("CardiAQ"), a developer of a transcatheter mitral valve replacement ("TMVR") system. We believe the combination of our own TMVR experience with the efforts of CardiAQ will enable us to accelerate the development of a catheter-based therapy for patients with mitral valve disease who aren't well served today. In addition, we are also developing less-invasive technologies to address degenerative mitral regurgitation, tricuspid regurgitation, and left ventricular dysfunction. 

Surgical Heart Valve Therapy development programs include the EDWARDS INTUITY Elite Valve System , a next-generation minimally invasive aortic heart valve system, and the INSPIRIS &#32; RESILIA aortic valve, which incorporates a novel tissue designed to provide patients with a durable tissue valve alternative to mechanical valves. 

In our Critical Care product line, we are pursuing the development of next-generation noninvasive and minimally invasive hemodynamic monitoring systems, including a next-generation hemodynamic monitor with wireless connectivity and an integrated semi-closed loop system for standardized management of patient fluid levels. 

Our research and development activities are conducted primarily in facilities located in the United States, Israel, and the Netherlands. Our experienced research and development staff is focused on product design and development, quality, clinical research, and regulatory compliance. To pursue primary research efforts, we have developed alliances with several leading research institutions and universities, and also work with leading clinicians around the world in conducting scientific studies on our existing and developing products. 

Proprietary Technology 

Patents and other proprietary rights are important to the success of our business. We also rely upon trade secrets, know-how, continuing innovations, and licensing opportunities to develop and maintain our competitive position. 

We own more than 2,700 issued United States patents, pending United States patent applications, issued foreign patents, and pending foreign patent applications. We also have licensed various United States and foreign patents and patent applications that relate to aspects of the technology incorporated in certain of our products, including our heart valves and annuloplasty rings. We also own or have rights in United States and foreign patents and patent applications in the field of transcatheter heart valve repair and replacement. In addition, we own or have rights in United States and foreign patents and patent applications that cover catheters, systems and methods for hemodynamic monitoring, and vascular access products. 

We are a party to several license agreements with unrelated third parties pursuant to which we have obtained, for varying terms, the exclusive or non-exclusive rights to certain patents held by such third parties in consideration for cross-licensing rights and/or royalty payments. We have also licensed certain patent rights to others. 

We monitor the products of our competitors for possible infringement of our owned and licensed patents. Litigation has been necessary to enforce certain patent rights held by us, and we plan to continue to defend and prosecute our rights with respect to such patents. 

We own certain United States registered trademarks used in our business. Many of our trademarks have also been registered for use in certain foreign countries where registration is available and where we have determined it is commercially advantageous to do so. 

Government Regulation and Other Matters 

Our products and facilities are subject to regulation by numerous government agencies, including the U.S. FDA, European Community Notified Bodies, and the Japanese Pharmaceuticals and Medical Devices Agency, to confirm compliance with the various laws and regulations governing the development, testing, manufacturing, labeling, marketing, and distribution of our products. We are also governed by federal, state, local, and international laws of general applicability, such as those regulating employee health and safety, and the protection of the environment. Overall, the amount and scope of domestic and foreign laws and regulations applicable to our business is increasing. 

United States Regulation. In the United States, the FDA has responsibility for regulating medical devices. The FDA regulates design, development, testing, clinical studies, manufacturing, labeling, promotion, and record keeping for medical devices, and reporting of adverse events, recalls, or other field actions by manufacturers and users to identify potential problems with marketed medical devices. Many of the devices that we develop and market are in a category for which the FDA has implemented stringent clinical investigation and pre-market clearance or approval requirements. The process of obtaining FDA clearance or approval to market a product is resource intensive, lengthy, and costly. FDA review may involve substantial delays that adversely affect the marketing and sale of our products. A number of our products are pending regulatory clearance or approval to begin commercial sales in various markets. Ultimately, the FDA may not authorize the commercial release of a medical device if it determines the device is not safe and effective or does not meet other standards for clearance. Additionally, even if a product is cleared or approved, the FDA may require testing and surveillance programs to monitor the effects of these products once commercialized. 

The FDA has the authority to halt the distribution of certain medical devices, detain or seize adulterated or misbranded medical devices, order the repair, replacement, or refund of the costs of such devices, or preclude the importation of devices that are or appear violative. The FDA also conducts inspections to determine compliance with the quality system regulations concerning the manufacturing and design of devices and current medical device reporting regulations, recall regulations, clinical testing regulations, and other requirements. The FDA may withdraw product clearances or approvals due to failure to comply with regulatory standards, or the occurrence of unforeseen problems following initial approval, and require notification of health professionals and others with regard to medical devices that present unreasonable risks of substantial harm to the public health. Additionally, the failure to comply with FDA or comparable regulatory standards or the discovery of previously unknown product problems could result in fines, delays, or suspensions of regulatory clearances or approvals, seizures, injunctions, recalls, refunds, civil money penalties, or criminal prosecution. Our compliance with applicable regulatory requirements is subject to continual review. Moreover, the FDA and several other United States agencies administer controls over the export of medical devices from the United States and the import of devices into the United States, which could also subject us to sanctions for noncompliance. 

In May 2013, we received a warning letter from the Denver District Office of the FDA resulting from an inspection of our facility in Draper, Utah. The warning letter relates specifically to the execution of our quality systems at the Utah facility, including design and process validation, corrective and preventive actions, finished device acceptance, and packaging, and indicated that we would not receive pre-market approvals for devices reasonably related to those issues until the issues are resolved. Our Utah facility manufactures devices such as cannulae and cardioplegia catheters, heart valve repair rings, and transcatheter heart valve delivery system components and accessories. We are actively implementing the necessary actions to resolve these issues identified in the letter. In June 2014, we were granted a variance from the FDA for the SAPIEN XT &#32;delivery systems and components that are manufactured at the Draper facility and have completed the items under our agreed upon action plan for addressing the safety and effectiveness of their intended use. 

We are also subject to additional laws and regulations that govern our business operations, products, and technologies, including: 

&#8226; 

federal, state, and foreign anti-kickback laws and regulations, which generally prohibit payments to physicians or other purchasers of medical products as an inducement to purchase a product; 

&#8226; 

the Stark law, which prohibits physicians from referring Medicare or Medicaid patients to a provider that bills these programs for the provision of certain designated health services if the physician (or a member of the physician's immediate family) has a financial relationship with that provider; 

&#8226; 

federal and state laws and regulations that protect the confidentiality of certain patient health information, including patient records, and restrict the use and disclosure of such information, in particular, the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996; 

&#8226; 

the Physician Payments Sunshine Act, which requires public disclosure of the financial relationships of United States physicians and teaching hospitals with applicable manufacturers, including medical device, pharmaceutical, and biologics companies; 

&#8226; 

the False Claims Act, which prohibits the submission of false or otherwise improper claims for payment to a federally funded health care program, and health care fraud statutes that prohibit false statements and improper claims to any third-party payor; and 

&#8226; 

the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which can be used to prosecute companies in the United States for arrangements with foreign government officials or other parties outside the United States. 

Failure to comply with these laws and regulations could result in criminal liability, significant fines or penalties, negative publicity, and substantial costs and expenses associated with investigation and enforcement activities. To assist in our compliance efforts, we adhere to many codes of ethics and conduct regarding our sales and marketing activities in the United States and other countries in which we operate. In addition, we have in place a dedicated team to improve our internal business compliance programs and policies. 

International Regulation. Internationally, the regulation of medical devices is complex. In Europe, our products are subject to extensive regulatory requirements. The regulatory regime in the European Union for medical devices became mandatory in June 1998. It requires that medical devices may only be placed on the market if they do not compromise safety and health when properly installed, maintained, and used in accordance with their intended purpose. National laws conforming to the European Union's legislation regulate our products under the medical devices regulatory system. Although the more variable national requirements under which medical devices were formerly regulated have been substantially replaced by the European Union Medical Devices Directive, individual nations can still impose unique requirements that may require supplemental submissions. The European Union medical device laws require manufacturers to declare that their products conform to the essential regulatory requirements after which the products may be placed on the market bearing the CE Mark. Manufacturers' quality systems for products in all but the lowest risk classification are also subject to certification and audit by an independent notified body. In Europe, particular emphasis is being placed on more sophisticated and faster procedures for the reporting of adverse events to the competent authorities. 

In Japan, pre-market approval and clinical studies are required as is governmental pricing approval for medical devices. Clinical studies are subject to a stringent "Good Clinical Practices" standard. Approval time frames from the Japanese Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare vary from simple notifications to review periods of one or more years, depending on the complexity and risk level of the device. In addition, importation of medical devices into Japan is subject to the "Good Import Practices" regulations. As with any highly regulated market, significant changes in the regulatory environment could adversely affect future sales. 

In many of the other foreign countries in which we market our products, we may be subject to regulations affecting, among other things: 

&#8226; 

product standards and specifications; 

&#8226; 

packaging requirements; 

&#8226; 

labeling requirements; 

&#8226; 

product collection and disposal requirements; 

&#8226; 

quality system requirements; 

&#8226; 

import restrictions; 

&#8226; 

tariffs; 

&#8226; 

duties; and 

&#8226; 

tax requirements. 

Many of the regulations applicable to our devices and products in these countries are similar to those of the FDA. In some regions, the level of government regulation of medical devices is increasing, which can lengthen time to market and increase registration and approval costs. In many countries, the national health or social security organizations require our products to be qualified before they can be marketed and considered eligible for reimbursement. 

Health Care Initiatives. Government and private sector initiatives to limit the growth of health care costs, including price regulation and competitive pricing, coverage and payment policies, comparative effectiveness reviews, technology assessments, and managed-care arrangements, are continuing in many countries where we do business, including the United States, Europe, and Japan. As a result of these changes, the marketplace has placed increased emphasis on the delivery of more cost-effective medical therapies. For example, government programs, private health care insurance, and managed-care plans have attempted to control costs by restricting coverage and limiting the level of reimbursement for procedures or treatments, and some third-party payors require their pre-approval before new or innovative devices or therapies are utilized by patients. These various initiatives have created increased price sensitivity over medical products generally and may impact demand for our products and technologies. 

The delivery of our products is subject to regulation by the Department of Health and Human Services ("HHS") in the United States and comparable state and foreign agencies responsible for reimbursement and regulation of health care items and services. Foreign governments also impose regulations in connection with their health care reimbursement programs and the delivery of health care items and services. Reimbursement schedules regulate the amount the United States government will reimburse hospitals and doctors for the inpatient care of persons covered by Medicare. HHS' Centers for Medicare &#38; Medicaid Services ("CMS") may also review whether and/or under what circumstances a procedure or technology is reimbursable for Medicare beneficiaries. Changes in current reimbursement levels could have an adverse effect on market demand and our pricing flexibility. 

Health care cost containment efforts have also prompted domestic hospitals and other customers of medical device manufacturers to consolidate into larger purchasing groups to enhance purchasing power, and this trend is expected to continue. The medical device industry has also experienced some consolidation, partly in order to offer a broader range of products to large purchasers. As a result, transactions with customers are larger, more complex, and tend to involve more long-term contracts than in the past. These larger customers, due to their enhanced purchasing power, may attempt to increase the pressure on product pricing. 

Health Care Reform. In 2010, significant reforms to the health care system were adopted as law in the United States. The law includes provisions that, among other things, reduce or limit Medicare reimbursement, require all individuals to have health insurance (with limited exceptions), and impose increased taxes. Specifically, the law requires the medical device industry to subsidize health care reform in the form of a 2.3% excise tax on United States sales of most medical devices. The excise tax, which increased our operating expenses, was suspended for calendar years 2016 and 2017, but is scheduled to resume in 2018. The long term impact of the payment reform provisions in the 2010 health care law remains uncertain to us as these programs continue to evolve. This law or any future legislation, including deficit reduction legislation, could reduce 

medical procedure volumes, lower reimbursement for our products, and impact the demand for our products or the prices at which we sell our products. 

Seasonality 

Our quarterly net sales are influenced by many factors, including new product introductions, acquisitions, regulatory approvals, patient and physician holiday schedules, and other factors. Net sales in the third quarter are typically lower than other quarters of the year due to the seasonality of the United States and European markets, where summer vacation schedules normally result in fewer medical procedures. 

Employees 

As of December 31, 2015 , we had approximately 9,800 employees worldwide, the majority of whom were located in the United States, the Dominican Republic, Singapore, and Puerto Rico. Other major concentrations of employees are located in Europe and Japan. We emphasize competitive compensation, benefits, equity participation, and a positive and attractive work environment in our efforts to attract and retain qualified personnel, and employ a rigorous talent management system. None of our North American employees are represented by a labor union. In various countries outside of North America, we interact with trade unions and work councils that represent a limited number of employees. 

