 Item 1. Business 

&#160;

Company Overview 

We were incorporated as &#147;Alba Mineral Exploration, Inc.&#148; on July 24, 2007, in the State of Delaware for the purpose of engaging in the exploration of mineral properties. On October 21, 2009, we entered into an exchange agreement (the &#147;Exchange Agreement&#148;) with Diamond Information Institute, Inc. (&#147;Diamond Information Institute&#148;), whereby we acquired all of the issued and outstanding common stock of Diamond Information Institute and changed the name of the company to Bergio International, Inc. (&#147;we,&#148; &#147;us,&#148; &#147;our,&#148; &#147;Bergio,&#148; or the &#147;Company&#148;).

It is our intention to establish Bergio as a holding company for the purpose of acquiring established jewelry design and manufacturing firms who possess branded product lines. Branded product lines are products and/or collections whereby the jewelry manufacturers have established their products within the industry through advertising in consumer and trade magazines as well as possibly obtaining federally registered trademarks of their products and collections. This is in line with our strategy and belief that a brand name can create an association with innovation, design and quality which helps add value to the individual products as well as facilitate the introduction of new products.

We intend to acquire design and manufacturing firms throughout the United States and Europe. We intend to locate potential candidates through our relationships in the industry. However, as of the date of this report, we do not have any binding agreements with any potential acquisition candidates.

On March 5, 2014, the Company formed a wholly-owned subsidiary called Crown Luxe, Inc. in the State of Delaware (&#147;Crown Luxe&#148;). Crown Lux was established to operate the Company&#146;s first retail store, which was opened in Bergen County, New Jersey in the fourth quarter of 2014. It is our intent to provide another area for growth by establishing retail outlets for the Company&#146;s products. 

On June 1, 2015, the Company acquired a 51% interest in R.S. Fisher, Inc., a Delaware corporation, in exchange for funding the company&#146;s operations. The minority shareholder contributed jewelry molds and inventory valued at $349,292.

Our future operations are contingent upon increasing revenues and raising capital for on-going operations and expansion of our product lines. Because we have a limited operating history, you may have difficulty evaluating our business and future prospects.

Principal Products and Services 

Our products consist of a wide range of unique jewelry styles and designs made from precious metals such as gold, platinum and Karat gold, as well as other precious stones. We continuously innovate and change our designs based upon consumer trends. As a result of new designs being created we believe we are able to differentiate ourselves from our competition and strengthen our brands. We sell our products to our customers at price points that reflect the market price of the base material as well as design and processing fees.

We believe that we are a trendsetter in jewelry manufacturing. As a result, we come out with a variety of products throughout the year that we believe have commercial potential to meet what we feel are new trends within the industry. The &#147;Bergio&#148; designs consist of upscale jewelry that includes white diamonds, yellow diamonds, pearls, and colored stones, in 18K gold, platinum, and palladium. We currently design and produce approximately 100 to 150 product styles. Current retail prices for our products range from $400 to $200,000.

Our product range is divided into three fashion lines: (i) an 18K gold line, (ii) a bridal line, and (iii) a couture and/or one of kind pieces. Our Chief Executive Officer and director, Mr. Abajian, consults regularly with the design teams of his Italian manufacturers to design and create new products and product lines. Typically, new products come on line approximately every year and most recently, Bergio collections include Byzantine, Cestino, and Safari Collections, which consist of approximately 35 pieces made with pink gold and diamonds. Our offerings also include the Sistina and Rocca Collections. Depending on the timing and styling at any point in time, our products and collections would fall in one of the various categories shown below:

1.

Whimsical . The whimsical line includes charms, crosses and other &#147;add-on&#148; pieces.

2.

Fine . The proposed middle line will consist of fashion jewelry utilizing colored stones, diamonds and pearls applied to a variety of applications such as necklaces, pendants, earrings, bracelets and rings. The metals that we intend to use for the Middle line include platinum, 18K white &#38; yellow gold.

3.

Couture . The Couture line is our most luxurious line, and consists of one-of-a-kind pieces, new showcase products each year, and predominantly utilizes diamonds, platinum and other precious metals and stones of the highest grade and quality available.

4.

Bridal . The Bridal line is our core business. We attempt to stay on the forefront of trends and designs in the bridal market with the latest in wedding sets, engagement rings and wedding bands for both men and women.

Each year, we attempt to expand and/or enhance these lines, while constantly seeking to identify trends that we believe exist in the market for new styles or types of merchandise. Design and innovation are the primary focus of our manufacturing and we are less concerned with the supply and capacity of raw materials. Mr. Abajian with his contacts, which are located mostly overseas, regularly meets to discuss, conceptualize and develop Bergio&#146;s various products and collections. When necessary, additional suppliers and design teams can be brought in as needed. Management intends to maintain a diverse line of jewelry to mitigate concentration of sales and continuously expand our market reach.

Competition and Market Overview 

The jewelry design and manufacture industry is extremely competitive and has low barriers to entry. We compete with other jewelry designers and manufacturers of upscale jewelry as well as retail jewelry stores. There are over 2,500 jewelry design and manufacture companies worldwide, several of which have greater experience, brand name recognition and financial resources than Bergio.

Our management believes that the jewelry industry competes in the global marketplace and therefore must be adaptable to remain competitive. Recently the U.S. economy has encountered a slowdown and Bergio anticipates the U.S. economy will most likely remain weak at least through the end of 2016. Consumer spending for discretionary goods such as jewelry is sensitive to changes in consumer confidence and ultimately consumer confidence is affected by general business considerations in the U.S. economy. Consumer discretionary spending generally declines during times of falling consumer confidence, which may affect the retail sale of our products. U.S. consumer confidence reflected these slowing conditions throughout 2014 and into 2015. The impact of the slowing U.S. economy is not usually known until the third quarter of any given year in our industry, thus it is hard to estimate the actual impact the slowing economy will have on our business.

We believe that a stronger economy, more spending by young professionals with an overall trend toward luxury products will lead to future growth. Therefore, we intend to make strong efforts to maintain our brand in the industry through our focus on the innovation and design of our products as well as being able to consolidate and increase cost efficiency when possible through acquisitions.

Marketing and Distribution 

&#160;

We have historically sold our products directly to distributors, retailers and other wholesalers, who then in turn sell their products to consumers through retail stores. Independent retail jewelers that offer the current Bergio line are not under formal contracts and most sell competing products as well.

We currently sell our jewelry to approximately 50 independent jewelry retailers across the United States, and have spent over $3 million in branding the Bergio name through tradeshows, trade advertising, national advertising and billboard advertising since launching the line in 1995. Our products consist of a wide range of unique styles and designs made from precious metals such as, gold, platinum, and Karat gold, as well as diamonds and other precious stones. We have manufacturing control over our line as a result of having a manufacturing facility in New Jersey as well as subcontracts with facilities in Italy.

Customers 

During the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014, the Company had no single customer that accounted for over 5% or more of our annual sales. 

Sales to customers in Russia represented 0% and 55.9% of total sales for the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. The Company has no other sales outside the U.S. As of October 1, 2014, the Company ceased operations in Russia due to the economic, currency and political condition in Russia . The Company intends to concentrate on its domestic operations and its retail operations.

As of December 31, 2015, one customer represented 11.9% of net accounts receivable. As of December 31, 2014, two customers represented 60.1% and 13.7%, respectively, of the Company&#146;s net accounts receivable.

All of our sales are generated from our customer base of 50 customers.

Sources and Availability of Raw Materials and Principal Suppliers 

Most of the inventory and raw materials we purchase occurs through our manufacturers located in Europe. The inventory that we directly maintain is based on recent sales and revenues of our products but ultimately is at the discretion of Mr. Abajian, and his experience in the industry. Our inventories are commodities that can be incorporated into future products or can be sold on the open market. Additionally, we perform physical inventory inspections on a quarterly basis to assess upcoming styling needs and consider the current pricing in metals and stones needed for our products.

We acquire all raw gemstones, precious metals and other raw materials used for manufacturing our products on the open market. We are not constrained in our purchasing by any contracts with any suppliers and acquire raw material based upon, among other things, availability and price on the open wholesale market.

Product for U.S. consumption is now produced in our facility in Fairfield, New Jersey and 5% is contracted to our manufacturing supplier in Italy, who procures the raw materials in accordance with the specifications and designs submitted by Bergio. However, the general supply of precious metals and stones used by us can be reasonably forecast even though the prices will fluctuate. Any price differentials in the precious metals and stones will typically be passed on to the customer.

For the raw materials not procured by contracted manufacturers, we have approximately five suppliers that compete for our business, with our largest gold suppliers being ASD Casting Inc. Most of our precious stones are purchased from various diamond dealers. We do not have any formal agreements with any of our suppliers but have established an ongoing relationship with each of our suppliers.

Intellectual Property 

Bergio is a federally registered trademarked name that we own. Since the first trademark of &#147;Bergio&#148; was filed, all advertising, marketing, trade shows and overall presentation of our product to the public has prominently displayed this trademark. As additional lines are designed and added to our products, we may trademark new names to distinguish particular products and jewelry lines.

Research and Development 

There were no expenses incurred for research and development in 2015 and 2014.

Employees 

As of March 24, 2016, we had three full-time employees and three part-time employees. Of our current employees, one is sales and marketing personnel, two are manufacturing and three hold administrative and executive positions. No personnel are covered by a collective bargaining agreement. We use the services of independent consultants and contractors from time to time when needed.

Environmental Regulation and Compliance 

The United States environmental laws do not materially impact our manufacturing as we are using state of the art equipment that complies with all relevant environmental laws.

Approximately 5% of the Company&#146;s manufacturing is contracted to quality suppliers in the vicinity of Valenza, Italy, with the remaining 95% of setting and finishing work being conducted in our Fairfield, New Jersey facility. The setting and finishing work done in our New Jersey facility involves the use of precision lasers, rather than using old soldering procedures which uses gas and oxygen to assemble different elements. Soap and water is used as a standard to clean the jewelry. Also, a standard polishing compound is used for the finishing work but it does not have a material impact on our cost and effect of compliance with environmental laws.

Government Regulation 

Currently, we are subject to all of the government regulations that regulate businesses generally such as compliance with regulatory requirements of federal, state, and local agencies and authorities, including regulations concerning workplace safety, labor relations, and disadvantaged businesses. In addition, our operations are affected by federal and state laws relating to marketing practices in the retail jewelry industry. We are subject to the jurisdiction of federal, various state and other taxing authorities. From time to time, these taxing authorities review or audit our business.

Where You Can Find More Information 

Our website address is www.bergio.com. We do not intend our website address to be an active link or to otherwise incorporate by reference the contents of the website into this Report. The public may read and copy any materials the Company files with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the &#147;SEC&#148;) at the SEC&#146;s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0030. The SEC maintains an Internet website (http://www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC.

