 Item 1. Business 

Overview

Tiger X Medical, Inc. ("Tiger X" or the "Company"), formerly known as Cardo Medical, Inc., a corporation organized and existing under and by the virtue of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, previously operated as an orthopedic medical device company specializing in designing, developing and marketing high performance reconstructive joint devices and spinal surgical devices. During 2010, the Company discontinued its operations and sold the assets from its previous business lines during 2011. Our continuing operations include the collection and management of our royalty income earned in connection with the Asset Purchase Agreement with Arthrex, Inc. ("Arthrex"). We continue to advance and promote our former knee product lines through participation in mobile teaching labs, seminars and live surgery. The Company is constantly evaluating opportunities for a suitable joint venture partner or buyer for the remaining intellectual property owned by the Company. The Company is also evaluating investment opportunities and uses for its cash. 

On June 10, 2011, the Company filed an amendment to its Certificate of Incorporation with the Secretary of State of Delaware for the purpose of changing its name to Tiger X Medical, Inc. The amendment was effective as of June 10, 2011.

We are headquartered in Los Angeles, California. Our common stock is quoted on the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc.'s, Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board, or the OTC Bulletin Board with a trading symbol of CDOM.OB. 

Nature of Business 

After the sale of our Reconstructive Division assets and our Spine Division assets, our ongoing operations consist of the collection and management of our royalty income earned pursuant to the terms of the Asset Purchase Agreement with Arthrex, as well as continuing to promote our former products sold to Arthrex and seek a joint venture partner or buyer for the remaining intellectual property that we own. We are evaluating future investment opportunities and uses for our cash. We may in the future elect to acquire another entity or invest the net proceeds from the sale of the Reconstructive Division assets and/or our Spine Division assets in such manner as is determined by our Board of Directors and management.

Patents

We have five issued patents related to intervertebral stabilizers that were not sold as part of the sale of substantially all of the Reconstructive Division assets and the Spine Division assets. 

Product Liability and Insurance

We are subject to potential product liability risks stemming from our design, marketing and sale of orthopedic implants and surgical instrumentation that were part of the Reconstructive Division assets and Spine Division assets sold by us during 2011. We currently maintain product liability tail insurance in amounts that we believe are typical for companies of comparable size. 

Employees

As of December 31, 2015, other than Andrew Brooks who serves as our Chief Executive Officer and Acting Chief Financial Officer, and who receives no salary for such positions, we have no full time employees. 

1 