 Item 1. 

Business. 

Overview of Our Company 

&#160; 

Cross Country Healthcare, Inc. (NASDAQ: CCRN) is a national leader in providing healthcare staffing, recruiting and workforce solutions. Through a full suite of innovative workforce solutions and our national presence including more than 70 branches throughout the United States, we are able to meet the unique and dynamic needs of our clients. By utilizing our various solutions, clients are able to better plan their personnel needs, outsource recruitment processes, strategically flex their workforce, streamline their purchasing needs, access specialties not available in their local area, access quality healthcare personnel and provide continuity of care for improved patient outcomes. Our solutions are geared towards assisting our clients solve their labor issues while maintaining high quality outcomes. During 2015, we had more than 27,000 healthcare professionals on assignment at over 6,700 facilities. Our Managed Service Programs (MSPs) served more than 1,700 facilities. 

Our workforce solutions include: 

&#160; 

l &#160; Managed Service Programs; 

l Optimal Workforce Solutions (OWS); 

l &#160; Electronic Medical Record Transition/Upgrade Staffing (EMR); 

l &#160; Predictive Analytics; 

l &#160; Internal Resource Pool Consulting &#38; Development (IRP); 

l &#160; Education Healthcare Services; and 

l Recruitment Process Outsourcing (RPO). 

&#160; 

We are able to provide our services on a national level and/or through any one of our more than 70 local branches throughout the United States or through a combination of both. We service a variety of clients, including public and private acute care hospitals, government facilities, public and charter schools, outpatient clinics, ambulatory care facilities, physician practice groups, retailers and many other healthcare providers. Our business consists of three business segments: (i) Nurse and Allied Staffing, (ii) Physician Staffing and (iii) Other Human Capital Management Services. Fees for our services are paid directly by our clients and in certain instances by vendor managers, and as a result, we have no direct exposure to Medicare or Medicaid reimbursements. 

For the full year of 2015, our consolidated revenue was $767.4 million, reflecting a diversified revenue mix across healthcare customers. Nurse and Allied Staffing was 81% of revenue, comprised of travel nurse, travel allied and branch-based local nurse and allied staffing (including staffing of public and charter schools). Physician Staffing business was 15% of our revenue and 

consists primarily of physician staffing services with placements across multiple specialties. Other Human Capital Management Services was 4% of our revenue and, until August 31, 2015 consisted of education seminars business, as well as retained and contingent search services primarily for physicians and healthcare executives. On August 31, 2015, we divested the education seminars business as it was non-core to our operations. On a company-wide basis, we have more than 9,500 active contracts with healthcare clients, and we provide our staffing services and workforce solutions in all 50 states. In 2015, no client accounted for more than 10% of our revenue. For additional financial information concerning our business segments, see Note 17 - Segment Data to the consolidated financial statements. 

Acquisitions 

Part of our strategy to grow revenue in our core business has been to make acquisitions that allow us to: (i) add new skillsets to our traditional staffing offerings, (ii) expand our local branch network, which has allowed us to expand our local market presence and our MSP business, (iii) diversify our customer base into the local ambulatory care and retail market, which provided more balance between our large volume based customers and our small local customers, (iv) better position ourselves to take additional market share in our MSP business, and (v) access more candidates and candidates in different specialties. 

In October 2015, we acquired Mediscan, Inc. and certain of its affiliates (Mediscan). At the time of the closing, Mediscan employed healthcare professionals in 70 specialties at more than 300 clients in 11 states - primarily California. This acquisition strengthened our footprint in California, a large and growing market. It allows us to add new service lines, expand our market share through having a local presence and further diversify our customer base, as the Mediscan business is equally divided between acute/ambulatory care and public and charter schools. Finally, it offers access to additional candidates through two well established brands: Mediscan and DirectEd. For more information about our acquisitions, see Note 3 - Acquisitions to the consolidated financial statements. 

Competition 

&#160; 

The principal competitive factors in attracting and retaining healthcare clients nationally include: (i) understanding the client&#8217;s work environment, (ii) offering a comprehensive suite of services to assist the client in assessing its personnel needs and fulfilling those needs through various alternative solutions, (iii) the timely filling of clients' needs, (iv) price, (v) customer service, (vi) quality assurance and screening capabilities, (vii) risk management policies, (viii) insurance coverage, and (ix) general industry reputation. The principal competitive factors in attracting qualified healthcare professionals for temporary employment include: (i) a large national pool of desirable assignments, (ii) pay and benefits,(iii) speed of placements, (iv) customer service, (v) quality of accommodations, and (vi) overall industry reputation. We focus on retaining healthcare professionals by providing high-quality customer service, long-term benefits (to employees), and medical malpractice insurance. 

We believe we are one of only two large full-service healthcare staffing providers with a national footprint, as the market is very fragmented with many regional and local competitors. Our Nurse and Allied Staffing business competes nationally against several healthcare staffing companies and on a local basis against many small to moderately-sized competitors. We believe we are one of the top four providers of locum tenens physician staffing services in the United States, and one of the top providers of retained and contingent physician and healthcare executive search services in the healthcare marketplace. Some of our competitors in the healthcare staffing, workforce solutions, and search businesses include: AMN Healthcare Services, Inc., CHG Healthcare Services, Maxim Healthcare, Jackson Healthcare, Team Health, Parallon, MedAssets, and Witt Kiefer. 

We believe we benefit competitively from the following: 

Breadth of Workforce Solutions and Services Offered. We offer a comprehensive suite of customized workforce solutions designed to meet our clients&#8217; various demands for operating and financial efficiencies. A long-time leader of MSP solutions, we have broadened our suite of solutions to include: OWS, EMR, Predictive Analytics, IRP, Education Healthcare services and RPO services. Our holistic approach includes the use of our consultative services to first diagnose and then propose a custom blend of our services to help our hospital clients develop labor optimization strategies that drive cost savings while enhancing the quality of patient care. We have developed expertise and best practices from having worked with a large variety of healthcare clients throughout the country for many years. 

Managed Service Program Capabilities. &#32;We offer a single point of contact, access to a nationwide network of subcontractors, uniform rates and terms, and accountability for the quality of healthcare professionals to our clients through the aggregation and standardization of total contract labor spend. This managed service program model has become a desired practice of healthcare systems seeking to drive financial and operating efficiencies, while ensuring quality of care. 

Ability to Meet a National Shift Towards a More Integrated Delivery of Healthcare. With both national resources, as well as local resources at our more than 70-branch network, we are uniquely positioned to assist hospitals and health systems which continue to turn to &#32; lower-cost, more accessible alternatives, such as outpatient or ambulatory care centers as a result of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (ACA) of 2010 and other market dynamics. By offering travel, per diem and permanent placement of a variety of healthcare professionals, we are also able to offer many different types of personnel to hospitals and health systems at their main campuses, as well as their ambulatory and outpatient care centers, in order to meet their workforce needs. 

Brand Recognition. &#32;We go to market with a variety of brands, which are well-recognized among leading hospitals and healthcare facilities and many healthcare professionals. These businesses have been operating for more than twenty years. 

Strong and Diverse Client Relationships. &#32;We provide healthcare staffing and workforce solutions to a diverse client base throughout the United States pursuant to more than 9,500 active contracts with hospitals and healthcare facilities, and other healthcare providers. As a result, we have a diverse choice of assignments for our healthcare professionals to choose from. 

Recruiting and Placement of Healthcare Professionals. &#32;Healthcare professionals apply with us through our differentiated nursing, locum tenens and allied healthcare recruitment brands. Our local branch network provides us access to local healthcare professionals who are uniquely qualified to provide care in ambulatory and outpatient settings. We believe our access to such a large and diverse group of healthcare professionals makes us more attractive to healthcare institutions and facilities seeking healthcare staffing and workforce solutions in the current dynamic marketplace. 

Certifications. &#32;The staffing businesses of our Cross Country Staffing, Medical Staffing Network and Mediscan brands are certified by The Joint Commission under its Health Care Staffing Services Certification Program. In addition, Credent Verification and Licensing Services, a subsidiary of Medical Doctor Associates (MDA), is certified by the National Committee of Quality Assurance (NCQA) -- one of only a handful of companies to achieve such certification. 

Experienced Management Team. On average, our management team has more than 18 years of staffing experience. Led by our President and Chief Executive Officer, a 30-year staffing industry veteran who joined the Company in April 2013, the Company has strengthened its leadership team by bringing in experienced executives. 

&#32;Demand and Supply Drivers 

Demand Drivers 

Effect of ACA on Healthcare Utilization. &#32;In June 2015, the U.S. Supreme Court upheld the federal government&#8217;s right to provide tax subsidies to help poor and middle-class people buy health insurance under the ACA. As a result, we believe the ACA will continue to have a positive impact on demand for healthcare professionals due to higher patient volumes from the use of health exchanges and Medicaid expansion. An additional six million non-elderly U.S. residents are expected to gain health insurance in 2016 with a total of 23 million people being insured under insurance exchanges by 2023 (Congressional Budget Office, March 2015). Not only is the number of newly insured favorably impacting demand, but the increase in self-pay admissions and the decrease in the number of uninsured admissions is leaving many hospitals more financially able to pay for the increased demand for healthcare personnel (Staffing Industry Analysts: US Healthcare Staffing Growth Assessment, October 28, 2015). Of the approximate 2,450,000 jobs created in 2015, approximately 18% came from the healthcare industry (CNBC Business and Finance, January 11, 2016). 

Demand for Workforce Solutions. &#32;&#32;Despite the rise in the number of insured and Medicaid patients, hospitals still face continued pressure to keep costs down to protect their margins from continued Medicare rate reductions and fluctuations in demand for hospital care. In addition, there is a national shift away from volume-based pricing to value-based pricing. The visibility of Hospital Consumer Assessment of Healthcare Providers and Systems survey scores, a national, standardized, publicly reported survey of patients' perspectives of hospital care, has also put pressure on hospitals to maintain a certain level of quality of care so hospitals do not incur financial penalties or risk decreased patient volume due to low scores. We believe these dynamics have put further pressure on hospitals to find innovative solutions in order to better manage their workforce, which accounts for a large portion of their expenses. As a result, we believe hospitals are more willing to engage healthcare staffing companies such as ours that provide both staffing and workforce solutions that can help them solve problems, such as assessing their workforce needs or reducing readmission rates without negatively impacting the quality of care. Many hospitals are also making vertical acquisitions by investing in outpatient facilities, ambulatory care centers and stand-alone emergency departments in order to capture outpatient revenue, which will further drive demand for healthcare personnel. 

Shift from Inpatient Services to Outpatient/Ambulatory Settings. &#32;In 2014, ambulatory services employed 45% of healthcare workers compared to 33% employed by hospitals, a 2% increase since 2012. While hospital employment grew 3% from 2009 to 2014, the ambulatory market grew nearly 15% in the same period (U.S. Healthcare Staffing Growth Assessment, Staffing Industry Analyst, December 2015). A study published in Health Affairs &#32;in May 2014 also found that ambulatory surgery centers are &#8220;high-quality, lower-cost substitutes for hospitals as venues for outpatient surgery&#8221; (Study conducted by health economists Elizabeth Munnich of the University of Louisville and Stephen Parente of the University of Minnesota, May 2014). As hospital and health system leaders respond to the dynamic changes in the healthcare industry by becoming more cost effective, streamlining their healthcare delivery processes and making vertical acquisitions to control the quality of care (as opposed to horizontal acquisitions among hospitals made in the past to increase volume), we believe the outpatient and ambulatory care markets provide a robust area of growth for healthcare staffing agencies with a strong local market presence, and for those that provide Advanced Practitioners, such as Nurse Practitioners (NPs) and Physicians Assistants, who frequently provide oversight in ambulatory settings. 

Growing and Aging U.S. Population. &#32;Two long-term macro drivers of our business are demographic in nature -- a growing and aging U.S. population. The U.S. Census Bureau projects the U.S. population will increase approximately 31% (from 319 million in 2014 to 417 million in 2060) - crossing the 400 million mark in 2051. In addition, by 2030 one in five Americans is also projected to be 65 years old or more. The number of persons aged 65 and over is expected to increase 112% (from 46,255,000 to 98,164,000) from 2014 to 2060 (U.S. Census, March, 2015). This is important because the utilization of healthcare services is generally higher among older people. All Baby Boomers are now over 50 years of age and account for nearly 25% of the population (U.S. Census Bureau, May 2014). Older persons averaged more office visits with doctors in 2012. Among people 75 and over, 23% had 10 or more visits to a doctor or other healthcare professional in the past 12 months compared to 14% among people age 45-64 (U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, A Profile of Older Americans: 2014). People aged 65 and over averaged at least four healthcare visits in 2012 (U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention - Health, United States, 2013). The American Hospital Association (AHA) has also projected the share of hospital admissions for the over-65 age group to rise from 38% in 2004 to 56% in 2030. With the increase in the proportion of the population in older age groups reaching prime retirement age, healthcare occupations and industries are expected to have the fastest employment growth and to add the most jobs between 2014 and 2024, increasing their employment share from 12% in 2014 to 13.6% in 2024 (U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, Report Issued December 8, 2015). Healthcare support occupations, and healthcare practitioners and technical occupations are projected to be the two fastest growing occupational groups during the 2014 to 2024 decade, thereby contributing the most new jobs, with a combined increase of 2,300,000 jobs, representing about 1 in 4 new jobs (U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, Report Issued December 8, 2015). 

Lower Unemployment. In December 2015, the unemployment rate was 5.0% &#8212; the lowest rate since April 2008, which should increase the number of people with employer-sponsored health insurance (U.S. Bureau of Labor and Statistics, Report Issued December 8, 2015). As a result, the number of newly insured to result in higher hospital admissions, thus requiring more of our healthcare staffing services. The creation of additional jobs in the healthcare market should increase demand for our services as our temporary staff are typically hired to replace registered nurses and other healthcare workers taking vacation and leaves of absence. 

Use of Temporary Workforce. &#32;The December 2015 penetration rate of temporary workers was 2.06% &#8212; reaching a new all-time high (U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics). We believe contingent labor will continue to be used strategically, as an increase in the use of temporary workers typically allows for cost-effective, time-sensitive solutions to specific business needs and allows organizations to leverage the skills of temporary workers while maintaining a lean staff of traditional permanent employees. Within the healthcare sector, we believe the current dynamic nature of the healthcare industry, among other things, has exacerbated hospitals&#8217; needs for more flexibility to match revenue and payroll. We believe hospitals will maintain a lower percentage of permanent staff over time and will supplement their staffing needs with temporary healthcare professionals to allow them to flex their workforce up and down in order to address cost concerns, patient census needs and value-based purchasing needs. 

Electronic Medical Records Implementations. &#32;Many hospitals and physician groups continue to undergo EMR implementations. Stage 2 compliance for EMR implementations was extended through the end of 2016 for &#8220;meaningful use&#8221; for Medicare and Medicaid EMR Incentive Programs; and, Stage 3 was extended to the beginning of 2017 for those providers that have completed at least two years in Stage 2 (December 2013, Center for Medicaid and Medicare Services). We believe the demand for our staffing services will continue to be positively impacted in the 

short term from these new deadlines adopted by CMS, as hospitals often use temporary staff to fill in for permanent staff being trained on new technologies. 

Increased Need for Healthcare and Special Education Services in Schools. The Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA), enacted in 1975, mandates that children and youth ages 3-21 with disabilities be provided a free and appropriate public school education. According to the U.S. Department of Education, National Center for Education Statistic's Digest of Education Statistics, 2013, in 2012-13 (2015-011), the number of children and youth ages 3-21 receiving special education services was 6.4 million, or about 13% of all public school students. Of those students in school year 2012-13, 21% had a speech or language impairment, 12% had other health impairments, 8% had autism, 6% had emotional disturbances, 1% had orthopedic impairments. The Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA) requires that these children and young adults receive care from speech language pathologists, physical therapists, occupational therapists, nurses and other healthcare professionals while at school. Charter schools now account for nearly 6% of all school age children (National Alliance for Public Charter School's A Growing Movement: America's Largest charter School Communities, Tenth Annual Edition November 2015 ). In May 2015, The Center for Education Reform reports there are nearly 3 million students in the U.S. enrolled in 7,000 charter schools in 43 states, and they are also required to comply with IDEA. Based on the foregoing, we believe the demand for consulting and healthcare staffing services for public schools and charter schools will continue to be strong for agencies that can provide consulting services, healthcare personnel, technical assistance on policies, implementation, and training related to including children and youth with special needs in school settings. 

Nursing Shortage. The &#32; Health Resources and Services Administration now projects that there will be an excess of supply of registered nurses by 2025, primarily based on the number of new enrollees in nursing school. However, that national projection does not take into account an imbalance of RNs at the state level where many states are projected to experience a smaller growth in RN supply relative to their state-specific demand, resulting in a geographical shortage of RNs by 2025. In particular, 16 states are expected to see shortages. The projection also does not take into account a projected shortfall of registered nurses in particular specialties over the next ten years (U. S. Department of Health and Human Services, December 2014). We believe the following factors will contribute to new growth in demand for nurses: the changing landscape of the healthcare industry with emerging care delivery models and a focus on managing health status and preventing acute health issues (e.g., nurses taking on new and/or expanded roles in preventive care and care coordination), an uncertain level of newly insured individuals in the healthcare market, and the number of registered nurses that re-entered the workforce during the economic downturn that are now likely to leave their jobs. 

Physician Shortage . A shortfall of between 46,100 and 90,400 physicians is projected by 2025 as demand for physicians continues to outpace supply, according to the Association of American Medical Colleges (AAMC Center for Workforce Studies (March 2015)). This demand is largely due to the projected aging of the population, the passage of ACA, and the lower number of expected graduates from medical school. The U.S. is expected to face a shortage of up to 20,500 primary care physicians by 2020 -- a number that will grow to up to 31,100 by 2025, according to analysis by the AAMC (March 2015). The projected shortfall of non-primary care physicians is expected to be up to 63,700 by 2025. The AAMC also expects nearly one-third of all physicians will retire in the next decade. And, while the number of applicants to U.S. medical schools is increasing, it will not keep pace with expected future demand. 

Supply Drivers 

Networking . We rely heavily on word-of-mouth referrals for our healthcare professionals. Historically, more than half of our field employees have been referred to us by other healthcare professionals. Our most effective &#8220;sales force&#8221; is our network of healthcare professionals who have taken temporary or permanent assignments with us or who are currently working for us. Online social and professional networks have made it easier for us to connect with healthcare professionals and stay connected with them, thus enhancing our recruitment efforts. 

Traditional Reasons . Nurses, allied professionals and locum tenens physicians work on temporary assignments to experience different geographic regions of the United States without moving permanently, work flexible schedules, gain professional development by working at prestigious healthcare facilities, earn top money and bonuses, travel with friends and family while enjoying quality accommodations, experience various clinical settings, look for a permanent position, and avoid workplace politics often associated with permanent staff positions. 

Nurse Retirements. &#32;&#32;During the last recession, we believe many registered nurses were hesitant to retire, especially if their spouses were laid off or if they were secondary wage earners, as &#8220;they preferred the stability of a permanent job&#8221; as a staff nurse (Staffing Industry Analysts: US Healthcare Staffing Growth Assessment, October 28, 2015). 

However, new findings in the 2015 Survey of Registered Nurses/Viewpoints on Retirement, Education and Emerging Roles &#8220;strongly indicate an impending surge in retirement among older nurses.&#8221; As the 2015 Survey reported, even if the Baby Boomer nurses don&#8217;t retire, they could &#8220;cut back their hours to part time &#8230; which could result in a nursing supply crisis.&#8221; Of note, 21% of the 8,828 nurses surveyed said they would &#8220;move to part-time work&#8221; now that the economy has recovered ( 2015 Survey of Registered Nurses/Viewpoints on Retirement, Education and Emerging Roles ). 

Higher Quit Rates with an Improved Economy. The Bureau of Labor and Statistics uses the quit rate as a measure of workers&#8217; willingness or ability to leave jobs. According to the latest Job Openings and Labor Turnover Survey, February 2016, quits have risen from 1.3% in December 2009 to 2.1% in December 2015. This increased quit rate reflects increased confidence among the workforce. As a result of the increased quits, the number of job openings also increased to 5,600,000 in December 2015 (Job Openings and Labor Turnover Survey, February 2016). During the last recession, registered nurses were hesitant to quit or voluntarily leave their jobs. However, with an improved economy and the low national unemployment rate, this trend appears to be reversing itself to some extent (Staffing Industry Analysts: US Healthcare Staffing Growth Assessment, October 28, 2015). We believe with the increased volume of orders for temporary healthcare workers and as wages increase, more staff nurses have confidence to enter the travel nurse market and are improving the supply. 

Portability of Healthcare . We believe that employees have historically remained employed by their employers, in part for healthcare coverage. The portability of healthcare insurance provided by the ACA will provide more flexibility to employees, including healthcare professionals, which may result in a less committed relationship between employees and their employers. This should increase the supply of healthcare professionals willing to leave their permanent employment with hospitals and seek assignments with staffing agencies. 

Increase in Number of Younger RN Graduates . In 2011, Dr. Peter Buerhaus, Associate Dean of Vanderbilt University's School of Nursing, noted a 62% increase in the number of 23-26 year olds who entered the RN workforce between 2002 and 2009 ( Health Affairs , December 5, 2011). While the workforce has grown overall, it is concentrated in the older and younger ends of an age spectrum, and there are fewer RNs aged 36-45 working today compared to prior years. The growth in the workforce is aged 35 and younger (U.S. Nursing Workforce: Trends in Supply and Education, U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, April 2013). We believe the increased number of RNs over 56 years old also represents older RNs who have delayed retirement or who returned to the workforce during the last recession. The primary supply of contract nurses is typically from the younger population, so this influx of younger RNs in the workforce should increase the supply of contract nurses for healthcare staffing companies. 

Nurse Licensure Compact Promoting Mobility for RNs. &#32;Currently, 24 states have implemented the Nurse Licensure Compact. The National Council of State Boards of Nursing created this mutual recognition plan to allow RNs and licensed practical nurses who reside in those 24 states to practice under the same license in states that have adopted this mutual recognition model. It eliminates the time and expense of obtaining a license in a new state and promotes a more streamlined and flexible licensure process, thereby enhancing the mobility of the nurse labor force. 

Temporary Physician Assignment. Locum tenens assignments offer physicians the ability to focus on practicing medicine while avoiding the stress of running their own practices; the ability to avoid paying the high costs of malpractice insurance; the opportunity to pick up extra shifts and weekends and work during the vacation time of full-time staff jobs in order to earn extra money and repay student loans; to lead a more flexible lifestyle; and, to maintain their autonomy while practicing medicine. The supply of physicians available for our physician staffing services is variable and is influenced by several factors: the desire of physicians to work temporary assignments, the desire of older physicians to work fewer hours, work-lifestyle balance among younger physicians, and the trend toward more female physicians in the workforce who traditionally work fewer hours than their male counterparts. 

Physicians Seeking Stability as Full-Time Staff. &#32;In the past few years, physicians have increasingly become employees of hospitals or health systems due to business pressures and costs of operating private practices. Physician practices are facing a combination of factors that include: stagnant or declining reimbursement rates, increased regulatory burden (including the Medicare Access and CHIP Reauthorization Act of 2015), rising costs, greater risk associated with operating a private practice, and an increased desire for a better work-life balance. We believe physicians have been seeking employment with hospitals at higher rates in the past few years due to: the difficulty of transitioning private practices to EMR, traversing the maze of insurance company requirements, financial strains on private practices from repeated threatened pay cuts based on Medicare&#8217;s sustainable growth rate formulas, and the uncertain future of healthcare associated with the ACA. Becoming hospital staff provides financial certainty and the 

ability to focus more on practicing medicine. We believe this shift in employment will continue to increase supply for our physician search business as physicians look for permanent employment with hospitals or health systems. 

Our Business Strategy 

Our long-term business strategy is to grow revenue, expand our margins and improve our operating effectiveness by: 

Increasing our workforce solutions business by delivering innovative solutions and strengthening and expanding current client relationships and developing new relationships with hospitals and healthcare facilities. &#32;We deliver flexible workforce solutions customized to meet the unique needs of each client. Our full suite of service offerings includes: MSP, OWS, EMR, Predictive Analytics, IRP, Educational Healthcare Services and RPO. Each of our businesses enjoys strong customer relationships that may serve as a platform to sell new MSP services or expand our workforce solutions at current clients. As a result, we continue to invest in sales and marketing to increase market share through cross-collaboration of our businesses. 

Growing our supply of healthcare professionals. Recognizing that people communicate differently and have individual communication preferences, we are investing in technology initiatives to enhance the efficiency and effectiveness of our interactions with our healthcare professionals. We also continue to invest in mobile and online technologies to increase our ability to attract and retain healthcare professionals. We believe providing communication options to our healthcare professionals will strengthen our relationships with them to improve supply and further enhance our delivery of high quality customer service. 

Improving our fill rate at current MSP accounts and expanding our national and local market presence to support the shift to outpatient and ambulatory care centers. We believe our large national footprint will allow us to (i) increase our market share at our current MSPs by improving our fill rate of per diem, local and allied healthcare staffing professionals, (ii) sell our MSP services to clients of our local branch-based network, (iii) support our current hospital and health system clients who are shifting care from inpatient to outpatient where possible and responding to market changes by making vertical acquisitions to control quality across the care continuum, (iv) support smaller, local customers, (v) support retail or commercial providers, such as national drugstore chains, (vi) broaden our customer base and (vii) gain access to additional healthcare professionals who are uniquely qualified to provide care in outpatient and ambulatory care centers. 

Expanding our gross profit margin and delivering a higher Adjusted EBITDA margin &#32;by (i) continuing to obtain pricing increases from our customers, (ii) managing our mix of business with hospitals and local/retail customers, (iii) expanding our Workforce Solutions business, and (iv) making further investments in our higher margin businesses: retained, contingent and permanent search, local allied, Healthcare Education Consulting and RPO businesses. 

Continuing to invest in people, processes and technology which will allow us to operate more effectively and efficiently. 

Making strategic and disciplined acquisitions to strengthen and broaden our market presence. &#32;We believe the best acquisitions follow a structured and disciplined approach with clear strategic objectives, detailed implementation plans and a focus on creating and capturing value for our shareholders. Our management team has broad and varied experience in multiple types of transactions 

Business Overview 

Services Provided 

Nurse and Allied Staffing Segment 

The Nurse and Allied Staffing segment provides traditional staffing, including temporary and permanent placement of travel nurses and allied professionals, and branch-based local nurses and allied staffing through our Cross Country Staffing&#174;, MSN, AHG, Mediscan and DirectEd brands. We provide flexible workforce solutions to the healthcare and school markets through diversified offerings designed to meet the special needs of each client, including: MSP, OWS, EMR, Predictive Analytics, IRP, Educational Healthcare Services, and RPO. Our clients include: public and private acute care hospitals, government-owned facilities, public schools, charter schools, outpatient clinics, ambulatory care facilities, physician practice groups, retailers, and many other healthcare providers. The Joint Commission has certified our Nurse 

and Allied Staffing businesses under its Health Care Staffing Services Certification Program. Our Nurse and Allied Staffing revenue and operating income is set forth in Note 17 - Segment Data to the consolidated financial statements. 

A majority of our revenue is generated from staffing registered nurses on long-term contract assignments (typically 13 weeks in length) at hospitals and health systems using various brands. While the typical lead-time to staff a travel healthcare professional is four to five weeks, we also have candidates who are pre-qualified and ready to begin assignments within one to two weeks at a hospital client that has an urgent need. Additionally, we offer a short-term staffing solution of registered nurses, licensed practical nurses, certified nurse assistants, advanced practitioners, pharmacists, and more than 100 specialties of allied professionals on local per diem and short-term assignments in a variety of clinical and non-clinical settings through our national network of local branch offices. We also provide travel allied professionals on long-term contract assignments to hospitals, public schools, charter schools and skilled nursing facilities under the Cross Country Staffing&#174;, Mediscan and DirectEd brands. 

Physician Staffing Segment 

We provide physicians in many specialties, certified registered nurse anesthetists (CRNAs), NPs and physician assistants (PAs) under our MDA brand as independent contractors on temporary assignments throughout the United States at various healthcare facilities, such as acute and non-acute care facilities, medical group practices, government facilities, and managed care organizations. We recruit these professionals nationally and place them on assignments varying in length from several days up to one year. The Physician Staffing revenue and operating income is set forth in Note 17 - Segment Data to the consolidated financial statements. 

Other Human Capital Management Services 

&#160; 

We provide retained and contingent search services for physicians, healthcare executives, nurses, advanced practice and allied health professionals. Until August 31, 2015 when we divested Cross Country Education&#174; (CCE), a non-core business, we provided education seminars to the healthcare industry. The revenue and operating income of our Other Human Capital Management Services Segment is set forth in Note 17 - Segment Data to the consolidated financial statements. 

&#160; 

Our Cejka Search&#174; (Cejka) subsidiary has been a leading physician, executive, nurses, advanced practice, and allied health retained and contingent search firm for more than twenty years, recruiting top healthcare talent for organizations nationwide through a team of experienced professionals, advanced use of recruitment technology and commitment to service excellence. Serving clients nationwide, Cejka completes hundreds of search assignments annually for organizations spanning the continuum of healthcare, including physician group practices, hospitals and health systems, academic medical centers, accountable care organizations, managed care and other healthcare organizations. Prior to its divesture in August 2015, CCE offered &#8220;in person&#8221; one-day seminars, conferences and e-learning through various independent contractors who are experts in their field on topics pertaining to their profession. 

Our Business Model 

We have developed and will continue to focus our business model on increasing revenue and achieving greater profitability through higher efficiencies, expanding current MSP services and adding new MSP accounts, and further diversifying our customer base &#8212; all while continuing to offer the highest possible quality services. 

Marketing and Recruiting Healthcare Professionals 

We operate differentiated brands to recruit nurses and allied professionals. We believe our multi-brand recruiting model helps us reach a larger volume and a more diverse group of candidates to fill open positions at our clients throughout the United States in various clinical and non-clinical settings and in many different geographic areas. We believe nurses and allied professionals are attracted to us because we offer a wide range of diverse assignments in attractive locations, competitive compensation and benefit packages, scheduling options, as well as a high level of customer service. In addition, we offer choices - geography, level of acuity and setting, and we believe nurses and allied professionals are confident we will have new assignments for them as they complete their current assignment. Our benefits generally include professional liability insurance, a 401(k) plan, health insurance, reimbursed travel, per diem allowances and housing. Each of our nurse and allied healthcare professionals is employed by us under the terms of a written agreement, which typically provides for hourly wages and any other benefits they are entitled to receive during the assignment period. 

Recruiters are an essential element of our Nurse and Allied Staffing business, and are responsible for establishing and maintaining key relationships with candidates for the duration of their assignments with us. Recruiters match the supply of qualified candidates in our databases with the demand for open orders posted by our clients. While we rely on word-of-mouth for referrals, we also market our brands on the Internet, including extensive utilization of social media, which has become an increasingly important component of our recruitment efforts. We maintain a number of websites to allow potential applicants to obtain information about our brands and assignment opportunities, as well as to apply online. 

MDA recruits and contracts with physicians and advanced practice professionals to provide medical services for MDA&#8217;s healthcare customers. Each physician or advanced practice professional is an independent contractor and enters into an agreement with MDA to provide medical services at a particular healthcare facility or physician practice group based on terms and conditions specified by that customer. Physicians and advanced practice professionals are engaged to provide medical services for a healthcare customer ranging from a few days up to a year. We believe physicians are attracted to us because we offer a wide variety of assignments, competitive fees, medical malpractice insurance and excellent customer service. MDA relies on word-of-mouth referrals, but also markets it brands on the Internet and through extensive social media. 

Sales and Marketing to Hospitals and Healthcare Facilities 

We market our Nurse and Allied Staffing services to our hospital, healthcare facility, school and other clients using our Cross Country Staffing, Medical Staffing Network&#8482;, Allied Health Group, Mediscan and DirectEd brands. Cross Country Staffing typically contracts with our nurse and allied healthcare clients on behalf of itself and our other brands. Mediscan contracts with its hospitals, public schools and charter schools under the Mediscan and DirectEd brands. Our traditional staffing includes temporary and permanent placement of travel nurses and allied professionals, branch-based local nurses and allied staffing, and physicians. We provide healthcare staffing opportunities to our healthcare professionals, and staffing and workforce solutions to our healthcare clients in all 50 states. 

We provide flexible workforce solutions under our &#8220;Cross Country Healthcare&#8221; brand to the healthcare and school markets through diversified offerings meeting the special needs of each client. Orders for open positions and other services are entered into our various databases and are available to recruiters. Account managers, who develop relationships with our clients to understand their specific settings and culture, submit candidate profiles to clients, and confirm offers and placements with them. In 2015, the market for Nurse and Allied Staffing was estimated to be approximately $9.5 billion, of which $3.0 billion was travel nursing, $3.3 billion was per diem staffing and $3.2 billion was allied healthcare staffing (U.S. Healthcare Staffing Growth Assessment, Staffing Industry Analyst, December 2015). 

MDA markets its physician staffing operations to hospitals and other healthcare facilities on a national basis. Our recruiters use our large database of physicians and their expertise in their given specialties to contact physicians to schedule short and long-term engagements at healthcare customers. MDA successfully operates a multi-site business model with employees at several locations. MDA operates a split desk model with regional sales associates and a shared team of specialist recruiters. 

Cejka markets its retained and contingent search services to healthcare clients primarily through industry professional organizations, direct marketing, Cejka&#8217;s website and word of mouth. 

Credentialing and Quality Management 

We screen all of our candidates prior to placement through our credentialing departments. While screening requirements are typically negotiated with our clients, each of our businesses has adopted its own minimum standard screening requirements. We continue to monitor our nursing and allied professional employees after placement in an effort to ensure quality performance, to determine eligibility for future placements and to manage our malpractice risk profile. Our credentialing processes are designed to ensure that our professionals have the requisite skillset required by our customers, as well as the aptitude to meet the day-to-day requirements and challenges they would typically encounter on assignments where they are placed. The credentialing of our nurse and allied healthcare professionals is designed to align with the guidelines of The Joint Commission, a national accrediting body, to ensure quality care. Our Cross Country University division, accredited by the American Nurse Credentialing Center, provides training, assessment, and professional development to further ensure the quality of the personnel we place on assignment. &#32;&#32; Our physician credentialing entity, Credent, is also certified by the NCQA. &#32;&#32;We ask each of our healthcare clients to evaluate healthcare employees who work at their facility at the end of each assignment in order to continually assess client satisfaction, and so that we may assist our employees with further educational development, if and where necessary. 

Client Billing 

&#160; 

We bill our nurse and allied employees at an hourly rate and assume all employer costs, including payroll, withholding taxes, benefits, professional liability insurance and other requirements, as well as any travel and housing arrangements, where applicable. Our shared service center processes hours worked by field employees in the time and attendance systems, which in turn generate the transactions billable to the clients. 

Hours worked by independent contractor physicians are reported to our MDA office in Berkeley Lake, Georgia. We bill our clients for hours worked by independent contractor physicians and for our recruitment fee. We negotiate payment for services with our clients based on market conditions and needs, and the amount we earn is not fixed. We keep a recruitment fee and pass on an agreed amount to the independent contractor physician on behalf of our clients. 

For our retained search business, Cejka typically bills its clients a candidate acquisition fee and is reimbursed for certain marketing expenses. Our education seminars business collected the full amount of seminar fees from its customers and paid a negotiated percentage to its speakers, as well as hotel, travel, meals, and other related costs. 

Operations 

Our nurse, allied and physician businesses are operated through a relatively centralized business model servicing all assignment needs of our healthcare professional employees, physicians and client healthcare facilities through operation centers located in Boca Raton, Florida; Woodland Hills, California, Berkeley Lake, Georgia and Creve Coeur, Missouri. In addition to the key sales and recruitment activities, certain of these centers also perform support activities such as coordinating housing, payroll processing, benefits administration, billing and collections, travel reimbursement processing, customer service and risk management. On December 31, 2015, we had more than 70 local and branch office locations. 

Cejka Search primarily operates its business from its headquarters located in Creve Coeur, Missouri. This business operates relatively independently, other than certain ancillary services that are provided from our Boca Raton, Florida headquarters, such as payroll, legal and information support. 

Information Systems 

&#160; 

Various information systems are utilized to run our customer relationship management, recruitment and placement functions based on the different brands that we operate. Some of these sophisticated applications are proprietary and are hosted in world class Tier 1 hosting facilities. Other systems are Software as a Service (SaaS) based and hosted by our vendor partners. All of these systems were built/bought to handle considerable growth of all of our businesses. With capability to provide support to all of our facility clients, field employees and independent contractors, all of our systems maintain detailed information about our client skillsets and status which assist us in enabling fulfillment and assignment renewal. Our databases are also an extensive pool of existing and potential customers and all related recruitment and sales activity. We constantly evaluate our systems, and the legacy system for Medical Doctor Associates was recently replaced by an industry leading SaaS product and our Cejka division is currently implementing a new system. 

Our financial and human resource systems are managed on leading enterprise resource planning software suites that manage certain aspects of accounts payable, accounts receivable, general ledger, billing and human capital management. These systems have the ability to scale accordingly to accommodate revenue growth and/or employee growth. 

All of our systems are managed by our onshore and offshore Information Technology team. 

Risk Management, Insurance, and Benefits &#32;&#32;&#32; 

&#160; 

We have developed a risk management program that requires prompt notification of incidents by clients, clinicians and independent contractors, educational training to our employees, loss analysis, and prompt reporting procedures to reduce our risk exposure. Each of our temporary employees receives instructions regarding the timely reporting of claims and this information is also available on our website. We continuously review facts and incidents associated with professional liability and workers&#8217; compensation claims in order to identify trends and reduce our risk of loss in the future where possible. In addition, upon notification of an incident that may result in liability to us, we promptly gather all available documentation and review the actions of our employee and independent contractor to determine if he or she should remain on an assignment and whether he or she is eligible for another assignment with us. We consider assessments provided by our clients and we work with clinicians and experts from our insurance carriers, to determine employment eligibility and potential exposure. Prior to approving an employee or independent contractor for an assignment, we review records from applicable state professional associations, the national practitioners&#8217; database and other such databases available to us. 

We provide workers&#8217; compensation insurance coverage, professional liability coverage and healthcare benefits for our eligible temporary professionals. We record our estimate of the ultimate cost of, and reserves for, workers' compensation and professional liability benefits based on actuarial models prepared or reviewed by an independent actuary using our loss history as well as industry statistics. In determining our reserves, we include reserves for estimated claims incurred but not reported. We also estimate on a quarterly basis the healthcare claims that have occurred but have not been reported based on our historical claim submission patterns. The ultimate cost of workers&#8217; compensation, professional liability and health insurance claims will depend on actual amounts incurred to settle those claims and may differ from the amounts reserved for those claims. 

The Company maintains a number of insurance policies including general liability, workers&#8217; compensation, fidelity, fiduciary, directors and officers, cyber, property and professional liability policies. These policies provide coverage subject to their terms, conditions, limits of liability, and deductibles, for certain liabilities that may arise from our operations. There can be no assurance that any of the above policies will be adequate for our needs, or that we will maintain all such policies in the future. 

Regulations &#32; 

We provide services directly to our clients on a contract basis and receive payment directly from them. However, many of our clients are reimbursed under the federal Medicare program and state Medicaid programs for the services they provide. In recent years, federal and state governments have made significant changes in these programs that have reduced reimbursement rates. In addition, insurance companies and managed care organizations seek to control costs by requiring that healthcare providers, such as hospitals, discount their services in exchange for exclusive or preferred participation in their benefit plans. While not affecting us directly, future federal and state legislation or evolving commercial reimbursement trends may further reduce or change conditions for our clients&#8217; reimbursement. Such limitations on reimbursement could reduce our clients&#8217; cash flows, hampering the pricing we can charge clients and their ability to pay us. We continuously monitor changes in regulations and legislation for potential impacts on our business. 

&#160; &#160; 

Our business is subject to regulation by numerous governmental authorities in the jurisdictions in which we operate. Complex federal and state laws and regulations govern, among other things, the licensure of professionals, the payment of our employees (e.g., wage and hour laws, employment taxes and income tax withholdings, etc.) and the operations of our business generally. We conduct business primarily in the U.S. and are subject to federal and state laws and regulations applicable to our business, which may be amended from time to time. Future federal and state legislation or interpretations thereof may require us to change our business practices. Compliance with all of these applicable rules and regulations require a significant amount of resources. We endeavor to be in compliance with all such rules and regulations. 

Employees 

&#160; 

As of December 31, 2015, we had approximately 1,585 corporate employees. During 2015, we employed an average of 6,624 full-time equivalent field employees in Nurse and Allied Staffing. This does not include our Physician Staffing independent contractors, all of whom are not employees. Throughout 2015 we were not subject to any collective bargaining agreements. However, in October 2015, the employees we have outsourced to a customer in New York under our OWS model, mainly paraprofessionals, voted to be represented by Local 1199 of the Service Employees International Union. We expect to be negotiating with Local 1199 for an initial collective bargaining agreement in 2016 to cover the terms and conditions of employment for these employees. We consider our relationship with employees to be good. 

Additional Information 

&#160; 

Financial reports and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), including this Annual Report on Form 10-K, are available free of charge as soon as reasonably practicable after filing such material with, or furnishing it to, the SEC, on or through our corporate website at www.crosscountryhealthcare.com . The information found on our website is not part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K or any other report we file with or furnish to the SEC. 

&#160; 

