 ITEM 1 . BUSIN ESS 

The following discussion of our business contains &#8220; forward-looking statements, &#8221; as discussed in Part II, Item 7 below. Our business, operations and financial condition are subject to various risks as set forth in Part I, Item 1A below. The following information should be read in conjunction with Management &#8217; s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, the Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes and the Risk Factors included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Overview 

ServiceMaster Global Holdings, Inc. and its majority-owned subsidiary partnerships, limited liability companies and corporations (collectively, &#8220; ServiceMaster, &#8221; the &#8220; Company, &#8221; &#160; &#8220; we, &#8221; &#160; &#8220; us &#8221; and &#8220; our &#8221; ) is a leading provider of essential residential and commercial services, operating through an extensive service network of more than 8,000 company &#8209;owned locations and franchise and license agreements. Our mission is to simplify and improve the quality of our customers &#8217; lives by delivering services that help them protect and maintain their homes or businesses, typically their most highly valued assets. We have leading market positions across the majority of the markets we serve, as measured by customer &#8209;level revenue. Our portfolio of well &#8209;recognized brands includes Terminix (termite and pest control), American Home Shield (home warranties), ServiceMaster Restore (disaster restoration), ServiceMaster Clean (janitorial), Merry Maids (residential cleaning), Furniture Medic (furniture repair) and AmeriSpec (home inspections). We serve our residential and commercial customers through an employee base of approximately 13,000 company associates. 

Approximately 98 percent of our 2015 revenue was generated by sales in the United States. A significant portion of our assets is located in the United States, and the consolidated book value of all assets located outside of the United States is not material. Organized in Delaware in 2007, ServiceMaster is the successor to various entities dating back to 1947. Financial information for each reportable segment and Corporate for 2015, 2014 and 2013 is contained in Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements. 

We believe that our customers understand the financial and reputational risks associated with inadequate maintenance of their homes or businesses and that our high &#8209;quality, professional services are low &#8209;cost expenditures when compared to the alternative of failing to perform essential maintenance. We strive to be the service provider of choice and believe our customers have recognized our value proposition, as evidenced by our long &#8209;standing customer relationships and the high rate at which our customers renew their contracts from year to year. 

We have significant size and scale, which we believe give us a number of competitive advantages. Terminix is the largest termite and pest control business in the United States, as measured by customer &#8209;level revenue, and serves approximately 2.8 million customers across 46 states and the District of Columbia through approximately 300 company &#8209;owned locations and approximately 25 franchise agreements. Additionally, we estimate American Home Shield to be approximately four times larger than its nearest competitors, as measured by revenue. American Home Shield serves approximately 1.6 million residential customers across all 50 states and the District of Columbia through a network of more than 11,000 pre &#8209;screened independent home service contractor firms. Our Franchise Services Group serves both residential and commercial customers across all 50 states and the District of Columbia through approximately 4,400 franchise agreements and approximately 30 company &#8209;owned locations. We believe our significant size and scale provide a competitive advantage in our purchasing power, route density, and marketing and operating efficiencies compared to smaller local and regional competitors. Our scale also facilitates the standardization of processes, shared learning and talent development across our entire organization. 

We believe our businesses are strategically positioned to benefit from a number of favorable demographic and secular trends. These trends include growth in population, household formation and new and existing home sales. In addition, we believe there is increasing demand for outsourced services, fueled by a trend toward &#8220; do &#8209;it &#8209;for &#8209;me &#8221; as a result of an aging population and shifts in household structure and behaviors, such as dual &#8209;income families and consumers with &#8220; on &#8209;the &#8209;go &#8221; lifestyles. 

Initial Public Offering 

On June 25, 2014, our registration statement on Form S-1 for our initial public offering was declared effective by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the &#8220; SEC &#8221; ). On July 1, 2014, we completed the offering of 41,285,000 shares of our common stock at a price of $17.00 per share. 

Secondary Public Offerings 

On February 4, 2015, our registration statement on Form S-1 was declared effective by the SEC for a secondary offering of our common stock. We registered on behalf of certain stockholders the offering and sale of 25,000,000 shares of common stock and an additional 3,750,000 shares of common stock sold to the underwriters pursuant to an option to purchase additional shares. On February 10, 2015, the selling stockholders completed the offering of 25,000,000 shares of common stock at a price of $29.50 per share. On February 13, 2015, the selling stockholders completed the offering of an additional 3,750,000 shares of common stock at a price of $29.50 per share pursuant to the underwriters &#8217; option to purchase additional shares. 

On May 27, 2015, our registration statement on Form S-1 was declared effective by the SEC for a secondary offering of our common stock. We registered on behalf of certain stockholders the offering and sale of 20,000,000 shares of common stock and an additional 3,000,000 shares of common stock sold to the underwriters pursuant to an option to purchase additional shares. On June 2, 

&#160;

2015, the selling stockholders completed the offering of 20,000,000 shares of common stock at a price of $34.00 per share. On June 12, 2015, the selling stockholders completed the offering of an additional 3,000,000 shares of common stock at a price of $34.00 per share pursuant to the underwriters &#8217; option to purchase additional shares. 

On November 5, 2015, our shelf registration statement on Form S-3 was automatically declared effective by the SEC for a secondary offering of our common stock. We registered on behalf of certain stockholders the offering and sale of 28,961,763 shares of common stock. On November 5, 2015, the selling stockholders completed the offering of 28,961,763 shares of common stock at a price of $33.91 per share. 

We did not receive any of the proceeds from the aggregate 80,711,763 shares of common stock sold by the selling stockholders in 2015 . 

Ownership 

On July 24, 2007, we were taken private pursuant to a merger transaction, and, following the completion of the merger and other subsequent transactions and prior to our initial public offering, the significant majority of our outstanding common stock was owned by investment funds managed by, or affiliated with, Clayton, Dubilier &#38; Rice, LLC ( &#8220; CD&#38;R &#8221; or the &#8220; CD&#38;R Funds &#8221; ), JPMorgan Chase Funding Inc. ( &#8220; JPMorgan &#8221; ), StepStone Group LP ( &#8220; StepStone &#8221; ), the investment funds managed by StepStone (the &#8220; StepStone Funds &#8221; ) and Ridgemont Partners Secondary Fund I, L.P. ( &#8220; Ridgemont &#8221; ) (collectively, the &#8220; Equity Sponsors &#8221; ). Upon completion of the secondary public offerings in February, May and November 2015 , the CD&#38;R Funds and StepStone Funds &#160; no longer hold &#160; our common stock. &#160; See &#8220; &#8212;Initial Public Offering &#8221; and &#8220; &#8212;Secondary Public Offerings &#8221; for further details on our ownership structure. 

Refinancing of Indebtedness 

On February 17, 2015, we redeemed $190 million in aggregate principal amount of our outstanding 8% senior notes due 2020 (the &#8220; 8% 2020 Notes &#8221; ) at a redemption price of 106.0% of the principal amount using available cash. In connection with the partial redemption, we recorded a loss on extinguishment of debt of $13 million in the year ended December 31, 2015, which includes a pre-payment premium of $11 million and the write-off of $2 m illion of debt issuance costs. 

On April 1, 2015, we entered into a first amendment (the &#8220; First Term Loan Amendment &#8221; ) which further amends the agreement governing our $1,825 million term loan facility maturing July 1, 2021 (the &#8220; Term Loan Facility) and our $300 million revolving credit facility maturing July 1, 2019 (the &#8220; Revolving Credit Facility &#8221; ) (together with the Term Loan Facility, the &#8220; Credit Facilities &#8221; ). The First Term Loan Amendment provides for incremental term loans (the &#8220; April Incremental Term Loans &#8221; ) under the Term Loan Facility in an aggregate principal amount of $175 million. On April 1, 2015, we used the net proceeds from the April Incremental Term Loans, together with cash on hand, to redeem the remaining outstanding $200 million in aggregate principal amount of the 8% 2020 Notes at a redemption price of 106.0% of the principal amount. In connection with the redemption, we recorded a loss on extinguishment of debt of $14 million in the year ended December 31, 2015, which includes a pre &#8209;payment premium of $12 million and the write &#8209;off of $2 million of debt issuance costs. 

On August 17, 2015, we entered into a second amendment (the &#8220; Second Term Loan Amendment &#8221; ) which amends the agreement governing the Credit Facilities. The Second Term Loan Amendment provides for incremental term loans (the &#8220; August Incremental Term Loans &#8221; ) under the Term Loan Facility in an aggregate principal amount of $400 million. On August 17, 2015, we used the net proceeds from the August Incremental Term Loans, together with cash on hand, to redeem the remaining outstanding $488 million in aggregate principal amount of our outstanding 7% senior notes due 2020 (the &#8220; 7% 2020 Notes &#8221; ) (together with the 8% 2020 Note, the &#8220; 2020 Notes &#8221; ) at a redemption price of 105.25% of the principal amount. In connection with the redemption, we recorded a loss on extinguishment of debt of $31 million in the year ended December 31, 2015, which includes a pre &#8209;payment premium of $25 million and the write-off of $6 million of debt issuance costs. 

Our Market Opportunity 

Termite and Pest Control Industry 

The outsourced market for residential and commercial termite and pest control services in the United States was approximately $7 billion in 2014, according to Specialty Products Consultants, LLC. We estimate that there are approximately 20,000 U.S. termite and pest control companies, nearly all of which have fewer than 100 employees. 

Termites are responsible for an estimated $5 billion in home damage in the United States annually, according to the National Pest Management Association. The termite control industry provides treatment and inspection services to residential and commercial property owners for the remediation and prevention of termite infestations. We believe homeowners value quality and reliability over price in choosing professional termite control services, as the cost of most professional treatments is well below the potential cost of inaction or ineffective treatment. As a result, we believe the demand for termite remediation services is relatively insulated from changes in consumer spending. In addition to remediation services, the termite control industry offers periodic termite inspections and preventative treatments to residential and commercial property owners in areas with high termite activity, typically through annual contracts. These annual contracts may carry guarantees that protect the property owner against the cost of structural damage caused by a termite infestation. Termites can cause significant damage to a structure before becoming visible to the untrained eye, highlighting 

&#160;

the value proposition of professional preventative termite services. As a result, the termite control industry experiences high renewal rates on annual preventative inspection and treatment contracts, and revenues from such contracts are generally stable and recurring. 

Pest infestations may damage a home or business while also carrying the risk of the spread of diseases. Moreover, for many commercial facilities, pest control is essential to regular operations and regulatory compliance (e.g., hotels, restaurants and healthcare facilities). As a result of these dynamics, the pest control industry experiences high rates of renewal for its pest inspection and treatment contracts. Pest control services are often delivered on a contracted basis through regularly scheduled service visits, which include an inspection of premises and application of pest control materials. According to the National Pest Management Association &#8217; s 2014 survey, approximately 35 percent of U.S. households currently use a professional pest exterminator. 

Both termite and pest activity are affected by weather. Termite activity peaks during the springtime &#8220; swarm, &#8221; the timing and intensity of which varies based on weather. Similarly, pest activity tends to accelerate in the spring months when warmer temperatures arrive in many U.S. regions. However, the high proportion of termite and pest control services which are contracted and recurring, as well as the high renewal rates for those services, limit the effect of weather anomalies on the termite and pest control industry in any given year. 

Home Warranty Industry 

We estimate that the U.S. home warranty market was approximately $2 billion in 2015. The home warranty market is characterized by low household penetration, which we estimate to be approximately four percent. The home warranty industry offers plans that protect a homeowner against costly repairs or replacement of household systems and appliances. Typically having a one &#8209;year term, coverage varies based on a menu of plan options. The most commonly covered items include electrical, plumbing, central heating and air conditioning (HVAC) systems, water heaters, refrigerators, dishwashers and ovens/cook tops. The home warranty industry is characterized by a high level of customer interaction and service requirements. This combination of a high &#8209;touch/high &#8209;service business model and the peace of mind it delivers to the customer has led to high renewal rates in the home warranty industry. 

As consumer demand shifts towards more outsourced services, we believe that there is an opportunity for American Home Shield, a reliable, scaled service provider with a national, pre &#8209;screened contractor network, to increase market share and household penetration. Additionally, we believe that increasingly complex household systems and appliances may further highlight the value proposition of professional repair services and, accordingly, the coverage offered by a home warranty. 

One of the drivers of sales of new home warranties is the number of existing homes sold in the United States, since a home warranty is often recommended by a real estate sales professional or offered by the seller of a home in conjunction with a real estate resale transaction. According to the National Association of Realtors, existing home resales, as measured in units, increased by approximately eight percent in 2015 compared to 2014. Approximately 20 percent of American Home Shield revenue for the year ended December 31, 2015 was tied directly to existing home resale transactions. 

Key Franchise Services Group Industries 

Disaster Restoration (ServiceMaster Restore). We estimate that the U.S. disaster restoration market is approximately $39 billion, approximately two &#8209;thirds of which is related to residential customers and the remainder related to commercial customers. Most emergency response work results from emergency situations for residential and commercial customers, such as fires and flooding. Extreme weather events and natural disasters also provide demand for emergency response work. Critical factors in the selection of an emergency response firm are the firm &#8217; s reputation, relationships with insurers, available resources, proper insurance and credentials, quality of service, timeliness and responsiveness. This market is highly fragmented, with two large players, including ServiceMaster Restore, and we believe there are opportunities for growth for scaled service providers. 

Janitorial (ServiceMaster Clean). We estimate that the U.S. janitorial services market was approximately $51 billion in 2015. The market is highly fragmented with more than 800,000 companies competing in the janitorial space, a significant majority of which have five or fewer employees. 

Residential Cleaning (Merry Maids). We estimate that the U.S. residential professional cleaning services market was approximately $3 billion in 2015. Competition in this market comes mainly from local, independently-owned firms, and from a few national companies. 

Our Competitive Strengths 

#1 Market Positions in Large, Fragmented and Growing Markets. We are the leading provider of essential residential and commercial services in the majority of markets in which we operate. Our markets are generally large, growing and highly fragmented, and we believe we have significant advantages over smaller local and regional competitors. We have spent decades developing a reputation built on reliability and superior quality and service. As a result, we enjoy high unaided brand awareness and a reputation for high &#8209;quality customer service, which serve as key drivers of our customer acquisition efforts. Our nationwide presence also allows our brands to effectively serve both local residential customers and large national commercial accounts and to capitalize on lead generation sources that include large real estate agencies, financial institutions and insurance carriers. We believe our significant size and scale also provide a competitive advantage in our purchasing power, route density, and marketing and operating efficiencies 

&#160;

compared to smaller local and regional competitors. Our scale also facilitates the standardization of processes, shared learning and talent development across our entire organization. 

Diverse Revenue Streams Across Customers and Geographies. ServiceMaster is diversified in terms of customers and geographies. We operate in all 50 states and the District of Columbia. Our Terminix business, which accounted for 56 percent of our revenue in 2015, served approximately 2.8 million customers. American Home Shield, which accounted for 35 percent of our revenue in 2015, responded to more than three million service requests from approximately 1.6 million customers. Our diverse customer base and geographies help to mitigate the effect of adverse market conditions and other risks in any particular geography or customer segment we serve. We therefore believe the size and scale of our company provide us with added protection from risk relative to our smaller local and regional competitors. 

High &#8209;Value Service Offerings Resulting in High Retention and Recurring Revenues. We believe our high annual customer retention demonstrates the highly valued nature of the services we offer and the high level of execution and customer service that we provide. Many of our technicians have built long &#8209;standing, personal relationships with their customers. We believe these personal bonds, often forged over decades, help to drive customer loyalty and retention. As a result of our high retention and long &#8209;standing customer relationships, we enjoy significant visibility and stability in our business, and these factors limit the effect of adverse economic cycles on our revenue base. We experienced these advantages during the most recent economic downturn, when we were able to grow revenue in each year from 2008 to 2015. 

Multi &#8209;Channel Marketing Approach Supported by Sophisticated Customer Analytic Modeling Capabilities. Our multi &#8209;channel marketing approach focuses on building the value of our brands and generating revenue by understanding the decisions customers make at each stage in the purchase of residential and commercial services. The effectiveness of our marketing efforts is demonstrated by an increase in lead generation and online sales, as well as an improvement in close rates over the last few years. For example, in our direct &#8209;to &#8209;consumer channel at American Home Shield, new home warranty lead generation, marketing yield and close rates have benefited from increased spending on marketing as well as improved digital marketing. We have also been deploying increasingly sophisticated customer analytics models that allow us to more effectively segment our prospective customers and tailor campaigns towards them. In addition, we are seeing success with newer ways of reaching and marketing to consumers via content marketing, promotions and social media channels. 

Operational and Customer Service Excellence Driven by Superior People Development. We are constantly focused on improving customer service. The customer experience is at the foundation of our business model, and we believe that each employee is an extension of ServiceMaster &#8217; s reputation. We employ rigorous hiring and training practices and continuously analyze our operating metrics to identify potential improvements in service and productivity. Technicians in our Terminix branches have an average tenure of seven years, creating continuity in customer relationships and ensuring the development of best practices based on on &#8209;the &#8209;ground experience. We also provide our field personnel with access to sophisticated data management and mobility tools which enable them to drive efficiencies, improve customer service and ultimately grow our customer base and profitability. 

Resilient Financial Model with Track Record of Consistent Performance. 

&#183; 

Solid revenue and Adjusted EBITDA growth through business cycles . Our consolidated revenue and Adjusted EBITDA compound annual growth rates from 2010 through 2015 were five percent and 12 percent, respectively. We believe that our strong performance through the recent economic and housing downturns is attributable to the essential nature of our services, our strong value proposition and our management &#8217; s focus on driving results. 

&#160; 

&#183; 

Solid margins with attractive operating leverage and productivity improvement initiatives . Our business model enjoys inherent operating leverage stemming from route density and fixed investments in infrastructure and technology, among other factors. We have demonstrated our ability to expand our margins through a variety of initiatives, including metric &#8209;driven continuous improvement in our customer call centers, application of consistent process guidelines at the branch level, leveraging size and scale to improve the sourcing of labor and materials, and driving productivity in centralized services. We have also deployed mobility solutions and routing and scheduling systems across many of our businesses in order to enhance overall efficiency and reduce operating costs. 

Capital &#8209;Light Business Model. Our business model is characterized by strong Adjusted EBITDA margins, negative working capital and limited capital expenditure requirements. In 2015, 2014 and 2013, our net cash provided from operating activities from continuing operations was $336 million, $253 million and $208 million, respectively, and our property additions were $40 million, $35 million and $39 million, respectively. Free Cash Flow was $358 million, $274 million and $169 million in 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. For a reconciliation of Free Cash Flow to net cash provided from operating activities from continuing operations, which we consider to be the most directly comparable financial measure presented in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ( &#8220; GAAP &#8221; ), see &#8220; Selected Historical Financial Data. &#8221; &#160; 

Experienced Management Team. We have assembled a management team of highly experienced leaders with significant industry expertise. Our senior leaders have track records of producing profitable growth in a wide variety of industries and economic conditions. We also believe that we have a deep bench of talent across each of our business units, including long &#8209;tenured individuals with significant expertise and knowledge of the businesses they operate. Our management team is highly focused on execution and driving growth and profitability across our company. Our compensation structure, including incentive compensation, is tied to key performance metrics and is designed to incentivize senior management to seek the long &#8209;term success of our business. 

&#160;

Our Strategy 

Grow Our Customer Base. We are focused on the growth of our businesses through the introduction and delivery of high &#8209;value services to new and existing customers. We drive growth in recurring and new sales via three primary channels: 

&#183; 

Direct &#8209;to &#8209;consumer through our company &#8209;owned branches; 

&#183; 

Indirectly through partnerships with high &#8209;quality contractors in our home warranty business; and 

&#183; 

Through trusted service providers who are franchisees. 

To accelerate new customer growth, we make strategic investments in sales, marketing and advertising to drive new business leads, brand awareness and market penetration. In addition, we are executing multiple initiatives to improve customer satisfaction and service delivery, which we believe will lead to improved retention and growth in our customer base across our business segments. 

Develop and Expand New Service Offerings. We intend to continue to leverage our existing sales channels and local coverage to deliver additional value &#8209;added services to our customers. Our product development teams draw upon the experience of our technicians in the field, combined with in &#8209;house scientific expertise, to create innovative customer solutions for both our existing customer base and identified service/category adjacencies. We have a strong history of new product introductions, such as Terminix &#8217; s crawlspace encapsulation, mosquito control and wildlife exclusion services, that we believe will appeal to new potential customers as well as our existing customer base. As of December 31, 2015, mosquito, wildlife exclusion and crawl space encapsulation are being offered in substantially all U.S. geographic markets where we believe substantial market opportunity exists. We are now focusing our efforts on increasing our market share in these product lines. 

Expand Our Geographic Markets. Through detailed assessments of local economic conditions and demographics, we have identified target markets for expansion, both in existing markets, where we have capacity to increase our local market position, and in new markets, where we see opportunities. In addition to geographic expansion opportunities within the United States, we may also grow our international presence through strategic franchise expansions and additional licensing agreements. 

Grow Our Commercial Business. Our revenue from commercial customers comprised approximately 13 percent of our 2015 revenue. We believe we are well positioned to leverage our national coverage, brand strength and broad service offerings to target large multi &#8209;regional accounts. We believe these capabilities provide us with a meaningful competitive advantage, especially compared to smaller local and regional competitors. We recognize that many of these large accounts seek to outsource or reduce the number of vendors used for certain services, and, accordingly, we have reenergized our marketing approach in this channel. At Terminix, for example, we have hired a dedicated sales team to focus on the development of commercial sales. Our commercial expansion strategy targets industries with a demonstrated need for our services, including healthcare, manufacturing, warehouses, hotels and commercial real estate. 

Enhance Our Profitability. We have and will continue to invest in initiatives designed to improve our margins and drive profitable growth. We have been able to increase productivity across our segments through actions such as continuous process improvement, targeted systems investments, sales force initiatives and technician mobility tools. We are also focusing on strategically leveraging the $1.4 billion that we have spent annually with our vendors to capitalize on purchasing power and achieve more favorable pricing and terms. In addition, we have rolled out tools and processes to centralize and systematize pricing decisions. These tools and processes enable us to optimize pricing at the geographic market and product level while creating a flexible and scalable pricing architecture that can grow with the business. We intend to leverage these investments as well as identify further opportunities to enhance profitability across our businesses. 

Pursue Selective Acquisitions. From 2011 through 2015, we have completed over 125 acquisitions. We anticipate that the highly fragmented nature of our markets will continue to create opportunities for further consolidation. As we have in the past, we will continue to take advantage of tuck &#8209;in as well as strategic acquisition opportunities, particularly in underserved markets where we can enhance and expand our service capabilities. We seek to use acquisitions to cost &#8209;effectively grow our customer count and enter high &#8209;growth geographies. We may also pursue acquisitions as vehicles for strategic international expansion. 

Our Reportable Segments 

Our operations are organized into three reportable segments: Terminix, American Home Shield and the Franchise Services Group (which includes ServiceMaster Restore, ServiceMaster Clean, Merry Maids, Furniture Medic and AmeriSpec). 

Terminix 

Terminix is the leading provider of termite and pest control services in the United States, with an estimated 21 percent market share for 2015, as measured by customer &#8209;level revenue. In addition, Terminix is the most recognized brand in the industry with approximately 1.5x the unaided brand awareness of our next &#8209;largest competitor, based on a study by Decision Analyst, Inc. periodically commissioned by us as part of our ongoing marketing efforts. Terminix specializes in protection against termite damage, rodents, insects and other pests, including cockroaches, spiders, wood &#8209;destroying ants, ticks, fleas and bed bugs. Our services include termite remediation, annual termite inspection and prevention treatments with damage claim guarantees, periodic pest control services, insulation services, mosquito control, crawlspace encapsulation and wildlife exclusion. 

&#160;

For the year ended December 31, 2015, 56 percent of Terminix revenue was generated from pest control services, which includes mosquito control, and 39 percent was generated from termite and other services, which includes crawlspace encapsulation, wildlife exclusion and insulation services, with the remaining five percent primarily from the distribution of pest control products. For the year ended December 31, 2015, 69 percent and 31 percent of pest control revenue was related to residential services and commercial services, respectively, and 91 percent and nine percent of revenue from termite and other services was related to residential and commercial services, respectively. 

Approximately 80 percent of our revenue comes from customers who enter into contracts with the option to renew annually. Typically, termite services require an initial inspection and the installation of a protective liquid barrier or baited traps surrounding the home. As part of the contract, the customer is provided a guarantee that protects against damage resulting from termite infestation. After the first year, a customer has the option to renew the contact at a significantly reduced cost that exten d s the guarantee. Consequently, revenue generated from a renewal customer is less then revenue generated from a first - year termite customer. 

We believe that the strength of the Terminix brand, along with our history of providing a high level of consistent service, allows us to enjoy a competitive advantage in attracting, retaining and growing our customer base. We believe our investments in systems and processes, such as routing and scheduling optimization, robust reporting capabilities and mobile customer management solutions, enable us to deliver a higher level of customer service when compared to smaller regional and local competitors. 

Our focus on attracting and retaining customers begins with our associates in the field, who interact with our customers every day. Our associates bring a strong level of passion and commitment to the Terminix brand, as evidenced by the 11 &#8209;year and 7 &#8209;year average tenure of our branch managers and technicians, respectively. Our field organization is supported by dedicated customer service and call center personnel. Our culture of continuous improvement drives an intense focus on the quality of the services delivered, which we believe produces high levels of customer satisfaction and, ultimately, customer retention and referrals. 

The Terminix national branch structure includes approximately 300 company-owned locations and approximately 25 franchise agreements, which serve approximately 2.8 million customers in 46 states and the District of Columbia. Terminix &#8217; s over 8,000 employees made a daily average of 50,000 visits to residential and commercial customer locations during 2015. Terminix also provides termite and pest control services through subsidiaries in Canada, Mexico, the Caribbean and Central America, as well as a joint venture in India. In addition, licensees of Terminix provide these services in Japan, China, South Korea, Southeast Asia, Central America, the Caribbean and the Middle East. In 2015, substantially all Terminix revenue was generated in the United States, with approximately two percent derived from international markets, with a presence in a total of 21 countries outside the United States through subsidiaries, a joint venture and licensing arrangements. Franchise fees from Terminix franchisees represented less than one percent of Terminix revenue in 2015. We estimate that customer &#8209;level revenue for this segment was approximately $1,700 million for the year ended December 31, 2015. Customer &#8209;level revenue represents the total of our estimate of sales generated by our franchisees, a portion of which is included in our reported revenue from royalty fees, and sales generated by our company &#8209;owned operations. 

Terminix Competitive Strengths 

&#183; 

#1 market position and #1 recognized brand in U.S. termite and pest control services 

&#183; 

Track record of high customer retention 

&#183; 

Passionate and committed associates focused on delivering superior customer service 

&#183; 

Expansive scale and deep market presence across a national footprint 

&#183; 

Effective multi &#8209;channel customer acquisition strategy 

&#183; 

History of innovation leadership and introducing new products and services 

American Home Shield 

American Home Shield founded the home warranty industry in 1971 and remains the leading provider of home warranty plans for household systems and appliances in the United States, with approximately 42 percent market share, as measured by revenue. We estimate American Home Shield to be approximately four times larger than its nearest competitors, as measured by revenue. We believe that, as the market leader, American Home Shield can drive increasing use of home warranties given the low industry household penetration of approximately four percent. 

American Home Shield provides home warranty plans that cover the repair or replacement of up to 21 major household systems and appliances, including electrical, plumbing, central heating and air conditioning (HVAC) systems, water heaters, refrigerators, dishwashers and ovens/cook tops. Our warranty plans are generally structured as one &#8209;year contracts with annual renewal options and, as a result, a significant portion of our revenue base in this segment is recurring. For the year ended December 31, 2015, 65 percent of American Home Shield revenue was derived from existing contract renewals (of which 64 percent was from the direct &#8209;to &#8209;consumer channel and 36 percent was from the home resale channel), while 20 percent and 15 percent were derived from sales made in conjunction with existing home resale transactions and direct &#8209;to &#8209;consumer sales, respectively. In total, approximately 56 percent of our revenue base represents customers in the direct &#8209;to &#8209;consumer sales market. We estimate that our share of the new sales 

&#160;

market for contracts written in connection with existing home resales and direct &#8209;to &#8209;consumer sales in 2015 was 25 percent and 50 percent, respectively. 

We believe that we have one of the largest contractor networks in the United States, comprised of more than 11,000 independent home service contractor firms. We carefully screen our contractors and closely monitor their performance based on a number of criteria, including through feedback from customer satisfaction surveys. On an annual basis, our contractors respond to more than three million service requests from approximately 1.6 million customers across all 50 states and the District of Columbia. Additionally, American Home Shield operates and takes service calls 24 hours a day, seven days a week. Furthermore, as a result of our large contractor network and sophisticated IT systems, approximately 90 percent of the time we successfully assign contractors to a job within 15 minutes or less. 

American Home Shield Competitive Strengths 

&#183; 

#1 market position in the industry with 42 percent market share, estimated to be four times the size of the next largest competitors 

&#183; 

Track record of high customer retention 

&#183; 

Large and pre &#8209;qualified national contractor network 

&#183; 

Strong partnerships with leading national residential real estate firms 

&#183; 

Core competency around direct &#8209;to &#8209;consumer marketing and lead generation 

Franchise Services Group 

ServiceMaster &#8217; s Franchise Services Group consists of the ServiceMaster Restore (disaster restoration), ServiceMaster Clean (janitorial), Merry Maids (residential cleaning), Furniture Medic (furniture repair) and AmeriSpec (home inspection) businesses. Our businesses in this segment operate principally through franchisees. In 2014 we began converting company &#8209;owned Merry Maids branches to franchises. Approximately half of our revenue in this segment consists of ongoing monthly royalty fees based upon a percentage of our franchisees &#8217; customer &#8209;level revenue. We estimate that the customer &#8209;level revenue for this segment was approximately $2,400 million for the year ended December 31, 2015. We believe that each business holds a leading market position in its respective category and that our scale and national presence create competitive advantages for us in attracting and retaining franchisees. We are able to invest in best &#8209;in &#8209;class systems, training and process development, provide multiple levels of marketing support and direct new business leads to our franchisees through our relationships with major insurance carriers and national account customers. The depth of our franchisee support is evidenced by the long average tenure of our franchisees, many of whom have partnered with ServiceMaster for over 25 years. Our Franchise Services Group serves both residential and commercial customers across all 50 states and the District of Columbia through approximately 4,400 franchise agreements and approximately 30 company &#8209;owned locations with additional locations in 14 other countries. 

Franchise Services Group Competitive Strengths 

&#183; 

Strong and trusted brands with leading market positions in their respective categories 

&#183; 

Attractive value proposition to franchisees 

&#183; 

Exceptional focus on customer service evidenced by strong net promoter scores ( &#8220; NPS &#8221; ) 

&#183; 

Infrastructure and scale supporting our ability to service national accounts 

&#183; 

National network and 24/7/365 service availability supports mission &#8209;critical nature of the ServiceMaster Restore business 

&#183; 

Long &#8209;standing and strong relationships with the majority of the top 20 insurance carriers 

Sales and Marketing 

Terminix 

Terminix markets its services to both homeowners and businesses through a national sales team and sales professionals in our branches and call centers. We generate leads for these sales professionals through advertising campaigns on television, online, in direct mail and in the yellow pages. 

American Home Shield 

In our American Home Shield segment, we market our services primarily through the internet, direct mail, television and radio advertising, print advertisements, marketing partnerships, telemarketing and various social media channels. Additionally, we market our services through a national sales team and various participants in the residential real estate marketplace, such as real estate brokerages, as well as some financial institutions and insurance carriers. American Home Shield focuses its marketing efforts on direct &#8209;to &#8209;consumer sales. 

&#160;

Franchise Services Group 

In our Franchise Services Group segment, we market our services primarily through our franchise network, branch operations and a national sales team to a combination of business &#8209;to &#8209;business and business &#8209;to &#8209;consumer audiences. These services are advertised on a national and local level and include such media as television, radio, internet, direct mail, print advertisements, sales collateral materials and yellow page advertisements. 

Service Marks, Trademarks and Trade Names 

We hold various service marks, trademarks and trade names, such as ServiceMaster, Terminix, American Home Shield, ServiceMaster Restore, ServiceMaster Clean, Merry Maids, Furniture Medic and AmeriSpec, that we deem particularly important to the advertising activities conducted by each of our reportable segments as well as the franchising activities conducted by certain reportable segments. As of December 31, 2015, we had marks that were protected by registration (either by direct registration or by treaty) in the United States and approximately 95 other countries. 

Franchises 

Franchises are important to the Terminix, ServiceMaster Restore, ServiceMaster Clean, Merry Maids, Furniture Medic and AmeriSpec businesses. In 2015, 2014 and 2013, total franchise fees (monthly royalty fees as well as initial fees from sales of franchises and licenses) were $132 million, $132 million and $130 million, respectively, related franchise operating expenses were $57 million, $61 million and $62 million, respectively, and total profits from our franchised operations were $75 million, $71 million and $68 million, respectively. Nearly all of the franchise fees received by our Franchise Services Group segment are derived from the ServiceMaster Restore, ServiceMaster Clean and Merry Maids businesses. Franchise fees from our Terminix franchisees represented less than one percent of Terminix revenue for each of those years. We evaluate the performance of our franchise businesses based primarily on operating profit before corporate general and administrative expenses, interest expense and amortization of intangible assets. Franchise agreements entered into in the course of these businesses are generally for a term of five to 10 years. The majority of these franchise agreements are renewed prior to expiration. Internationally, we have license agreements, whereby licensees provide services under our brand names that would ordinarily be provided by franchisees in the United States. The majority of international licenses are for 10 &#8209;year terms. 

Customers and Geographies 

We have no single customer that accounts for more than two percent of our consolidated revenue. Additionally, no reportable segment has a single customer that accounts for more than five percent of its revenue. None of our reportable segments is dependent on a single customer or a few customers, the loss of which would have a material adverse effect on the segment. 

A significant percentage of our revenue is concentrated in the southern and western regions of the United States. In our Terminix and American Home Shield segments, California, Texas and Florida collectively accounted for approximately one &#8209;third of the revenue in 2015. 

Competition 

We compete in residential and commercial services industries, focusing on termite and pest control, home warranties, disaster restoration, janitorial, residential cleaning, furniture repair and home inspection. We compete with many other companies in the sale of our services, franchises and products. The principal methods of competition in our businesses include quality and speed of service, name recognition and reputation, customer satisfaction, brand awareness, pricing and promotions, professional sales forces and referrals. While we compete with a broad range of competitors in each discrete segment, we do not believe that any of our competitors provides all of the services we provide in all of the market segments we serve. All of the primary segments in which we operate are highly fragmented. 

Termite and Pest Control 

Competition in the segment for professional termite and pest control services in the United States comes primarily from smaller regional and local, independently-owned firms, as well as from Orkin, Inc. (a subsidiary of Rollins, Inc.), Ecolab, Inc. and Rentokil Initial, plc., all of which compete nationally. 

Home Warranties 

Competition for home warranties that cover household systems and appliances comes mainly from regional providers. Our two largest competitors are First American Financial Corporation and Old Republic International Corporation. 

Disaster Restoration, Emergency Response and Related Services 

Competition in the markets for disaster restoration, emergency response and related services comes mainly from local, independently-owned firms and a few national professional cleaning companies, such as Servpro Industries, Inc., Belfor, a subsidiary of Belfor Europe GmbH, BMS CAT, Inc. and Stanley Steemer International, Inc. 

&#160;

Janitorial 

Competition in the market for janitorial services comes mainly from local, independently &#8209;owned firms and a few national professional janitorial firms such as ABM Industries Incorporated, Jani &#8209;King International, Inc., Aramark and Jan-Pro. Franchise International, Inc. 

Residential Cleaning 

Competition in the market segment for residential cleaning services comes mainly from local, independently-owned firms, and from a few national companies such as The Maids International, Inc., Molly Maid, Inc. and The Cleaning Authority, LLC. 

Insurance 

We maintain insurance coverage that we believe is appropriate for our business, including workers &#8217; compensation, auto liability, general liability, umbrella and property insurance. In addition, we provide various insurance coverages, including deductible reimbursement policies, to our business units through our wholly &#8209;owned captive insurance company, which was domiciled in Vermont through 2015 and since 2016 ha s been domiciled in Tennessee. 

Information Technology 

We have invested in information systems and software packages designed to allow us to grow efficiently, deliver and implement nationally, while retaining local and regional flexibility. We believe this provides us with a competitive advantage in our operations. Our sophisticated IT systems enable us to provide a high level of convenience and service to our customers. Terminix is able to provide a two &#8209;hour service window to customers. Similarly, American Home Shield &#8217; s call centers, which operate and take service calls 24 hours a day, seven days a week, successfully assign contractors to a job within 15 minutes or less approximately 90 percent of the time. 

Employees 

The average number of persons employed by our continuing operations during 2015 was approximately 13,000. None of our employees in the United States are represented by collective bargaining agreements. 

Regulatory Compliance 

Our businesses are subject to various international, federal, state, provincial and local laws and regulations, compliance with which increases our operating costs, limits or restricts the services provided by our reportable segments or the methods by which our businesses offer, sell and fulfill those services or conduct their respective businesses, or subjects us and our reportable segments to the possibility of regulatory actions or proceedings. Noncompliance with these laws and regulations can subject us to fines or various forms of civil or criminal prosecution, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. 

These international, federal, state, provincial and local laws and regulations include laws relating to consumer protection, wage and hour, deceptive trade practices, permitting and licensing, state contractor laws, real estate settlements, workers &#8217; safety, tax, healthcare reforms, franchise-related issues, collective bargaining and other labor matters, environmental and employee benefits. The Terminix business must also meet certain Department of Transportation and Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration requirements with respect to certain vehicles in its fleet. Terminix is regulated by federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations which are enforced by Pest Control Boards, Departments of Environmental Conservation and similar government entities. American Home Shield is regulated in certain states by the applicable state insurance regulatory authority and by the Real Estate Commission in Texas. ServiceMaster Clean and Merry Maids use products containing ingredients regulated by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (the &#8220; EPA &#8221; ), and ServiceMaster Clean is subject to licensing and certification requirements for applying disinfectants, sanitizers and other EPA registered products in certain states. AmeriSpec is regulated by various state and local home inspection laws and regulations. 

Environmental, Health and Safety Matters 

Our businesses are subject to various international, federal, state and local laws and regulations regarding environmental, health and safety matters. Among other things, these laws regulate the emission or discharge of materials into the environment, govern the use, storage, treatment, disposal and management of hazardous substances and wastes and protect the health and safety of our employees. These laws also impose liability for the costs of investigating and remediating, and damages resulting from, present and past releases of hazardous substances, including releases by prior owners or operators of sites we currently own or operate. 

Compliance with environmental, health and safety laws increases our operating costs, limits or restricts the services provided by our reportable segments or the methods by which they offer, sell and fulfill those services or conduct their respective businesses, or subjects us and our reportable segments to the possibility of regulatory or private actions or proceedings. 

Terminix is regulated under many federal and state environmental laws, including the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980 (the &#8220; CERCLA &#8221; ), the Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization Act of 1986 (the &#8220; Superfund &#8221; ), the Federal Environmental Pesticide Control Act of 1972, the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide and Rodenticide Act 

&#160;

of 1947, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976, the Clean Air Act, the Emergency Planning and Community Right &#8209;to &#8209;Know Act of 1986, the Oil Pollution Act of 1990 and the Clean Water Act of 1977, each as amended. 

We cannot predict the effect of possible future environmental laws on our operations. Changes in, or new interpretations of, existing laws, regulations or enforcement policies, the discovery of previously unknown contamination, or the imposition of other environmental liabilities or obligations in the future, may lead to additional compliance or other costs. During 2015 there were no material capital expenditures for environmental control facilities, and there are no material expenditures anticipated for 2016 or 2017 related to such facilities. 

Consumer Protection and Solicitation Matters 

We are subject to international, federal, state, provincial and local laws and regulations designed to protect consumers, including laws governing consumer privacy and fraud, the collection and use of consumer data, telemarketing and other forms of solicitation. 

The telemarketing rules adopted by the Federal Communications Commission pursuant to the Federal Telephone Consumer Protection Act and the Federal Telemarketing Sales Rule issued by the Federal Trade Commission govern our telephone sales practices. In addition, some states and local governing bodies have adopted laws and regulations targeted at direct telephone sales and &#8220; do &#8209;not &#8209;knock, &#8221; &#160; &#8220; do &#8209;not &#8209;mail &#8221; and &#8220; do &#8209;not &#8209;leave &#8221; activities. The implementation of these marketing regulations requires us to rely more extensively on other marketing methods and channels. In addition, if we were to fail to comply with any applicable law or regulation, we could be subject to substantial fines or damages, be involved in lawsuits, enforcement actions and other claims by third parties or governmental authorities, suffer losses to our reputation and our business or suffer the loss of licenses or penalties that may affect how the business is operated, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. 

Franchise Matters 

Terminix, ServiceMaster Restore, ServiceMaster Clean, Merry Maids, Furniture Medic and AmeriSpec are subject to various international, federal, state, provincial and local laws and regulations governing franchise sales, marketing and licensing and franchise trade practices generally, including applicable rules and regulations of the Federal Trade Commission. These laws and regulations generally require disclosure of business information in connection with the sale and licensing of franchises. Certain state regulations also affect the ability of the franchisor to revoke or refuse to renew a franchise. We seek to comply with regulatory requirements and deal with franchisees and licensees in good faith. From time to time, we and one or more franchisees may become involved in a dispute regarding the franchise relationship, including payment of royalties or fees, location of branches, advertising, purchase of products by franchisees, non &#8209;competition covenants, compliance with our standards and franchise renewal criteria. There can be no assurance that compliance problems will not be encountered from time to time or that significant disputes with one or more franchisees will not arise. 

From time to time, we receive communications from our franchisees regarding complaints, disputes or questions about our practices and standards in relation to our franchised operations and certain economic terms of our franchise arrangements. If franchisees or groups representing franchisees were to bring legal proceedings against us, we would vigorously defend against the claims in any such proceeding, but our reputation, business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely impacted and the price of our common stock could decline. 

Available Information 

ServiceMaster maintains a website at http://www.servicemaster.com that includes a hyperlink to a website maintained by a third party where ServiceMaster &#8217; s Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to those reports are available without charge as soon as reasonably practicable following the time that they are filed with or furnished to the SEC. The information found on the Company &#8217; s website is not a part of this or any other report filed with or furnished to the SEC. 

