 Item 1. Business. 

Overview 

Rapid7 is a leading provider of security data and analytics solutions that enable organizations to implement an active, analytics-driven approach to cyber security. Our security data and analytics platform was purpose built for today&#146;s increasingly complex and chaotic IT environment. We combine our extensive experience in security data and analytics and deep insight into attacker behaviors and techniques to make sense of the wealth of data available to organizations about their IT environments and users. There has been an explosion of increasingly sophisticated cyber attacks as the proliferation of mobile devices, cloud-based applications and solutions relying on user credentials has eliminated the boundaries that previously defined an organization&#146;s network perimeter and expanded the threat surface that organizations must now defend. Our powerful and proprietary analytics enable organizations to contextualize and prioritize the threats facing their physical, virtual and cloud assets, including those posed by the behaviors of their users. Leveraging our security data and analytics platform, our solutions enable organizations to strategically and dynamically manage their cyber security exposure. Our solutions empower organizations to prevent and contain attacks by providing visibility into vulnerabilities and to rapidly detect compromises, respond to breaches and correct the underlying causes of attacks. This balanced and analytics-focused approach ultimately better secures organizations&#146; environments and reduces the likelihood of, and risks associated with, cyber attacks. We believe our technology and solutions revolutionize the practice of cyber security and are central and critical to implementing a modern security program. 

With our security data and analytics platform, which we refer to as the Rapid7 Insight Platform, at our core, we are pioneering active, analytics-driven solutions to cyber security that enable organizations to find and eliminate critical weaknesses and detect attacks in their IT environments. Our threat exposure management offerings include our industry-leading vulnerability management, web application security testing and attack simulation products, which we enhance with deep security analytics capabilities to quickly deliver contextual risk prioritization, critical threat awareness and impactful remediation guidance. Similarly, we added analytics and automation to traditional manual penetration testing to be able to deliver robust ongoing attack simulation solutions that provide organizations with visibility into real world threats. By providing and combining analytics and actionable insights related to both an organization&#146;s attack surface and the dynamic threat landscape, our security data and analytics platform enables organizations to manage their threat exposure above and beyond traditional vulnerability management products on the market. 

Further leveraging our data collection, analytics and attacker knowledge, we introduced our incident detection and response solutions to provide organizations with the ability to rapidly detect and respond to cyber security incidents and breaches. We believe that the traditional approach to detecting and responding to incidents using Security Information and Event Management, or SIEM, Intrusion Detection System, or IDS, and Intrusion Prevention System, or IPS, technologies, among others, is not entirely effective. These technologies can burden an organization with unmanageable volumes of alerts as well as false positives. Our solutions use a variety of analytics to help identify cyber threats to an organization and provide IT security teams with the ability to easily build incident timelines for faster investigations and more efficient resolution, as well as enabling search across the organization&#146;s data from our Insight Platform. Proprietary behavioral and pattern-recognition analytics are central to this capability, which functions in part by automatically mapping an organization&#146;s assets and users relative to the threat landscape, such that aberrant and risky user-specific and asset-specific behaviors are rapidly identified, escalated for investigation and prioritized by threat level. To complement our incident detection product, we offer a range of services. These include our recently introduced analytic response service, which provides our customers with a managed service for threat detection and response, and our incident response professional services through which we provide critical access to our security experts and experience to 

&#160;

organizations that have identified a serious security incident, enabling them to accelerate incident response and containment. We also offer security advisory services that help organizations develop a holistic approach to their cyber security programs, test their incident response preparedness and advance their cyber security program maturity. All of our products are designed with an intuitive user interface, focused on ease-of-use and fast time-to-value for our customers. 

The Rapid7 Security Data and Analytics Evolution 

&#160;

Cyber security has become a strategic imperative for organizations globally, driven by increased focus by boards of directors and senior management in the wake of numerous high profile breaches and data thefts. Organizations are increasingly at risk of being compromised, with organizations reporting a 38% increase in security incidents detected and a 56% increase in the theft of &#147;hard&#148; intellectual property in 2015 over the prior year, according to a report by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, or PWC. There are three converging macro drivers that are changing the cyber security landscape for organizations and driving the increase in cyber breaches. First, mobile and connected devices, cloud-based applications and more open and interconnected networks have increased IT complexity, expanding the exploitable attack surface across an organization and resulting in more sources of potential vulnerability. Second, there has been a dramatic change in the tools available to cyber attackers. Attackers can now purchase, at very low cost, highly effective and easy-to-use software that is designed to circumvent traditional prevention-based tools, thereby lowering the bar for nearly anyone to launch advanced cyber attacks. Third, the economic motives for attackers are more compelling, with new, vibrant markets providing attackers an efficient and effective way to monetize stolen customer information and employee data. 

The confluence of these factors has rendered the old model of &#147;block and protect&#148; prevention-based cyber security programs ineffective. These traditional &#147;block and protect&#148; approaches to cyber security typically rely disproportionately on network perimeter protection tools such as firewalls and antivirus software to stop attackers. However, as the network perimeter rapidly disappears, the effectiveness of these legacy solutions diminishes greatly. In addition, prevention-centric models are often passive and implemented with a &#147;deploy and forget&#148; mentality, lacking a holistic cyber security strategy. While these approaches can alert IT security professionals to potentially suspicious activity, the data generated is often raw and in &#147;machine form,&#148; making it difficult for an organization to develop actionable insights that reflect a real-time understanding of the organization&#146;s assets, user behavior and the dynamic threat landscape that it faces. Developing these insights has historically been complex and resource intensive, requiring security expertise, data scientists and analytical modeling skills, which many organizations lack. Further, preventative solutions are generally not able to identify or deter attacks that involve modern attack techniques such as the use of stolen or weak credentials, which have been the primary cyber threat action by attackers for five years in a row, according to the 2015 Verizon Data Breach Investigations Report. Organizations have also historically struggled to identify attacks in their early 

&#160;

stages, with nearly 33% of attacks taking more than a month and up to a year to discover, according to the 2015 Verizon Data Breach Investigations Report. The decreasing effectiveness of a traditional prevention-focused approach to cyber security is causing a significant shift to a new model that uses an active, analytics-driven approach to reduce and manage risks to the organization. This new model disrupts the historical focus on &#147;block and protect&#148; solutions and balances organizations&#146; investments in prevention, detection and correction to reduce the likelihood of, and risks associated with, cyber attacks. Effective implementation of this new model demands data and analytics to assess the effectiveness of tools and programs, identify attacker behaviors and prioritize and remediate exposures. Rapid7 empowers organizations to better secure their dynamic IT environments by providing the security data and analytics that are at the core of a holistic and active, analytics-driven approach to cyber security. Given the shift to the new cyber security model and the needs of organizations to address their security issues, we estimate that the market opportunity for security data and analytics is $14.4 billion in 2016. 

As of December 31, 2015, we had more than 5,100 customers, including 37% of the organizations in the Fortune 1000. We have experienced strong revenue growth with revenue increasing from $31.0 million in 2011 to $110.5 million in 2015, representing a 37% compound annual growth rate. We have strong visibility to our revenue as 53% of the revenue recognized in 2015 was recorded on our balance sheet as deferred revenue as of December 31, 2014 and 82% of the revenue recognized in the fourth quarter of 2015 was recorded on our balance sheet as deferred revenue as of September 30, 2015. We incurred a net loss of $49.9 million in 2015 as we continued what we believe is a disciplined path of investing for growth given our large market opportunity. 

Recent Developments 

On October 13, 2015, we acquired RevelOps, Inc. (d/b/a Logentries), a provider of machine data search technology. With the addition of Logentries&#146; cloud-based log management and search capabilities, we enable information security teams to solve a broader range of security challenges, investigate incidents and more efficiently achieve their compliance requirements. We acquired Logentries for a total consideration of $67.9 million. 

In February 2016, we announced InsightIDR, our new Insight Platform offering that integrates our recently acquired Logentries machine data search technology, enabling organizations to go from compromise to containment quickly and also meet their operational compliance needs. InsightIDR is a cloud-based offering that seeks to provide comprehensive incident detection and response and will be available in the first quarter of 2016. Our InsightIDR offering combines behavior analytics and search with contextual data collection to help detect some of the stealthiest attacks. InsightIDR directly addresses the gaps found in many of today&#146;s detection technologies, including SIEMs and IPSs and is powered by our Insight Platform, which simplifies and combines data collection, analytics, and search technology. The combination of these technologies can enable not only effective detection but also efficient investigation, so that organizations can rapidly go from compromise to containment. InsightIDR puts the organization&#146;s data at the IT security analyst&#146;s fingertips so an organization can improve investigation times often at lower costs than with traditional solutions on the market. 

&#160;

Industry Background 

Industry Overview 

Cyber security is a critical focus area for executives, boards of directors and IT security professionals at organizations globally. Security breaches are becoming more common, higher profile and have increasingly negative consequences for organizations. In response, organizations are enlarging cyber security budgets in order to thwart potential attacks and minimize the risks associated with those attacks. IT security professionals face a rapidly evolving and dynamic threat landscape and an increasingly fragmented mosaic of security technology vendors offering point solutions to prevent specific threats and protect against specific attack vectors. Forced to make choices and allocate cyber security budgets with limited information, IT security professionals are often left feeling overwhelmed. At the same time, threats continue to escalate due to three converging macro drivers that are changing the practice of cyber security: 

Increasingly Complex IT Environment is Expanding Organizations&#146; Attack Surfaces 

The transformation of the IT environment is being driven by the proliferation of mobile and other connected devices, cloud-based applications and the increasing empowerment of business users. IT departments are required to deliver more applications faster, often in the cloud, in order to meet growing user demands for innovation and productivity tools. As a result, it has become increasingly difficult for IT departments to secure the increasing number of systems against the growing number of known security vulnerabilities. For example, in 2014, many organizations were affected by the exploitation of widespread vulnerabilities such as &#147;Heartbleed&#148; and &#147;Shellshock,&#148; with many IT departments unprepared and under-resourced as they attempted to understand the impact of these vulnerabilities and then quickly operationalize a remediation effort to minimize the risks and exposures to their organizations. 

Increasing user empowerment has also led to an increase in the number of applications and devices and the amount of data that individual users can access with their credentials, which further expands the attack surface of an organization exposed to potential cyber criminals. According to the 2015 Verizon Data Breach Investigations Report, compromised credentials have been the number one cyber threat action by attackers for five years in a row. Users can be the subject of targeted phishing attacks, where an attacker masquerades as a trustworthy entity in an electronic communication in order to gain control of a user&#146;s device and/or credentials. These credentials can then be used to access the enterprise and its network more broadly, as well as give the attacker access to cloud-based software and applications, where they may gain access to even more protected data. Through 2015, more than 75 percent of mobile applications will fail basic security tests, according to Gartner, Inc. or Gartner. Firewalls and other traditional prevention-based techniques are less capable of protecting this complex and expanded attack surface, leaving IT security professionals overwhelmed by new threats and looking for new technologies and ways to respond. 

Weaponized Malware Evades Traditional Prevention-Based Tools and Expands the Cyber-Attacker Universe 

The historical threat landscape used to be defined by amateur cyber criminals launching attacks for fame or mischief. Those attacks caused relatively little damage and could often be detected and prevented by signature-based security solutions. However, today there are sophisticated software toolkits and malware that can be used to launch a cyber attack, which are readily available online for free or at a low cost. These toolkits are specifically designed to circumvent the preventative security measures typically put in place by organizations, allowing cyber criminals with rudimentary IT knowledge to launch sophisticated attacks on enterprise users and networks. With this weaponized software, cyber attacks are no longer just the domain of advanced attackers, and the number of security breaches is rapidly increasing. According to PWC, the total number of security incidents detected by enterprises increased by 38% in 2015. The motivations of cyber criminals are highly varied and include not only mischief but the desire to embarrass organizations, promote specific social issues, feed national interests, support terrorism and make money &#150; all of which could be pursued with today&#146;s weaponized software and which could make nearly every organization a potential target. 

&#160;

A Vibrant Cyber-Crime Economy Further Incents Cyber Attackers 

The dependence of organizations on information technology and the sensitive and valuable nature of digitally stored data have raised the stakes for cyber attackers, with financial gain becoming a primary motive for many attackers. Economic incentives for attackers continue to become more compelling, as new and vibrant black markets for stolen data, including credit card information, email account information and healthcare information, enable attackers to efficiently and effectively monetize stolen information. This more recent dynamic has led to a proliferation of data from successful attacks being offered for sale by cyber criminals, and the formation of a lucrative and growing underground economy. According to a 2014 report by the RAND Corporation, hacker black markets are growing in size and complexity and in certain respects can be more profitable than the illegal drug trade because worldwide distribution is accomplished electronically such that resource requirements are negligible. 

Enterprise Security Shifting from Passive &#147;Block and Protect&#148; to Actively-Managed Security Programs 

As a result of the above trends in the cyber security landscape, IT teams are increasingly faced with unwieldy chaos as they are challenged to deliver solutions that increase user and employee productivity while ensuring overall organizational integrity and security. This challenge can be overwhelming for IT security professionals as they seek to protect their organizations against increasingly frequent, damaging and costly breaches. A new model for cyber security is needed and organizations are shifting from the traditional &#147;block and protect&#148; prevention-centric strategies to actively-managed security programs for the following reasons: 

Passive, Prevention-Based Security Infrastructure is Inadequate 

Organizations have traditionally taken a passive approach to cyber security, relying on deploying &#147;block and protect&#148; security tools aimed at thwarting attackers at the perimeter of the network. &#147;Block and protect&#148; security tools include firewalls, intrusion prevention, identity and access management, endpoint security and network access controls, among others. To address newly discovered vulnerabilities and security threats, IT security professionals traditionally added new prevention-centric devices and technologies to their existing tools, with little consideration for overall management or ecosystem optimization. On the other hand, sophisticated software-enabled technologies and techniques are increasingly used by cyber criminals to evade prevention-based security solutions. Additionally, the explosion of cloud-based applications and mobile devices accessing enterprise data are blurring the previously rigid lines that once defined enterprise network boundaries. Without these boundaries, prevention-based tools are easily circumvented by attackers. 

Equally problematic for today&#146;s organizations, traditional &#147;block and protect&#148; solutions are ineffective against cyber attacks using compromised user credentials. Traditional security protocols rely on procedures to grant individual users only the specific security privileges that they require, but such reliance fails when users&#146; credentials are stolen or compromised. The risks and exposures are further increased because many users have administrator-level credentials on their devices to maximize their productivity, but these credentials are relatively easily stolen and can be exploited by attackers in order to gain access to an organization&#146;s network, assets and information. Use of stolen credentials in cyber attacks is becoming a significant issue with 90% of respondents to the Rapid7 2015 Incident Detection &#38; Response Survey stating that they are worried about compromised credentials. Furthermore, according to the 2015 Verizon Data Breach Investigations Report, compromised credentials have been the number one threat action for five years in a row. 

&#160;

Organizations Must Move to an Active, Data and Analytics-Driven Approach 

In light of high profile and costly security breaches, IT security professionals are increasingly focused on developing comprehensive security programs to better protect their organizations against attacks. While prevention-based approaches can alert IT security professionals to potentially suspicious activity, the data is typically delivered through an overwhelming number of alerts and is often raw and in &#147;machine form,&#148; making it difficult for an organization to develop actionable insights that reflect a real-time understanding of the organization&#146;s assets, user behavior and the dynamic threat landscape that it faces. Developing these insights has historically been complex and resource intensive, requiring security expertise, data scientists and analytical modeling skills, which many organizations lack. By contrast, active, analytics-driven security approaches require more than just the deployment of technology to prevent breaches. To improve the overall effectiveness of an organization&#146;s cyber security program, an actively-managed approach focuses on analytics and an understanding of risks and threats in context, and facilitates the allocation of security budgets to the specific tools that enable the organization to process and analyze significant amounts of data in real time to quickly identify, understand and react to attacks and breaches as they occur. Through security data and analytics, organizations can recognize behavior patterns associated with breaches, even if the attack vector is completely novel. The organization can then develop and improve its cyber security programs in order to reduce its exposures and better detect and respond to compromises using a holistic approach across the following overall vectors of a security program: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Prevention . Identifying, prioritizing, addressing and reducing risks in a manner that reflects each organization&#146;s unique IT infrastructure as well as the dynamic and evolving threat landscape. 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Detection . Analyzing an organization&#146;s attack surface along with user and attacker behaviors to quickly identify security breaches and facilitate a timely and effective response to cyber attacks. 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Correction . Implementing techniques to remediate high-priority risks both tactically and at the program level. 

The following graphic illustrates the shift that we believe is occurring with respect to how organizations manage their cyber security programs: 

Shift to Analytics-Driven, Risk-Based Approach to Cyber Security 

&#160;

Analytics provides the critical context and prioritization to underlying security data to facilitate effective, informed and proactive decisions that allow for the systemic and dynamic management of security programs across each of these areas. An active, analytics-driven security program can prevent attacks through increased 

&#160;

visibility into vulnerabilities, rapidly detecting and responding to compromises and correcting the underlying causes of attacks. This balanced and analytics-focused approach ultimately secures organizations&#146; environments and reduces both the likelihood of, and risks associated with, cyber attacks better than a traditional &#147;block and protect&#148; security strategy. 

Our Market Opportunity 

According to Gartner, advanced targeted attacks make prevention-centric strategies obsolete. Securing enterprises in 2020 will require a shift to information- and people-centric security strategies, combined with pervasive internal monitoring and sharing of security intelligence. Accordingly, we believe that our market opportunity is large and growing and will be positively impacted by the ongoing shift in security spending from a traditional, passive, &#147;block and protect&#148; approach to an active, analytics-driven approach to cyber security. Gartner, Inc. estimates that by 2020, 60% of enterprise information security budgets will be allocated for rapid detection and response approaches &#150; up from less than 20% in 2015. 

Our estimate, based on International Data Corporation data, is that the overall market for security data and analytics is a $14.4 billion opportunity in 2016. Included in our estimates are all or a portion of the markets for Vulnerability Management, SIEM, Policy and Compliance, Network Intrusion Detection and Prevention, Endpoint Security Suites and Security Services. We believe that our market opportunity will grow as organizations continue to move away from technologies such as SIEM and Network Intrusion Detection, which can burden an organization with alerts and false positives and may be inadequate in today&#146;s environment. 

Benefits of Our Solutions 

We are a leading provider of security data and analytics solutions that enable organizations to implement an active, analytics-driven approach to cyber security. Key benefits of our solutions include: 

Decreased Risk of Security Breach. Our technology platform and solutions provide IT security professionals with a complete view of their dynamic attack surface and automatically assess an organization&#146;s vulnerabilities relative to the evolving threat landscape. We provide robust and relevant analytics and insight into attacker behaviors and techniques so that IT security professionals are able to identify and prioritize risks effectively to reduce risks and ultimately create a more secure IT environment for their organization. Our data and analytics are coupled with our deep search technology that allows IT organizations the ability to deeply investigate risks such that they can be contained and remediated quickly. 

Enhanced Attack Preparedness. Our solutions allow our customers to test their defenses by simulating real-world attacks on their IT environments, using the same techniques and exploits as attackers. Our attack simulation solutions leverage our security data and analytics expertise as well as the insights from our community of thousands of active Metasploit users who provide us with real-time, real-world insight into attacker behavior across the global IT attack surface. By using the same techniques as attackers and simulating real-world attacks on IT environments, we enable our customers to uncover critical gaps in their preventative measures and identify shortcomings in their incident detection and response capabilities. 

Fast, Effective and Confident Intrusion Response. Our product and service offerings can help mitigate the impact of a breach by automatically identifying the root cause of a breach and providing clear and actionable insight into effective mitigation and correction. Our technology automatically monitors each user and IT asset within an organization without the need to build and maintain complicated detection rules or data queries or deploy collection agents. Rather than sending numerous alerts and alarms that become an onslaught of overwhelming and unintelligible data, our solutions provide timely, prioritized and clear analysis and instructions to IT security professionals so that they can quickly, confidently and effectively respond to cyber security breaches. Furthermore, we couple our detection technology with our deep search capabilities, which can improve the time from compromise to containment. Complementing our products, when an organization is breached, our 

&#160;

incident response professionals leverage our deep security expertise to help guide customers through critical breach response tactics and implementation of mitigation strategies. This comprehensive approach to incident detection and response can help our customers manage the evolving threat landscape. 

A Continually Relevant and Effective Security Program. We serve as a trusted security advisor to our customers, providing both products and professional services that enable organizations to implement an active, analytics-driven approach to cyber security. Our solutions are continually relevant as they evolve with, and react to, the dynamic threat landscape. Guided by our holistic approach balancing prevention, detection and correction solutions, we provide strategic, technology-agnostic guidance tailored to an organization&#146;s security maturity and optimized to an organization&#146;s IT environment. 

Our Competitive Strengths 

We have developed the following key competitive advantages that we believe will allow us to maintain a leadership position in the market for security data and analytics: 

Automated Data Collection from the Endpoint to the Cloud. We have deep technology expertise in cyber security data collection from 16 years of experience in vulnerability management. Our Insight Platform provides robust data collection capabilities across multiple data sources, from endpoint information, to user behaviors, to cloud activity. As an organization&#146;s infrastructure evolves and expands, additional data sources are quickly and efficiently integrated into our platform. Further, our Insight Platform uses flexible collection methods as it does not require the use of agents for data collection, although it can leverage agents when needed. This allows our platform to amass data from multiple sources quickly and without significant customer installation expertise, while providing greater visibility to IT security professionals. We believe that the simplicity of integrating our products into a customer&#146;s IT environment is a key competitive differentiator for us, as it provides a significant advantage for IT security professionals who may otherwise be unable to collect and process the necessary data from across their organization. 

Customer-Specific Security Analytics. We understand the cyber security risks specific to each of our customer&#146;s organizations and IT environments. Our technology platform collects and organizes data from each customer&#146;s unique IT environment, which allows us to systemically and automatically profile the key risks specific to each customer. By utilizing our powerful, proprietary analytics to assess and understand the context and relationships around users, IT assets and cyber threats within a customer&#146;s environment, we can provide our customers with specific, actionable insights specific to their environments. 

Robust and Relevant Knowledge of Attacker Activity. Our database of more than 70,000 known vulnerabilities is continuously expanding through the efforts of our internal security experts and the broader Metasploit community. Our ties to the security research community through our Metasploit framework, an open source project with an active community of contributors and users that was downloaded over 100,000 times in 2015, provides us with real-time insight into new attacks and exploits. The size and accuracy of our exploit database and the speed at which our threat exposure management offerings are updated provides significant value to IT security professionals looking to secure their networks in a dynamic and evolving threat environment. We also have a team of experienced security researchers who support our knowledge and security insights through threat intelligence research and attacker modeling. 

Intuitive Product Design Focused on Speed to Insight. Our solutions are designed for ease-of-use by IT security professionals. Our underlying technology platform can easily become part of our customers&#146; operational fabric without requiring internal expertise in systems integration, data science or data scripting. Our solutions are designed to abstract the powerful underlying capabilities of our security data and analytics platform so that users interact with a simple, elegant interface. We believe that this clean user interface and intuitive design of our products differentiate Rapid7 products from the competition and enables our customers to develop actionable insights quickly and with limited training. We believe that our solutions are resource efficient for our customers and provide them with a fast time-to-value, which makes it easy for organizations to understand the benefits of an active, analytics-driven approach to cyber security. 

&#160;

Deep Security Domain Expertise Across Technology, Operations and People. We leverage our deep domain expertise in security data and analytics to better serve our customers, who frequently have limited ability to carry deep expertise in-house. We offer security advisory services to help customers assess the quality of their security programs and implement changes to make them more effective and cost efficient. We also offer incident detection and response services to help customers find and respond to attacks and compromises that they may be missing on their own. Ultimately, we serve as a trusted security advisor to our customers, encompassing a powerful combination of technology, services and operations expertise to support our customers&#146; success in managing their cyber security exposure. We believe that this differentiates our offerings, resulting in strong customer retention and our ability to expand our share of our customers&#146; security spending over time. 

User Behavior Analytics. We believe that our user-centric approach to analytics is a key differentiator of our technology platform and offerings. Our software solutions automatically create a behavior profile for each user in a customer&#146;s IT environment. We compare these profiles against dynamic attacker behavior profiles to distinguish normal user behavior from suspicious behavior and incorporate additional data about how systems are likely to respond when under real-world attack. Within our technology platform, our prioritization engine triangulates on the most important data to determine potentially compromised user credentials and reduce false signals and alerts. In addition, our ability to provide rapid context around users and assets involved in an incident can significantly reduce investigation time, enabling organizations to more quickly respond to, contain and mitigate breaches. These powerful user-centric analytics allow IT security professionals to make informed and proactive decisions. 

Fast and Accessible Search Capabilities. We believe that our ability to enable fast search through an organization&#146;s data can enable IT security professionals to better investigate and operationalize data to quickly identify the root cause of issues. Our solutions allow IT security professionals to collect both structured and unstructured machine data and to obtain rapid access to their data. These capabilities, along with real time and easily accessible search across raw logs for known patterns with intuitive search queries, can enable IT security professionals to access their data for operational purposes. 

Our Growth Strategy 

Our mission is to deliver security data and analytics that revolutionize the practice of cyber security. Key elements of our growth strategy include: 

Drive New Customer Additions. We believe that most organizations with IT infrastructure would benefit from our products and services, regardless of size or industry, and we have a significant opportunity to increase our penetration across these organizations. In particular, we are focused on further penetrating large enterprises and middle-market businesses. We have principally sold our products and services through our direct inside sales team and recently augmented our sales capabilities with a direct field sales team. In 2015, we made a significant investment in our sales organization, growing our headcount by 39% and our total net number of customers by 1,399, or 37%. We intend to continue to invest in building our global sales and go-to-market organizations. See &#147;Our Customers&#148; for additional information regarding our markets. 

Increase Customer Economics and Success. Our customer base includes more than 5,100 customers, as of December 31, 2015. We believe that these customers provide us with a significant opportunity to drive incremental sales by both selling larger volumes of the offerings that a customer is already purchasing from us and cross selling other offerings from our portfolio to these customers. For example, customers acquired in 2011 have spent, in the aggregate, 2.9 times their initial 2011 spend with us through 2015, which we believe reflects both our strong renewal rates and our ability to drive upsells and cross-sells since our license agreements with a majority of these customers are perpetual in nature. We believe that we currently only capture a percentage of the total cyber security budgets of our enterprise customers and we believe that they will increase their spending with us as they continue to shift their programs to security data and analytics-centric strategies. We have a dedicated customer success team focused on engagement and education to drive customer loyalty and increased purchases of our solutions. 

&#160;

Continue to Expand Internationally. In 2015, we generated 13% of our revenue from customers outside of North America, while 54% of the total cyber security market is outside of North America, according to a February 2014 report by Frost &#38; Sullivan. We believe that cyber attacks are increasingly global in nature and that organizations globally are increasingly shifting to an active, data and analytics-driven approach to cyber security. We plan to continue to increase our international sales, service and support organizations to target additional sales across Europe and Asia and will also continue to expand our number of channel partners internationally. 

Continue to Innovate with Our Products and Technology Platform. We plan to build upon our current performance and technology leadership in security data and analytics to enhance our technology platform and product capabilities. For example, in early 2016 we announced InsightIDR, our comprehensive incident detection and response solution that can enable organizations to go from compromise to containment quickly and also meet their operational compliance needs. This new solution integrates our recently acquired Logentries machine data search technology. InsightIDR builds on our Insight Platform, and our deep understanding of attacker behavior, to provide organizations with actionable insights into security incidents. 

Serve as the Hub for Cyber Security. Our robust and comprehensive data collection capabilities, deep understanding of the attacker, analytics-driven approach and industry leadership through our Metasploit community position us to fundamentally change the way that organizations approach cyber security. Moreover, our technology platform was developed with open application program interfaces, or APIs, to allow other developers to access the security data that we collect and the powerful analytics that we provide. We expect to continue to offer new analytics-based solutions for cyber security operations and that third-party application developers will continue to leverage our data collection and analytics capabilities. 

Our Security Data and Analytics Platform 

Our Insight Platform is at the core of our security data and analytics product offerings. The platform was built using our extensive experience in collecting and analyzing data to enable our customers to create and manage active, analytics-driven cyber security programs. There are two fundamental and competitively differentiating capabilities of our technology platform: (1) the breadth and depth of data that we collect and (2) the powerful analytics, and resulting correlation and context that we apply to the data. Our robust data collection architecture supports gathering a wide swath of organizational and environmental data from endpoints to the cloud, including key data about user-specific behavior. Further, by using agentless data collection architecture, we can provide IT security professionals with seamless integration and automatic visibility into their dynamic and rapidly-expanding attack surfaces. By utilizing our powerful, proprietary analytics to assess and understand the context and relationships around users, IT assets and cyber threats within a customer&#146;s environment, we can provide our customers with specific, actionable insights. 

&#160;

The Rapid7 Security Data and Analytics Platform 

&#160;

Our Insight Platform was architected from inception to be secure, reliable, scalable and extensible, enabling both us and third-party developers to create and add new applications that leverage our powerful data collection and analytics competencies. The design and development of our Insight Platform includes the following key attributes: 

Holistic Dataset for Managing Cyber Security. Our Insight Platform collects information from multiple sources to provide a holistic view across an organization&#146;s ecosystem from network and endpoint data, to enterprise cloud data, to user information. We collect data from the following sources: cyber security assets such as firewalls, intrusion detection systems, or IDS, intrusion prevention systems, or IPS, identity and access management, or IAM, and security information and event management, or SIEM; users; endpoints such as computers, mobile and connected devices and servers; applications; cloud activity; IT environment permissions, policies and controls; and third parties, such as cloud-based email and business productivity solution providers. 

Robust Platform and Customer Data Security. Our Insight Platform was designed to provide a secure environment for both our data and that of our customers. We deploy a variety of technologies and industry-leading practices such as physical and logical customer data segregation, network segmentation, audited and monitored access level controls, data anonymization and separated development-staging-production environments to help ensure that the data collected from a customer&#146;s environment remains proprietary and secure, including encrypting data when appropriate. Further, we regularly run penetration tests of our platform. 

Both Agentless and Endpoint Agent Based Architecture with Automated Analytics. We have designed our solutions to be easy to deploy with minimal manual input from our customers. We developed our platform utilizing a flexible approach that employs both agentless data collection and our own internally-developed endpoint agent-based data collection technology, which enables rapid and seamless integration of our products into our customers&#146; IT environments and provides IT security professionals with instant visibility into their dynamic and rapidly-expanding attack surfaces. Our customers can use the approach that best meets their needs. Proprietary analytics are embedded in our solutions and are continuously curated based on the latest security research such that organizations are not required to develop customized detection rules or write scripts to yield actionable insights. 

Enterprise-Grade Scalability. Our technology platform provides a high level of horizontal scalability. We leverage on premise deployment models and Amazon Web Services, or AWS, to achieve a high degree of redundancy, fault tolerance and cost-effective operations. We are currently deployed in two AWS regions, with plans to add additional geographies. Our automated deployment technologies enable us to add new AWS 

&#160;

instances or additional services rapidly. Within our platform, we use a variety of SQL and NoSQL technologies to enable broad scalability, while keeping each customer&#146;s data entirely separate. Our infrastructure architecture is designed to process large amounts of data and easily incorporate new data sources, including on premise, cloud and mobile. Our platform is designed to support customers with large numbers of users or with geographically dispersed environments, and we have scaled to meet the needs of customers with over 2.0 million active assets and 50,000 active users. 

Extensible Modern Platform. Our technology platform provides a rich set of APIs and services that enable customers, partners and developers to import and export data and utilize our analytics capabilities. This allows us to easily integrate with other security tools in the customer&#146;s environment and also enables customers to build bespoke applications and analysis on top of the data that we gather. 

Our Products and Services 

We offer products and professional services that leverage our security data and Insight Platform. We typically engage with customers based on their current needs determined in large part by what is occurring in their IT environments, within their industries and the initiatives of their senior management and boards of directors. We offer three broad solution groups: threat exposure management, incident detection and response and security advisory services. An organization that has just detected that it has been breached, for example, may initially purchase our incident detection and response products and services whereas a customer with a new chief information security officer looking to gain insight into the organization&#146;s security environment may initially purchase our threat exposure management solutions, and a customer whose board of directors has mandated a security review may initially purchase our security advisory services. 

Our threat exposure management solutions reflect our evolution and enhancement of traditional vulnerability management tools to encompass a broader set of data, including real-world threat information, and analytics that facilitate systematic remediation. By providing IT security professionals with a complete view of their changing attack surface and an automated way to assess the evolving threat landscape, our customers can implement a data and analytics-driven cyber security program to minimize high-priority risks. 

Our incident detection and response solutions offer customers a combination of product-based analytics as well as expert services to help detect attackers and respond to attacks once they are discovered. In addition, in October 2015, we acquired Logentries, a provider of machine data search technology. With the addition of Logentries&#146; cloud-based log management and search capabilities, we enable information security teams to solve a broader range of security challenges, investigate incidents and more efficiently achieve their compliance requirements. 

We offer our products through a combination of perpetual and term software licenses, cloud-based subscriptions and managed services offerings. All of our products have been designed with an intuitive user interface, focused on ease-of-use and fast time-to-value for our customers. 

Our security advisory services help organizations implement and manage an analytics-driven security approach by looking strategically and holistically at their security programs and providing them with advice related to prevention, detection and correction. We believe that our professional services drive incremental customer adoption and usage of our products. 

&#160;

Rapid7&#146;s Products and Services Offerings 

&#160;

Threat Exposure Management 

Our threat exposure management solutions help organizations systematically and dynamically manage cyber vulnerabilities, allowing them to understand their exposures and prevent attacks through insights into their IT environments. In building our threat exposure management offerings, we brought security data and analytics capabilities to our core competencies around vulnerability management to drive insights into customer exposures, management and remediation. Our threat exposure management offerings are available to customers through perpetual and term software licenses with content subscriptions that provide our customers with real-time access to the latest vulnerabilities and exploits, and also as a managed service. Additionally, we provide deployment support and training. 

Our threat exposure management offerings include: 

Nexpose 

Nexpose enables customers to assess and remediate their overall exposure to cyber risk across their increasingly complex IT environments. This includes analyzing vulnerabilities, detecting security misconfigurations and determining the effectiveness of controls across an IT environment. The key features of Nexpose include: automatic vulnerability updates; exception management, which allows organizations to track when risk is knowingly introduced into the IT environment; executive remediation and security testing reporting; interactive charting; scan scheduling and alerting; RealContext classification, which allows organizations to apply business context to threats including by identifying where sensitive data is stored; web application, virtual, unified vulnerability, perimeter and discovery scanning; policy compliance and management, including with standards such as PCI and HIPAA; report and scan customization; Open API and third-party integrations; advanced report templates and uploading; dynamic discovery; user role customization; integrated vulnerability validation; controls effectiveness testing; and prioritized guidance based on customized threat models. We offer five editions of Nexpose including Ultimate, Enterprise, Consultant, Express and Community, each of which has varying combinations of features and is geared to the requirements of different organizations, based on size and need. 

Metasploit 

Metasploit is an industry-leading penetration testing software, developed on an open source framework. Metasploit can be used to safely simulate attacks on an organization&#146;s network in order to uncover vulnerabilities before they are exploited by cyber attackers and assess the effectiveness of an organization&#146;s existing defenses, security controls and mitigation efforts. The key features of Metasploit include: wizards for standard baseline audits; task chains for automated custom workflows; modules for discrete tasks, such as network segmentation 

&#160;

testing; dynamic payloads, designed to evade leading antivirus solutions; closed-loop vulnerability validation to prioritize remediation; phishing awareness management and spear phishing; web-based interface; and integrations via remote APIs. We sell two editions of Metasploit: Metasploit Pro is our advanced penetration testing and security program solution targeted at penetration testers and IT security teams and Metasploit Express is our baseline penetration testing product targeted at IT generalists. Metasploit Pro integrates with Nexpose to enable IT security professionals to prioritize remediation efforts and understand the impact of an attack before it happens. We also offer a free community version of Metasploit for small companies and students, as well as the open source framework, which is geared toward developers and security researchers. 

AppSpider 

AppSpider is a comprehensive dynamic application security testing solution that continuously analyzes web applications for security vulnerabilities and enhances organizations&#146; ability to effectively reduce IT security risk. The key features of AppSpider include: a universal translator to enable IT security professionals to analyze complex applications, including rich internet applications built using AJAX or GWT and web services such as REST and JSON; customized attack simulation capabilities that allow IT security professionals to automatically test complex business workflows such as shopping carts; scanning automation; live vulnerability reports and attack replay, which allows IT security professionals to replay vulnerabilities in real time in order to verify that vulnerabilities are exploitable and that successful remediation has occurred; continuous site monitoring, which detects changes in application ecosystems and triggers a re-scan according to configurable settings; and integration with protection technologies to automatically generate web application firewalls, or WAFs, custom rules that help to protect vulnerable applications while the vulnerabilities are being remediated. AppSpider supports most leading WAFs, including F5, Sourcefire and Imperva. AppSpider is offered through perpetual and term software licenses, on a cloud-based subscription basis or as a managed service. 

Incident Detection and Response 

Our incident detection and response solutions help IT security professionals detect and respond quickly and effectively to cyber attacks. These solutions leverage our unique understanding of the attacker and our proprietary risk-driven behavioral analysis to detect attacks. Our incident detection products are available to customers as a cloud-based subscription or as a managed service. We also provide incident response services to support our product offerings and provide customers with critical support and expertise in the wake of a breach. 

Our incident detection and response offerings include: 

InsightUBA 

InsightUBA (formerly known as UserInsight) is a cloud-based offering that enables customers to detect intruders quickly, reducing the probability that an incident becomes a breach. The product leverages our Insight Platform to quickly and easily collect data from across an organization&#146;s IT environment, including network data, endpoint data and information from mobile and other connected devices and cloud services. InsightUBA uses heuristic and behavioral analysis to create a behavioral profile for each user that can be used to identify anomalous activity, such as lateral movement across the network, which may suggest that an attacker is present. InsightUBA is designed to identify attacks such as those launched with compromised credentials as well as the use of common attack tools that other monitoring tools can miss. Once an incident has been identified, InsightUBA allows IT security professionals to perform a rapid and targeted review of relevant security data, going back months or years, so that a streamlined and effective response plan can be implemented quickly and efficiently. 

InsightIDR 

InsightIDR is a recently announced cloud based offering for comprehensive incident detection and response which will be available in the first quarter of 2016. InsightIDR combines behavior analytics and search with contextual data collection to help detect some of the stealthiest attacks. InsightIDR directly addresses the gaps 

&#160;

found in many of today&#146;s detection technologies, including SIEMs and IPSs and is powered by our Insight Platform, which simplifies and combines data collection, analytics, and search technology. The combination of these technologies can enable not only effective detection but also efficient investigation, so that organizations can rapidly go from compromise to containment. InsightIDR puts an organization&#146;s data at the IT security analyst&#146;s fingertips so an organization can improve investigation times, often at lower cost than with traditional solutions on the market. 

Analytic Response 

Analytic Response is a managed service that provides customers with threat detection by identifying known threats, certain unknown threats and intruder movement from the endpoint to the cloud. The service combines threat insight with sophisticated user and attacker behavior analytics and is monitored and managed by our security analysts, with experience in identifying dynamic threats and containing incidents to protect organizations. When a breach is identified with our Analytic Response services, our analysts pivot to incident response, providing security teams with detailed, easy-to-follow remediation step tailored to the environment. 

Incident Response Services 

Our incident response services give our customers access to our industry-leading security experts and experience, enabling customers to accelerate incident investigation and containment. Our incident response professionals collaborate with an organization&#146;s in-house IT security professionals on all stages of incident response from analysis and detection through containment, remediation and cleanup. 

Machine Data and Search 

As part of our incident detection and response solutions, our machine data and search offering enables IT professionals to centralize, search and monitor their log data in order to investigate anomalies, troubleshoot issues and conduct root cause analysis. This offering can be used for application debugging and performance monitoring, infrastructure monitoring and trouble-shooting, and log aggregation and reporting for compliance. 

Our machine data and search offering is: 

Logentries 

Logentries&#146; technology, acquired in October 2015, provides a powerful cloud-based solution for collecting, searching, visualizing and analyzing machine data and logs. Built-in tagging, alerting and reporting make it easy for customers to maintain a proactive view of their environment and identify anomalous events. Logentries&#146; scalable, cost-effective architecture enables organizations to store and search structured, semi-structured and unstructured data in real time. 

Security Advisory Services 

Our security advisory services help customers transform their organizations&#146; security programs to be relevant, actionable and sustainable through a data and analytics-driven cyber security program. Our security advisory services offerings include Cyber Security Maturity Assessment, Incident Response Program Development, Security Program Development, Security Assessment, Security Awareness Training and Threat Modeling. Customers can take control of their organizations&#146; security with help from our seasoned security professionals who have deep experience building and managing security programs, with expertise in vulnerability management, fraud detection, threat intelligence and incident response. 

Our security advisory services enhance our ability to serve as a trusted advisor in assisting organizations to think proactively about IT security and implement strategic, analytics-driven security strategies. We believe that our role as trusted advisor helps drive customer success and loyalty and further usage of our products. 

&#160;

Our Customers 

Our customer base has grown from approximately 1,750 customers at the end of 2011 to more than 5,100 customers as of December 31, 2015, in 99 countries, including 37% of the organizations in the Fortune 1000. We define a customer as any entity that has 1) an active Rapid7 contract or a contract that expired within 90 days or less of the applicable measurement date, 2) purchased Rapid7 professional services within the 12 months preceding the applicable measurement date or 3) an active subscription to our Logentries product with a contract value equal to or greater than $2,400 per year. We provide products and services to customers of varying sizes, including enterprises, non-profit organizations, educational institutions and government agencies. 58% of our revenue in 2015 was generated by large enterprises, which we define as organizations that have either annual revenue greater than $1.0 billion or more than 2,500 employees, and the balance was generated by middle-market businesses. Our customers span a wide variety of industries including technology, energy, financial services, healthcare and life sciences, manufacturing, media and entertainment, retail, education, real estate, transportation, government and professional services, with customers in the technology industry representing our largest industry in 2015 at 14% of our revenue. We believe that our business has low revenue exposure to individual customers. While our top five customers by revenue in 2015 were each party to multi-year aggregate deals with us ranging in value from $0.8 million to $2.8 million, each of these customers individually accounted for less than 1% of our total 2015 revenue, with 2015 revenue for each of these individual customers being between $0.6 million and $0.7 million. 

Rapid7&#146;s Community 

Our online community provides us with a rapidly growing network of active users and influencers who promote the usage of our software, identify cyber risks and provide technical support to each other. Our community includes paid customers of our software, users of our free community edition and open source Metasploit framework and security researchers and contributors to our Metasploit framework, which is used to simulate attacks and test an organization&#146;s defenses against real-world threats. 

The Metasploit project has an active community of contributors and users and was downloaded over 100,000 times in 2015. This online security community provides us with a robust and rapidly growing network of active users and influencers who promote the usage of our software. Security researchers contribute modules to the Metasploit framework that serve as a resource about real-world attacker techniques. The community also provides us with near real-time visibility into new cyber attacks as they occur and a deep understanding of attacker behaviors. In December 2015, the Metasploit framework ranked in the top-ten out of over 110,000 active ruby projects based on the number of projects with at least one fork, according to GitHub. 

We also operate a global scanning project that scans approximately 3.7 billion assets across the internet each week and makes the raw data available to the public for research, decision making and vulnerability prioritization. 

Technology Alliance Partnerships 

Our security data and analytics platform has the ability to leverage a broad partner ecosystem with over 75 technology platform integrations as of December 31, 2015. We allow other developers to access the security data that we collect and the powerful analytics that we provide. We also built our platform with the ability to leverage APIs and data collection from other technologies. This allows us to integrate with other IT and security technologies that our customer may already have in place in three primary ways. 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Data Collaboration . Our data collaboration integrations provide two-way data sharing to enhance our platform value. For example, we can ingest data from an existing SIEM technology and also share our analysis of user behavior activity with the SIEM technology. 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Data Workflow . Our data workflow integrations enable IT security integration to streamline the process of correction and improve efficiencies. For example, we make remediation data from our platform available to IT ticketing systems in order to drive operational efficiencies and tracking of IT performance. 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Data Ingestion . Our data ingestion integrations enhance our analytical capabilities by funneling increased volumes of security data to our platform. For example, we ingest firewall data into our platform, which allows us to better understand user activity in the context of attacks. 

We believe that these integrations with our technology alliance partners enhance the value of our platform to our customers. 

Sales and Marketing 

Our sales and marketing organizations collaborate to create brand preference, efficiently and effectively generate leads, build a strong sales pipeline and cultivate customer relationships to help drive revenue growth. Our go-to- market strategy consists of a strong thought-leadership program, digital marketing engine and a diversified sales organization designed to efficiently sell to organizations of all sizes. 

Sales 

We sell our products and services through direct inside and field sales team and indirect channel partner relationships. Our global sales teams focus on both new customer acquisition and up-selling and cross-selling additional and new offerings, respectively, to our existing customers. Our sales teams are organized by geography, consisting of the Americas; Europe, the Middle East and Africa, or EMEA; and Asia Pacific, or APAC, as well as by target organization size. Our inside sales team focuses on small and middle-market transactions, while larger or more complex transactions are generally handled by our globally distributed direct field sales teams. Our highly trained sales engineers help define customer use cases, manage solution evaluations and train channel partners. 

We maintain a global channel partner network that complements our sales organization. Our channel partner network expands our geographic sales reach by providing language support and broader distribution capabilities, particularly in key markets such as EMEA, APAC and Latin America. Our channel partners also provide us with additional leverage by assisting in closing customer transactions as part of larger security purchases, sourcing new prospects and securing maintenance renewals. Our sales force works directly with, and are involved in sales to, substantially all of the end customers of our channel partners and we sometimes engage a channel partner solely to assist with finalizing a purchase, for example, in the event a customer is working on broader software initiatives with that channel partner. 

We intend to continue investing in our international sales organization to continue to drive market penetration. We also have a dedicated sales teams focused on government and education customers, which covers U.S. federal, state and local government, as well as educational entities. 

Marketing 

We focus our marketing efforts on increasing the strength of the Rapid7 brand, communicating product advantages and business benefits, generating leads for our sales force and channel partners and driving product adoption. We deliver targeted content to demonstrate our thought leadership in security and use digital advertising methods to drive downloads of our free community and trial software, which deliver opportunities to our sales organization. We engage with existing customers to provide community-based education and awareness and to promote expanded use of our software within these customers. We work with our own researchers, as well as the broader security community, to share important information about vulnerabilities and threats. We share that research through our active online community, social media and traditional public relations. In addition, we host regional and national events to engage both customers and prospects, deliver product training and foster community collaboration. 

Sales and marketing expense totaled $67.4 million, $49.0 million and $31.8 million for 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. 

&#160;

Research and Development 

We invest substantial resources in research and development to enhance our core technology platform and products, develop new end market-specific solutions and applications, and conduct product and quality assurance testing. Our technical and engineering team monitors and tests our products on a regular basis, and we maintain a regular release process to refine, update, and enhance our existing products. We also have a team of experienced security researchers who work to keep us abreast of the latest developments in the cyber security landscape. Our research and development teams are distributed globally and are located in our offices in Cambridge, Austin, Los Angeles, Toronto, Dublin and Belfast providing us with a broad, worldwide reach to engineering talent. Research and development expense totaled $38.7 million, $25.6 million and $21.4 million for 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. 

Our Competition 

The market for cyber security solutions is highly fragmented, intensely competitive and constantly evolving. We compete with an array of established and emerging security software and services vendors. With the introduction of new technologies and market entrants, we expect the competitive environment to remain intense going forward. Our competitors include: vulnerability management and assessment vendors, including Qualys and Tenable Network Security; diversified security software and services vendors, including IBM and HP; legacy compliance and monitoring solutions such as SIEM, including those provided by LogRhythm and Alienvault; security services specialists, including Mandiant (a subsidiary of FireEye); and providers of point solutions that compete with some of the features present in our solutions. 

We compete on the basis of a number of factors, including: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; product functionality; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; breadth of offerings; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; performance; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; brand name, reputation and customer satisfaction; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; ease of implementation, use and maintenance; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; total cost of ownership; and 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; scalability, reliability and security. 

We believe that we compete favorably with respect to all of these factors and that we are well positioned as a leading provider of cyber security and data analytics products and professional services. 

Intellectual Property 

Our future success and competitive position depend in part on our ability to protect our intellectual property and proprietary technologies. To safeguard these rights, we rely on a combination of patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws and contractual protections in the United States and other jurisdictions. 

As of December 31, 2015, we had five issued patents and 17 patent applications pending in the United States relating to our products. We cannot assure you that any patents will issue from any patent applications, that patents that issue from such applications will give us the protection that we seek or that any such patents will not be challenged, invalidated, or circumvented. Any patents that may issue in the future from our pending or future patent applications may not provide sufficiently broad protection and may not be enforceable in actions against alleged infringers. 

&#160;

We have registered the &#147;Rapid7,&#148; &#147;Nexpose&#148; and &#147;Metasploit&#148; names and logos in the United States and certain other countries. We have registrations and/or pending applications for additional marks in the United States and other countries; however, we cannot assure you that any future trademark registrations will be issued for pending or future applications or that any registered trademarks will be enforceable or provide adequate protection of our proprietary rights. 

We also license software from third parties for integration into our offerings, including open source software and other software available on commercially reasonable terms. We cannot assure you that such third parties will maintain such software or continue to make it available. 

We are the registered holder of a variety of domestic and international domain names that include rapid7.com and metasploit.com, as well as similar variations on those names. 

In order to protect our unpatented proprietary technologies and processes, we rely on trade secret laws and confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, channel partners, vendors and others. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary technology and trade secrets, unauthorized parties may attempt to misappropriate, reverse engineer or otherwise obtain and use them. In addition, others may independently discover our trade secrets, in which case we would not be able to assert trade secret rights, or develop similar technologies and processes. Further, the contractual provisions that we enter into may not prevent unauthorized use or disclosure of our proprietary technology or intellectual property rights and may not provide an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of our proprietary technology or intellectual property rights. 

If we become more successful, we believe that competitors will be more likely to try to develop solutions and services that are similar to ours and that may infringe our proprietary rights. It may also be more likely that competitors or other third parties will claim that our platform and products infringe their proprietary rights. 

Patent and other intellectual property disputes are common in our industry and we have been involved in such disputes from time to time in the ordinary course of our business. Some companies, including some of our competitors, own large numbers of patents, copyrights and trademarks, which they may use to assert claims against us. Third parties may in the future assert claims of infringement, misappropriation or other violations of intellectual property rights against us. They may also assert such claims against our customers or channel partners whom we typically indemnify against claims that our solutions infringe, misappropriate or otherwise violate the intellectual property rights of third parties. As the numbers of products and competitors in our market increase and overlaps occur, claims of infringement, misappropriation and other violations of intellectual property rights may increase. Any claim of infringement, misappropriation or other violation of intellectual property rights by a third party, even those without merit, could cause us to incur substantial costs defending against the claim and could distract our management from our business. 

Government Regulation 

Like other U.S.-based IT security products, our products are subject to U.S. export control laws and regulations, specifically the Export Administration Regulations, or EAR, U.S. economic and trade sanctions regulations, and applicable foreign government import, export, and use requirements. Certain of our products are subject to encryption controls under the EAR due to the nature of the product and/or its use or incorporation of encryption functionality. Under the encryption controls in the EAR, applicable products may only be exported outside of the United States with required export authorizations, including by a license, a license exception or other appropriate government authorizations. To qualify for this authorization, developers of encryption products are generally required to file an encryption registration, and in some cases subject their encryption product to a one-time technical review. In addition to the restrictions under the EAR, U.S. export control laws and economic sanctions prohibit the export of certain products and services to countries, governments, entities or persons subject to U.S. embargoes or trade sanctions. 

&#160;

We believe that we have completed the necessary technical reviews of the products and services that we currently export, but new products that we acquire or develop may require technical review before we can export them. In addition, some of our products are subject to an export license requirement when shipped to certain foreign government end users. We would need to apply for these individual licenses on a case-by-case basis, the acceptance and granting of which may be issued at the discretion of the U.S. Department of Commerce. 

We previously deployed certain of our products prior to obtaining the required export authorizations under the EAR. In addition, we are aware of exports of certain of our software products to persons and organizations in countries that are the subject of U.S. embargoes. We initiated and filed a voluntary self-disclosure with the U.S. Department of Commerce&#146;s Bureau of Industry and Security, or BIS, in September 2014 regarding our previous failure to obtain required export authorizations under the EAR for these historical downloads, as well as exports to embargoed countries, namely Cuba, Iran, Sudan and Syria. We filed a supplement to the voluntary disclosure to BIS in March 2015 with additional information regarding unauthorized apparent historical exports of software to certain foreign government end users. Also in March 2015, we filed a voluntary self-disclosure with the U.S. Department of Treasury&#146;s Office of Foreign Assets Control, or OFAC, concerning exports of free and trial versions of software to Cuba, Iran, Sudan and Syria. As these transactions involved free downloads of our software, we did not derive any revenue from such transactions. On May 22, 2015, OFAC determined not to pursue a civil monetary penalty against us and issued us a Cautionary Letter to resolve our voluntary self- disclosure regarding the free downloads in embargoed countries. The voluntary self-disclosure submitted to BIS currently remains under review and we are fully cooperating with BIS. We have also been improving our procedures for screening transactions to ensure compliance with U.S. export control and trade sanctions laws and have restricted the ability of individuals or entities outside of the United States and Canada to download our free Metasploit products absent pre-screening. 

In addition, there is currently a multinational effort underway as part of the Wassenaar Arrangement on Export Controls for Conventional Arms and Dual-Use Goods and Technologies, or the Wassenaar Arrangement, to impose additional restrictions on specified intrusion software, which may encompass our commercial Metasploit products. These controls are not currently in effect in the United States and may undergo substantial modification before becoming effective. To implement the controls under the Wassenaar Arrangement in the United States, BIS would have to amend the EAR. Such amendments could include changes that impose new licensing, approval and other requirements on our commercial Metasploit products and thereby put us at a disadvantage in competing for international sales. We are closely monitoring the potential implications of the Wassenaar Arrangement on the commercial versions of Metasploit, and are actively working with BIS and other U.S. government stakeholders in connection with the implementation of the controls under the Wassenaar Arrangement. 

Employees 

As of December 31, 2015, we had 756 full-time employees, including 140 in product delivery and support, 314 in sales and marketing, 205 in research and development and 97 in general and administrative. As of December 31, 2015, we had 576 full-time employees in the United States and 180 full-time employees internationally. None of our U.S. employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. We believe our employee relations are good and we have not experienced any work stoppages. 

Corporate Information 

We were initially incorporated in July 2000 in Delaware. Rapid7 LLC, a limited liability company organized under the laws of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, was formed in January 2004. In August 2004, pursuant to an exchange agreement among Rapid7 LLC and the stockholders of Rapid7, Inc., the stockholders exchanged their shares in Rapid7, Inc. for equity interests in Rapid7 LLC, after which Rapid7, Inc. was dissolved. In August 2008, Rapid7 LLC was merged with and into Rapid7 LLC, a newly-formed Delaware limited liability company. Rapid7, Inc. was reincorporated in Delaware in October 2011. In a series of transactions in November 2011, equity holders of Rapid7 LLC exchanged their equity interests in Rapid7 LLC for capital stock in Rapid7, Inc. and Rapid7 LLC became a wholly-owned subsidiary of Rapid7, Inc. 

&#160;

Our principal executive offices are located at 100 Summer Street, Boston, Massachusetts. Our telephone number is (617) 247-1717. Our website address is www.rapid7.com. The information contained on, or that can be accessed through, our website is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

&#147;Rapid7,&#148; the Rapid7 logo, and other trademarks or service marks of Rapid7, Inc. appearing in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are the property of Rapid7, Inc. This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains additional trade names, trademarks and service marks of others, which are the property of their respective owners. Solely for convenience, trademarks and trade names referred to in this Annual Report on Form 10-K may appear without the &#174; or TM symbols. 

Geographic Information 

For a description of our revenue and long-lived assets by geographic location, see Note 15 of the Notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Available Information 

Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to reports filed pursuant to Sections 13(a) and 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, are made available free of charge on or through our website at www.investors.rapid7.com as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. The SEC also maintains a website, www.sec.gov , which contains reports and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. The public may read and copy any files with the SEC Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling 1-800-SEC-0330. We are not, however, including the information contained on our website, or information that may be accessed through links on our website, as part of, or incorporating such information by reference into, this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

