 ITEM 1. 

BUSINESS

Development of Business

Suburban Propane Partners, L.P. (the &#8220;Partnership&#8221;), a publicly traded Delaware limited partnership, is a nationwide marketer and distributor of a diverse array of products meeting the energy needs of our customers. We specialize in the distribution of propane, fuel oil and refined fuels, as well as the marketing of natural gas and electricity in deregulated markets. In support of our core marketing and distribution operations, we install and service a variety of home comfort equipment, particularly in the areas of heating and ventilation. We believe, based on LP/Gas Magazine dated February 2016, that we are the third largest retail marketer of propane in the United States, measured by retail gallons sold in the calendar year 2015. As of September 24, 2016, we were serving the energy needs of approximately 1.1 million residential, commercial, industrial and agricultural customers through 675 locations in 41 states with operations principally concentrated in the east and west coast regions of the United States, as well as portions of the midwest region of the United States and Alaska. We sold approximately 414.8 million gallons of propane and 30.9 million gallons of fuel oil and refined fuels to retail customers during the year ended September 24, 2016. Together with our predecessor companies, we have been continuously engaged in the retail propane business since 1928.

We conduct our business principally through Suburban Propane, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership, which operates our propane business and assets (the &#8220;Operating Partnership&#8221;), and its direct and indirect subsidiaries. Our general partner, and the general partner of our Operating Partnership, is Suburban Energy Services Group LLC (the &#8220;General Partner&#8221;), a Delaware limited liability company whose sole member is the Chief Executive Officer of the Partnership. Since October 19, 2006, the General Partner has no economic interest in either the Partnership or the Operating Partnership (which means that the General Partner is not entitled to any cash distributions of either partnership, nor to any cash payment upon the liquidation of either partnership, nor any other economic rights in either partnership) other than as a holder of 784 Common Units of the Partnership. Additionally, under the Third Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited Partnership (the &#8220;Partnership Agreement&#8221;) of the Partnership, there are no incentive distribution rights for the benefit of the General Partner. The Partnership owns (directly and indirectly) all of the limited partner interests in the Operating Partnership. The Common Units represent 100% of the limited partner interests in the Partnership.

On August 1, 2012 (the &#8220;Acquisition Date&#8221;), we acquired the sole membership interest in Inergy Propane, LLC, including certain wholly-owned subsidiaries of Inergy Propane LLC, and the assets of Inergy Sales and Service, Inc. (the &#8220;Inergy Propane Acquisition&#8221;). The acquired interests and assets are collectively referred to as &#8220;Inergy Propane.&#8221; As of the Acquisition Date, Inergy Propane consisted of the former retail propane assets and operations, as well as the assets and operations of the refined fuels business, of Inergy, L.P. (&#8220;Inergy&#8221;), a publicly traded limited partnership at the time of the acquisition. On the Acquisition Date, Inergy Propane and its remaining wholly-owned subsidiaries which we acquired in the Inergy Propane Acquisition became subsidiaries of our Operating Partnership, but were merged into the Operating Partnership on April 30, 2013. The results of operations of Inergy Propane are included in the Partnership&#8217;s results of operations beginning on the Acquisition Date.

Direct and indirect subsidiaries of the Operating Partnership include Suburban Heating Oil Partners, LLC, which owns and operates the assets of our fuel oil and refined fuels business; Agway Energy Services, LLC, which owns and operates the assets of our natural gas and electricity business; and Suburban Sales and Service, Inc., which conducts a portion of our service work and appliance and parts business. Our fuel oil and refined fuels, natural gas and electricity and services businesses are structured as either limited liability companies that are treated as corporations or corporate entities (collectively referred to as &#8220;Corporate Entities&#8221;) and, as such, are subject to corporate level income tax.

Suburban Energy Finance Corp., a direct 100%-owned subsidiary of the Partnership, was formed on November 26, 2003 to serve as co-issuer, jointly and severally with the Partnership, of the Partnership&#8217;s senior notes. Suburban Energy Finance Corp. has nominal assets and conducts no business operations.

In this Annual Report, unless otherwise indicated, the terms &#8220;Partnership,&#8221; &#8220;Suburban,&#8221; &#8220;we,&#8221; &#8220;us,&#8221; and &#8220;our&#8221; are used to refer to Suburban Propane Partners, L.P. and its consolidated subsidiaries, including the Operating Partnership. The Partnership and the Operating Partnership commenced operations in March 1996 in connection with the Partnership&#8217;s initial public offering of Common Units.

We currently file Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K with the SEC. You may read and receive copies of any materials that we file with the SEC at the SEC&#8217;s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. You may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. Any information filed by us is also available on the SEC&#8217;s EDGAR database at www.sec.gov .

Upon written request or through an information request link from our website at www.suburbanpropane.com , we will provide, without charge, copies of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended September 24, 2016, each of the Quarterly Reports on 

&#160;

Form 10-Q, current reports filed or furnished o n Form 8-K and all amendments to such reports as soon as is reasonably practicable after such reports are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. Requests should be directed to: Suburban Propane Partners, L.P., Investor Relations, P.O. Box 206 , Whippany, New Jersey 07981-0206. The information contained on our website is not included as part of, or incorporated by reference into, this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Our Strategy

Our business strategy is to deliver increasing value to our Unitholders through initiatives, both internal and external, that are geared toward achieving sustainable profitable growth and steady or increased quarterly distributions. The following are key elements of our strategy:

Internal Focus on Driving Operating Efficiencies, Right-Sizing Our Cost Structure and Enhancing Our Customer Mix. We focus internally on improving the efficiency of our existing operations, managing our cost structure and improving our customer mix. Through investments in our technology infrastructure, we continue to seek to improve operating efficiencies and the return on assets employed. We have developed a streamlined operating footprint and management structure to facilitate effective resource planning and decision making. Our internal efforts are particularly focused in the areas of route optimization, forecasting customer usage, inventory control, cash management and customer tracking. We will continue to pursue operational efficiencies while staying focused on providing exceptional service to our customer base. Our systems platform is advanced and scalable and we will seek to leverage that technology for enhanced routing, forecasting and customer relationship management. 

Growing Our Customer Base by Improving Customer Retention and Acquiring New Customers. We set clear objectives to focus our employees on seeking new customers and retaining existing customers by providing highly responsive customer service. We believe that customer satisfaction is a critical factor in the growth and success of our operations. &#8220;Our Business is Customer Satisfaction&#8221; is one of our core operating philosophies. We measure and reward our customer service centers based on a combination of profitability of the individual customer service center and net customer growth. We have made investments in training our people both on techniques to provide exceptional customer service to our existing customer base, as well as advanced sales training focused on growing our customer base. 

Selective Acquisitions of Complementary Businesses or Assets. Externally, we seek to extend our presence or diversify our product offerings through selective acquisitions. Our acquisition strategy is to focus on businesses with a relatively steady cash flow that will extend our presence in strategically attractive markets, complement our existing business segments or provide an opportunity to diversify our operations. We are very patient and deliberate in evaluating acquisition candidates. 

Selective Disposition of Non-Strategic Assets. We continuously evaluate our existing facilities to identify opportunities to optimize our return on assets by selectively divesting operations in slower growing markets, generating proceeds that can be reinvested in markets that present greater opportunities for growth. Our objective is to maximize the growth and profit potential of all of our assets. 

Business Segments

We manage and evaluate our operations in four operating segments, three of which are reportable segments: Propane, Fuel Oil and Refined Fuels and Natural Gas and Electricity. These business segments are described below. See the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report for financial information about our business segments.

Propane

Propane is a by&#8209;product of natural gas processing and petroleum refining. It is a clean burning energy source recognized for its transportability and ease of use relative to alternative forms of stand&#8209;alone energy sources. Propane use falls into three broad categories:

&#160;

&#8226; 

residential and commercial applications; 

&#160;

&#8226; 

industrial applications; and 

&#160;

&#8226; 

agricultural uses. 

In the residential and commercial markets, propane is used primarily for space heating, water heating, clothes drying and cooking. Industrial customers use propane generally as a motor fuel to power over&#8209;the&#8209;road vehicles, forklifts and stationary engines, to fire furnaces, as a cutting gas and in other process applications. In the agricultural market, propane is primarily used for tobacco curing, crop drying, poultry brooding and weed control.

&#160;

Propane is extracted from natural gas or oil wellhead gas at processing plants or separated from crude oil during the refining process. It is normally transported and stored in a li quid state under moderate pressure or refrigeration for ease of handling in shipping and distribution. When the pressure is released or the temperature is increased, propane becomes a flammable gas that is colorless and odorless, although an odorant is ad ded to allow its detection. Propane is clean burning and, when consumed, produces only negligible amounts of pollutants. 

Product Distribution and Marketing

We distribute propane through a nationwide retail distribution network consisting of approximately 660 locations in 41 states as of September 24, 2016. Our operations are principally concentrated in the east and west coast regions of the United States, as well as portions of the midwest region of the United States and Alaska. As of September 24, 2016, we serviced approximately 942,000 propane customers. Typically, our customer service centers are located in suburban and rural areas where natural gas is not readily available. Generally, these customer service centers consist of an office, appliance showroom, warehouse and service facilities, with one or more 18,000 to 30,000 gallon storage tanks on the premises. Most of our residential customers receive their propane supply through an automatic delivery system. These deliveries are scheduled through proprietary computer technology, based upon each customer&#8217;s historical consumption patterns and prevailing weather conditions. Additionally, we offer our customers a budget payment plan whereby the customer&#8217;s estimated annual propane purchases and service contracts are paid for in a series of estimated equal monthly payments over a twelve-month period. From our customer service centers, we also sell, install and service equipment to customers who purchase propane from us including heating and cooking appliances and, at some locations, propane fuel systems for motor vehicles.

We sell propane primarily to six customer markets: residential, commercial, industrial (including engine fuel), agricultural, other retail users and wholesale. Approximately 95% of the propane gallons sold by us in fiscal 2016 were to retail customers: 45% to residential customers, 27% to commercial customers, 9% to industrial customers, 5% to agricultural customers and 14% to other retail users. The balance of approximately 5% of the propane gallons sold by us in fiscal 2016 was for risk management activities and wholesale customers. No single customer accounted for 10% or more of our propane revenues during fiscal 2016.

Retail deliveries of propane are usually made to customers by means of bobtail and rack trucks. Propane is pumped from bobtail trucks, which have capacities typically ranging from 2,400 gallons to 3,500 gallons of propane, into a stationary storage tank on the customers&#8217; premises. The capacity of these storage tanks ranges from approximately 100 gallons to approximately 1,200 gallons, with a typical tank having a capacity of 300 to 400 gallons. As is common in the propane industry, we own a significant portion of the storage tanks located on our customers&#8217; premises. We also deliver propane to retail customers in portable cylinders, which typically have a capacity of 5 to 35 gallons. When these cylinders are delivered to customers, empty cylinders are refilled in place or transported for replenishment at our distribution locations. We also deliver propane to certain other bulk end users in larger trucks known as transports, which have an average capacity of approximately 9,000 gallons. End users receiving transport deliveries include industrial customers, large&#8209;scale heating accounts, such as local gas utilities that use propane as a supplemental fuel to meet peak load delivery requirements, and large agricultural accounts that use propane for crop drying.

Supply

Our propane supply is purchased from approximately 40 oil companies and natural gas processors at approximately 180 supply points located in the United States and Canada. We make purchases primarily under one-year agreements that are subject to annual renewal, and also purchase propane on the spot market. Supply contracts generally provide for pricing in accordance with posted prices at the time of delivery or the current prices established at major storage points, and some contracts include a pricing formula that typically is based on prevailing market prices. Some of these agreements provide maximum and minimum seasonal purchase guidelines. Propane is generally transported from refineries, pipeline terminals, storage facilities (including our storage facility in Elk Grove, California) and coastal terminals to our customer service centers by a combination of common carriers, owner&#8209;operators and railroad tank cars. See Item 2 of this Annual Report.

Historically, supplies of propane have been readily available from our supply sources. However, during the fiscal 2014 heating season, we were adversely affected by supply constraints resulting from industry-wide supply shortages and logistics issues involving propane transportation sourcing and costs. Nevertheless, through relationships with our suppliers and extraordinary efforts by our supply and logistics personnel, we were able to effectively manage the challenging environment in fiscal 2014 without a material disruption in supply. Such supply shortages and logistics issues were not repeated during fiscal 2015 or fiscal 2016. Although we make no assurance regarding the availability of supplies of propane in the future, we currently expect to be able to secure adequate supplies during fiscal 2017. During fiscal 2016, Crestwood Equity Partners L.P. (&#8220;Crestwood&#8221;), Targa Liquids Marketing and Trade LLC (&#8220;Targa&#8221;), Enterprise Products Partners L.P. (&#8220;Enterprise&#8221;) and Phillips 66 Company (&#8220;Phillips&#8221;) provided approximately 19%, 14%, 13% and 10% of our total propane purchases, respectively. No other single supplier accounted for more than 10% of our propane purchases in fiscal 2016. The availability of our propane supply is dependent on several factors, including the severity of winter weather, the magnitude of competing demands for available supply (e.g., crop drying and exports), the availability of 

&#160;

transportation and storage infrastructure and the price and availability of competing fuels, such as natural gas and fuel oil. We believe that if supplies from Cre stwood, Enterprise, Targa or Phillips were interrupted, we would be able to secure adequate propane supplies from other sources without a material disruption of our operations. Nevertheless, the cost of acquiring and transporting such propane might be hig her and, at least on a short-term basis, our margins could be affected. Approximately 91% of our total propane purchases were from domestic suppliers in fiscal 2016 . 

We seek to reduce the effect of propane price volatility on our product costs and to help ensure the availability of propane during periods of short supply. We are currently a party to forward and option contracts with various third parties to purchase and sell propane at fixed prices in the future. These activities are monitored by our senior management through enforcement of our Hedging and Risk Management Policy. See Items 7 and 7A of this Annual Report.

We own and operate a large propane storage facility in Elk Grove, California. We also operate smaller storage facilities in other locations and have rights to use storage facilities in additional locations. These storage facilities enable us to buy and store large quantities of propane particularly during periods of low demand, which generally occur during the summer months. This practice helps ensure a more secure supply of propane during periods of intense demand or price instability. As of September 24, 2016, the majority of the storage capacity at our facility in Elk Grove, California was leased to third parties.

Competition

According to the US Census Bureau&#8217;s 2015 American Community Survey, propane ranks as the fourth most important source of residential energy in the nation, with about 5% of all households using propane as their primary space heating fuel. This level has not changed materially over the previous two decades. As an energy source, propane competes primarily with natural gas, electricity and fuel oil, principally on the basis of price, availability and portability.

Propane is more expensive than natural gas on an equivalent British Thermal Unit (&#8220;BTU&#8221;) basis in locations serviced by natural gas, but it is an alternative or supplement to natural gas in rural and suburban areas where natural gas is unavailable or portability of product is required. Historically, the expansion of natural gas into traditional propane markets has been inhibited by the capital costs required to expand pipeline and retail distribution systems. Although the extension of natural gas pipelines to previously unserved geographic areas tends to displace propane distribution in those areas, we believe new opportunities for propane sales may arise as new neighborhoods are developed in geographically remote areas. However, over the last few years, fewer new housing developments have been started in our service areas as a result of recent economic circumstances. The increasing availability of natural gas extracted from shale deposits in the United States may accelerate the extension of natural gas pipelines in the future.

Propane has some relative advantages over other energy sources. For example, in certain geographic areas, propane is generally less expensive to use than electricity for space heating, water heating, clothes drying and cooking. Utilization of fuel oil is geographically limited (primarily in the northeast), and even in that region, propane and fuel oil are not significant competitors because of the cost of converting from one to the other.

In addition to competing with suppliers of other energy sources, our propane operations compete with other retail propane distributors. The retail propane industry is highly fragmented and competition generally occurs on a local basis with other large full-service multi-state propane marketers, thousands of smaller local independent marketers and farm cooperatives. Based on industry statistics contained in 2014 Sales of Natural Gas Liquids and Liquefied Refinery Gases , as published by the American Petroleum Institute in January 2016, and LP/Gas Magazine dated February 2016, the ten largest retailers, including us, account for approximately 36% of the total retail sales of propane in the United States. Each of our customer service centers operates in its own competitive environment because retail marketers tend to locate in close proximity to customers in order to lower the cost of providing service. Our typical customer service center has an effective marketing radius of approximately 50 miles, although in certain areas the marketing radius may be extended by one or more satellite offices. Most of our customer service centers compete with five or more marketers or distributors.

Fuel Oil and Refined Fuels

Product Distribution and Marketing

We market and distribute fuel oil, kerosene, diesel fuel and gasoline to approximately 48,000 residential and commercial customers primarily in the northeast region of the United States. Sales of fuel oil and refined fuels for fiscal 2016 amounted to 30.9 million gallons. Approximately 66% of the fuel oil and refined fuels gallons sold by us in fiscal 2016 were to residential customers, principally for home heating, 7% were to commercial customers, and 6% to other users. Sales of diesel and gasoline accounted for the remaining 21% of total volumes sold in this segment during fiscal 2016. Fuel oil has a more limited use, compared to propane, and is used almost exclusively for space and water heating in residential and commercial buildings. We sell diesel fuel and gasoline to commercial and industrial customers for use primarily to operate motor vehicles.

&#160;

Approx imately 45% of our fuel oil customers receive their fuel oil under an automatic delivery system. These deliveries are scheduled through proprietary computer technology, based upon each customer&#8217;s historical consumption patterns and prevailing weather cond itions. Additionally, we offer our customers a budget payment plan whereby the customer&#8217;s estimated annual fuel oil purchases are paid for in a series of estimated equal monthly payments over a twelve-month period. From our customer service centers, we a lso sell, install and service equipment to customers who purchase fuel oil from us including heating appliances. 

Deliveries of fuel oil are usually made to customers by means of tankwagon trucks, which have capacities ranging from 2,500 gallons to 3,000 gallons. Fuel oil is pumped from the tankwagon truck into a stationary storage tank that is located on the customer&#8217;s premises, which is owned by the customer. The capacity of customer storage tanks ranges from approximately 275 gallons to approximately 1,000 gallons. No single customer accounted for 10% or more of our fuel oil revenues during fiscal 2016.

Supply

We obtain fuel oil and other refined fuels in pipeline, truckload or tankwagon quantities, and have contracts with certain pipeline and terminal operators for the right to temporarily store fuel oil at 14 terminal facilities we do not own. We have arrangements with certain suppliers of fuel oil, which provide open access to fuel oil at specific terminals throughout the northeast. Additionally, a portion of our purchases of fuel oil are made at local wholesale terminal racks. In most cases, the supply contracts do not establish the price of fuel oil in advance; rather, prices are typically established based upon market prices at the time of delivery plus or minus a differential for transportation and volume discounts. We purchase fuel oil from approximately 30 suppliers at approximately 50 supply points. While fuel oil supply is more susceptible to longer periods of supply constraint than propane, we believe that our supply arrangements will provide us with sufficient supply sources. Although we make no assurance regarding the availability of supplies of fuel oil in the future, we currently expect to be able to secure adequate supplies during fiscal 2017.

Competition

The fuel oil industry is a mature industry with total demand expected to remain relatively flat to moderately declining. The fuel oil industry is highly fragmented, characterized by a large number of relatively small, independently owned and operated local distributors. We compete with other fuel oil distributors offering a broad range of services and prices, from full service distributors to those that solely offer the delivery service. We have developed a wide range of sales programs and service offerings for our fuel oil customer base in an attempt to be viewed as a full service energy provider and to build customer loyalty. For instance, like most companies in the fuel oil business, we provide home heating equipment repair service to our fuel oil customers on a 24-hour a day basis. The fuel oil business unit also competes for retail customers with suppliers of alternative energy sources, principally natural gas, propane and electricity.

Natural Gas and Electricity

We market natural gas and electricity through our 100%-owned subsidiary, Agway Energy Services, LLC (&#8220;AES&#8221;), in the deregulated markets of New York and Pennsylvania primarily to residential and small commercial customers. Historically, local utility companies provided their customers with all three aspects of electric and natural gas service: generation, transmission and distribution. However, under deregulation, public utility commissions in several states are licensing energy service companies, such as AES, to act as alternative suppliers of the commodity to end consumers. In essence, we make arrangements for the supply of electricity or natural gas to specific delivery points. The local utility companies continue to distribute electricity and natural gas on their distribution systems. The business strategy of this segment is to expand its market share by concentrating on growth in the customer base and expansion into other deregulated markets that are considered strategic markets.

We serve approximately 80,000 natural gas and electricity customers in New York and Pennsylvania. During fiscal 2016, we sold approximately 2.8 million dekatherms of natural gas and 443.3 million kilowatt hours of electricity through the natural gas and electricity segment. Approximately 86% of our customers were residential households and the remainder were small commercial and industrial customers. New accounts are obtained through numerous marketing and advertising programs, including telemarketing and direct mail initiatives. Most local utility companies have established billing service arrangements whereby customers receive a single bill from the local utility company which includes distribution charges from the local utility company, as well as product charges for the amount of natural gas or electricity provided by AES and utilized by the customer. We have arrangements with several local utility companies that provide billing and collection services for a fee. Under these arrangements, we are paid by the local utility company for all or a portion of customer billings after a specified number of days following the customer billing with no further recourse to AES.

Supply of natural gas is arranged through annual supply agreements with major national wholesale suppliers. Pricing under the annual natural gas supply contracts is based on posted market prices at the time of delivery, and some contracts include a pricing formula that typically is based on prevailing market prices. The majority of our electricity requirements are purchased through the 

&#160;

New York Independent System Operator (&#8220;NYISO&#8221;) under an annual supply agreement, as well as purchase arrangements through ot her national wholesale suppliers on the open market. Electricity pricing under the NYISO agreement is based on local market indices at the time of delivery. Competition is primarily with local utility companies, as well as other marketers of natural gas and electricity providing similar alternatives as AES. 

All Other

We sell, install and service various types of whole-house heating products, air cleaners, humidifiers and space heaters to the customers of our propane, fuel oil, natural gas and electricity businesses. Our supply needs are filled through supply arrangements with several large regional equipment manufacturers and distribution companies. Competition in this business segment is primarily with small, local heating and ventilation providers and contractors, as well as, to a lesser extent, other regional service providers. The focus of our ongoing service offerings are in support of the service needs of our existing customer base within our propane, refined fuels and natural gas and electricity business segments. Additionally, we have entered into arrangements with third-party service providers to complement and, in certain instances, supplement our existing service capabilities.

Seasonality

The retail propane and fuel oil distribution businesses, as well as the natural gas marketing business, are seasonal because the primary use of these fuels is for heating residential and commercial buildings. Historically, approximately two&#8209;thirds of our retail propane volume is sold during the six-month peak heating season from October through March. The fuel oil business tends to experience greater seasonality given its more limited use for space heating, and approximately three-fourths of our fuel oil volumes are sold between October and March. Consequently, sales and operating profits are concentrated in our first and second fiscal quarters. Cash flows from operations, therefore, are greatest during the second and third fiscal quarters when customers pay for product purchased during the winter heating season. We expect lower operating profits and either net losses or lower net income during the period from April through September (our third and fourth fiscal quarters).

Weather conditions have a significant impact on the demand for our products, in particular propane, fuel oil and natural gas, for both heating and agricultural purposes. Many of our customers rely on propane, fuel oil or natural gas primarily as a heating source. Accordingly, the volume sold is directly affected by the severity of the winter weather in our service areas, which can vary substantially from year to year. In any given area, sustained warmer than normal temperatures will tend to result in reduced propane, fuel oil and natural gas consumption, while sustained colder than normal temperatures will tend to result in greater consumption.

Trademarks and Tradenames

We utilize a variety of trademarks and tradenames owned by us, including &#8220;Suburban Propane.&#8221; We regard our trademarks, tradenames and other proprietary rights as valuable assets and believe that they have significant value in the marketing of our products and services.

Government Regulation; Environmental, Health and Safety Matters

We are subject to various federal, state and local environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. Generally, these laws impose limitations on the discharge of hazardous materials and pollutants and establish standards for the handling, transportation, treatment, storage and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes and can require the investigation, cleanup or monitoring of environmental contamination. These laws include the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (&#8220;CERCLA&#8221;), the Clean Air Act, the Occupational Safety and Health Act, the Emergency Planning and Community Right to Know Act, the Clean Water Act and comparable state statutes. CERCLA, also known as the &#8220;Superfund&#8221; law, imposes joint and several liability without regard to fault or the legality of the original conduct on certain classes of persons that are considered to have contributed to the release or threatened release of a &#8220;hazardous substance&#8221; into the environment. Propane is not a hazardous substance within the meaning of CERCLA, whereas some constituents contained in fuel oil are considered hazardous substances. We own real property at locations where such hazardous substances may be or may have been present as a result of prior activities.

We expect that we will be required to expend funds to participate in the remediation of certain sites, including sites where we have been designated as a potentially responsible party under CERCLA or comparable state statutes and at sites with aboveground and underground fuel storage tanks. We will also incur other expenses associated with environmental compliance. We continually monitor our operations with respect to potential environmental issues, including changes in legal requirements and remediation technologies.

&#160;

Through an acquisition in fiscal 2004, and in the Inergy Propane Acquisition, we acquired certain properties with either known or probable environmental exposure, some of which are currently in varying stages of investigation, remediation or monitoring. Additionally, certain of the active sites acquired contained environmental conditions which required further investigation, future remediation or ongoing monitoring activities. The environmental exposures included instances of soil , groundwater and/or other impacts associated with the handling and storag e of fuel oil, gasoline and diesel fuel. With respect to certain of the properties acquired in the Inergy Propane Acquisition, Inergy (now known as Crestwood Equity Partners LP) is contractually obligated to indemnify us for the costs associated with the investigation, monitoring, remediation and/or resolution of identified conditions. As of September 24, 2016 , we had accrued environmental liabilities of $ 0.6 million representing the total estimated future liability for remediation and monitoring of all o f our properties. 

Estimating the extent of our responsibility at a particular site, and the method and ultimate cost of remediation and monitoring of that site, requires making numerous assumptions. As a result, the ultimate cost to remediate and monitor any site may differ from current estimates, and will depend, in part, on whether there is additional contamination, not currently known to us, at that site. However, we believe that our past experience provides a reasonable basis for estimating these liabilities. As additional information becomes available, estimates are adjusted as necessary. While we do not anticipate that any such adjustment would be material to our financial statements, the result of ongoing or future environmental studies or other factors could alter this expectation and require recording additional liabilities. We currently cannot determine whether we will incur additional liabilities or the extent or amount of any such liabilities, or the extent to which such additional liabilities would be subject to the contractual indemnification of Inergy.

National Fire Protection Association (&#8220;NFPA&#8221;) Pamphlet Nos. 54 and 58, which establish rules and procedures governing the safe handling of propane, or comparable regulations, have been adopted, in whole, in part or with state addenda, as the industry standard for propane storage, distribution and equipment installation and operation in all of the states in which we operate. In some states these laws are administered by state agencies, and in others they are administered on a municipal level.

NFPA Pamphlet Nos. 30, 30A, 31, 385 and 395, which establish rules and procedures governing the safe handling of distillates (fuel oil, kerosene and diesel fuel) and gasoline, or comparable regulations, have been adopted, in whole, in part or with state addenda, as the industry standard for fuel oil, kerosene, diesel fuel and gasoline storage, distribution and equipment installation and operation in all of the states in which we sell those products. In some states these laws are administered by state agencies and in others they are administered on a municipal level.

With respect to the transportation of propane, distillates and gasoline by truck, we are subject to regulations promulgated under various Federal statutes, including the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Improvement Act and the Hazardous Materials Transportation Act. These laws and regulations cover the transportation of hazardous materials and are administered, respectively, by the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration and the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration of the United States Department of Transportation (&#8220;DOT&#8221;), or similar state agencies. We conduct ongoing training programs to help ensure that our operations are in compliance with these and other applicable safety laws and regulations. We maintain various permits that are necessary to operate our facilities, some of which may be material to our operations. In compliance with the DOT&#8217;s pipeline safety regulations for &#8220;jurisdictional&#8221; propane systems that serve multiple customers, we provide training and written instruction for our employees, provide customers with periodic awareness notices and safety information, have established written procedures to minimize the hazards resulting from gas pipeline emergencies and keep records of inspections. We believe that the procedures currently in effect at all of our facilities are in compliance, in all material respects, with applicable laws and regulations concerning the handling, storage, transportation and distribution of propane, distillates and gasoline.

Our operations are subject to workplace safety standards under the Federal Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970 (OSHA) and comparable state laws that regulate the protection of worker health and safety. Compliance with these standards is monitored through required workplace injury and illness recordkeeping, and reporting. We believe that our operations are in compliance, in all material respects, with applicable worker health and safety standards. We are also subject to laws and regulations governing the security of hazardous materials, including propane, under the Federal Homeland Security Act of 2002, as administered by the Department of Homeland Security (&#8220;DHS&#8221;). The DHS promulgated the Chemical Facility Anti-Terrorism Standards (&#8220;CFATS&#8221;) regulation to identify and secure chemical facilities that present the greatest security risk using a risk-based tiering structure. We have a number of facilities registered with the DHS. As a result of the CFATS Act of 2014, the DHS developed a revised tiering methodology for chemical facilities. We will be required to submit revised Top Screen applications for all of our facilities over the upcoming months. Should the number of our regulated facilities increase, we could incur additional costs for enhanced physical security measures. We currently cannot determine the extent of such additional costs, if any, that may be required. 

In December 2009, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (&#8220;EPA&#8221;) issued an &#8220;Endangerment Finding&#8221; under the Clean Air Act, determining that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other greenhouse gases (&#8220;GHGs&#8221;) present an endangerment to public health and the environment because emissions of such gases may be contributing to warming of the earth&#8217;s atmosphere and other climatic changes. Based on these findings, the EPA has begun adopting and implementing regulations to restrict emissions of GHGs 

&#160;

and requ ire reporting by certain regulated facilities on an annual basis. The EPA&#8217;s authority to regulate GHGs has been upheld by the U.S. Supreme Court. 

Both Houses of the United States Congress also have considered adopting legislation to reduce emissions of GHGs. Although Congress has not yet enacted federal climate change legislation, numerous states and municipalities have adopted laws and policies on climate change.

The adoption of federal, state or local climate change legislation or regulatory programs to reduce emissions of GHGs could require us to incur increased capital and operating costs, with resulting impact on product price and demand. We cannot predict whether or in what form climate change legislation provisions and renewable energy standards may be enacted. In addition, a possible consequence of climate change is increased volatility in seasonal temperatures. It is difficult to predict how the market for our fuels would be affected by increased temperature volatility, although if there is an overall trend of warmer temperatures, it could adversely affect our business.

Future developments, such as stricter environmental, health or safety laws and regulations thereunder, could affect our operations. We do not anticipate that the cost of our compliance with environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, including CERCLA, as currently in effect and applicable to known sites will have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. To the extent we discover any environmental liabilities presently unknown to us or environmental, health or safety laws or regulations are made more stringent, however, there can be no assurance that our financial condition or results of operations will not be materially and adversely affected.

The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the &#8220;Dodd-Frank Act&#8221;) significantly increased regulation of, and restrictions on, derivative transactions to include certain instruments used by the Partnership for risk management activities.

Pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (the &#8220;CFTC&#8221;) and the SEC have implemented, and continue to promulgate, rules and regulations relating to, among other things, swaps, participants in the derivatives markets, clearing of swaps and reporting of swap transactions. In general, the Dodd-Frank Act subjects swap transactions and participants to greater regulation and supervision by the CFTC and the SEC and requires, or will require, many swaps to be cleared through a registered CFTC- or SEC-clearing facility and executed on a designated exchange or swap execution facility.

We are subject to certain regulatory requirements as a result of the Dodd-Frank Act and the implementing regulations and may be indirectly affected by regulatory requirements imposed on our derivatives counterparties. Transactional, margin, capital, recordkeeping, reporting, clearing and other requirements may increase our operational and transactional cost of entering into and maintaining derivatives contracts and may adversely affect the number and/or creditworthiness of derivatives counterparties available to us. If we were to reduce our use of derivatives as a result of regulatory burdens or otherwise, our results of operations could become more volatile and our cash flow could be less predictable.

Many of the states in which we do business have passed laws prohibiting &#8220;unfair or deceptive practices&#8221; in transactions between consumers and sellers of products used for residential purposes, which give the Attorney General or other officials of that state the authority to investigate alleged violations of those laws. From time to time, we receive inquiries or requests for additional information under these laws from the offices of Attorneys General or other government officials in connection with the sale of our products to residential customers. Based on information to date, and because our policies and business practices are designed to comply with all applicable laws, we do not believe that the costs or liabilities associated with such inquiries or requests will result in a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations; however, there can be no assurance that our financial condition or results of operations may not be materially and adversely affected as a result of current or future government investigations or civil litigation derived therefrom.

Employees

As of September 24, 2016, we had 3,417 full time employees, of whom 642 were engaged in general and administrative activities (including fleet maintenance), 34 were engaged in transportation and product supply activities and 2,741 were customer service center employees. As of September 24, 2016, 70 of our employees were represented by 9 different local chapters of labor unions. We believe that our relations with both our union and non&#8209;union employees are satisfactory. In addition, we hire temporary workers to meet peak seasonal demands.

&#160;

&#160;

