 Item 1. Business 

Regions Financial Corporation is a financial holding company headquartered in Birmingham, Alabama that operates in the South, Midwest and Texas. The terms "Regions," "the Company," "we," "us" and "our" mean Regions Financial Corporation, a Delaware corporation and its subsidiaries, when appropriate. Regions provides traditional commercial, retail and mortgage banking services, as well as other financial services in the fields of asset management, wealth management, securities brokerage, insurance brokerage, trust services, merger and acquisition advisory services, and other specialty financing. At December 31, 2015 , Regions had total consolidated assets of approximately $126.1 billion , total consolidated deposits of approximately $98.4 billion &#32;and total consolidated stockholders&#8217; equity of approximately $16.8 billion . 

Regions is a Delaware corporation and on July 1, 2004, became the successor by merger to Union Planters Corporation and the former Regions Financial Corporation. Its principal executive offices are located at 1900 Fifth Avenue North, Birmingham, Alabama 35203, and its telephone number at that address is (205) 581-7890. 

Banking Operations 

Regions conducts its banking operations through Regions Bank, an Alabama state-chartered commercial bank that is a member of the Federal Reserve System. At December 31, 2015 , Regions operated 1,962 ATMs and 1,627 &#32;banking offices in Alabama, Arkansas, Florida, Georgia, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kentucky, Louisiana, Mississippi, Missouri, North Carolina, South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas and Virginia. 

The following chart reflects the distribution of branch locations in each of the states in which Regions conducts its banking operations. 

&#160; 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Branches 

Alabama 

Arkansas 

Florida 

Georgia 

Illinois 

Indiana 

Iowa 

Kentucky 

Louisiana 

Mississippi 

Missouri 

North Carolina 

South Carolina 

Tennessee 

Texas 

Virginia 

Total 

1,627 

Other Financial Services Operations 

In addition to its banking operations, Regions provides additional financial services through the following subsidiaries: 

Regions Insurance Group, Inc., a subsidiary of Regions, is an insurance broker that offers the placement of insurance coverage with insurance companies or other risk bearing entities through its subsidiaries: Regions Insurance, Inc., headquartered in Birmingham, Alabama; Trilogy Risk Specialists, Inc., headquartered in Memphis, Tennessee; and Regions Insurance Services, Inc., headquartered in Memphis, Tennessee. Through its insurance brokerage operations in Alabama, Arkansas, Florida, Georgia, Indiana, Louisiana, Mississippi, South Carolina, Tennessee and Texas, Regions Insurance, Inc. offers insurance coverage for various lines of personal and commercial insurance, such as property, vehicle, casualty, life, health and accident insurance. Regions Insurance, Inc. also provides services related to employee benefits. Trilogy Risk Specialists, Inc. operates as a wholesale insurance broker assisting retail insurance brokers in placing insurance coverage for the retail brokers&#8217; customers with risk bearing entities. Regions Insurance Services, Inc. offers various insurance products, such as crop, life, and environmental insurance. Regions Insurance Group, Inc. is one of the thirty-five largest insurance brokers in the United States based on annual revenues. 

&#32; 

Regions Equipment Finance Corporation and Regions Commercial Equipment Finance, LLC provide equipment financing products, focusing on commercial clients. 

Regions Investment Services, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Regions Bank, offers investments and insurance products to Regions Bank customers, provided by licensed insurance agents. In addition, Regions Bank and Regions Investment Services, Inc. also maintain an agreement with Cetera Investment Services, LLC to offer securities, insurance, and advisory services to Regions Bank customers through dually-employed financial consultants. 

Regions Securities is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Regions headquartered in Atlanta, Georgia. Regions Securities serves as a broker-dealer to commercial clients and acts in an advisory capacity to merger and acquisition transactions. Additionally, BlackArch Partners LLC is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Regions and is headquartered in Charlotte, North Carolina. BlackArch Partners LLC and its subsidiaries offer merger and acquisition services to its institutional clients and commercial entities. 

Segment Information 

Reference is made to Note 23 &#8220;Business Segment Information&#8221; to the consolidated financial statements included under Item 8. of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for information required by this item. 

Supervision and Regulation 

We are subject to the extensive regulatory framework applicable to BHCs and their subsidiaries. This framework is intended primarily for the protection of depositors, the FDIC's DIF and the banking system as a whole, and generally is not intended for the protection of stockholders or other investors. Described below are the material elements of selected laws and regulations applicable to us and our subsidiaries. These descriptions are not intended to be complete and are qualified in their entirety by reference to the full text of the statutes and regulations described. Changes in applicable law or regulation, and in their interpretation and application by regulatory agencies and other governmental authorities, cannot be predicted, but may have a material effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 

Applicable laws and regulations restrict our permissible activities and investments and impose conditions and requirements on the products and services we offer and the manner in which they are offered and sold. They also restrict our ability to repurchase stock or pay dividends, or to receive dividends from our banking subsidiary, and impose capital adequacy requirements on us and our banking subsidiary. The consequences of noncompliance with these laws and regulations can include substantial monetary and nonmonetary sanctions. 

As described in more detail below, comprehensive reform of the legislative and regulatory landscape occurred with the passage of the Dodd-Frank Act in 2010. Implementation of the Dodd-Frank Act and related rulemaking activities continued in 2015. In addition to banking laws, regulations and regulatory agencies, we are subject to various other laws, regulations, supervision and examination by other regulatory agencies, all of which directly or indirectly affect our operations and management. 

Overview 

We are registered with the Federal Reserve as a BHC and have elected to be treated as a financial holding company under the BHC Act. As such, we and our subsidiaries are subject to the supervision, examination and reporting requirements of the BHC Act and the regulations of the Federal Reserve. Generally, the BHC Act provides for &#8220;umbrella&#8221; regulation of financial holding companies by the Federal Reserve and functional regulation of holding company subsidiaries by applicable regulatory agencies. The BHC Act, however, requires the Federal Reserve to examine any subsidiary of a BHC, other than a depository institution, engaged in activities permissible for a depository institution. The Federal Reserve is also granted the authority, in certain circumstances, to require reports of, examine and adopt rules applicable to any holding company subsidiary. 

Regions Bank is a member of the FDIC, and, as such, its deposits are insured by the FDIC to the extent provided by law. Regions Bank is an Alabama state-chartered bank and a member of the Federal Reserve System. It is generally subject to supervision and examination by both the Federal Reserve and the Alabama State Banking Department. The Federal Reserve and the Alabama State Banking Department regularly examine the operations of Regions Bank and its subsidiaries and are given authority to approve or disapprove mergers, acquisitions, consolidations, the establishment of branches and similar corporate actions. The federal and state banking regulators also have the power to prevent the continuance or development of unsafe or unsound banking practices or other violations of law. State and federal law govern the activities in which Regions Bank engages, the investments it makes and the aggregate amount of loans that may be granted to one borrower. Various consumer and compliance laws and regulations also affect its operations. Regions Bank also is affected by the actions of the Federal Reserve Board as it implements monetary policy. 

All member banks of the Federal Reserve System, including Regions Bank, are required to hold stock in the Federal Reserve System's Reserve Banks in an amount equal to 6 percent of their capital stock and surplus (half paid to acquire the stock with the remainder held as a cash reserve). Member banks do not have any control over the Federal Reserve System as a result of owning the stock and the stock cannot be sold or traded. Prior to the enactment of the Fixing America's Surface Transportation Act (&#8220;FAST Act&#8221;) in December 2015, member banks received a fixed, 6 percent dividend annually on their stock. Under the FAST Act, the annual dividend rate for member banks with total assets in excess of $10 billion, including Regions Bank, changed to a floating 

&#32; 

dividend rate tied to 10-year U.S. Treasuries with the maximum dividend rate capped at 6 percent. Based on that rate at December 31, 2015, the reduction in the dividend paid to Regions is estimated to be approximately $18 million annually. 

Regions Bank and its affiliates are also subject to supervision, regulation, examination and enforcement by the CFPB with respect to consumer protection laws and regulations. Some of Regions&#8217; non-bank subsidiaries are also subject to regulation by various federal and state agencies, such as the SEC and FINRA in the case of our broker-dealer subsidiary, Regions Securities. 

We are also subject to the disclosure and regulatory requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as administered by the SEC. Our common stock and depository shares representing our outstanding preferred stock are each listed on the NYSE. Consequently, we are also subject to NYSE&#8217;s rules for listed companies. 

Financial Regulatory Reform 

The recent financial crisis led to the adoption and revision of numerous laws and regulations applicable to financial institutions operating in the U.S. In particular, the Dodd-Frank Act and the rules that followed have significantly restructured the financial regulatory regime in the U.S. and provide for enhanced supervision and prudential standards for, among other things, BHCs like Regions that have total consolidated assets of $50 billion or more. The Dodd-Frank Act is extensive, complicated and comprehensive legislation that impacts practically all aspects of a banking organization, representing a significant overhaul of many aspects of the regulation of the financial services industry. 

The Dodd-Frank Act imposed regulatory requirements and oversight over banks and other financial institutions in a number of ways, among which were: (i) created the CFPB to regulate consumer financial products and services; (ii) created the FSOC to identify and impose additional regulatory oversight on large financial firms; (iii) granted orderly liquidation authority to the FDIC for the liquidation of financial corporations that pose a risk to the financial system of the U.S.; (iv) required certain financial institutions to draft a resolution plan that contemplates the dissolution of the enterprise and to submit that resolution plan to both the Federal Reserve and the FDIC; (v) limited debit card interchange fees; (vi) adopted certain changes to stockholder rights and responsibilities, including a stockholder &#8220;say on pay&#8221; vote on executive compensation; (vii) strengthened the SEC&#8217;s powers to regulate securities markets; (viii) restricted variable-rate lending by requiring the ability to repay to be determined for variable-rate loans by using the maximum rate that will apply during the first five years of a variable-rate loan term, and making more loans subject to provisions for higher cost loans, new disclosures, and certain other revisions; (ix) changed the base upon which the deposit insurance assessment is assessed from deposits to, substantially, average consolidated assets minus equity; and (x) amended the Truth in Lending Act with respect to mortgage originations, including originator compensation, minimum repayment standards, and prepayment considerations. 

The Dodd-Frank Act requires the Federal Reserve to monitor emerging risks to financial stability and establish enhanced supervision and prudential standards applicable to large, interconnected financial institutions, including Regions, with total consolidated assets of $50 billion or more (often referred to as systemically important financial institutions). During February 2014, the FRB published the final rule implementing the enhanced prudential standards required to be established under section 165 of the Dodd-Frank Act. The enhanced prudential standards include risk-based capital and leverage requirements, liquidity standards, risk management and risk committee requirements, stress test requirements and a debt-to-equity limit for companies that the FSOC has determined would pose a grave threat to financial stability were they to fail such limits. 

Pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, BHCs with total consolidated assets of $50 billion or more, such as Regions, are required to submit resolution plans to the Federal Reserve and FDIC providing for the company&#8217;s strategy for rapid and orderly resolution in the event of its material financial distress or failure. In September 2011, these agencies issued a joint final resolution plan rule implementing this requirement. The FDIC issued a separate such rule applicable to insured depository institutions of $50 billion or more in total assets, such as Regions Bank. Regions and Regions Bank submitted their most recent resolution plans to these agencies in December 2015. If the Federal Reserve and the FDIC determine that these plans are not credible and we do not cure the deficiencies, the Federal Reserve and the FDIC may impose more stringent capital, leverage or liquidity requirements or restrictions on growth, activities or operations of the Company. 

Most recently, federal regulators have finalized rules for new capital requirements for financial institutions that include several changes to the way capital is calculated and how assets are risk-weighted, informed in part by the Basel II revised international capital framework published by the Basel Committee. The Basel III Rules, summarized briefly below, will have an effect on our level of capital, and may influence the types of business we may pursue and how we pursue business opportunities. Among other things, the Basel III Rules raise the required minimums for certain capital ratios, add a new common equity ratio, include capital buffers, and restrict what constitutes capital. The new capital and risk weighting requirements became effective for us on January 1, 2015. 

Many of the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act and other laws are subject to further rulemaking, guidance and interpretation by the applicable federal regulators. We will continue to evaluate the impact of any new regulations so promulgated, including changes in regulatory costs and fees, modifications to consumer products or disclosures required by the CFPB and the requirements of the enhanced supervision provisions, among others. 

&#32; 

Permissible Activities under the BHC Act 

In general, the BHC Act limits the activities permissible for BHCs to the business of banking, managing or controlling banks and such other activities as the Federal Reserve has determined to be so closely related to banking as to be properly incidental thereto. A BHC electing to be treated as a financial holding company, like Regions, may also engage in a range of activities that are (i) financial in nature or incidental to such financial activity or (ii) complementary to a financial activity and that do not pose a substantial risk to the safety and soundness of a depository institution or to the financial system generally. These activities include securities dealing, underwriting and market making, insurance underwriting and agency activities, merchant banking and insurance company portfolio investments. For a BHC to be eligible to elect financial holding company status, all of its subsidiary insured depository institutions must be well-capitalized and well-managed as described below under &#8220;-Regulatory Remedies under the FDIA&#8221; and must have received at least a satisfactory rating on such institution&#8217;s most recent examination under CRA. The BHC itself must also be well-capitalized and well-managed in order to be eligible to elect financial holding company status. If a financial holding company fails to continue to be well-capitalized or well-managed after engaging in activities not permissible for BHCs that have not elected to be treated as financial holding companies, the company must enter into an agreement with the Federal Reserve to comply with all applicable capital and management requirements. If the company does not return to compliance within 180 days, the Federal Reserve may order the company to divest its subsidiary banks or the company may be required to discontinue or divest investments in companies engaged in activities permissible only for a BHC electing to be treated as a financial holding company. Furthermore, if the Federal Reserve determines that a financial holding company has not maintained a CRA rating of at least "satisfactory" (as is currently the case for Regions), the financial holding company would not be able to commence any new financial activities or acquire a company that engages in such activities, although the financial holding company would still be allowed to engage in activities closely related to banking and make investments in the ordinary course of conducting banking activities. 

The BHC Act does not place territorial restrictions on permissible non-banking activities of BHCs. The Federal Reserve has the power to order any BHC or its subsidiaries to terminate any activity or to terminate its ownership or control of any subsidiary when the Federal Reserve has reasonable grounds to believe that continuation of such activity or such ownership or control constitutes a serious risk to the financial soundness, safety or stability of any bank subsidiary of the BHC. 

Capital Requirements 

Regions and Regions Bank are each required to comply with applicable capital adequacy standards established by the Federal Reserve. The current risk-based capital standards applicable to Regions and Regions Bank, parts of which are currently in the process of being phased in, are based on the December 2010 final capital framework for strengthening international capital standards, known as Basel III, of the Basel Committee. 

Prior to January 1, 2015, the risk-based capital standards applicable to Regions and Regions Bank (the &#8220;general risk-based capital rules&#8221;) were based on the 1988 Capital Accord, known as Basel I, of the Basel Committee. In July 2013, the federal bank regulators approved the final Basel III Rules implementing the Basel III framework as well as certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act. The Basel III Rules substantially revised the risk-based capital requirements applicable to BHCs and their depository institution subsidiaries, including Regions and Regions Bank, as compared to the general risk-based capital rules. The Basel III Rules became effective for Regions and Regions Bank on January 1, 2015 (subject to a phase-in period for certain provisions). 

The Basel III Rules, among other things, (i) introduce a new capital measure called CET1, (ii) specify that Tier 1 capital consists of CET1 and &#8220;Additional Tier 1 capital&#8221; instruments meeting certain revised requirements, (iii) define CET1 narrowly by requiring that most deductions/adjustments to regulatory capital measures be made to CET1 and not to the other components of capital, and (iv) expand the scope of the deductions/adjustments to capital as compared to existing regulations. 

Under the Basel III Rules, the minimum capital ratios effective as of January 1, 2015 are: 

&#8226; 4.5% CET1 to risk-weighted assets; 

&#8226; 6.0% Tier 1 capital (that is, CET1 plus &#32;Additional Tier 1 capital) to risk-weighted assets; and 

&#8226; 8.0% Total capital (that is, Tier 1 capital plus &#32;Tier 2 capital) to risk-weighted assets. 

The Basel III Rules also introduce a new capital conservation buffer designed to absorb losses during periods of economic stress. The capital conservation buffer is composed entirely of CET1, on top of these minimum risk-weighted asset ratios. In addition, the Basel III Rules provide for a countercyclical capital buffer applicable only to certain covered institutions. We do not expect the countercyclical capital buffer to be applicable to Regions or Regions Bank. Banking institutions with a ratio of CET1 to risk-weighted assets above the minimum but below the capital conservation buffer (or below the combined capital conservation buffer and countercyclical capital buffer, when the latter is applied) will face constraints on dividends, equity repurchases and compensation based on the amount of the shortfall. 

When fully phased in on January 1, 2019, the Basel III Rules will require Regions and Regions Bank to maintain an additional capital conservation buffer of 2.5% of CET1, effectively resulting in minimum ratios of (i) CET1 to risk-weighted assets of at least 7%, (ii) Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets of at least 8.5%, and (iii) Total capital to risk-weighted assets of at least 10.5%. 

&#32; 

The Basel III Rules also provide for a number of deductions from and adjustments to CET1. These include, for example, the requirement that MSRs, certain deferred tax assets and significant investments in non-consolidated financial entities be deducted from CET1 to the extent that any one such category exceeds 10% of CET1 or all such items, in the aggregate, exceed 15% of CET1. 

Implementation of the deductions and other adjustments to CET1 began on January 1, 2015 and will be phased in over a 4-year period (beginning at 40% on January 1, 2015 and an additional 20% per year thereafter). The implementation of the capital conservation buffer began on January 1, 2016 at the 0.625% level and will be phased in over a 4-year period (increasing by that amount on each subsequent January 1, until it reaches 2.5% on January 1, 2019). 

The Basel III Rules prescribe a new standardized approach for risk weightings that expands the risk-weighting categories from the four Basel I-derived categories (0%, 20%, 50% and 100%) to a much larger and more risk-sensitive number of categories, depending on the nature of the assets, generally ranging from 0% for U.S. government and agency securities, to 600% for certain equity exposures, and resulting in higher risk weights for a variety of asset classes. 

Leverage Requirements. 

BHCs and banks are also required to comply with minimum leverage ratio requirements. These requirements provide for a minimum ratio of Tier 1 capital to total consolidated quarterly average assets (as defined for regulatory purposes), net of the loan loss reserve, goodwill and certain other intangible assets (the &#8220;leverage ratio&#8221;), of 4.0% for all BHCs. 

Liquidity Regulation. 

Liquidity risk management and supervision have become increasingly important since the financial crisis. During 2014, the federal banking agencies adopted final rules implementing for certain U.S. banking organizations one of the two new standards provided for in the Basel III liquidity framework - its LCR, which is designed to ensure that a covered bank or BHC maintains an adequate level of unencumbered high-quality liquid assets equal to the entity&#8217;s expected net cash outflow for a 30-day time horizon under an acute liquidity stress scenario. The LCR rule, as adopted, applies in its most comprehensive form only to advanced approaches BHCs and depository institutions subsidiaries of such BHCs and, in a modified form, to BHCs that are not advanced approaches BHCs but have $50 billion or more in total consolidated assets such as Regions. The rule is currently being phased in with 90% compliance required on January 1, 2016 and 100% compliance required on January 1, 2017. Regions is required to calculate its LCR on a monthly basis. If a covered company fails to meet the required LCR, it must promptly notify its primary federal banking regulator and may be required to take remedial actions. Under a rule proposed by the Federal Reserve in November 2015, Regions would be required to disclose publicly information about certain components of its LCR beginning January 1, 2018. At December 31, 2015, Regions' LCR was above the January 1, 2016 requirement of 90%. 

The Basel III framework also included a second standard, referred to as the NSFR, which is designed to promote more medium- and long-term funding of the assets and activities of banks over a one-year time horizon. Although the Basel committee finalized its formulation of the NSFR in 2014 and contemplated a January 1, 2018 effective date, the U.S. banking agencies have not yet proposed an NSFR for application to U.S. banking organizations or addressed the scope of banking organizations to which it will apply. 

Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review and Stress Testing 

As part of the enhanced prudential requirements applicable to systemically important financial institutions, the Federal Reserve conducts annual analyses of BHCs with at least $50 billion in assets to determine whether the companies have sufficient capital on a consolidated basis necessary to absorb losses in three economic and financial scenarios generated by the Federal Reserve: baseline, adverse and severely adverse. Regions is also required to conduct its own semi-annual stress analysis (together with the Federal Reserve&#8217;s stress analysis, the &#8220;stress tests&#8221;) to assess the potential impact on Regions of the economic and financial conditions used as part of the Federal Reserve&#8217;s annual stress analysis. The Federal Reserve may also use, and require companies to use, additional components in the adverse and severely adverse scenarios or additional or more complex scenarios designed to capture salient risks to specific business groups. Regions Bank is also required to conduct annual stress testing using the same economic and financial scenarios as Regions and report the results to the Federal Reserve. A summary of results of the Federal Reserve&#8217;s analysis under the adverse and severely adverse stress scenarios are publicly disclosed, and the BHCs subject to the rules, including Regions, must disclose a summary of the company-run severely adverse stress test results. Regions is required to include in its disclosure a summary of the severely adverse scenario stress test conducted by Regions Bank. 

U.S. BHCs with total consolidated assets of $50 billion or more, such as Regions, must develop and maintain a capital plan, and must submit the capital plan to the Federal Reserve as part of the Federal Reserve&#8217;s CCAR process. The CCAR process is intended to help ensure that these BHCs have robust, forward-looking capital planning processes that account for each company&#8217;s unique risks and that permit continued operations during times of economic and financial stress. Each of the BHCs participating in the CCAR process is also required to collect and report certain related data to the Federal Reserve on a quarterly basis to allow the Federal Reserve to monitor progress against the approved capital plans. Each capital plan must include a view of capital adequacy under the stress test scenarios described below. The Federal Reserve may object to a capital plan if the plan does not show that the covered BHC has sufficient capital to continue operations under expected conditions and stressed scenarios throughout the nine-quarter planning horizon covered by the capital plan. The CCAR rules, consistent with prior Federal Reserve guidance, 

&#32; 

also provide that capital plans contemplating dividend payout ratios exceeding 30% of after-tax net income will receive particularly close scrutiny. 

In addition to other limitations, our ability to make any capital distributions (including dividends and share repurchases) is contingent on the Federal Reserve's non-objection to our capital plan under both quantitative and qualitative tests. Should the Federal Reserve object to a capital plan, a bank holding company may not make any capital distribution other than those capital distributions to which the Federal Reserve has indicated its non-objection in writing. Beginning in 2016, our annual capital planning submission will be due by April 5 (instead of January 5 as previously required) and the Federal Reserve will publish the results of its supervisory CCAR review of our capital plan by June 30 (instead of March 31) of each year. 

Due to the importance and intensity of the stress tests and the CCAR process, we have dedicated significant resources to comply with stress testing and capital planning requirements and expect to continue to do so in the future. 

Safety and Soundness Standards 

Guidelines adopted by the federal bank regulatory agencies pursuant to the FDIA, establish general standards relating to internal controls and information systems, internal audit systems, loan documentation, credit underwriting, interest rate exposure, asset growth and compensation, fees and benefits. In general, these guidelines require, among other things, appropriate systems and practices to identify and manage the risk and exposures specified in the guidelines. Additionally, the agencies adopted regulations that authorize, but do not require, an agency to order an institution that has been given notice by an agency that it is not satisfying any of such safety and soundness standards to submit a compliance plan. If, after being so notified, an institution fails to submit an acceptable compliance plan or fails in any material respect to implement an acceptable compliance plan, the agency must issue an order directing action to correct the deficiency and may issue an order directing other actions of the types to which an undercapitalized institution is subject under the FDIA. See &#8220;-Regulatory Remedies under the FDIA&#8221; below. If an institution fails to comply with such an order, the agency may seek to enforce such order in judicial proceedings and to impose civil money penalties. 

Regulatory Remedies under the FDIA 

The FDIA requires the federal banking agencies to take prompt corrective action in respect of depository institutions that do not meet specified capital requirements. The FDIA establishes five capital categories (&#8220;well-capitalized,&#8221; &#8220;adequately capitalized,&#8221; &#8220;undercapitalized,&#8221; &#8220;significantly undercapitalized&#8221; and &#8220;critically undercapitalized&#8221;), and the federal banking agencies must take certain mandatory supervisory actions, and are authorized to take other discretionary actions, with respect to institutions which are undercapitalized, significantly undercapitalized or critically undercapitalized. The severity of these mandatory and discretionary supervisory actions depends upon the capital category in which the institution is placed. Generally, subject to a narrow exception, the FDIA requires the banking regulator to appoint a receiver or conservator for an institution that is critically undercapitalized. As of December 31, 2015, both Regions and Regions Bank were well-capitalized. 

An institution that is classified as well-capitalized based on its capital levels may be treated as adequately capitalized, and an institution that is adequately capitalized or undercapitalized based upon its capital levels may be treated as though it were undercapitalized or significantly undercapitalized, respectively, if the appropriate federal banking agency, after notice and opportunity for hearing, determines that an unsafe or unsound condition or an unsafe or unsound practice warrants such treatment. 

An institution that is categorized as undercapitalized, significantly undercapitalized or critically undercapitalized is required to submit an acceptable capital restoration plan to its appropriate federal banking regulator. Under the FDIA, in order for the capital restoration plan to be accepted by the appropriate federal banking agency, a BHC must guarantee that a subsidiary depository institution will comply with its capital restoration plan, subject to certain limitations. The BHC must also provide appropriate assurances of performance. The obligation of a controlling BHC under the FDIA to fund a capital restoration plan is limited to the lesser of 5.0% of an undercapitalized subsidiary&#8217;s assets or the amount required to meet regulatory capital requirements. An undercapitalized institution is also generally prohibited from increasing its average total assets, making acquisitions, establishing any branches or engaging in any new line of business, except in accordance with an accepted capital restoration plan or with the approval of the FDIC. Institutions that are significantly undercapitalized or undercapitalized and either fail to submit an acceptable capital restoration plan or fail to implement an approved capital restoration plan may be subject to a number of requirements and restrictions, including orders to sell sufficient voting stock to become adequately capitalized, requirements to reduce total assets and cessation of receipt of deposits from correspondent banks. Critically undercapitalized depository institutions failing to submit or implement an acceptable capital restoration plan are subject to appointment of a receiver or conservator. 

Additionally, FDIA requires the various regulatory agencies to prescribe certain non-capital standards for safety and soundness relating generally to operations and management, asset quality, and executive compensation and permits regulatory action against a financial institution that does not meet such standards. Regulators also must take into consideration: (i) concentrations of credit risk; (ii) interest rate risk (when the interest rate sensitivity of an institution&#8217;s assets does not match the sensitivity of its liabilities or its off-balance sheet position); and (iii) risks from non-traditional activities, as well as an institution&#8217;s ability to manage those risks, when determining the adequacy of an institution&#8217;s capital. Regulators make this evaluation as a part of their regular examination of the institution&#8217;s safety and soundness. Additionally, regulators may choose to examine other factors in order to evaluate the safety and soundness of financial institutions. 

&#32; 

Payment of Dividends 

We are a legal entity separate and distinct from our banking and other subsidiaries. The principal source of cash flow to us, including cash flow to pay dividends to our stockholders and principal and interest on any of our outstanding debt, is dividends from Regions Bank. There are statutory and regulatory limitations on the payment of dividends by Regions Bank to us, as well as by us to our stockholders. 

If, in the opinion of a federal bank regulatory agency, an institution under its jurisdiction is engaged in or is about to engage in an unsafe or unsound practice (which, depending on the financial condition of the institution, could include the payment of dividends), such agency may require, after notice and hearing, that such institution cease and desist from such practice. The federal bank regulatory agencies have indicated that paying dividends that deplete an institution&#8217;s capital base to an inadequate level would be an unsafe and unsound banking practice. Under the FDIA, an insured institution may not pay a dividend if payment would cause it to become undercapitalized or if it already is undercapitalized. See &#8220;-Regulatory Remedies under the FDIA&#8221; above. Moreover, the Federal Reserve and the FDIC have issued policy statements stating that BHCs and insured banks should generally pay dividends only out of current operating earnings. 

Payment of Dividends by Regions Bank . Under the Federal Reserve&#8217;s Regulation H, Regions Bank may not, without approval of the Federal Reserve, declare or pay a dividend to us if the total of all dividends declared in a calendar year exceeds the total of (a) Regions Bank&#8217;s net income for that year and (b) its retained net income for the preceding two calendar years, less any required transfers to additional paid-in capital or to a fund for the retirement of preferred stock. 

Under Alabama law, Regions Bank may not pay a dividend in excess of 90% of its net earnings until the bank&#8217;s surplus is equal to at least 20% of capital. Regions Bank is also required by Alabama law to seek the approval of the Alabama Superintendent of Banking prior to the payment of dividends if the total of all dividends declared by Regions Bank in any calendar year will exceed the total of (a) Regions Bank&#8217;s net earnings for that year, plus (b) its retained net earnings for the preceding two years, less any required transfers to surplus. The statute defines net earnings as the remainder of all earnings from current operations plus actual recoveries on loans and investments and other assets, after deducting from the total thereof all current operating expenses, actual losses, accrued dividends on preferred stock, if any, and all federal, state and local taxes. Regions Bank cannot, without approval from the Federal Reserve and the Alabama Superintendent of Banking, declare or pay a dividend to Regions unless Regions Bank is able to satisfy the criteria discussed above. 

Payment of Dividends by Regions . Our payment of dividends to our stockholders is subject to the oversight of the Federal Reserve. In particular, the dividend policies and share repurchases of a large BHC, such as Regions, are reviewed by the Federal Reserve based on capital plans submitted as part of the CCAR process and stress tests as submitted by the BHC, and will be assessed against, among other things, the BHC&#8217;s ability to achieve the required capital ratios under the Basel III Rules as they are phased in by U.S. regulators. See &#8220;-Capital Requirements&#8221; and &#8220;-Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review and Stress Testing&#8221; above. 

Support of Subsidiary Banks 

Under longstanding Federal Reserve policy, which has been codified by the Dodd-Frank Act, Regions is expected to act as a source of financial strength to, and to commit resources to support, its subsidiary bank. This support may be required at times when Regions may not be inclined to provide it. In addition, any capital loans by a BHC to its subsidiary bank are subordinate in right of payment to deposits and to certain other indebtedness of such subsidiary bank. In the event of a BHC&#8217;s bankruptcy, any commitment by the BHC to a federal bank regulatory agency to maintain the capital of a subsidiary bank will be assumed by the bankruptcy trustee and entitled to a priority of payment. 

Transactions with Affiliates 

There are various legal restrictions governing transactions between Regions and its non-bank subsidiaries, on the one hand, and Regions Bank and its subsidiaries, on the other hand, including the extent to which Regions and its non-bank subsidiaries may borrow or otherwise obtain funding from Regions Bank. In general, any &#8220;covered transaction&#8221; by Regions Bank (or its subsidiaries) with an affiliate that is an extension of credit must be secured by designated amounts of specified collateral and must be limited to (i) in the case of any single such affiliate, the aggregate amount of covered transactions of Regions Bank and its subsidiaries may not exceed 10% of the capital stock and surplus of Regions Bank, and (ii) in the case of all affiliates, the aggregate amount of covered transactions of Regions Bank and its subsidiaries may not exceed 20% of the capital stock and surplus of Regions Bank. Covered transactions are defined to include, among other things, a loan or extension of credit, as well as a purchase of securities issued by an affiliate, a purchase of assets (unless otherwise exempted by the Federal Reserve) from the affiliate, the acceptance of securities issued by the affiliate as collateral for a loan, derivatives transactions and securities lending transactions where the bank has credit exposure to an affiliate, and the issuance of a guarantee, acceptance or letter of credit on behalf of an affiliate. All covered transactions, including certain additional transactions (such as transactions with a third party in which an affiliate has a financial interest), must be conducted on market terms. The Dodd-Frank Act significantly enhanced and expanded the scope and coverage of these limitations, in particular, by including within its scope derivative transactions by and between Regions Bank or its subsidiaries and Regions or its other subsidiaries. The Federal Reserve enforces these restrictions and audits Regions for compliance. 

&#32; 

Deposit Insurance 

Regions Bank accepts deposits, and those deposits have the benefit of FDIC insurance up to the applicable limits. Under the FDIA, insurance of deposits may be terminated by the FDIC upon a finding that the insured depository institution has engaged in unsafe and unsound practices, is in an unsafe or unsound condition to continue operations or has violated any applicable law, regulation, rule, order or condition imposed by a bank&#8217;s federal regulatory agency. 

Deposit Insurance Assessments. Regions Bank pays deposit insurance premiums to the FDIC based on an assessment rate established by the FDIC. FDIC assessment rates for large institutions are calculated based on one of two scorecards, one for most large institutions that have more than $10 billion in assets, such as Regions Bank, and another for &#8220;highly complex&#8221; institutions that have over $50 billion in assets and are fully owned by a parent with over $500 billion in assets. Each scorecard has a performance score and a loss-severity score that are combined to produce a total score, which is translated into an initial assessment rate. In calculating these scores, the FDIC utilizes the CAMELS ratings, as well as forward-looking financial measures to assess an institution&#8217;s ability to withstand asset-related stress and funding-related stress. The FDIC has the ability to make discretionary adjustments to the total score, up or down, based upon significant risk factors that are not adequately captured in the scorecard. The total score is then translated to an initial base assessment rate on a non-linear, sharply-increasing scale. For large institutions, including Regions Bank, the initial base assessment rate ranges from 5 to 35 basis points on an annualized basis (basis points representing cents per $100). After the effect of potential base-rate adjustments, the total base assessment rate could range from 2.5 to 45 basis points on an annualized basis. The deposit insurance assessment base is calculated based on the average of consolidated total assets less the average tangible equity of the insured depository institution during the assessment period. During 2015, Regions Bank&#8217;s FDIC insurance assessments were $105 million, a $30 million increase from 2014, which included a $23 million adjustment to prior assessments recorded in the third quarter of 2015. 

The FDIA establishes a minimum ratio of deposit insurance reserves to estimated insured deposits, the designated reserve ratio (the &#8220;DRR&#8221;), of 1.15% prior to September 2020 and 1.35% thereafter. On December 20, 2010, the FDIC issued a final rule setting the DRR at 2%. The FDIC will, at least semi-annually, update its income and loss projections for the DIF and, if necessary, propose rules to further increase assessment rates. In addition, on January 12, 2010, the FDIC announced that it would seek public comment on whether banks with compensation plans that encourage risky behavior should be charged higher deposit assessment rates than such banks would otherwise be charged. Comments were due February 18, 2010. As of February 2016, no rule has been adopted.We cannot predict whether, as a result of an adverse change in economic conditions or other reasons, the FDIC will increase deposit insurance assessment levels in the future. Additionally, in October 2015, the FDIC proposed to impose a surcharge on the quarterly assessments of insured depository institutions with total consolidated assets of $10 billion or more. This would result in increased costs for Regions Bank. We currently estimate that the surcharge, if implemented as proposed, would increase our FDIC insurance assessments by approximately $5 million per quarter; however, the ultimate impact on our business of this proposal will depend on a number of factors, including the final details of its implementation by the FDIC. For more information, see the &#8220;FDIC Insurance Assessments&#8221; section of Item 7. &#8220;Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations&#8221; of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

FICO Assessments . &#32; In addition, the Deposit Insurance Funds Act of 1996 authorized the Financing Corporation ("FICO") to impose assessments on DIF applicable deposits in order to service the interest on FICO&#8217;s bond obligations from deposit insurance fund assessments. The amount assessed on individual institutions by FICO will be in addition to the amount, if any, paid for deposit insurance according to the FDIC&#8217;s risk-related assessment rate schedules. FICO assessment rates may be adjusted quarterly to reflect a change in assessment base. Regions Bank had a FICO assessment of approximately $6 million in FDIC deposit premiums in 2015, which was included in the $105 million in total FDIC insurance assessments previously disclosed. 

Acquisitions 

The BHC Act requires every BHC to obtain the prior approval of the Federal Reserve before: (1) it may acquire direct or indirect ownership or control of any voting shares of any bank or savings and loan association, if after such acquisition, the BHC will directly or indirectly own or control 5% or more of the voting shares of the institution; (2) it or any of its subsidiaries, other than a bank, may acquire all or substantially all of the assets of any bank or savings and loan association; or (3) it may merge or consolidate with any other BHC. BHCs with consolidated assets exceeding $50 billion must (i) obtain prior approval from the Federal Reserve before acquiring certain non-bank financial companies with assets exceeding $10 billion and (ii) provide prior written notice to the Federal Reserve before acquiring direct or indirect ownership or control of any voting shares of any company having consolidated assets of $10 billion or more. BHCs seeking approval to complete an acquisition must be well-capitalized and well-managed. 

The BHC Act further provides that the Federal Reserve may not approve any transaction that would result in a monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy to monopolize or attempt to monopolize the business of banking in any section of the U.S., or the effect of which may be substantially to lessen competition or to tend to create a monopoly in any section of the country, or that in any other manner would be in restraint of trade, unless the anticompetitive effects of the proposed transaction are clearly outweighed by the public interest in meeting the convenience and needs of the community to be served. The Federal Reserve is also required to consider the financial and managerial resources and future prospects of the BHCs and banks concerned and the convenience and needs of the community to be served. Consideration of financial resources generally 

&#32; 

focuses on capital adequacy, and the consideration of convenience and needs of the community to be served includes the parties&#8217; performance under the CRA. The Federal Reserve must also take into account the institutions&#8217; effectiveness in combating money laundering. In addition, pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, the BHC Act was amended to require the Federal Reserve to, when evaluating a proposed transaction, consider the extent to which the transaction would result in greater or more concentrated risks to the stability of the U.S. banking or financial system. 

Depositor Preference 

Under federal law, depositors and certain claims for administrative expenses and employee compensation against an insured depository institution would be afforded a priority over other general unsecured claims against such an institution in the &#8220;liquidation or other resolution&#8221; of such an institution by any receiver. 

Volcker Rule 

&#32;The Dodd-Frank Act prohibits banks and their affiliates from engaging in proprietary trading and investing in, sponsoring and having certain relationships with private funds such as hedge funds or private equity funds that would be an investment company for purposes of the Investment Company Act of 1940 but for the exclusions in sections 3(c)(1) or 3(c)(7) of that act. The statutory provision is commonly called the &#8220;Volcker Rule.&#8221; In December 2013, federal regulators adopted final rules to implement the Volcker Rule, which became effective in July 2015. The final rules also require that large BHCs, such as Regions, design and implement compliance programs to ensure adherence to the Volcker Rule&#8217;s prohibitions. Development and monitoring of the required compliance program may require the expenditure of resources and management attention. 

Consumer Protection Laws 

We are subject to a number of federal and state consumer protection laws, including laws designed to protect customers and promote lending to various sectors of the economy and population. These laws include, but are not limited to the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Fair Credit Reporting Act, the Truth in Lending Act, the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act, the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act, the Truth in Savings Act, the Electronic Funds Transfer Act, and their respective state law counterparts. 

The CFPB has broad rulemaking, supervisory and enforcement powers under various federal consumer financial protection laws, including the laws referenced above, fair lending laws and certain other statutes. The CFPB also has examination and primary enforcement authority with respect to depository institutions with $10 billion or more in assets, including the authority to prevent unfair, deceptive or abusive practices in connection with the offering of consumer financial products. 

&#32;&#32;The Dodd-Frank Act permits states to adopt consumer protection laws and standards that are more stringent than those adopted at the federal level and, in certain circumstances, permits state attorneys general to enforce compliance with both the state and federal laws and regulations. 

The CFPB has finalized a number of significant rules, including rules that impact nearly every aspect of the lifecycle of a residential mortgage loan. These rules implement the Dodd-Frank Act amendments to the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Truth in Lending Act and the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act. Among other things, the rules adopted by the CFPB require banks to: (i) develop and implement procedures to ensure compliance with a &#8220;reasonable ability to repay&#8221; test and identify whether a loan meets a new definition for a &#8220;qualified mortgage,&#8221; in which case a rebuttable presumption exists that the creditor extending the loan has satisfied the reasonable ability to repay test; (ii) implement new or revised disclosures, policies and procedures for originating and servicing mortgages including, but not limited to, pre-loan counseling, early intervention with delinquent borrowers and specific loss mitigation procedures for loans secured by a borrower's principal residence; (iii) comply with additional restrictions on mortgage loan originator hiring and compensation; (iv) comply with new disclosure requirements and standards for appraisals and certain financial products; and (v) maintain escrow accounts for higher-priced mortgage loans for a longer period of time. Regions is continuing to analyze the impact that such rules may have on its business. 

Financial Privacy and Cybersecurity 

The federal banking regulators have adopted rules that limit the ability of banks and other financial institutions to disclose non-public information about consumers to non-affiliated third parties. These limitations require disclosure of privacy policies to consumers and, in some circumstances, allow consumers to prevent disclosure of certain personal information to a non-affiliated third party. These regulations affect how consumer information is transmitted through diversified financial companies and conveyed to outside vendors. In addition, consumers may also prevent disclosure of certain information among affiliated companies that is assembled or used to determine eligibility for a product or service, such as that shown on consumer credit reports and asset and income information from applications. Consumers also have the option to direct banks and other financial institutions not to share information about transactions and experiences with affiliated companies for the purpose of marketing products or services. 

In March 2015, federal regulators issued two related statements regarding cybersecurity. One statement indicates that financial institutions should design multiple layers of security controls to establish lines of defense and to ensure that their risk management processes also address the risk posed by compromised customer credentials, including security measures to reliably authenticate customers accessing Internet-based services of the financial institution. The other statement indicates that a financial institution&#8217;s management is expected to maintain sufficient business continuity planning processes to ensure the rapid recovery, resumption and maintenance of the institution&#8217;s operations after a cyber attack involving destructive malware. A financial institution is also 

&#32; 

expected to develop appropriate processes to enable recovery of data and business operations and address rebuilding network capabilities and restoring data if the institution or its critical service providers fall victim to this type of cyber attack. The Regions Information Security Program reflects the requirements of this guidance. If, however, we fail to observe the regulatory guidance in the future, we could be subject to various regulatory sanctions, including financial penalties. 

Community Reinvestment Act 

Regions Bank is subject to the provisions of the CRA. Under the terms of the CRA, Regions Bank has a continuing and affirmative obligation, consistent with safe and sound operation, to help meet the credit needs of its communities, including providing credit to individuals residing in low- and moderate-income neighborhoods. The CRA does not establish specific lending requirements or programs for financial institutions nor does it limit an institution&#8217;s discretion to develop the types of products and services that it believes are best suited to its particular community, so long as they are consistent with the CRA. The CRA requires each appropriate federal bank regulatory agency, in connection with its examination of a depository institution, to assess such institution&#8217;s record in assessing and meeting the credit needs of the community served by that institution, including low- and moderate-income neighborhoods. The regulatory agency&#8217;s assessment of the institution&#8217;s record is made available to the public. The assessment also is part of the Federal Reserve&#8217;s consideration of applications to acquire, merge or consolidate with another banking institution or its holding company, to establish a new branch office that will accept deposits or to relocate an office. In the case of a BHC applying for approval to acquire a bank or other BHC, the Federal Reserve will assess the records of each subsidiary depository institution of the applicant BHC, and such records may be the basis for denying the application. 

In 2014, the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta began a regularly scheduled CRA examination of Regions Bank covering 2012 and 2013 performance. This review included, among other things, a review of Regions Bank's previously disclosed public consent orders. As a result of the examination, the results of which were communicated during the fourth quarter of 2015, Regions Bank received "High Satisfactory" ratings on its CRA components, but its overall CRA rating was downgraded from "Satisfactory" to &#8220;Needs to Improve.&#8221; The downgrade was attributed to the matters underlying Regions Bank&#8217;s April 2015 public consent order with the CFPB related to overdrafts and Regulation E. Regions Bank had self-reported these matters and provided remuneration during 2011 and 2012. This downgrade imposes restrictions on the Company's ability to undertake certain activities, including mergers and acquisitions of insured depository institutions and applications to open branches or certain other facilities until such time as the rating is improved. Regions Bank's next CRA examination is expected to commence during 2016, although the actual timing of the examination and any results therefrom will not be known until later. 

Anti-Money Laundering 

A continued focus of governmental policy relating to financial institutions in recent years has been combating money laundering and terrorist financing. The USA PATRIOT Act broadened the application of anti-money laundering regulations to apply to additional types of financial institutions such as broker-dealers, investment advisors and insurance companies, and strengthened the ability of the U.S. Government to help prevent, detect and prosecute international money laundering and the financing of terrorism. The principal provisions of Title III of the USA PATRIOT Act require that regulated financial institutions, including state member banks: (i) establish an anti-money laundering program that includes training and audit components; (ii) comply with regulations regarding the verification of the identity of any person seeking to open an account; (iii) take additional required precautions with non-U.S. owned accounts; and (iv) perform certain verification and certification of money laundering risk for their foreign correspondent banking relationships. Failure of a financial institution to comply with the USA PATRIOT Act&#8217;s requirements could have serious legal and reputational consequences for the institution. Regions&#8217; banking and insurance subsidiaries have augmented their systems and procedures to meet the requirements of these regulations and will continue to revise and update their policies, procedures and controls to reflect changes required by the USA PATRIOT Act and implementing regulations. The USA PATRIOT Act also requires federal banking regulators to evaluate the effectiveness of an applicant in combating money laundering in determining whether to approve a proposed bank acquisition. 

In 2014, the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, which drafts regulations implementing the USA PATRIOT Act and other anti-money laundering and bank secrecy act legislation, proposed a rule that would require financial institutions to obtain beneficial ownership information with respect to all legal entities with which such institutions conduct business. The scope and compliance requirements of such a rule have yet to be formalized or completed. Bank regulators are focusing their examinations on anti-money laundering compliance, and we continue to monitor and augment, where necessary, our anti-money laundering compliance programs. 

&#32; 

Office of Foreign Assets Control Regulation 

The U.S. has imposed economic sanctions that affect transactions with designated foreign countries, nationals and others. These are typically known as the &#8220;OFAC&#8221; rules based on their administration by the U.S. Treasury Department Office of Foreign Assets Control. The OFAC-administered sanctions targeting countries take many different forms. Generally, however, they contain one or more of the following elements: (i) restrictions on trade with or investment in a sanctioned country, including prohibitions against direct or indirect imports from and exports to a sanctioned country and prohibitions on U.S. persons engaging in financial transactions relating to, making investments in, or providing investment-related advice or assistance to, a sanctioned country; and (ii) a blocking of assets in which the government or specially designated nationals of the sanctioned country have an interest, by prohibiting transfers of property subject to U.S. jurisdiction (including property in the possession or control of U.S. persons). Blocked assets (e.g., property and bank deposits) cannot be paid out, withdrawn, set off or transferred in any manner without a license from OFAC. Failure to comply with these sanctions could have serious legal and reputational consequences. 

Regulation of Insurers and Insurance Brokers 

Our operations in the areas of insurance brokerage and reinsurance of credit life insurance are subject to regulation and supervision by various state insurance regulatory authorities. Although the scope of regulation and form of supervision may vary from state to state, insurance laws generally grant broad discretion to regulatory authorities in adopting regulations and supervising regulated activities. This supervision generally includes the licensing of insurance brokers and agents and the regulation of the handling of customer funds held in a fiduciary capacity. Certain of our insurance company subsidiaries are subject to extensive regulatory supervision and to insurance laws and regulations requiring, among other things, maintenance of capital, record keeping, reporting and examinations. 

Regulation of Broker Dealers 

Our subsidiary Regions Securities is a registered broker-dealer with the SEC and, as a result, is subject to regulation and examination by the SEC, FINRA and other self-regulatory organizations. These regulations cover a broad range of issues, including capital requirements; sales and trading practices; use of client funds and securities; the conduct of directors, officers and employees; record-keeping and recording; supervisory procedures to prevent improper trading on material non-public information; qualification and licensing of sales personnel; and limitations on the extension of credit in securities transactions. In addition to federal registration, state securities commissions require the registration of certain broker-dealers. 

Competition 

All aspects of our business are highly competitive. Our subsidiaries compete with other financial institutions located in the states in which they operate and other adjoining states, as well as large banks in major financial centers and other financial intermediaries, such as savings and loan associations, credit unions, Internet banks, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, brokerage and investment banking firms, mortgage companies and financial service operations of major commercial and retail corporations. We expect competition to intensify among financial services companies due to the sustained low interest rate and ongoing low-growth economic environment. Also, as banks in our footprint act to attain compliance with the LCR, there is a chance deposit pricing, particularly long-term time deposits could become even more competitive. 

Customers for banking services and other financial services offered by our subsidiaries are generally influenced by convenience, quality of service, personal contacts, price of services and availability of products. Although our position varies in different markets, we believe that our affiliates effectively compete with other financial services companies in their relevant market areas. 

Employees 

As of December 31, 2015, Regions and its subsidiaries had 23,916 employees. 

Available Information 

We maintain a website at &#32; www.regions.com . We make available on our website, free of charge, our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports that are filed with or furnished to the SEC pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These documents are made available on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. Also available on the website are our (i) Corporate Governance Principles, (ii) Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, (iii) Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Officers, (iv) Fair Disclosure Policy Summary, and (v) the charters of our Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee, Audit Committee, Compensation Committee and Risk Committee. 

&#32; 

