 ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

(a) General Development of Business 

We are a leading global producer of industrial packaging products and services with operations in over 45 countries. We offer a comprehensive line of rigid industrial packaging products, such as steel, fibre and plastic drums, rigid intermediate bulk containers, closure systems for industrial packaging products, transit protection products, water bottles and remanufactured and reconditioned industrial containers, and services, such as container life cycle management, filling, logistics, warehousing and other packaging services. We produce containerboard and corrugated products for niche markets in North America. We are also a leading global producer of flexible intermediate bulk containers. We sell timber to third parties from our timberland in the southeastern United States that we manage to maximize long-term value. In addition, we sell, from time to time, timberland and special use land, which consists of surplus land, higher and better use (&#8220;HBU&#8221;) land, and development land. Our customers range from Fortune 500 companies to medium and small-sized companies in a cross section of industries. 

We were founded in 1877 in Cleveland, Ohio, as &#8220;Vanderwyst and Greif,&#8221; a cooperage shop co-founded by one of four Greif brothers. One year after our founding, the other three Greif brothers were invited to join the business, renamed Greif Bros. Company, making wooden barrels, casks and kegs to transport post-Civil War goods nationally and internationally. We later purchased nearly 300,000 acres of timberland to provide raw materials for our cooperage plants. We still own significant timber properties located in the southeastern United States. In 1926, we incorporated as a Delaware corporation and made a public offering as The Greif Bros. Cooperage Corporation. In 1951, we moved our headquarters from Cleveland, Ohio to Delaware, Ohio, which is in the Columbus metro-area, where our corporate headquarters are currently located. Since the latter half of the 1900s, we have transitioned from our keg and barrel heading mills, stave mills and cooperage facilities to a global producer of industrial packaging products. Following our acquisition of Van Leer Packaging in 2001, a global steel and plastic drum manufacturer, we changed our name to Greif, Inc. 

Our fiscal year begins on November 1 and ends on October 31 of the following year. Any references in this Form 10-K to the years 2016 , 2015 &#32;or 2014 , or to any quarter of those years, relate to the fiscal year ended in that year. 

As used in this Form 10-K, the terms &#8220;Greif,&#8221; &#8220;the Company,&#8221; &#8220;we,&#8221; &#8220;us,&#8221; and &#8220;our&#8221; refer to Greif, Inc. and its subsidiaries. 

(b) Financial Information about Segments 

We operate in five business segments, which are aggregated into four reportable business segments: Rigid Industrial Packaging &#38; Services; Paper Packaging &#38; Services; Flexible Products &#38; Services; and Land Management. Information related to each of these segments is included in Note 18 to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Form 10-K. 

(c) Narrative Description of Business 

Products and Services 

In the Rigid Industrial Packaging &#38; Services segment, we are a leading global producer of rigid industrial packaging products, including steel, fibre and plastic drums, rigid intermediate bulk containers, closure systems for industrial packaging products, transit protection products, water bottles and remanufactured and reconditioned industrial containers, and services, such as container life cycle management, filling, logistics, warehousing and other packaging services. We sell our rigid industrial packaging products to customers in industries such as chemicals, paints and pigments, food and beverage, petroleum, industrial coatings, agricultural, pharmaceutical and mineral products, among others. 

In the Paper Packaging &#38; Services segment, we sell containerboard, corrugated sheets, corrugated containers and other corrugated products to customers in North America in industries such as packaging, automotive, food and building products. Our corrugated container products are used to ship such diverse products as home appliances, small machinery, grocery products, automotive components, books and furniture, as well as numerous other applications. 

In the Flexible Products &#38; Services segment, we are a leading global producer of flexible intermediate bulk containers and related services. Our flexible intermediate bulk containers consist of a polypropylene-based woven fabric that is produced at our production sites, as well as sourced from strategic regional suppliers. Our flexible products are sold globally and service customers and market segments similar to those of our Rigid Industrial Packaging &#38; Services segment. Additionally, our flexible products significantly expand our presence in the agricultural and food industries, among others. 

In the Land Management segment, we are focused on the active harvesting and regeneration of our United States timber properties to achieve sustainable long-term yields. While timber sales are subject to fluctuations, we seek to maintain a consistent cutting schedule, within the limits of market and weather conditions. We also sell, from time to time, timberland and special use land, which consists of surplus land, HBU land and development land. As of October 31, 2016 , we owned 244,548 acres of timber property in the southeastern United States. During the fourth quarter 2015, we sold approximately 5,200 acres of development properties in Canada, which represented all of our remaining timber properties in Canada. 

Customers 

Due to the variety of our products, we have many customers buying different types of our products and due to the scope of our sales, no one customer is considered principal in our total operations. 

Backlog 

We supply a cross-section of industries, such as chemicals, paints and pigments, food and beverage, petroleum, industrial coatings, agricultural, pharmaceutical, mineral, packaging, automotive and building products, and must make spot deliveries on a day-to-day basis as our products are required by our customers. We do not operate on a backlog to any significant extent and maintain only limited levels of finished goods. Many customers place their orders weekly for delivery during the week. 

Competition 

The markets in which we sell our products are highly competitive with many participants. Although no single company dominates, we face significant competitors in each of our businesses. Our competitors include large vertically integrated companies as well as numerous smaller companies. The industries in which we compete are particularly sensitive to price fluctuations caused by shifts in industry capacity and other cyclical industry conditions. Other competitive factors include design, quality and service, with varying emphasis depending on product line. 

In both the rigid industrial packaging industry and the flexible products industry, we compete by offering a comprehensive line of products on a global basis. In the paper packaging industry, we compete by concentrating on providing value-added, higher-margin corrugated products to niche markets. In addition, over the past several years we have closed higher cost facilities and otherwise restructured our operations, which we believe have significantly improved our cost competitiveness. 

Compliance with Governmental Regulations Concerning Environmental Matters 

Our operations are subject to extensive federal, state, local and international laws, regulations, rules and ordinances relating to pollution, the protection of the environment, the generation, storage, handling, transportation, treatment, disposal and remediation of hazardous substances and waste materials and numerous other environmental laws and regulations. In the ordinary course of business, we are subject to periodic environmental inspections and monitoring by governmental enforcement authorities. In addition, certain of our production facilities require environmental permits that are subject to revocation, modification and renewal. 

Based on current information, we believe that the probable costs of the remediation of company-owned property will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. We believe that we have adequately reserved for our liability for these matters as of October 31, 2016 . 

We do not believe that compliance with federal, state, local and international provisions, which have been enacted or adopted regulating the discharge of materials into the environment, or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment, has had or will have a material adverse effect upon our capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position. We do not anticipate any material capital expenditures related to environmental control in 2017 . 

Refer also to Note 14 to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Form 10-K for additional information concerning environmental expenses and cash expenditures for 2016 , 2015 &#32;and 2014 , and our reserves for environmental liabilities as of October 31, 2016 . 

Raw Materials 

Steel, resin and containerboard, as well as used industrial packaging for reconditioning, are the principal raw materials for the Rigid Industrial Packaging &#38; Services segment, resin is the primary raw material for the Flexible Products &#38; Services segment, and pulpwood, old corrugated containers for recycling and containerboard are the principal raw materials for the Paper 

Packaging &#38; Services segment. We satisfy most of our needs for these raw materials through purchases on the open market or under short-term and long-term supply agreements. All of these raw materials are purchased in highly competitive, price-sensitive markets, which have historically exhibited price, demand and supply cyclicality. From time to time, some of these raw materials have been in short supply at certain of our manufacturing facilities. In those situations, we ship the raw materials in short supply from one or more of our other facilities with sufficient supply to the facility or facilities experiencing the shortage. To date, raw material shortages have not had a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. 

Research and Development 

While research and development projects are important to our continued growth, the amount expended in any year is not material in relation to our results of operations. 

Other 

Our businesses are not materially dependent upon patents, trademarks, licenses or franchises. 

No material portion of our businesses is subject to renegotiation of profits or termination of contracts or subcontracts at the election of a governmental agency or authority. 

The businesses of our segments are not seasonal to any material extent. 

Employees 

As of October 31, 2016 , we had approximately 12,370 full time employees. A significant number of our full time employees are covered under collective bargaining agreements. We believe that our employee relations are generally good. 

(d) Financial Information about Geographic Areas 

Our operations are located in North and South America, Europe, the Middle East, Africa and the Asia Pacific regions. Information related to our geographic areas of operation is included in Note 18 to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Form 10-K. Refer to Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk, included in Item 7A of this Form 10-K. 

(e) Available Information 

We maintain a website at www.greif.com. We file reports with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (&#8220;SEC&#8221;) and make available, free of charge, on or through our website, our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, proxy and information statements and amendments to these reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after we have electronically filed such material with, or furnished it to, the SEC. 

Any of the materials we file with the SEC may also be read and/or copied at the SEC&#8217;s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. Information on the operation of the SEC&#8217;s Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains a website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at www.sec.gov. 

(f) Other Matters 

Our common equity securities are listed on the New York Stock Exchange (&#8220;NYSE&#8221;) under the symbols GEF and GEF.B. Our Chief Executive Officer has timely certified to the NYSE that, at the date of the certification, he was unaware of any violation by our Company of the NYSE&#8217;s corporate governance listing standards. In addition, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have provided certain certifications in this Form 10-K regarding the quality of our public disclosures. Refer to Exhibits 31.1 and 31.2 to this Form 10-K. 

