 Item 1. 

Business 

Rambus Inc., referred to as we, us or Rambus, was founded in 1990 and reincorporated in Delaware in March 1997. Our principal executive offices are located at 1050 Enterprise Way, Suite 700, Sunnyvale, California. Our website is www.rambus.com. You can obtain copies of our Forms 10-K, 10-Q, 8-K, and other filings with the SEC, and all amendments to these filings, free of charge, from our website as soon as reasonably practicable following our filing of any of these reports with the SEC. In addition, you may read and copy any material we file with the SEC at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street NE, Room 1580, Washington, D.C. 20549. You may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC also maintains a website that contains reports, proxy, and information statements, and other information regarding registrants that file electronically with the SEC at www.sec.gov. 

Rambus creates cutting-edge semiconductor and IP products, spanning memory and interfaces to security, smart sensors and lighting. Our chips, customizable IP cores, architecture licenses, tools, services, software, training and innovations improve the competitive advantage of our customers. We collaborate with the industry, partnering with leading ASIC and SoC designers, foundries, IP developers, EDA companies and validation labs. Our products are integrated into tens of billions of devices and systems, powering and securing diverse applications, including Big Data, Internet of Things (IoT), mobile, consumer and media platforms. &#32; We generate revenue by licensing our inventions and solutions, selling our semiconductor products and providing services to market-leading companies. 

While we have historically focused our efforts on the development of technologies for electronics memory and chip interfaces, we have expanded our portfolio of inventions and solutions to address additional markets in lighting, chip and system security, as well as new areas within the semiconductor industry, such as computational sensing and imaging. We intend to continue our growth into new technology fields, consistent with our mission to create great value through our innovations and to make those technologies available through both our licensing and non-licensing business models. Key to our efforts will be hiring and retaining world-class inventors, scientists, engineers, and product managers to lead the development of inventions and technology solutions for our fields of focus, and the management and business support personnel necessary to execute our plans and strategies. 

We have four operational units: (1) Memory and Interfaces Division, or MID, which focuses on the design, development and licensing of technology that is related to memory and interfaces; (2) Cryptography Research Division, or CRD, which focuses on the design, development and licensing of technologies for chip and system security, anti-counterfeiting, smart ticketing and mobile payments; (3) Emerging Solutions Division, or ESD, which includes our computational sensing and imaging group along with our development efforts in the area of emerging technologies; and (4) Lighting and Display Technologies, or LDT, which focuses on the design, development and licensing of technologies for lighting. 

Our inventions and technology solutions are offered to our customers through patent licenses, technology licenses, software licenses and the shipment of products. Royalties from patent licenses accounted for 84%, 88% and 92% of our consolidated revenue for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. Royalties from technology licenses accounted for 5%, 4% and 5% of our consolidated revenue for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. Today, a majority of our revenues are derived from patent licenses, through which we provide our customers a license to use a certain portion of our broad portfolio of patented inventions. The license provides our customers with a defined right to use our innovations in the customer's own digital electronics products, systems or services, as applicable. The licenses may also define the specific field of use where our customers may use or employ our inventions in their products. License agreements are structured with fixed, variable or a hybrid of fixed and variable royalty payments over certain defined periods ranging for periods of up to ten years. The majority of our intellectual property was developed in-house and we have expanded our business strategy of monetizing our intellectual property to include the sale of select intellectual property. As any sales executed under this expanded strategy represent a component of our ongoing major or central operations and activities, we will record the related proceeds as revenue. 

Our Strategy 

Our strategy is to evolve from providing primarily patent licenses to providing additional technology, products and services while creating and leveraging strategic synergies to increase revenue. One of our goals is to supplement our patent licensing business with additional licensing opportunities for our technologies, products and services to be incorporated into our customers&#8217; products and/or systems. Our technology licenses are designed to support the implementation and adoption of our technology into our customers&#8217; products or services. As part of these offerings, we can provide a range of services that can include access to technical experts, advanced system design and analysis, hardware and software to enhance design and validation, system IP and specifications, and process-specific hard and soft macros, along with other services. These technology license agreements may have both a fixed price (non-recurring) component and ongoing royalties. Further, under technology 

licenses, our customers typically receive licenses to our patents necessary to implement these solutions in their products with specific rights and restrictions to the applicable patents elaborated in their individual contracts with us. 

In 2015, we continued our focus on the development of innovative technology and furthering open and collaborative relationships with the broader industry. We signed or renewed license agreements with IBM, Renesas, SK hynix, and Toshiba. In addition, we announced our first physical product with the introduction of the R+ DDR4 server DIMM chip for RDIMMs and LRDIMMs and, in January 2016, acquired an advanced mobile payment platform and smart ticketing platform which we believe will complement our existing CRD product offerings such as CryptoManager. We also unveiled a research program entitled the Smart Data Acceleration (SDA) platform. 

We believe that the successful execution of our strategy requires an exceptional business model that relies on the skills and talent of our employees. Accordingly, we seek to hire and retain world-class scientific and engineering expertise in all of our fields of technological focus, as well as the executive management and operating personnel required to successfully execute our business strategy. In order to attract the quality of employees required for this business model, we have created an environment and culture that encourages, fosters and supports research, development and innovation in breakthrough technologies with significant opportunities for broad industry adoption. We believe we have created a compelling company for inventors and innovators who are able to work within a business model and platform that focuses on technology development and execution to drive strong future growth. 

Design and Manufacturing 

Our technology solutions are developed with high-volume commercial manufacturing processes in mind. Our solutions can be delivered in a number of ways, from reference designs to full turnkey custom development deliverables to physical products through our manufacturing partners. A reference design engagement might include an architectural specification, data sheet, theory of operation and implementation guides. A custom development project would entail a specific design implementation optimized for the customer's manufacturing process. In some cases, we may provide supply chain enablement services where we assist our customers in designing and establishing certain manufacturing processes to implement our technologies in their product offerings. We often develop test-chips of our designs and have begun the process to deliver our solutions to the market through physical product. 

Background 

The demand for increased performance and improved power efficiency in computers, tablets, smartphones, consumer electronics and other electronic systems rises dramatically with each passing year. Semiconductor and system designers face key challenges in sustaining the pace of innovation. We strive to offer compelling technologies that provide value to our customers. 

Memory and Interfaces 

There are four main areas of focus in our Memory and Interface Division: mobile memory, server-based memory, serial link designs, and custom solutions. The primary markets for these technologies include: (1) DRAM devices; (2) NAND devices; (3) System-on-Chip (SoC) devices; (4) silicon physical IP; and (5) memory buffer chips. In these markets, memory technology transitions, serial link transitions and SoC microarchitecture transitions or overall process technology node transitions provide opportunities. Since battery technology improves modestly over time, mobile device designers face challenges in adding increased functionality and higher performance with only small increases in power budget. For plug-in systems, there is a strong desire to reduce power consumption for both economic and environmental reasons while still providing increased computing capability and more visually compelling displays. At the chip level, it becomes increasingly difficult to maintain signal integrity and power efficiency as data transfer speeds rise to support more powerful, multi-core processors. 

To address these challenges and enable the continued improvement of electronics systems, ongoing innovation is required. The many contributions and patented innovations developed by Rambus scientists and engineers have been, and continue to be, critical in addressing some of the most difficult chip and system challenges. The foundations of MID are world-class memory architectures and high-performance serial link technologies that are brought to market through three main business initiatives: (1) patent licensing; (2) silicon IP core licensing; and (3) memory buffer chips. 

We have developed technologies, advanced designs, and development tools for building high-performance and low-power memory and serial-link interface cores for semiconductor chips. We develop both proprietary and industry-standard interfaces that we provide to our customers under technology license agreements. We also offer a range of services as part of our technology licenses which can include know-how and technology transfer, product design and development, system integration, and other services. We offer a set of solutions under the name R+ TM &#32;enhanced standard solutions. Fully compatible with industry standards, R+ solutions offer compelling benefits that enable our customers to differentiate their products. We recently announced the R+ DDR4 Server DIMM chip, the RCD26, which is designed to enable top-of-the-line performance and capacity 

with optimized power efficiency to advance critical data center and enterprise server infrastructure. We focus our resources and effort to help bring products to market under technology license agreements with leading companies in the industry as well as our Rambus-branded buffer chip product that is currently under development and not yet commercially available. 

Chip and System Security Technology 

Security challenges are increasingly prevalent in a multitude of industries, including high-growth sectors such as mobile and content distribution, providing a variety of opportunities for our security technologies and services. This market trend provides us with the opportunity to provide critical technologies, and we are deploying and developing products to enable us to achieve this objective. Through our Cryptography Research Division, we own a portfolio of patented inventions and technology solutions that are needed for creating secure tamper-resistant electronic devices and systems. These patented DPA countermeasures are critical in protecting devices against side channel attacks such as differential power analysis, which involve monitoring the variations in power consumption or electromagnetic emissions of a device. In addition, our hardware-based cores provide a robust hardware-based solution to protect electronics systems from side-channel attacks, counterfeiting, piracy, and other forms of attack. 

For DPA countermeasures, our business model is to provide a combination of patent licenses, technology, consulting services (training, evaluation, and design), and test equipment as well as DPA resistant cores and software libraries. We are recognized worldwide for our expertise in this area, and our strategy is to strengthen our offering beyond stand-alone patent licensing. We discovered the existence of SPA and DPA vulnerabilities in the 1990s, and patented the fundamental techniques for preventing against this method of attack. DPA protections are a critical security ingredient in tamper-resistant products, and are important or required for a broad range of applications and devices (including smart cards, mobile devices, FPGAs, government/defense applications, consumer set-top boxes, postage meters and security tokens). 

In addition to the DPA countermeasures portfolio, we have developed technologies, expertise, advanced designs, and development tools for building highly secure cryptographic semiconductor cores. We have successfully deployed our semiconductor cores in two primary application areas where effective security is valued and paid for by customers: content protection and anti-counterfeiting. For our content protection cores, our most common business model is to partner with chip manufacturers to integrate our technology, and then license it to downstream customers. 

Secure Foundation for Connected Devices 

In 2014, we introduced the Rambus CryptoManager&#8482; feature management platform from our Cryptography Research Division. As connected products, including mobile phones and Internet of Things (IoT) devices, have a critical need for security, a robust security system is critical. Robust security starts with the design of the SoC and continues with the manufacturing supply chain. The Rambus CryptoManager&#8482; solution brings revolutionary security improvements to the semiconductor chips and supply chains that enable our mobile world. 

The CryptoManager platform provides chip and device companies with an advanced hardware root-of-trust for their SoCs, as well as an Infrastructure Suite for end-to-end security throughout the SoC design and manufacturing process. The CryptoManager platform has been developed with a services-based architecture that enables a secure, two-way communication channel across the manufacturing stages. This fully integrated solution is built on a foundation that simplifies, automates, and reduces costs for global enterprise IT, manufacturing, and operations functions. The platform is designed to support the enablement of in-field provisioning and downstream services, such as media, ticketing and mobile payments. 

In addition, as a result of the acquisition of Smart Card Software Ltd. (&#8220;Smart Card Software&#8221;) in January 2016, we will incorporate Smart Card Software&#8217;s advanced mobile payment platform and smart ticketing platform into CRD. Bell ID, one division of Smart Card Software, provides banks, governments and enterprises with the ability to issue and manage credentials on smartphones, smart cards and other connected devices. The Bell ID technology supports all of the leading mobile payment platforms via host card emulation technology. Ecebs, the second division of Smart Card Software, provides smart card solutions to national and local governments, transport operators, banks and system integrators. Ecebs is known for its smart ticketing solutions that is compliant with the ITSO standard in the United Kingdom and is working to expand in the broader European Union. 

Lighting and Display Technology 

The continued evolution of LED as a bright, reliable and energy-efficient light source creates significant market opportunities in consumer electronics and in general lighting. Harnessing the benefits of LEDs, however, presents a new set of challenges for companies that offer and provide electronics and lighting products and solutions. Our technology allows customers to efficiently and uniformly spread the point source of light emitted from an LED over a large area in a very cost effective way. Moreover, we can control and direct the emitted light to improve the overall product performance or application efficiency. This technology enables class-leading price/performance and freedom of design in the general lighting field. We 

believe our patented technology, software and know-how, which enables precise placement of MicroLens&#174; optics on light guides, provides our customers with a fundamental competitive advantage over alternative products in the market. We continue to focus resources and effort to help our customers bring new products to market under technology license agreements. Our business model is a blend of patent and technology licensing, product sales and services to help bring innovative products to market. 

Research and Development and Employees 

Our ability to compete in the future will be substantially dependent on our ability to develop key innovations that meet the future needs of a dynamic market. To this end, we have assembled a team of highly skilled inventors, engineers and scientists whose activities are focused on continually developing new innovations within our chosen technology fields. Using this foundation of innovations, our technical teams develop new solutions that enable increased performance, greater power efficiency, increased levels of security, as well as other improvements and benefits. Our solution design and development process is a multi-disciplinary effort requiring expertise in multiple fields across all of our operational units. 

As of December 31, 2015, we had approximately 330 employees in our engineering departments, representing 67% of our total number of approximately 495 employees. None of our employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. As noted, we believe our future success is dependent on our continued ability to identify, attract, motivate and retain qualified personnel. To date, we believe that we have been successful in recruiting qualified employees and that our relationship with our employees is good. 

A significant number of our scientists and engineers spend all or a portion of their time on research and development. For the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, research and development expenses were $111.1 million, $110.0 million and $118.0 million, respectively, including stock-based compensation of approximately $6.8 million, $7.2 million and $6.6 million, respectively. For the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013, research and development expenses also included $1.5 million and $8.6 million, respectively, for the accrual of retention bonuses for engineers. There was no accrual for retention bonuses for engineers as of December 31, 2015. Since innovation is critical to our future success, we expect to continue to invest substantial funds in research and development activities. In addition, because our customer agreements often call for us to provide engineering support, a portion of our total engineering costs are allocated to the cost of contract revenue. 

Competition 

Our selected industries are intensely competitive and have been impacted by price erosion, rapid technological change, short product life cycles, cyclical market patterns and increasing foreign and domestic competition. We face competition from semiconductor and digital electronics products and systems companies, other semiconductor intellectual property companies that provide security cores and non-edge lit LED lighting options that are available to the market. 

We believe the principal competition for our technologies may come from our prospective customers, some of whom are evaluating and developing products based on technologies that they contend or may contend will not require a license from us. Some of our competitors use a system-level design approach similar to ours, including activities such as board and package design, power and signal integrity analysis, and thermal management. Many of these companies are larger and may have better access to financial, technical and other resources than we possess. 

To the extent that alternatives might provide comparable system performance at lower or similar cost to our technologies, or are perceived to require the payment of no or lower royalties, or to the extent other factors influence the industry, our customers and prospective customers may adopt and promote alternative technologies. Even to the extent we determine that such alternative technologies infringe our patents, there can be no assurance that we would be able to negotiate agreements that would result in royalties being paid to us without litigation, which could be costly and the results of which would be uncertain. In the past, litigation has been and in the future may be required to enforce and protect our intellectual property rights, as well as the substantial investments undertaken to research and develop our innovations and technologies. 

Patents and Intellectual Property Protection 

We maintain and support an active program to protect our intellectual property, primarily through the filing of patent applications and the defense of issued patents against infringement. As of December 31, 2015, our semiconductor, lighting, security and other technologies are covered by 1,832 U.S. and foreign patents, having expiration dates ranging from 2016 to 2038. Additionally, we have 681 patent applications pending. Some of the patents and pending patent applications are derived from a common parent patent application or are foreign counterpart patent applications. We believe our patented innovations provide our customers with the ability to achieve improved performance, lower risk, greater cost-effectiveness and other benefits in their products and services. 

We have a program to file applications for and obtain patents in the United States and in selected foreign countries where we believe filing for such protection is appropriate and would further our overall business strategy and objectives. In some instances, obtaining appropriate levels of protection may involve prosecuting continuation and counterpart patent applications based on a common parent application. In addition, we attempt to protect our trade secrets and other proprietary information through agreements with current and prospective customers, and confidentiality agreements with employees and consultants and other security measures. We also rely on copyright, trademarks and trade secret laws to protect our intellectual property. 

Information concerning revenue, results of operations and revenue by geographic area is set forth in Item 6, &#8220;Selected Financial Data,&#8221; in Item 7, &#8220;Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,&#8221; and in Note 6, &#8220;Segments and Major Customers,&#8221; of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements of this Form 10-K, all of which are incorporated herein by reference. Information concerning identifiable assets and segment reporting is also set forth in Note 6, &#8220;Segments and Major Customers,&#8221; of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements of this Form 10-K. Information on customers that comprise 10% or more of our consolidated revenue and risks attendant to our foreign operations is set forth below in Item 1A, &#8220;Risk Factors .&#8221; 

