 Item 1. Business 

OVERVIEW AND HISTORY 

HealthStream, Inc. (HealthStream or the Company) provides workforce, patient experience, and provider solutions for healthcare organizations&#151;all designed to support the people that deliver patient care which, in turn, supports the improvement of business and clinical outcomes. Delivered primarily as Software-as-a-Service (&#147;SaaS&#148;), our solutions focus on some of the most significant challenges facing the healthcare workforce and healthcare organizations today, including the need to effectively manage, retain, engage, and develop healthcare workforce talent; meet rigorous compliance requirements; efficiently manage ongoing medical staff credentialing and privileging processes; and deliver optimal patient experiences of care in healthcare organizations. 

With 26 years of experience, HealthStream is recognized as a leading innovator and thought leader in the healthcare industry for its healthcare workforce solutions. Using technology to enhance learning and productivity, HealthStream pioneered the delivery of online learning for hospitals&#146; required regulatory training as Internet-based training was first introduced. Stemming from that early success, demand for expanded learning solutions led the Company to build what is now a full eco-system of diverse HR and clinical-focused applications, courseware, assessments, and talent management programs. At year-end 2015&#151;with over 4.6 million healthcare professionals subscribing to HealthStream&#146;s platform through their respective organizations, HealthStream is a leading provider in workforce development in the healthcare industry. 

With its singular healthcare focus, HealthStream understands that healthcare organizations want to provide their patients with an engaged, confident, and competent workforce that delivers optimal patient experiences. HealthStream&#146;s solutions offer organizations a robust array of products and services that provide targeted insights to take actions that produce sustainable performance improvements. Moreover, HealthStream&#146;s vast database of healthcare workforce benchmarks offer organizations a powerful tool to compare, assess, and fine-tune their strategies for managing initiatives to success. 

HealthStream believes that the key to quality patient care is&#151;and always has been&#151;a result of the people who deliver care. To that end, the Company&#146;s solutions support the recruiting, retaining, engaging, assessing, and developing the healthcare workforce, including medical staff who provide patient care in our customers&#146; organizations. 

Headquartered in Nashville, Tennessee, the Company was incorporated in 1990 and began providing its SaaS-based workforce solutions in 1999, its survey and research solutions in 2005, and its provider solutions in 2012. Including additional offices in Laurel, Maryland; Nashville, Tennessee; Jericho, New York; Brentwood, Tennessee; San Diego, California; Boulder, Colorado; and Pensacola, Florida, HealthStream had 833 full-time and 139 part-time employees as of December 31, 2015. Our business has evolved from an initial focus on technology-based training to a company providing workforce development, patient experience, and provider solutions to the nation&#146;s healthcare providers. 

INDUSTRY BACKGROUND 

According to the deputy director of the National Health Statistics Group at the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS), spending in the healthcare industry reached approximately $3.0 trillion in 2014, or 17.5% of the U.S. gross domestic product. Hospital care expenditures accounted for approximately 32.4% of the $3.0 trillion industry. According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, approximately 18.9 million professionals are employed in the healthcare segment of the domestic economy, with approximately 4.8 million employed in acute-care hospitals and approximately 3.3 million employed in post-acute-care organizations, our primary target markets for our products. As of December 31, 2015, approximately 4.62 million healthcare professionals were subscribers to our SaaS-based solutions, which include 4.48 million subscribers already implemented and 142,000 subscribers in the process of implementation. 

All of the 4.8 million hospital-based healthcare professionals that work in the nation&#146;s approximately 5,000 acute-care hospitals are required by federal mandates and accrediting bodies to complete training in a number of areas. This training includes safety training mandated by both the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) and The Joint Commission (an independent, not-for-profit organization that accredits and certifies healthcare organizations and programs in the United States), as well as training on patient information confidentiality required under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA). 

&#160;

In hospitals, staffing issues and personnel shortages have also contributed to the need for facility based workforce development as well as additional assessment and competency based training. An ongoing nursing shortage, for example, is resulting in skill gaps and rising costs. The U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics projects the need for 525,000 replacement nurses over the next several years, bringing the total number of openings for nurses due to growth and replacements to 1.05 million by 2022. We believe that offering training and education for hospital personnel is increasingly being utilized as a retention and recruitment incentive. 

Many healthcare professionals use continuing education to keep abreast of the latest developments and meet licensing and certification requirements. Continuing education is required for nurses, emergency medical services personnel, first responder personnel, radiologic personnel, and physicians. Pharmaceutical and medical device companies must also provide their medical industry sales representatives with training mandated for the healthcare industry and training for new products. Such companies also provide support and content for education and training of audiences that use their products in healthcare organizations. 

A large portion of the nation&#146;s hospitals utilize research and survey tools to gain insight about patients&#146; experiences, to assess workforce competency and engagement, to determine the status of physician relations, and to measure the perceptions about the hospitals in the communities they serve. Industry-wide interest is increasing in research due in part, to the CAHPS &#174; (Consumer Assessment of Healthcare Providers and Systems) Hospital Survey launched by CMS in partnership with the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality (AHRQ). Hospitals must submit data to CMS for certain required quality measures&#151;which for inpatients includes the CAHPS &#174; Hospital Survey&#151;in order to receive the full market basket increase to their reimbursement payment rates from CMS. Hospitals that fail to submit this survey data will incur a reduction in the inpatient market basket update amount for the following federal fiscal year. We are designated as a certified vendor for and offer CAHPS &#174; Hospital Survey services. 

The healthcare education and training industry is highly fragmented, varies significantly in delivery methods (i.e., online products, live events, written materials, and manikins for simulation-based training), and is composed of a wide variety of entities competing for customers. The sheer volume of healthcare information available to satisfy continuing education needs, rapid advances in medical developments, and the time constraints that healthcare professionals face make it difficult to quickly and efficiently access the continuing education content most relevant to an individual&#146;s practice or profession. Historically, healthcare professionals have received continuing education and training through offline publications, such as medical journals or by attending conferences and seminars. In addition, other healthcare workers and pharmaceutical and medical device manufacturers&#146; sales and internal regulatory personnel usually fulfill their training from external vendors or internal training departments. While these approaches satisfy the ongoing education and training requirements, they are typically costly and inconvenient. In addition, live courses are often limited in the breadth of offerings and do not provide a method for tracking training completion. The results of these traditional methods, both from a business and compliance standpoint, are difficult to track and measure. While hospitals and health systems occasionally survey their patients, physicians, and employees using their own internal resources, the practice is limited since they do not typically possess the valuable comparative benchmarking data that is available from independent survey research vendors. 

Provider data management has become more complex and arduous for healthcare organizations. Spurred by the Joint Commission Medical Staff standards and other regulatory requirements, credentialing and privileging has been transformed from a periodic review to continuous, evidence-driven analysis of professional competency and provider performance. This transformation requires ongoing, automatic monitoring of licenses, sanctions, and exclusions, as well as expanding the area to review at initial and re-credentialing. In addition, provider enrollment processes have compounded in difficulty. For example, a single provider may need to enroll annually with some 30-40 payers, with each payer application often taking two to four hours to complete. 

Finally, the hospital industry continues to operate under intense pressure to reduce costs as a result of reductions in government reimbursement rates and increased focus on cost containment consistent with participation of patients in managed care programs. In addition, hospitals, as well as pharmaceutical and medical device companies, continue to experience rising operating costs, coupled with increased pressure to measure and report on the outcomes of the dollars spent on training. Our products and services are designed to meet these needs by reducing healthcare organizations&#146; costs of training while improving learning outcomes, enhancing reporting capabilities, and supporting customers&#146; business objectives. 

HEALTHSTREAM&#146;S SOLUTIONS 

HealthStream&#146;s products and services are organized into three segments&#151;Workforce Solutions, Patient Experience Solutions, and Provider Solutions&#151;that collectively help healthcare organizations meet their ongoing talent management, training, education, assessment, competency management, compliance, provider credentialing &#38; privileging management, and provider enrollment needs. HealthStream&#146;s solutions are provided to a wide range of customers within the healthcare industry across the continuum of care. 

HealthStream Workforce Solutions &#151; Our workforce development solutions, which are comprised primarily of SaaS, subscription-based products, are used by healthcare organizations to meet a broad range of their talent management, training, certification, competency assessment, performance appraisal, and development needs. Our numerous content libraries allow our customers to subscribe to a wide array of additional courseware, which includes content from leading healthcare and nursing associations, medical and healthcare publishers, and other content providers. Additionally, medical device companies and other industry partners offer online training support through HealthStream&#146;s platform for their products and they sponsor continuing education directly to healthcare workers. 

&#160;

At December 31, 2015, HealthStream had approximately 4.62 million &#147;total subscribers&#148; to its subscription-based solutions. Each individual end-user who utilizes at least one HealthStream subscription-based solution is counted as one subscriber, regardless of the number of subscriptions contracted by or for that end-user. Our subscription-based solutions include any one or a combination of our many platform applications, plus courseware, or content. For example, we deliver courseware to our customers primarily through our learning application, the HealthStream Learning Center&#153; (HLC), while we deliver competency management and performance appraisal tools through our applications known as the HealthStream Competency Center (HCC) and HealthStream Performance Center (HPC), respectively, which are all on our SaaS-based platform, along with a series of other applications. 

Pricing for the HLC, HCC, and HPC are subscription based, with fees based on the number of subscribers, courseware provided, and other factors. We offer training, implementation, and account management services to facilitate adoption of our subscription-based solutions. Fees for training are based on the time and efforts of the personnel involved. Implementation fees vary based on the size, scope, and complexity of the project. Our SaaS-based platform and subscription-based solutions are hosted in a central data center that allows authorized subscribers Internet access to our services, thereby eliminating the need for onsite local implementations of installed workforce development products. During 2015, 2014, and 2013, our subscription-based solutions accounted for approximately 74%, 76%, and 72% of consolidated revenues, respectively. 

Other Applications on our Platform &#151; HealthStream offers an array of other applications on our platform, each serving a unique function for hospitals and health systems. Each application on our platform has its own value proposition and revenue stream. Examples of individual applications that are offered on our platform include applications for recruiting and applicant tracking; learning; performance appraisal; compensation management; succession planning; competency management; credentialing and privileging; provider enrollment; disclosure management; clinical development; simulation-based education; and industry-sponsored training. 

HealthStream Patient Experience Solutions &#151; Our patient experience solutions complement HealthStream&#146;s workforce solutions&#146; product and service offerings by providing customers with Patient Insights&#153;, Employee Insights&#153;, Physician Insights&#153;, and Community Insights&#153; surveys, data analyses of survey results, and other research-based measurement tools. Our services are designed to provide thorough analyses with insightful recommendations for change; benchmarking capability using our comprehensive databases; and consulting services to identify solutions for our customers based on their survey results. Clients are able to access and analyze their survey results data through Insights Online&#153;, our secure web-based reporting platform. 

As a CMS-approved vendor, HealthStream offers its customers full services to meet their Consumer Assessment of Healthcare Providers and Systems, or CAHPS, program requirements. Along with the mandatory-for-hospitals CAHPS (HCAHPS), the Company offers a range of solutions for other mandated CAHPS reporting, including those for accountable care organizations, medical groups, and home health organizations. Other CAHPS survey services are offered for fulfilling voluntary reporting needs for pediatrics, emergency departments, hospice, in-center hemodialysis, and outpatient surgery. 

All of our survey and research solutions focus on providing statistically valid data to assist our customers with their decision making related to their organization&#146;s performance improvement objectives. In addition to collecting and reporting data, we provide analysis and consulting to help customers understand and improve their survey results and patient experiences and the underlying impact on their business. Pricing for these services is based on the survey type, delivery method, size of the survey instrument, sample size, frequency of survey cycles, and other factors. During 2015, 2014, and 2013, our Patient Insights&#153; survey product accounted for approximately 13%, 14%, and 17% of consolidated revenues, respectively. 

HealthStream Provider Solutions &#150; Our provider solutions are offered through our business segment that is branded in the marketplace as &#147;Echo, a HealthStream Company.&#148; Echo solutions enable healthcare organizations to launch paperless credentialing processes, reduce provider enrollment timelines, accelerate the provider onboarding process, and drive improvement through validated provider profiles. Together, more than 2,000 healthcare organizations in the U.S. use one or more Echo products. 

EchoCredentialing&#153; is a comprehensive platform that manages medical staff credentialing and privileging processes. Healthcare organizations leverage EchoCredentialing to support enterprise-wide or regional Credentialing Verification Organizations (CVOs), unified privileging, peer review, one-click integration with CVO services, and the move to paperless processes. EchoOneApp&#153;is a provider enrollment platform, which includes automatic form population directly from a continuously updated library of 3,500+ preformatted payer form templates as well as online form integration with CAQH, CMS, PECOS, and state-based payer enrollment sites. EchoAccess&#153;is our enterprise class platform to support hospital call centers with physician referral, call triage, provider directories, class enrollment, and discharge planning functionalities. EchoAnalytics&#153; offers a wide array of validation tools and EchoOnboarding&#153; consists of an onboarding dashboard with a workflow functionality, along with onboarding navigator tools to facilitate coordination of the provider onboarding process. 

BUSINESS COMBINATIONS 

We acquired substantially all of the assets of Baptist Leadership Group (BLG) in September 2013, acquired Health Care Compliance Strategies, Inc. (HCCS) in March 2014 and acquired HealthLine Systems, LLC (HLS) in March 2015. For additional information regarding acquisitions, please see Note 5 of the Consolidated Financial Statements and Item 7, &#147;Management&#146;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations&#148; included elsewhere in this report. 

&#160;

CUSTOMERS 

We provide our solutions to customers across a broad range of entities within the healthcare industry, including private, not for profit, and government entities, as well as pharmaceutical and medical device companies. We derive a substantial portion of our revenues from a relatively small number of customers, although no single customer represented more than 10 percent of our revenues during 2015, 2014, or 2013. Examples of customers that have purchased or contracted for products and services from HealthStream include: Ardent Health Services; Saint Luke&#146;s Health System; HCA Holdings, Inc.; Community Health Systems, Inc.; McLaren Health Care Corporation; Sutter Health; and Tenet Healthcare Corporation. 

SALES AND MARKETING 

We market our products and services primarily through our direct sales teams, who are based at our corporate headquarters in Nashville, Tennessee and in our additional offices located in Laurel, Maryland; Jericho, New York; Brentwood, Tennessee; San Diego, California and Pensacola, Florida as well as remote home office sales locations. As of December 31, 2015, our HealthStream Workforce Development Solutions sales personnel consisted of 105 employees who carried sales quotas; our HealthStream Patient Experience Solutions sales personnel consisted of 15 employees who carried sales quotas; and our Provider Solutions sales personnel consisted of 17 employees who carried sales quotas. We also have nine employees who support our sales teams with sales force productivity and optimization, onboarding, training, and administration services. 

We conduct a variety of marketing programs to promote our products and services, including product catalogs, user groups&#151;including our annual customer Summit, trade shows, internet promotion and demonstrations, telemarketing campaigns, public relations, distribution of product-specific literature, direct mail, and advertising. 

Over most of the last fourteen years, we have hosted an annual conference in Nashville, Tennessee for our customers known as the &#147;Summit.&#148; We have utilized this client conference to reach out to existing and potential customers and business partners, provide training and educational services, and to demonstrate our new and existing product offerings. We have marketing teams that are responsible for these initiatives and for working with and supporting our product management and sales teams. At December 31, 2015, our marketing personnel consisted of 29 employees. 

OPERATIONS AND TECHNOLOGY 

We believe our ability to establish and maintain long-term customer relationships, adoption of our products and services, recurring sales, and development and maintenance of new and existing products are dependent on the strength of our operations, customer service, product development and maintenance, training, and other support teams. As of December 31, 2015, our Workforce Development Solutions operations team consisted of 302 employees associated with customer support, implementation services, product development and maintenance, training, and project management; our Patient Experience Solutions operations team consisted of 352 employees (of which 205 employees worked in our interviewing centers) associated with phone interviewing, distributing and processing paper-based survey instruments, patient experience coaching and consulting, data analysis and reporting of survey results, and project management; and our Provider Solutions operations team consisted of 69 employees associated with implementation services, data integration, product development and quality assurance, credentials verification, consulting, and other services. 

Our services are designed to be reliable, secure, and scalable. Our software is a combination of proprietary and commercially available software and operating systems. Our software solutions support hosting and management of content, publication of our web sites, execution of courseware, registration and tracking of users, collection, sampling, and analysis of survey data, tracking and reporting of physician credentialing and provider enrollment information, and reporting of information for both internal and external use. We designed the platforms that provide our services to allow each component to be independently scaled by adding commercially available hardware and a combination of commercially available and proprietary software components. 

Our software applications, servers, and network infrastructure that deliver our services are hosted by a combination of third-party data center providers and HealthStream owned data centers. We maintain fully redundant disaster recovery data centers which are located in geographically separate locations. Our technology equipment is maintained in secure, limited access environments, supported by redundant power, environmental conditioning, and network connectivity, and we follow industry best practices for backup and disaster recovery. Company personnel monitor all servers, networks, and systems on a continuous basis, and we employ enterprise firewall systems and data abstraction to protect our databases, customer information, and courseware library from unauthorized access. 

&#160;

COMPETITION 

In addition to the competing healthcare education delivery methods in the industry, we also have direct competitors. In our workforce solutions business segment, a number of companies offer competitive learning management products and talent management modules to the healthcare industry. We compete with companies such as Cornerstone OnDemand, Healthcare Source, Oracle, SABA, SAP, and SumTotal Systems that provide their services to multiple industries, including healthcare. We also compete with large medical publishers that have operating units that offer learning management systems that focus on healthcare, such as Reed Elsevier Group&#146;s MC Strategies. In our patient experience business segment, we face competition from large nationally recognized research firms such as Avatar International, Gallup, National Research Corporation, Press Ganey Associates, Studer Group, Professional Research Consultants, Inc., and others. Our patient experience business also experiences direct competition from vendors who provide research services to other industries including Kenexa, which is now owned by IBM, and Foresight, which is now owned by TNS Global. In our provider solutions business segment, we see competition primarily from several large companies, such as MD-Staff, Morissey &#38; Associates, and Cactus Software. 

We believe our workforce solutions, which include both products and services that facilitate training, assessment, and development for healthcare professionals, a wide assortment of courseware, a mechanism for measuring satisfaction and/or other results, and the ability to provide all our services on a single platform over the Internet, provide us with a competitive advantage. In our patient experience business segment, we believe our large proprietary database of survey results, technology infrastructure designed to automate the processing of survey results, proprietary core survey instruments and action plan development methodology, and our ability to quickly deliver relevant online courseware targeted at addressing survey related findings provide us with a competitive advantage. In our provider solutions business segment, we believe the scope and quality of our products, capability to connect medical staff credentialing with provider enrollment, and innovative new predictive analytics provide us with a competitive advantage. We believe that the principal competitive factors affecting the marketing of our workforce, patient experience, and provider solutions to the healthcare industry include: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; features of our SaaS-based platform and applications, including reporting, management functionality, ability to manage a variety of events or modalities, courseware assignment, curriculum management, documenting competency assessments and performance appraisals, scalability, and the ability to track utilization and results; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; scope and variety of Internet-based learning courseware available, including mandated content for OSHA, The Joint Commission, patient safety, and HIPAA requirements, ICD-10 training, competency-based content, courseware scenarios that drive simulators, courseware that provides CPR certification, as well as the ability of our customers to create and host their own web-enabled courseware; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; our singular focus on the healthcare industry and our deep healthcare expertise; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; scope and quality of professional services offered, including survey execution, implementation, benchmarking, training and the expertise and technical knowledge of the customers&#146; employees; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; competitive pricing, which supports a return on investment to customers when compared to other alternative delivery methods; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; customer service and support; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; effectiveness of sales and marketing efforts; and &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; company reputation. Collectively, we believe these capabilities provide us with the ability to improve the quality of healthcare by assessing and developing the people who deliver care. 

GOVERNMENT REGULATION OF THE INTERNET AND THE HEALTHCARE INDUSTRY 

Regulation of the Internet and the Privacy and Security of Personal Information 

The laws and regulations that govern our business change rapidly. The following are some of the evolving areas of law that are relevant to our business: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Privacy and Security Laws. Federal, state and foreign privacy and security regulations and other laws restricting the collection, use, security and disclosure of personal information limit our ability to collect information or use and disclose the information in our databases or derived from other sources to generate revenues. It may be costly to implement security or other measures designed to comply with any new legislation. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Content Regulation. Both foreign and domestic governments have adopted and proposed laws governing the content of material transmitted over the Internet. These include laws relating to obscenity, indecency, libel and defamation. We could be liable if content delivered by us violates these regulations. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Information Security Accountability Regulation. As a business associate of our customers, we are required to report certain breaches of protected health information to our customers, which must in turn notify affected individuals, the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) and, in certain situations involving large breaches, the media. All non-permitted uses or disclosures of unsecured, protected health information are presumed to be breaches unless the covered entity or business associate establishes that there is a low probability the information has been compromised. In addition, we are subject to certain state laws that relate to privacy or the reporting of security breaches. For example, California law requires notification of security breaches involving personal information and medical information. We may incur costs to comply with these privacy and security requirements. Because many of these laws are new and there is little guidance related to many of these laws, it is difficult to estimate the cost of our compliance with these laws. Further, Congress has considered bills that would require companies to engage independent third parties to audit the companies&#146; computer information security. If the Company is required to report a breach of security or if one of the Company&#146;s customers is required to report a breach of security by the Company, the Company&#146;s business could be negatively impacted. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Sales and Use Tax. Through December 31, 2015, we collected sales, use or other taxes on taxable transactions in states in which we have employees or have a significant level of sales activity. While HealthStream expects that this approach is appropriate, other states or foreign jurisdictions may seek to impose tax collection obligations on companies like us that engage in online commerce. If they do, these obligations could limit the growth of electronic commerce in general and limit our ability to profit from the sale of our services over the Internet. Laws and regulations directly applicable to content regulation, e-commerce, Internet communications, and the privacy and security of personal information are becoming more prevalent. Congress continues considering laws regarding Internet taxation. The dynamic nature of this regulatory environment increases the uncertainty regarding the marketplace impact of such regulation. The enactment of any additional laws or regulations may increase our cost of conducting business or otherwise harm our business, financial condition and operating results. 

Regulation of Education, Training and Other Services for Healthcare Professionals 

Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA). OSHA regulations require employers to provide training to employees to minimize the risk of injury from various potential workplace hazards. Employers in the healthcare industry are required to provide training with respect to various topics, including blood borne pathogens exposure control, laboratory safety and tuberculosis infection control. OSHA regulations require employers to keep records of their employees&#146; completion of training with respect to these workplace hazards. 

The Joint Commission. The Joint Commission mandates that employers in the healthcare industry provide certain workplace safety and patient interaction training to employees. Training required by The Joint Commission may include programs on infection control, patient bill of rights, radiation safety, and incident reporting. Healthcare organizations are required to provide and document training on these topics to receive accreditation from The Joint Commission. In addition, The Joint Commission imposes continuing education requirements on physicians that relate to each physician&#146;s specific staff appointments. 

Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA). HIPAA regulations require certain organizations (known as covered entities), including most healthcare providers and health plans, to adopt safeguards regarding the use and disclosure of health-related information. HIPAA regulations also require these organizations to provide reasonable and appropriate safeguards to protect the privacy, integrity and confidentiality of individually identifiable healthcare information. Covered entities are required to establish, maintain and provide training with regard to their policies and procedures for protecting the integrity and confidentiality of individually identifiable healthcare information and must document training on these topics to support their compliance. Certain HIPAA privacy and security requirements apply to (entities known as business associates that handle individually identifiable healthcare information on behalf of covered entities) companies and business associates and their subcontractors may be directly subject to criminal and civil sanctions for violations of HIPAA privacy and security standards. 

The American Nurses Credentialing Center (ANCC). ANCC, a subsidiary of the American Nurses Association (ANA), provides individuals and organizations throughout the nursing profession with the resources they need to achieve practice excellence. ANCC&#146;s internationally renowned credentialing programs certify nurses in specialty practice areas; recognize healthcare organizations for promoting safe, positive work environments through the Magnet Recognition Program &#174; and the Pathway to Excellence &#174; Program; and accredit providers of continuing nursing education. In addition, ANCC&#146;s Institute for Credentialing Innovation &#174; offers an array of informational and educational services and products to support its core credentialing programs. ANCC certification exams validate nurses&#146; skills, knowledge, and abilities. More than a quarter million nurses have been certified by ANCC since 1990. More than 80,000 advanced practice nurses are currently certified by ANCC. The ANCC Magnet Recognition Program &#174; recognizes healthcare organizations that provide the very best in nursing care and professionalism in nursing practice. The program also provides a vehicle for disseminating best practices and strategies among nursing systems. The ANCC Magnet Recognition Program is a highly recognized standard for nursing excellence. The Pathway to Excellence &#174; Program recognizes the essential elements of a high standard nursing practice environment. The designation is earned by healthcare organizations that create work environments where nurses can develop professionally. The award substantiates the professional satisfaction of nurses and identifies best places to work. 

&#160;

Continuing Nursing Education (CNE). State nurse practice laws are usually the source of authority for establishing the state board of nursing requirements. The state board of nursing establishes the state&#146;s CNE requirements for professional nurses. CNE credits are provided through accredited providers that have been approved by the ANCC Commission on Accreditation and/or the state board of nursing. CNE requirements vary widely from state to state. Thirty-four states require registered nurses to certify that they have accumulated a minimum number of CNE credits in order to maintain their licenses. In some states, the CNE requirement only applies to re-licensure of advance practice nurses, or additional CNEs may be required of this category of nurses. Required CNE ranges from 12 to 45 credits annually, with reporting generally on a bi-annual basis. Board certifications (e.g., CNOR &#150; certification of perioperative nursing) also require CNE credits, with certain percentages required in specific categories based on the certification type. We are an accredited provider of CNE by the ANCC. 

Continuing Medical Education (CME). State licensing boards, professional organizations and employers require physicians to certify that they have accumulated a minimum number of continuing medical education hours to maintain their licenses. Generally, each state&#146;s medical practice laws authorize the state&#146;s board of medicine to establish and track CME requirements. Forty-eight state medical licensing boards currently have CME requirements, as well as Puerto Rico, Guam, and the U.S. Virgin Islands. The number of CME hours required by each state ranges from 15 to 50 hours per year. Other sources of CME requirements are state medical societies and practice specialty boards. The failure to obtain the requisite amount and type of CME could result in non-renewal of the physician&#146;s license to practice medicine and/or membership in a medical or practice specialty society. American Medical Association (AMA) classifies continuing medical education activities as either Category 1, which includes formal CME activities, or Category 2, which includes most informal activities. Sponsors can only designate CME activities for AMA PRA Category 1 Credit&#153; . Most agencies nationwide that require CME participation specify AMA PRA Category 1 Credit&#153; . Only institutions and organizations accredited to provide CME can designate an activity for AMA PRA Category 1 Credit&#153; . The Accreditation Council for Continuing Medical Education (ACCME) is responsible for awarding accreditation status to state medical societies, medical schools, and other institutions and organizations that provide CME activities for a national audience of physicians. Only institutions and organizations are accredited. State medical societies, operating under the aegis of the ACCME, accredit institutions and organizations that provide CME activities primarily for physicians within the state or bordering states. We are an accredited provider of CME by the ACCME. 

Centers for Medicare &#38; Medicaid Services (CMS). CMS has articulated a vision for health care quality&#151; the right care for every person every time . To achieve this vision, CMS is committed to care that is safe, effective, timely, patient-centered, efficient, and equitable. Value-based purchasing (VBP), which links payment more directly to the quality of care provided, is a strategy that can help to transform the current payment system by rewarding providers for delivering high quality, efficient clinical care. Through a number of public reporting programs, demonstration projects, pilot programs, and voluntary efforts, CMS has launched VBP initiatives in hospitals, physician offices, nursing homes, home health services, and dialysis facilities. Further, pursuant to the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Healthcare and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 (collectively, ACA), CMS is implementing a number of initiatives designed to link payments to quality and efficiency, including a VBP program for inpatient hospital services. 

Consumer Assessment of Healthcare Providers and Systems (CAHPS). CMS has partnered with AHRQ to develop a standardized survey instrument and data collection methodology for measuring patients&#146; perspectives on hospital care. The intent of the survey is to produce comparable data on the patients&#146; perspectives to allow consumer-based comparisons between hospitals, align incentives to drive hospitals to improve their quality of care, and increase the transparency of hospital reporting. Hospitals must submit data for certain required quality measures&#151;which for inpatients includes the CAHPS &#174; Hospital Survey&#151;in order to receive the full market basket increase to their reimbursement payment rates from CMS. While hospital participation is voluntary, hospitals that fail to submit this survey data will incur a reduction of two percentage points in the inpatient market basket update amount for the following federal fiscal year. We have received certified vendor designation and will continue to offer CAHPS &#174; Hospital Survey services. In addition, we are a certified vendor approved to offer CAHPS &#174; Home Health Care Survey used to measure the experiences of people receiving home health care from Medicare-certified home health agencies. We also offer CAHPS &#174; Clinician and Group Survey used to measure patient experiences with health care providers and staff in doctor&#146;s offices. 

Medicare and Medicaid Electronic Health Records (EHR) Incentive Programs. The Medicare and Medicaid EHR Incentive Programs provide incentive payments to eligible professionals, eligible hospitals and critical access hospitals (CAHs) as they adopt, implement, upgrade or demonstrate meaningful use of certified EHR technology. By putting into action and meaningfully using an EHR system, providers will reap benefits beyond financial incentives&#150;such as reduction in errors, availability of records and data, reminders and alerts, clinical decision support, and e-prescribing/refill automation. 

Allied Disciplines. Various allied health professionals are required to obtain continuing education to maintain their licenses. For example, emergency medical services personnel may be required to acquire up to 20 continuing education hours per year, all or a portion of which can be fulfilled online. These requirements vary by state and depend on the classification of the employee. 

Other Continuing Education. We are also an accredited provider of continuing education and continuing pharmacy education by the Association of Surgical Technologists, Inc. (AST) and the Accreditation Council for Pharmacy Education (ACPE), respectively. 

&#160;

Regulation of Educational Program Sponsorship and Support 

There are a variety of laws and regulations that affect the relationships between our medical device and pharmaceutical customers and the users of our products and services, including the sponsorship and support of educational programs. For example, the Physician Payment Sunshine Act (&#147;Sunshine Act&#148;) requires manufacturers of drugs, biological devices and medical devices covered by Medicare, Medicaid, or the Children&#146;s Health Insurance Program to report annually to CMS payments and other transfers of value, including educational programs, given by such manufacturers to physicians and teaching hospitals, with limited exceptions. CMS has issued a final rule implementing the Sunshine Act. Manufacturers are required to report the physician&#146;s name, business address and national provider identifier as well as other information including the value, date, form and nature of what is offered. CMS publishes the information on its website. Manufacturers that do not meet the reporting obligations will be subject to significant monetary penalties. 

Further, the Office of Inspector General (OIG) has issued Compliance Program Guidance for Pharmaceutical Manufacturers and for the Durable Medical Equipment, Prosthetics, Orthotics, and Supply Industry (collectively, the Guidelines). The Guidelines address compliance risks raised by the support of continuing educational activities by pharmaceutical and medical device companies. The Guidelines have affected and may continue to affect the type and extent of commercial support we receive for our continuing education activities. The trade associations for the pharmaceutical and medical device industries (PhRMA and AdvaMed, respectively) have also promulgated their own codes of ethics that further restrict the interactions between industry and health care professionals. In addition, the AMA has established its own code of ethics regarding Gifts to Physicians from Industry to provide standards of conduct for the medical profession. The Company follows the rules and guidelines provided by ACCME, ANCC, and other continuing education accrediting bodies to ensure that its continuing education programming is free from commercial bias and consistent with the Guidelines. 

The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) 

Current FDA and FTC rules and enforcement actions and regulatory policies or those that the FDA or the FTC may develop in the future could have a material adverse effect on our ability to provide existing or future applications or services to our end users or obtain the necessary corporate sponsorship to do so. The FDA and the FTC regulate the form, content and dissemination of labeling, advertising and promotional materials, including direct-to-consumer prescription drug and medical device advertising, prepared by, or for, pharmaceutical, biotechnology or medical device companies. The FTC regulates over-the-counter drug advertising and, in some cases, medical device advertising. Generally, regulated companies must limit their advertising and promotional materials to discussions of the FDA-approved indications and, in limited circumstances, to a limited number of indications not approved by the FDA. Therefore, any truthful or untruthful information that promotes the use of pharmaceutical or medical device products that is presented with our services is subject to the FDA and FTC requirements and regulatory oversight including criminal, civil and administrative actions. We believe that banner advertisements, sponsorship links and any educational programs that lack independent editorial control that we may present with our services could be subject to FDA or FTC regulation. While the FDA and the FTC place the principal burden of compliance with advertising and promotional regulations on the advertiser, if the FDA or FTC finds that any regulated information presented with our services violates FDA or FTC regulations, they may take regulatory action against us or the advertiser or sponsor of that information. In addition, the FDA may adopt new regulatory policies that more tightly regulate the format and content of promotional information on the Internet. 

INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY AND OTHER PROPRIETARY RIGHTS 

To protect our proprietary rights, we rely generally on copyright, trademark and trade secret laws; confidentiality agreements and procedures with employees, consultants and other third parties; contractual provisions in license agreements with consultants, vendors and customers; and use measures designed to control access to our software, documentation and other proprietary information. We own federal trademark and service mark registrations for several marks, including without limitation &#147;EXCELLENCE THROUGH INSIGHT&#146;, &#147;HEALTHSTREAM&#148;, &#147;HOSPITAL DIRECT&#148;, &#147;OR PROTOCOL&#148;, &#147;PATIENT INSIGHTS&#148;, &#147;PHYSICIAN INSIGHTS&#148;, &#147;INSIGHTS ONLINE&#148;, &#147;INSIGHT INTO ACTION&#148;, &#147;QUALITY CHECK&#148;, &#147;SIMCENTER&#148;, &#147;SIMMANAGER&#148;, and &#147;SIMSTORE.&#148; We also have obtained registration of the &#147;HEALTHSTREAM&#148; mark in certain other countries. Applications for several trademarks are currently pending. However, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in obtaining registration of other trademarks for which we have applied. 

The courseware that we license to our customers is developed through a combination of license agreements with publishers and authors, assignments and work-for-hire arrangements with third parties, and development by employees. We require publishers, authors and other third parties to represent and warrant that their content does not infringe on or misappropriate any third-party intellectual property rights and that they have the right to provide their content and have obtained all third-party consents necessary to do so. Our publishers, authors and other third parties also agree to indemnify us against certain liability we might sustain due to the content they provide. 

If a third party asserts a claim that we have infringed its patents or other intellectual property right, we may be required to redesign our products or enter into royalty or licensing agreements. In addition, we license technologies from third parties for incorporation into our services. Royalty and licensing agreements with these third parties may not be available on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Additionally, despite the steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights, our efforts may not be adequate. Third parties may infringe or misappropriate our intellectual property, and such violations of our intellectual property are difficult to detect and police. Competitors may also independently develop technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to the technologies we employ in our products or services. If we fail to protect our proprietary rights adequately, our competitors could offer similar services, potentially significantly harming our competitive position and decreasing our revenues. 

&#160;

AVAILABLE INFORMATION 

The Company files reports with the SEC, including annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and other reports from time to time. The public may read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC&#146;s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The Company is an electronic filer and the SEC maintains an Internet site at http://www.sec.gov that contains the reports, proxy and information statements, and other information filed electronically. Our website address is www.healthstream.com. Please note that our website address is provided as an inactive textual reference only. We make available free of charge through our website, our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. The information provided on our website is not part of this report, and is therefore not incorporated by reference unless such information is otherwise specifically referenced elsewhere in this report. 

OUR EMPLOYEES 

As of December 31, 2015, we employed 833 full-time and 139 part-time persons, of which 205 persons are employed in our interviewing centers. Our success will depend in large part upon our ability to attract and retain qualified employees. We face competition in this regard from other companies, but we believe that we maintain good relations with our employees. We are not subject to any collective bargaining agreements. 

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT 

The following is a brief summary of the business experience of each of the executive officers of the Company. Executive Officers of the Company are elected by the Board of Directors and serve at the pleasure of the Board of Directors. The following table sets forth certain information regarding the executive officers of the Company: 

&#160;

Name 

&#160; Age &#160; &#160; Position 

Robert A. Frist, Jr.

&#160; &#160; 48 &#160; &#160; Chief Executive Officer, President and Chairman of the Board of Directors Jeffrey S. Doster

&#160; &#160; 51 &#160; &#160; Senior Vice President and Chief Technology Officer Gerard M. Hayden, Jr.

&#160; &#160; 61 &#160; &#160; Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer J. Edward Pearson

&#160; &#160; 53 &#160; &#160; Senior Vice President and Chief Operating Officer Thomas Schultz

&#160; &#160; 49 &#160; &#160; Senior Vice President, Sales Michael Sousa

&#160; &#160; 47 &#160; &#160; Senior Vice President and President, Echo, Inc. Robert A. Frist, Jr., one of our co-founders, has served as our chief executive officer and chairman of the board of directors since 1990 and president since 2001. Mr. Frist is the company&#146;s chief operating decision maker. He graduated with a Bachelor of Science in business with concentrations in finance, economics and marketing from Trinity University. 

Jeffrey S. Doster joined the Company in May 2008 as senior vice president and chief technology officer. He earned undergraduate degrees in both Economics and Business Administration from Towson University, as well as a Master of Business Administration from Loyola College, in Maryland. 

Gerard M. Hayden, Jr. joined the Company as senior vice president and chief financial officer in May 2008. He earned a Bachelor of Arts from the University of Notre Dame and a Master of Science from Northeastern University. 

J. Edward Pearson joined the Company in June 2006 as senior vice president and was promoted to Chief Operating Officer in 2011. He earned a Bachelor of Business Administration in accounting from Middle Tennessee State University. 

Thomas Schultz joined the Company in June 2014 as senior vice president of sales. He worked for Lawson Software, a subsidiary of Infor, Inc., in various sales leadership roles for sixteen years prior to joining the Company. He earned a Bachelor of Arts from St. Mary&#146;s University of Minnesota. 

Michael Sousa joined the Company in October 2004, and served as senior vice president of sales from January 2010 to June 2014. In June 2014, he was promoted to senior vice president of business development. In September 2015, he was named president of Echo, Inc., HealthStream&#146;s Provider Solutions business segment, while continuing to serve as a senior vice president of the Company. He earned a Bachelor of Science degree from Boston College and a Master of Business Administration from Boston University. 

&#160;

