 ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

We are a Delaware corporation and we are headquartered in Washington, DC. We are a facilities-based provider of low-cost, high-speed Internet access and Internet Protocol ("IP") communications services. Our network is specifically designed and optimized to transmit data using IP. We deliver our services primarily to small and medium-sized businesses, communications service providers and other bandwidth-intensive organizations in North America, Europe and Asia. 

We offer on-net Internet access services exclusively through our own facilities, which run from our network to our customers' premises. We are not dependent on local telephone companies to serve our customers for our on-net Internet access services because of our integrated network architecture. We offer our on-net services to customers located in buildings that are physically connected to our network. Our on-net service consists of high-speed Internet access and IP connectivity ranging from 100 Megabits per second to 100 Gigabits per second of bandwidth. We provide our on-net Internet access services to our corporate and net-centric customers. Our corporate customers are located in multi-tenant office buildings and typically include law firms, financial services firms, advertising and marketing firms and other professional services businesses. Our net-centric customers include bandwidth-intensive users such as universities, other Internet service providers, telephone companies, cable television companies, web hosting companies, content delivery network companies and commercial content and application service providers. These net-centric customers obtain our services in carrier neutral data centers and in our data centers. We operate data centers throughout North America and Europe that allow our customers to collocate their equipment and access our network. 

In addition to providing our on-net services, we provide Internet connectivity to customers that are not located in buildings directly connected to our network. We provide this off-net service primarily to corporate customers using other carriers' facilities to provide the "last mile" portion of the link from the customers' premises to our network. We also provide certain non-core services that resulted from acquisitions. We continue to support but do not actively sell these non-core services. 

Competitive Advantages 

We believe we address many of the IP data communications needs of small and medium-sized businesses, communications service providers and other bandwidth-intensive organizations by offering them high-quality, high-speed Internet service at attractive prices. 

Low Cost of Operation. We offer a streamlined set of products on an integrated network. Our network design allows us to avoid many of the costs that our competitors incur associated with circuit-switched, TDM and hybrid fiber coaxial networks related to provisioning, monitoring and maintaining multiple transport protocols. We believe that our low cost of operation also gives us greater pricing flexibility and a significant advantage in a competitive environment characterized by falling Internet access prices. We believe our value proposition is equal or superior to our competitors' in all of the on-net multi-tenant office buildings and carrier neutral data centers in which we operate. 

Network. Our on-net service does not rely on circuits that must be provisioned by a third party carrier. In on-net multi-tenant office buildings we provide our customers the entire network, including the "last mile" and the in-building wiring connecting to our customer's suite. In carrier neutral data centers we are collocated with our customers so only a connection within the data center is required to provide our services. This gives us more control over our service, quality and pricing. It also allows us to provision services more quickly and efficiently than provisioning services on a third-party carrier network. We are typically able to activate service to our customers in one of our on-net buildings in approximately thirteen business days. 

High Quality, Reliable Service. We are able to offer high-quality Internet service due to our metro and intercity network. Its design increases the speed and throughput of our network and reduces the number of data packets dropped during transmission compared to traditional circuit-switched networks. We believe that we deliver a high level of technical performance because our network is optimized for IP traffic. We believe that our network is more reliable and delivers IP traffic at lower cost than networks built as overlays to traditional circuit-switched, or TDM networks. 

High Traffic Network Footprint. We have strategically chosen locations, such as over 1,540 large multi-tenant office buildings in major North American cities and carrier neutral data centers in North America and Europe with high levels of Internet traffic, to maximize our revenue opportunities and expand our margins. Our network is connected to our on-net multi-tenant office buildings where we offer our services to a diverse set of high-quality, low churn corporate customers within close physical proximity of each other. Our network is also directly connected to over 760 carrier neutral colocation and data centers where our net-centric customers directly interconnect with our network. We also operate 51 data centers across the United States and in Europe which comprise over 565,000 square feet of floor space and are directly connected to our network. 

Low Capital Cost to Grow Our Business. We have a history of efficient network expansion and integration execution. We believe that we have incurred relatively lower costs in growing our business than our competitors because we use Internet routers without additional legacy equipment, we offer a streamlined set of products, and we have acquired optical fiber from the excess inventory in existing networks. 

Proven and Experienced Management Team. Our senior management team is composed of seasoned executives with extensive expertise in the telecommunications industry as well as knowledge of the markets in which we operate. The members of our senior management team have an average of over 20 years of experience in the telecommunications industry and many have been working together at Cogent for several years. Several members of the senior management team have been working together at Cogent since 2000. Our senior management team has designed and built our network and led the integration of our network assets and customers we acquired through 13 significant acquisitions and managed the expansion and growth of our business. 

Our Strategy 

We intend to become the leading provider of high-quality, high-speed Internet access and IP communications services and to continue to improve our profitability and cash flow. The principal elements of our strategy include: 

Focus on Providing Low-Cost, High-Speed Internet Access and IP Connectivity. We intend to further load our high-capacity network to respond to the growing demand for high-speed Internet transit service generated by bandwidth-intensive applications such as streaming media, online gaming, video, voice over IP (VOIP), remote data storage, distributed computing, cloud services and virtual private networks. We intend to do so by continuing to offer our high-speed and high-capacity services at competitive prices. 

Pursuing On-Net Customer Growth. We intend to increase usage of our network and operational infrastructure by adding customers in our existing on-net buildings, as well as connecting more multi-tenant office buildings and carrier neutral data centers to our network. We emphasize our on-net service because our on-net services generate greater profit margins and we have more control over service levels, quality, pricing and faster provisioning of services than our off-net services. Our fiber network connects directly to our on-net customers' premises and we pay no local access ("last mile") charges to other carriers to provide our on-net services. We are responding to this on-net revenue opportunity by increasing our sales and marketing efforts including increasing our number of sales 

representatives, implementing strategies to optimize sales productivity and expanding our on-net addressable market by adding service locations to our network. 

Selectively Pursuing Acquisition Opportunities. In addition to adding customers through our sales and marketing efforts, we will continue to seek out acquisition opportunities that increase our customer base, allowing us to take advantage of the unused capacity on our network and to add revenues with minimal incremental costs. We may pursue acquisition opportunities that we believe expand our footprint, generate positive cash flow and may include off-net as well as on-net customers including complementary businesses and those offering over the top applications such as VOIP. We may also make opportunistic acquisitions of network assets. Given our record of successful asset integration, we believe we can continue to successfully integrate new businesses as they are acquired. 

Our Network 

Our network is comprised of in-building riser facilities, metropolitan optical networks, metropolitan traffic aggregation points and inter-city transport facilities. We believe that we deliver a high level of technical performance because our network is optimized for IP traffic. We believe that our network is more reliable and delivers IP traffic at lower cost than networks built as overlays to traditional circuit-switched telephone networks. 

Our network serves over 190 metropolitan markets in North America, Europe and Asia and encompasses: 

&#149; over 1,540 multi-tenant office buildings strategically located in commercial business districts; &#149; over 760 carrier-neutral Internet aggregation facilities, data centers and single-tenant buildings; &#149; over 620 intra-city networks consisting of over 28,100 fiber miles; &#149; an inter-city network of more than 56,000 fiber route miles; and &#149; multiple high-capacity transatlantic and transpacific circuits that connect the North American, European and Asian portions of our network. We have created our network by acquiring optical fiber from carriers with large amounts of unused fiber and directly connecting Internet routers to our existing optical fiber national backbone. We have expanded our network through key acquisitions of financially distressed companies or their assets at a significant discount to their original cost. Due to our network design and acquisition strategy, we believe we are positioned to grow our revenue and increase our profitability with limited incremental capital expenditures. 

Inter-city Networks 

Our inter-city network consists of optical fiber connecting major cities in North America, Europe and Asia. The North American, European and Asian portions of our network are connected by transoceanic circuits. Our network was built by acquiring from various owners of fiber optic networks the right to use typically two strands of optical fiber out of the multiple fibers owned by the cable operator. We install the optical and electronic equipment necessary to amplify, regenerate, and route the optical signals along these networks. We have the right to use the optical fiber under long term agreements. We pay these providers our pro rata fees for the maintenance of the optical fiber and provide our own equipment maintenance. 

Intra-city Networks 

In each metropolitan area in which we provide our high-speed on-net Internet access services, our backbone network is connected to one or more routers that are connected to one or more of our 

metropolitan optical networks. We created our intra-city networks by obtaining the right to use optical fiber from carriers with optical fiber networks in those cities. These metropolitan networks consist of optical fiber that runs from the central router in a market into routers located in our on-net buildings. In most cases the metropolitan fiber runs in a ring architecture, which provides redundancy so that if the fiber is cut, data can still be transmitted to the central router by directing traffic in the opposite direction around the ring. The router in the building provides the connection to each of our on-net customers. 

Within the cities where we offer our off-net Internet access services, we lease circuits from telecommunications carriers, primarily local telephone companies, to provide the last mile connection to our customer's premises. Typically, these circuits are aggregated at various locations in those cities onto higher-capacity leased circuits that ultimately connect the local aggregation router to our network. 

In-building Networks 

In office buildings where we provide service to multiple tenants we connect our routers to a cable typically containing 12 to 288 optical fiber strands that run from our equipment in the basement of the building through the building riser to the customer location. Our service is initiated by connecting a fiber optic cable from our customer's local area network to the infrastructure in the building riser giving our customer dedicated and secure access to our network using an Ethernet connection. We believe that Ethernet is the lowest cost network connection technology and is almost universally used for the local area networks that businesses operate. 

Data Centers 

We operate 51 data centers across the United States and in Europe. These facilities comprise over 565,000 square feet of floor space and are directly connected to our network. Each location is equipped with secure access, uninterruptable power supplies (UPS), and backup generators. Our customers typically purchase bandwidth, rack space, and power within these facilities. 

Internetworking 

The Internet is an aggregation of interconnected networks. We have settlement-free interconnections between our network and most major Internet Service Providers, or ISPs. We interconnect our network to other networks predominantly through private peering arrangements. Larger ISPs exchange traffic and interconnect their networks by means of direct private connections referred to as private peering. 

Peering agreements between ISPs are necessary in order for them to exchange traffic. Without peering agreements, each ISP would have to buy Internet access from every other ISP in order for its customer's traffic, such as email, to reach and be received from customers of other ISPs. We are considered a Tier 1 ISP and, as a result, we have settlement-free peering arrangements with other providers. We do not purchase transit services or paid peering to reach any portion of the Internet. This allows us to exchange traffic with those ISPs without payment by either party. In such arrangements, each party exchanging traffic bears its own cost of delivering traffic to the point at which it is handed off to the other party. We do not treat our settlement-free peering arrangements as generating revenue or expense related to the traffic exchanged. However, we charge customers for transit services across our network. We do not sell or purchase paid peering. We directly connect with over 5,580 total networks of which approximately 30 are settlement-free peers, the remaining networks are Cogent transit customers. 

Network Management and Customer Care 

Our primary network operations centers are located in Washington, D.C. and Madrid, Spain. These facilities provide continuous operational support for our network in both North America and Europe. Our network operations centers are designed to immediately respond to any problems in our network. Our customer care call centers are located in Washington D.C., Herndon Virginia, Madrid Spain, Paris France, and Frankfurt Germany. To ensure the quick replacement of faulty equipment in the intra-city and long-haul networks, we have deployed field engineers across North America and Europe. In addition, we have maintenance contracts with third-party vendors that specialize in optical and routed networks. 

Our Services 

We offer our high-speed Internet access and IP connectivity services primarily to small and medium-sized businesses, communications providers and other bandwidth-intensive organizations located in North America, Europe and Asia. 

The table below shows our primary service offerings: 

On-Net Services 

&#160; Bandwidth (Mbps) &#160; Fast Ethernet &#160; &#160; 100 &#160; Gigabit Ethernet &#160; &#160; 1,000 &#160; 10 Gigabit Ethernet &#160; &#160; 10,000 &#160; 100 Gigabit Ethernet &#160; &#160; 100,000 &#160; Point-to-Point / Point to Multi-Point or VLPS &#160; &#160; 10 to 2,000 &#160; Colocation with Internet Access &#160; &#160; 10 to 100,000 &#160; 

&#160; 

Off-Net Services 

&#160; Bandwidth (Mbps) &#160; Ethernet &#160; &#160; 10, 100, 1,000 or 10,000 &#160; 

We offer on-net services in over 190 metropolitan markets. We serve over 2,250 on-net buildings. Our most popular on-net service in North America is our Fast Ethernet service, which provides Internet access at 100 megabits per second. We typically offer our Fast Ethernet (Internet access) service to small and medium-sized business customers. We also offer Internet access services at higher speeds of up to 100 Gigabits per second. These services are generally used by customers that have businesses, such as web hosting and ISP's that are Internet based and are generally delivered at our data centers and carrier neutral data centers. We believe that, on a per-Megabit basis, this service offering is one of the lowest priced in the marketplace. We also offer colocation services in our data centers located in North America and Europe. This service offers Internet access combined with rack space and power in our facility, allowing the customer to locate a server or other equipment at that location and connect to our Internet access service. Our final on-net service offering is our Point-to-Point / Point to Multi-Point or Virtual Private Line service or "Layer 2" service (VPN services). These IP VPN connections span North America, Europe and Asia and allow customers to connect geographically dispersed local area networks in a seamless manner. We offer lower prices for longer term and volume commitments. We emphasize the sale of our on-net services because we believe that we have a competitive advantage in providing these services and these services generate gross profit margins that are greater than our off-net services. 

In 2013 several providers of video services began using our on-net service to deliver movies and other video programing to consumers. Streaming video uses large bandwidth, e.g. 4-10 Mbps for high definition or 4-K television. This caused significant growth in the traffic we sent to the major telephone and cable companies that provide most broadband connections to consumers in the U. S. These 

companies refused or delayed increases to the capacity of the connection over which we exchange traffic with them. This resulted in a degradation of service for our customers and their customers through much of 2015. Following the issuance by the U.S. Federal Communications Commission of its Open Internet Order we were able to enter into agreements with most of these carriers that have alleviated the congestion we were experiencing in North America. As streaming video usage grows in Europe the refusal of incumbent PTT residential service providers to upgrade connections has degraded service to our customers and their customers in Europe. (See the Risk Factor below for additional information on the exchange of traffic and settlement free peering.) 

We offer our off-net services to customers that are not located in our on-net buildings. These services are primarily provided in the metropolitan markets in North America and Europe in which we offer on-net services primarily dedicated Internet access, point to point, virtual private line services and Layer 2 services (IP VPN's). These services are generally provided to small and medium-sized businesses in over 4,700 off-net buildings. 

We support non-core services that we assumed with certain of our acquisitions. These services primarily include voice services (only provided in Toronto, Canada). We expect that the revenue from our non-core services will continue to decline. We do not actively sell these services and expect the growth of our Internet access services to compensate for this loss. 

No single customer accounted for more than 2.2% of our 2015 revenues. 

Sales and Marketing 

Direct Sales. We employ a direct sales and marketing approach. As of February 1, 2016, our sales force included 500 full-time employees. Our quota bearing sales force includes 384 employees with 282 employees focused primarily on the corporate market and 102 employees focused primarily on the net-centric market. Our sales personnel work through direct face-to-face contact in addition to telesales with potential customers in, or intending to locate in, our on-net buildings. Through agreements with building owners, we are able to initiate and maintain personal contact with our customers by staging various promotional and social events in our multi-tenant office buildings and carrier neutral data centers. Sales personnel are compensated with a base salary plus quota-based commissions and incentives. We use a customer relationship management system to efficiently track sales activity levels and sales productivity. 

Indirect Sales. We also have an indirect sales program. Our indirect sales program includes several master agents with whom we have a direct relationship. Through our agreements with our master agents we are able to sell through to thousands of sub agents. All agents have access to selling to potential corporate customers and may sell all Cogent products. We have hired an indirect channel team who manages these indirect relationships. The indirect channel team is compensated with a base salary plus quota-based commissions and incentives. We use our customer relationship management system to efficiently track indirect sales activity levels and the sales productivity of our agents under our indirect sales program. 

Marketing. Because of our historical focus on a direct sales force that utilizes direct face to face contact as well as telesales, we have not spent funds on television, radio or print advertising. Our marketing efforts are designed to drive awareness of our products and services, to identify qualified leads through various direct marketing campaigns and to provide our sales force with product brochures, collateral materials, in building marketing events and relevant sales tools to improve the overall effectiveness of our sales organization. In addition, we conduct public relations efforts focused on cultivating industry analyst and media relationships with the goal of securing media coverage and public recognition of our Internet and VPN communications services. Our marketing organization is responsible for our product strategy and direction based upon primary and secondary market research and the advancement of new technologies. 

Competition 

We face competition from incumbent carriers, Internet service providers and facilities-based network operators, many of whom are much larger than us, have significantly greater financial resources, better-established brand names and large, existing installed customer bases in the markets in which we compete. We also face competition from new entrants to the communications services market. Many of these companies offer products and services that are similar to our products and services. 

Unlike some of our competitors, we generally do not have title to most of the dark fiber that makes up our network. Our interests in that dark fiber are in the form of long-term leases under indefeasible rights of use, or IRUs, with providers some of which also compete with us. We rely on the third-party maintenance of such dark fiber to provide our on-net services to our customers. We are also dependent on third party providers, some of which compete with us, for the local loop facilities for the provision of connections to our off-net customers. 

We believe that competition is based on many factors, including price, transmission speed, ease of access and use, length of time to provision service, breadth of service availability, reliability of service, customer support and brand recognition. Because our fiber optic networks have been recently installed compared to those of the incumbent carriers, our state-of-the-art technology may provide us with cost, capacity, and service quality advantages over some existing incumbent carrier networks; however, our network may not support some of the services supported by these legacy networks, such as circuit-switched voice, ATM and frame relay. While the Internet access speeds offered by traditional ISPs serving multi-tenant office buildings using DSL or cable modems typically do not match our on-net offerings in terms of throughput or quality, these slower services are usually priced lower than our offerings and thus provide competitive pressure on pricing, particularly for more price-sensitive customers. These and other downward pricing pressures particularly in carrier neutral data centers have diminished, and may further diminish, the competitive advantages that we have enjoyed as the result of the pricing of our services. Increasingly, traditional ISPs are upgrading their services using optical fiber and cable technology so that they can match our transmission speed and quality. 

Regulation 

In the United States, the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) regulates common carriers' interstate services and state public utilities commissions exercise jurisdiction over intrastate basic telecommunications services. Our Internet service offerings are not currently regulated by state public utility commissions. The FCC has promulgated rules that would bring aspects of Internet service (but not our services) under common carrier regulations pursuant to Title II of the U.S. Communications Act. We may become subject to additional regulation in the United States at the federal and state levels and in other countries. These regulations change from time to time in ways that are difficult for us to predict. 

In the United States, we are subject to the obligations set forth in the Communications Assistance for Law Enforcement Act, which is administered by the FCC. That law requires that we be able to intercept communications when required to do so by law enforcement agencies. We are required to comply or we may face significant fines and penalties. We are subject to similar requirements in other countries. 

There is no current legal requirement that owners or managers of commercial office buildings give access to competitive providers of telecommunications services, although the FCC does prohibit carriers from entering contracts that restrict the right of commercial multiunit property owners to permit any other common carrier to access and serve the property's commercial tenants. Also, many incumbent telephone and cable companies contend that they have no legal obligation to exchange Internet traffic with other Internet networks. 

Our subsidiary, Cogent Canada, offers voice and Internet services in Canada. Generally, the regulation of Internet access services and competitive voice services has been similar in Canada to that in the US in that providers of such services face fewer regulatory requirements than the incumbent local telephone companies which continue to be regulated in respect of their wholesale services as well of some of their retail services. There can be no guarantee, however, that the regulatory requirements applicable to Cogent Canada will not change. To the extent that there are any changes in these requirements, we will have to comply with these changes. 

Our subsidiaries outside of the United States generally operate in more highly regulated environments for the types of services they provide. In many such countries, a national license or a notice filed with a regulatory authority is required for the provision of data and Internet services. In addition, our subsidiaries operating in member countries of the European Union are subject to the directives and jurisdiction of the European Union. We believe that each of our subsidiaries has the necessary licenses to provide its services in the markets where it operates today. To the extent we expand our operations or service offerings into new markets, in particularly in non EU member countries, we may face new regulatory requirements. 

The laws related to Internet telecommunications are unsettled and there may be new legislation and court decisions that may affect our services and expose us to burdensome requirements and liabilities. 

Reportable Segments and Geographic Information 

We conduct our business through one reportable segment. For information regarding our service revenues and long lived assets by geographic region see Note 10 to our consolidated financial statements. 

Employees 

As of February 1, 2016, we had 836 employees. Unions represent 27 of our employees in France. We believe that we have a satisfactory relationship with our employees. 

Available Information 

We were incorporated in Delaware in 1999. We make available free of charge through our Internet website our annual report on Form 10-K, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, our current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act. The reports are made available through a link to the SEC's Internet website at www.sec.gov . You can find these reports and request a copy of our Code of Conduct on our website at www.cogentco.com under the "About Cogent" tab at the "Investor Relations" link. 

