 Item 1. Business 

Our Company 

We are a leading global provider of integrated information technology and digital marketing solutions to the automotive retail and adjacent industries. Focused on evolving the automotive retail experience, we provide solutions to dealers in more than 100 countries around the world, covering more than 27,000 retail locations and most original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs"). We have over 40 years of history providing innovative solutions to automotive retailers and OEMs to better manage, analyze, and grow their businesses. Our solutions automate and integrate all parts of the buying process from targeted digital advertising and marketing campaigns to the sale, financing, insuring, parts supply, repair, and maintenance of vehicles. We believe the breadth of our integrated solutions allows us to more comprehensively address the varied needs of automotive retailers than any other single competitor in our industry. 

Effective July 1, 2016, we executed a comprehensive plan to streamline our organization that will enable us to deliver an improved customer experience, create significant efficiencies, and better align us to implement our business transformation plan. Refer to &#8220;Business Transformation Plan&#8221; under Item 7 - "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" for additional information on our business transformation plan. The organizational changes included integrating product management, combining the Digital Marketing and Automotive Retail North America operations into a single organization, creating a single North America sales organization, and forming a global research and development organization. 

Our History and Our Spin-off from ADP 

We were the Dealer Services business of Automatic Data Processing, Inc. ("ADP"). In 1972, Dealer Services became ADP's third major business unit, offering accounting, service, management, and inventory processing services to automotive retailers. We have since expanded our role in the industry to encompass the full automotive retail value chain by developing integrated Dealer Management Systems (&#8220;DMSs&#8221;) and other solutions that help retailers manage and grow their businesses. In 2005, we expanded our international footprint through our acquisition of Kerridge Computer Company Limited ("Kerridge"), which provided us with a multi-country DMS platform in Europe, the Middle East, Asia, Africa, and Latin America and has become the basis for our international business. In 2010, we acquired Cobalt, a leading provider of automotive digital marketing solutions, which has enabled us to solidify and expand our digital marketing capabilities. 

On April 9, 2014 , the board of directors of ADP approved the spin-off of the Dealer Services business. On September 30, 2014 , the spin-off became effective and ADP distributed 100% &#32;of the common stock of the Company to the holders of record of ADP's common stock as of September 24, 2014 &#32;(the "spin-off"). 

Reportable Segments 

Fiscal 2017 Segments 

As a result of the organizational changes that became effective July 1, 2016, we reorganized into two main operating groups, CDK North America and CDK International. In connection with this reorganization, the information that our chief operating decision maker regularly reviews for purposes of allocating resources and assessing performance changed, which resulted in a reassessment of our operating segments. The Company's new operating segments, which are also our reportable segments, are comprised of (i) Retail Solutions North America, (ii) Advertising North America, and (iii) CDK International. Retail Solutions North America and Advertising North America together comprise the CDK North America operating group. The following is a brief description of our new segments&#8217; operations. 

Retail Solutions North America 

Through our Retail Solutions North America segment, we provide technology-based solutions, including automotive website platforms, that help automotive retailers, OEMs, and other industry participants manage the acquisition, sale, financing, insuring, parts supply, repair, and maintenance of vehicles. Our solutions help our customers streamline their operations, better target and serve their customers, and enhance the financial performance of their retail operations. In addition to providing solutions to retailers and manufacturers of automobiles, we also provide solutions to retailers and manufacturers of heavy trucks, construction equipment, agricultural equipment, motorcycles, boats, and other marine and recreational vehicles. 

Advertising North America 

Through our Advertising North America segment, we provide advertising solutions, including management of digital advertising spend, for OEMs and automotive retailers. These solutions provide a coordinated offering across multiple marketing channels to help achieve customer marketing and sales objectives and coordinate execution between OEMs and their retailer networks. 

CDK International 

Through our CDK International segment, we provide technology-based solutions similar to the retail solutions provided in our Retail Solutions North America segment in approximately 100 &#32;countries outside of the United States ("U.S.") and Canada. The solutions that we provide within this segment allow our customers to streamline their business operations and enhance their financial performance within their local marketplace, and in some cases where we deal directly with OEMs, across international borders. Customers of this segment include automotive retail dealers and OEMs across Europe, the Middle East, Asia, Africa, and Latin America. 

Fiscal 2016 and Prior Segments 

During the year ended June 30, 2016 ("fiscal 2016"), our operations were organized into two main businesses: Automotive Retail and Digital Marketing. The Automotive Retail business comprises Automotive Retail North America ("ARNA") and Automotive Retail International ("ARI") operating segments, and the Digital Marketing business comprises our Digital Marketing ("DM") operating segment. A brief description of each of these three segments&#8217; operations is provided below. 

Automotive Retail North America 

Through our ARNA segment, we provide technology-based solutions that help automotive retailers, OEMs, and other industry participants manage the acquisition, sale, financing, insuring, parts supply, repair, and maintenance of vehicles. Our solutions help our customers streamline their operations, better target and serve their customers, and enhance the financial performance of their retail operations. In addition to providing solutions to retailers and manufacturers of automobiles, we also provide solutions to retailers and manufacturers of heavy trucks, construction equipment, agricultural equipment, motorcycles, boats, and other marine and recreational vehicles. 

Automotive Retail International 

Through our ARI segment, we provide technology-based solutions similar to those provided in our ARNA segment in approximately 100 &#32;countries outside of the U.S. and Canada. The solutions provided to our customers within the ARI segment of our business help streamline operations for their businesses and enhance the financial performance of their operations within their local marketplace, and in some cases where we deal directly with OEMs, across international borders. Customers of our ARI segment include automotive retail dealers and OEMs across Europe, the Middle East, Asia, Africa, and Latin America. 

Digital Marketing 

Through our DM segment, we provide a suite of integrated digital marketing solutions for OEMs and automotive retailers, including websites and management of their digital advertising spend. These solutions provide a coordinated offering across multiple digital marketing channels to help achieve customer marketing and sales objectives and coordinate execution between OEMs and their retailer networks. Our solutions are currently provided in the U.S., Canada, Mexico, Australia, and New Zealand. 

Refer to "Analysis of Reportable Segments" within "Results of Operations" under Item 7 - "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and Note 18, "Financial Data by Segment" to our consolidated and combined financial statements under Item 8 of Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for financial information regarding our operating segments and geographic areas. 

Products and Services 

The following discussion of our products and services is organized in a manner consistent with the way we have organized our business effective July 1, 2016. When we refer to "Retail Solutions," we are referring to our Retail Solutions North America and CDK International operating segments, and when we refer to "Advertising," we are referring to our Advertising North America operating segment. 

Retail Solutions 

Customers 

We serve a broad and diverse customer base in the automotive retail industry. Our customers include most major OEMs and a significant number of their associated franchised retail locations. Our customer base also includes lenders, aftermarket providers, and other service and information providers to the automotive retail industry. 

Automotive Retailers. We primarily serve franchised independent automotive retailers in North America and internationally. We work with the following types of automotive retail organizations: 

&#8226; 

Public Franchised Automotive Retail Groups - customers in this group are publicly traded companies that own multiple automotive retail locations and have multiple franchises; 

&#8226; 

Private Franchised Automotive Retail Groups - &#32;customers in this group own two or more automotive retail locations consisting of two or more franchises; 

&#8226; 

Private Single-Location Franchised Automotive Retailers - customers in this group own and manage a single automotive retail location consisting of one or more franchises; 

&#8226; 

OEM Company-Owned Retail Locations - customers in this group are OEMs which own and operate one or more automotive retail locations; and 

&#8226; 

Independent Used Car Retailers - customers in this group own and manage one or more retail locations. Independent used car retailers do not have OEM franchises for new vehicle sales and authorized services and instead sell only used cars and related financing, insurance, parts, repair, and maintenance services. 

OEMs. We directly sell data management, business intelligence, benchmarking, and DMS integration services to OEMs. In addition, we coordinate with OEMs to offer, on either a mandatory or elective basis, branded and/or endorsed solutions for their associated franchised automotive retail networks. 

Other Application, Service, and Information Providers. Through a certified integration program for our Drive DMS solution in North America, we enable third-party application and service providers to deliver their solutions more broadly into our DMS customer base. 

Services 

The following table includes a list and summary description of the primary solutions we provide as part of our Retail Solutions businesses. 

Solutions 

&#160; 

Description 

Dealer Management Systems 

&#160; 

Integrated suite of features and services to manage the information systems and process workflows involved in running automotive retail operations 

Front Office/Vehicle Sales Solutions &#160;(1)(2) 

&#160; 

Technology tools and services to streamline the entire vehicle inventory, sales, and finance and insurance (&#8220;F&#38;I&#8221;) process 

Fixed Operations Solutions (1)(2) 

&#160; 

Solutions to manage the parts and service profit center of dealerships including customer targeting appointment scheduling, on-site workflow and billing 

Customer Relationship Management Solutions (1)(3) 

&#160; 

A system that provides instant access to manage interactions with current and prospective customers 

Financial Management Solutions (1)(3) 

&#160; 

Value-added capabilities for accounts payable, payments, and payroll 

Document Management Solutions (1)(3) 

&#160; 

Document creation and archiving solutions to address the complex automotive retail sales process 

Network Management Solutions (1)(2) 

&#160; 

Wired and wireless network solutions to support dealer connectivity and security efforts 

Integrated Telephony Management Solutions (1)(3) 

&#160; 

Integrated telephony solutions that allow automotive retailers to connect and communicate via presence, instant messaging, voice, and video 

Data Management &#38; Business Intelligence Solutions (1)(2) 

&#160; 

Solutions to extract, cleanse, normalize, enhance, and distribute data and to provide actionable insights 

Implementation and Training Solutions (3) 

&#160; 

Solution delivery and configuration services and development of end user utilization skills and productivity 

Customer Support (1)(3) 

&#160; 

Full range of support services 

Professional Services (1)(2) 

&#160; 

Consulting services that provide in-depth analysis and recommendations on optimizing retail operations 

Websites (4) 

&#160; 

Proprietary internet content delivery platform 

(1) Indicates solutions that may be integrated into our DMS. 

(2) Indicates solutions that may be implemented as a stand-alone product or solution without the core DMS. 

(3) Indicates solutions that require purchase of our DMS. 

(4) Websites are not currently offered by our CDK International segment. 

Dealer Management Systems 

Our DMSs form the core of our retail offerings and generate a substantial portion of our revenues for those businesses. DMSs are enterprise technology solutions that provide an integrated suite of features and services that enable our customers to manage the information systems and process workflows involved in running automotive retail operations. These DMSs facilitate the sale of new and used vehicles, consumer financing, repair and maintenance services, and vehicle and parts inventory management. Additionally, these solutions enable company-wide accounting, financial reporting, cash flow management, and payroll services. Our DMSs are typically integrated with OEM data processing systems that enable automotive retailers to order vehicles and parts, receive vehicle records, process warranties, and check recall campaigns and service bulletins while helping them to fulfill their franchisee responsibilities to their OEM franchisors. 

Front Office/Vehicle Sales Solutions 

Our full suite of Front Office/Vehicle Sales Solutions helps automotive retailers streamline the vehicle inventory, sales, and F&#38;I process. Our solutions integrate new and used vehicle sales workflows with supporting services to deliver seamless and streamlined retail transactions. Additionally, we provide automotive retailers with tools to help them purchase, stock, and price new and used vehicle inventory. At the conclusion of a retail sales transaction, our majority-owned subsidiary, Computerized Vehicle Registration, Inc. (&#8220;CVR&#8221;), enables certain of our retailer customers in the U.S. to register sold vehicles 

with the appropriate state department of motor vehicles. Our Front Office/Vehicle Sales Solutions are designed to be integrated with the automotive retailer&#8217;s DMS. 

Fixed Operations Solutions 

Our Fixed Operations Solutions help automotive retailers create and manage new service sales leads, reduce the effort required to manage those leads, and communicate with their customers through multiple channels (including e-mail, text, voice, mobile, and direct mail). Because vehicle repair and maintenance services are a vital element of our customers&#8217; revenue and profit streams, we enable automotive retailers to manage the entire workflow in the parts, and repair and maintenance profit centers. Managing vehicle service activities helps automotive retailers strengthen their relationships with their customers and drive the profitability of a single vehicle sale beyond the original transaction. Our Fixed Operations Solutions work in conjunction with the automotive retailer&#8217;s DMS. 

Customer Relationship Management Solutions 

Our Customer Relationship Management (&#8220;CRM&#8221;) Solutions provide automotive retailers the ability to manage leads for vehicle sales, parts, and services while automating business development processes and managing marketing campaigns for current and prospective customers. We enable data warehouse technology to aggregate customer, vehicle, and transaction information in order to provide key performance indicators for the retailer. Our CRM Solutions work in conjunction with the automotive retailer&#8217;s DMS. 

Financial Management Solutions 

We deliver true multi-company accounting capabilities in our North American and international DMSs. In addition to the finance and accounting capabilities in our DMSs, we provide value-added Financial Management Solutions for automotive retailers in North America to enable optimized capabilities for accounts payable, payments, and payroll. Our solutions are integrated with most of our DMSs in order to provide a unified user experience. 

Document Management Solutions 

Document Management Solutions address the needs of complex sales processes that require multiple certifications and contracts across our customers&#8217; retail operations. We are a single source to automotive retailers for laser document printing, custom and standard forms development, and scanning, storing, and archiving important automotive retail documents. We also provide electronic contracting and signature capabilities that comply with state and federal guidelines for automobile sales and financing. 

Network Management Solutions 

We offer a wide variety of wired and wireless network solutions to support retailer connectivity and security efforts. Our Network Management Solutions deliver the connectivity and dependability required for automotive retailers to conduct their operations while helping to protect their information systems from unauthorized access, use, disclosure, and disruption. 

Integrated Telephony Management Solutions 

We provide Integrated Telephony Solutions that allow automotive retailers to connect and communicate via presence, instant messaging, voice, and video. Our telephony service is a cloud-based solution that can help minimize costs, provide scale to match growing businesses, and deploy applications faster. Our Integrated Telephony Management Solutions are fully integrated with most of our DMSs, Front Office/Vehicle Sales Solutions, Fixed Operations Solutions, and CRM Solutions. 

Data Management and Business Intelligence Solutions 

We provide an extensive portfolio of solutions that enable automotive retailers, OEMs, and other participants in the automotive retail industry to solve problems associated with the highly fragmented systems and data across the industry. In conjunction with OEM or third-party sponsored programs (and with automotive retailer consent), we use our highly automated capabilities to extract data from various DMSs, which we then cleanse, normalize, and enhance to distribute to public and private franchised automotive retail groups, OEMs, consumer-facing websites, and other industry participants. In addition, we provide data integration capabilities that link disparate industry systems and provide them with the ability to exchange data securely, reliably, and in real time. Many OEMs and other industry participants in North America utilize our data management solutions to process millions of transactions every month. As an extension of our data management capabilities, we also 

provide various capabilities in business intelligence, which help us to turn complex data into actionable insights for our customers. 

Implementation and Training Solutions 

Our Implementation and Training Solutions are designed to deliver and configure technology and to develop and enhance end user utilization skills and productivity. Better technology utilization helps our customers optimize business results faster. 

Customer Support 

We provide a full range of support services to our customers around the world. In many countries, customers can call a local support specialist or submit an inquiry online, respond to updates using web chat, find answers to hundreds of frequently asked questions, download documentation, and access important resources to help improve employee productivity and increase system utilization. 

Professional Services 

We provide consulting services to our customers, offering in-depth analysis and recommendations for optimizing automotive retail processes. We help customers increase revenue opportunities, reduce expenses, mitigate risks, and enhance customer sales transaction experiences in all areas of their retail business. 

Websites 

We offer a highly scalable, proprietary internet content delivery platform that delivers compelling, dynamic, personalized content to consumers on their device of choice in a manner that is coordinated across national, regional, and local entities. This platform provides the automotive retailer with greater flexibility, control, and results from their web presence while providing the OEM or automotive retailer network-wide visibility into marketing performance. 

The content platform is offered with a range of value added solutions, such as advanced design customization and merchandising features, visitor personalization, premium search engine optimization, reputation management, and social media marketing. Our customers have the ability to tailor the platform to reflect their brand, marketing, and sales practices. With a wide variety of professional designs, our customers get a website that clearly and effectively communicates their brand and value proposition and differentiates them from the competition. We make it easy to add functionality and drive customer engagement through advanced &#8220;drag and drop&#8221; design tools, configurable functionality, and hundreds of third-party solutions that enable our customers to continue innovating and managing their digital storefront across desktop, tablet, and smartphone devices. 

Website services include development, management and hosting of websites, and related consulting. These revenues are generally based on monthly contractual subscriptions. 

Advertising 

Customers 

Our principal customers in our Advertising business are automotive retailers and OEMs with a particular focus in North America. We provide integrated marketing solutions for OEMs and their retail networks, as well as automotive retail groups. As a result, our customers are concentrated in the 10 &#32;OEM brands for which we have OEM endorsements. This network strategy enables us to offer coordinated marketing solutions with higher performance and value to our customers, in turn increasing network penetration and reducing customer churn. Our most significant OEM customer is General Motors. 

Services 

We provide advertising solutions that allow retailers and OEMs to connect with customers and manage their brands. Our integrated advertising solutions help streamline the consumer&#8217;s path to our customers&#8217; retail locations, linking advertising spend by OEMs, maximizing exposure for the retailers&#8217; message, and minimizing competitive distractions by giving buyers the information they need. We also provide search engine optimization services and social media marketing to round out a dealer's advertising footprint. We benefit from an intimate understanding of the modern consumer purchase journey and have deep insights into shopper behavior with what we believe is the industry&#8217;s most comprehensive suite of advertising and predictive 

analytics solutions. As a result, we provide our customers with tangible and quantifiable business results, such as increased brand awareness and additional revenue, and consistently help them to improve their marketing return on investment. 

Advertising revenues are based on contracted digital advertising spend levels from both automotive retailers and OEMs. 

The following table includes a list and summary description of the solutions we provide as part of our Advertising business. 

Solutions 

&#160; 

Description 

Advertising 

&#160; 

Multi-channel advertising delivered through a proprietary advertising technology platform 

Business Intelligence 

&#160; 

Actionable insights delivered through advanced dashboards that use performance indicators 

Marketing Services and Expertise 

&#160; 

Advertising strategy consultancy and execution 

Advertising 

Our Advertising North America segment provides solutions that help automotive retailers and OEMs to more effectively communicate and establish the first point of contact with in-market, prospective car buyers. Our advertising solutions are designed to optimize both (i) direct-response campaigns focused on generating specific consumer vehicle or repair and maintenance purchases or responses and (ii) brand campaigns geared towards lifting brand metrics. We conduct market research regularly to identify trends in the marketplace and understand shifting buyer preferences, which we translate into powerful insights for our customers. Our complete solution begins with an advertising service that allows our customers to amplify their brand awareness and manage online marketing campaigns. These multi-channel advertising packages can consist of a variety of media, such as paid search, display advertising, display re-marketing, mobile content, and campaign landing pages, among others. 

Underlying these advertising services is a proprietary advertising technology platform designed for the unique structure of the automotive retail industry that dynamically adjusts content, spend, and bidding across multiple marketing channels to optimize retail sales outcomes. As one of the largest purchasers of automotive retail advertising inventory, we leverage our relationships with premium content providers, shopping destinations, and advertising channels, such as Amazon, Edmunds, Google, and Yahoo, to optimize both reach and value for our customers. 

Business Intelligence 

Our Advertising North America segment employs business intelligence and data science professionals to develop insights and report on results from our proprietary data warehouse. These insights are delivered to our customers through advanced dashboards that use performance indicators that we believe are better correlated with sales outcomes than current standard industry practice. These insights are also used to develop models for our website and advertising execution, which optimize advertising return on investment for all of our customers. Additionally, we develop proprietary analytic models with high predictive value to inform our OEM customers of opportunities to improve their future business performance. 

Marketing Services and Expertise 

We provide advertising strategy consultancy and execution for our advertising customers through marketing professionals who proactively engage our retailer customers, complementing their organizations with cost-effective outsourced digital marketing expertise from merchandising, and promotion through brand strategy. These services are both contracted by OEMs on behalf of their retailer networks and by retailers to supplement their internal resources and are an important contributor to customer satisfaction and retention. 

Product Development 

Our ability to bring new solutions to market and to develop or acquire the data and technology that enables these solutions is important to our continued success. In fiscal 2016 , 2015 , and 2014 , we spent $161.0 million , $170.1 million , and $165.7 million , respectively, to research, develop, and deploy new and enhanced solutions for our customers. Our research and development function is centrally managed to increase collaboration and deploy critical capabilities globally to leverage scale. 

Sales and Marketing 

Our sales and marketing functions are managed and organized to provide local agility and expertise. We organize, locate, and manage our sales professionals in discrete territories in our targeted geographies. Our sales teams focus specifically on OEM and dealer relationships. 

&#8226; 

OEM Relationships&#8212; we have a team of professionals assigned to establish relationships with automotive OEMs, sell our solutions, and manage our relationships beyond the initial sale, with targets for account performance and satisfaction. 

&#8226; 

Public Franchised Automotive Retail Groups, Private Franchised Automotive Retail Groups, Private Single-Location Automotive Retailers, OEM Company-Owned Retail Locations, and Independent Used Car Retailers&#8212; we target these automotive retailers through our sales force and marketing programs to drive demand generation and ensure retention. We operate this way in North America and internationally. 

Our sales strategy leverages our existing customer relationships to enable us to offer additional solutions that help make our customers more competitive. 

Though our business is not highly cyclical, it is seasonal. Our revenues experience volatility around seasonal consumer vehicle shopping activity. We address this seasonality in sales by establishing annual quotas for each of our sales professionals. While this volatility is experienced throughout the industry, it is amplified in our Advertising business where advertising spend may vary significantly throughout the year given the increasing importance to OEMs and automotive retailers of capturing buyer attention during certain seasonal periods and major events such as the launch of a new vehicle model. 

Our marketing group structure is built to provide insight into development of products, communication, and branding to ensure we grow brand equity and competitive positioning in the market. This group focuses on market research and analysis, developing new sales opportunities through a range of marketing communications including campaigns and trade exhibitions, and the positioning and branding of our solutions in the markets that we serve. 

Competition 

Our industry is highly competitive and fragmented. We compete with a broad and diverse range of information, technology, services, and consulting companies, as well as with the in-house capabilities of OEMs. Our competitors range from local providers to regional and global competitors. However, we believe that no competitor provides the same combination of geographical reach and breadth of solutions that we do. 

In our Retail Solutions businesses, our competitors vary by capabilities within the automotive retail value chain. They include: 

&#8226; 

DMS providers, including Reynolds and Reynolds, Dealertrack (Cox Automotive), Auto/Mate, AutoSoft, and various local and regional providers globally; 

&#8226; 

sales, marketing inventory, and F&#38;I software and service providers, including Dealertrack (Cox Automotive), First Look, Market Scan Information Systems, StoneEagle Group, vAuto (Cox Automotive), VinSolutions (Cox Automotive), and various local and regional providers globally; 

&#8226; 

providers of vehicle electronic registration solutions that compete with CVR, including ELS, MVSC, TitleTec, and triVIN (Cox Automotive); and 

&#8226; 

providers of web-based automotive finance credit applications and eContracting processors that compete with our Open Dealer Exchange joint venture with Reynolds and Reynolds, including Dealertrack (Cox Automotive) and RouteOne. 

The most significant competitive factors that we face in our Retail Solutions businesses are price, brand, breadth of features and functionality, scalability, and service capability. 

The primary competitors of our advertising and website solutions for OEM network endorsements are Dealer.com (Cox Automotive), AutoTrader.com (Cox Automotive), Dominion Enterprises, and Naked Lime (Reynolds and Reynolds). Several hundred specialty vendors and agencies offer website, digital marketing, and third-party applications that can be alternatives to our services with individual automotive retailers and groups. We also compete with traditional marketing channels, such as print, radio, and television, for a share of the automotive retailer&#8217;s marketing budget. The most significant competitive factors that we face are brand, breadth of features and functionality, scalability, and service capability. 

Regulation 

The automotive retail industry is highly regulated and automotive retailers and OEMs are subject to a broad array of complex regulations governing virtually every aspect of their operations. Our customers must ensure their compliance with their regulatory requirements, and, in turn, we must ensure that our solutions effectively address their regulatory compliance needs. 

Privacy and Data Security Laws 

We are subject to a number of federal, state, and foreign laws and regulations regarding data governance and the privacy and protection of personal data. For example, under the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (the &#8220;GLB Act&#8221;), automotive retailers are generally deemed to be regulated financial institutions and therefore are subject to the GLB Act and applicable regulations, including the Federal Trade Commission's ("FTC") Privacy Rule and Safeguards Rule. In our capacity as a service provider to automotive retailers, we generally commit to our customers that we will process and use non-public personal information, such as information regarding their customers that we process in their DMS, consistent with the GLB Act and the related regulations. Similarly, many U.S. states and foreign jurisdictions have adopted regulations that require notification to individuals of a security breach relating to their sensitive personal data or that mandate minimum security standards with respect to the handling and transmission of such data. For a discussion of privacy and data security regulation and the potential impacts on our business, see &#8220;Risk Factors&#8212;Risks Relating to Our Business&#8212;Changes in regulations or consumer concerns regarding privacy and protection of consumer data, or any failure to comply with privacy and data protection obligations, could negatively impact our business, results of operations, and financial condition.&#8221; 

Regulation 

Because our business delivers solutions across a broad spectrum of automotive retailer operations, our activities are impacted by a wide variety of federal, state, local, and international laws and regulations. Central to the value of our Document Management Solutions, for example, is that the forms we provide for our customers meet the requirements of their applicable laws. Likewise, within our Front Office Solutions, our CVR service is dependent on our compliance with complex and detailed regulatory requirements. Across our portfolio of automotive retail solutions, we are focused on ensuring that we meet our regulatory compliance obligations and that our solutions enable our customers to comply with the laws and regulations applicable to them. See &#8220;Risk Factors&#8212;Risks Relating to Our Business&#8212;We are directly and indirectly subject to, and impacted by, extensive and complex regulation in the U.S. and abroad, and new regulations and/or changes to existing regulations may negatively impact our business, results of operations, and financial condition,&#8221; for additional information regarding the application and impact of laws and regulations on our operations. 

Our customers must comply with an array of state and local laws specific to the advertising of automobiles, finance and insurance, and related services. The advertising of automobile financing in the U.S. is generally subject to the federal Truth in Lending Act and attendant regulations, while the advertising of consumer automobile leases is subject to similar regulations under the Consumer Leasing Act and enabling regulations. In each case, the regulations prescribe the information, such as payment amount, payment period, term, and interest rate, to be disclosed to a consumer in connection with the advertising of vehicle financing or a vehicle lease. Similarly, state and local laws establish requirements with respect to the advertising of vehicles and vehicle attributes, from the required elements of pricing information to the presentation of fuel efficiency data. 

Some of our solutions include email marketing as a component, which is governed by a variety of U.S. federal, state, and foreign laws and regulations. In the U.S., for example, the Controlling the Assault of Non-Solicited Pornography and Marketing Act of 2003 (the "CAN-SPAM Act") establishes requirements, such as mandatory opt-out mechanisms, for the distribution of &#8220;commercial&#8221; email messages for the primary purpose of advertising or promoting commercial products or services and provides for criminal and civil penalties for failure to comply. Individual states as well as some foreign jurisdictions, such as Australia, Canada, and the European Union, have also enacted laws that regulate sending commercial email, some of which are more restrictive than the CAN-SPAM Act. 

As with the majority of our solutions, the compliance obligation lies with our customers and, in purchasing our solutions, our customers agree to use our services in compliance with applicable laws. Nonetheless, we strive to ensure that our solutions enable our customers to achieve and maintain that compliance. 

Employees 

As of June 30, 2016 , we had a total of approximately 8,700 full-time employees worldwide. None of our employees is represented by a collective bargaining agreement. We believe that relations with our employees are good. 

Available Information 

We electronically file Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to those reports, and proxy statements, with the Securities Exchange Commission (&#8220;SEC&#8221;). You may read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549, or you may obtain information by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an internet address at http://www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy statements and information statements, and other information, which you may obtain free of charge. In addition, our corporate website, www.cdkglobal.com, provides materials for investors, information about our services and copies of our filings with the SEC. Access to these filings is free of charge. The content on any website referenced in this filing is not incorporated by reference into this filing unless expressly noted. 

