 ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

GENERAL 

State Street Corporation, referred to as the parent company, is a financial holding company organized in 1969 under the laws of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts . Our executive offices are located at One Lincoln Street, Boston, Massachusetts 02111 (telephone (617) 786-3000). For purposes of this Form 10-K, unless the context requires otherwise, references to &#8220;State Street,&#8221; &#8220;we,&#8221; &#8220;us,&#8221; &#8220;our&#8221; or similar terms mean State Street Corporation and its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis. The parent company is a source of financial and managerial strength to our subsidiaries. Through our subsidiaries, including our principal banking subsidiary, State Street Bank and Trust Company, referred to as State Street Bank , we provide a broad range of financial products and services to institutional investors worldwide, with &#32; $27.51 trillion &#32; of AUCA and &#32; $2.25 trillion &#32; of AUM as of &#32; December 31, 2015 . 

As of December 31, 2015 , we had consolidated total assets of $245.19 billion , consolidated total deposits of $191.63 billion , consolidated total shareholders' equity of $21.10 billion &#32;and 32,356 &#32;employees. We operate in more than 100 geographic markets worldwide, including in the U.S., Canada, Europe, the Middle East and Asia. 

On the &#8220;Investor Relations&#8221; section of our corporate website at www.investors.statestreet.com , we make available, free of charge, all reports we electronically file with, or furnish to, the SEC &#32;including our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K, as well as any amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after those documents have been filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. These documents are also accessible on the SEC&#8217;s website at www.sec.gov . We have included the website addresses of State Street and the SEC in this report as inactive textual references only. &#32;&#32;Information on those websites is not part of this Form 10-K. 

We have Corporate Governance Guidelines, as well as written charters for the Examining and Audit Committee, the Executive Committee, the Executive Compensation Committee, the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee, the Risk Committee and the Technology Committee of our Board of Directors, or Board, and a Code of Ethics for senior financial officers, a Standard of Conduct for Directors and a Standard of Conduct for our employees. Each of these documents is posted on the "Investor Relations" section of our website under "Corporate Governance." 

&#160;

We provide additional disclosures required by applicable bank regulatory standards, including supplemental qualitative and quantitative information with respect to regulatory capital (including market risk associated with our trading activities), summary results of semi-annual State Street-run stress tests which we conduct under the Dodd-Frank Act &#32;and resolution plan disclosures required under the Dodd-Frank Act on the &#8220;Investor Relations&#8221; section of our website under "Filings and Reports." 

We use acronyms and other defined terms for certain business terms and abbreviations, as defined on the acronyms list following the table of contents to this Form 10-K. 

BUSINESS &#32;DESCRIPTION 

Overview 

We conduct our business primarily through State Street Bank, which traces its beginnings to the founding of the Union Bank in 1792. State Street Bank's current charter was authorized by a special Act of the Massachusetts Legislature in 1891, and its present name was adopted in 1960. State Street Bank operates as a specialized bank, referred to as a trust or custody bank, that services and manages assets on behalf of its institutional clients. 

Our clients include mutual funds, collective investment funds and other investment pools, corporate and public retirement plans, insurance companies, foundations, endowments and investment managers. 

Additional In formation 

Additional information about our business activities is provided in the sections that follow. For information about our management of credit and counterparty risk; liquidity risk; operational risk; market risk associated with our trading activities; market risk associated with our non-trading, or asset-and-liability management, activities, primarily composed of interest-rate risk; and capital, as well as other risks inherent in our businesses, refer to &#8220;Risk Factors&#8221; included under Item 1A, the &#8220;Financial Condition&#8221; section of Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, or Management's Discussion and Analysis, included under Item 7, and our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes included under Item 8 of this Form 10-K. 

LINES OF &#32;BUSINESS 

We have two lines of business: Investment Servicing and Investment Management. 

Investme nt Servicing &#32; 

Our Investment Servicing line of business performs core custody and related value-added functions, such as providing institutional investors with clearing, settlement and payment services. Our financial services and products allow our large institutional investor clients to execute financial transactions on a daily basis in markets across the globe. As most institutional investors cannot economically or efficiently build their own technology and operational processes necessary to facilitate their global securities settlement needs, our role as a global trust and custody bank is generally to aid our clients to efficiently perform services associated with the clearing, settlement and execution of securities transactions and related payments. 

Our investment servicing products and services include: custody; product- and participant-level accounting; daily pricing and administration; master trust and master custody; record-keeping; cash management; foreign exchange, brokerage and other trading services; securities finance; deposit and short-term investment facilities; loans and lease financing; investment manager and alternative investment manager operations outsourcing; and performance, risk and compliance analytics. 

We provide mutual fund custody and accounting services in the U.S. We offer clients a broad range of integrated products and services, including accounting, daily pricing and fund administration. We service U.S. tax-exempt assets for corporate and public pension funds, and we provide trust and valuation services for daily-priced portfolios. 

We are a service provider outside of the U.S. as well. In Germany, Italy, France and Luxembourg, we provide depotbank services (a fund oversight role created by regulation) for retail and institutional fund assets, as well as custody and other services to pension plans and other institutional clients. In the U.K., we provide custody services for pension fund assets and administration services for mutual fund assets. As of December 31, 2015 , we serviced approximately $1.50 trillion of offshore assets in funds located primarily in Luxembourg, Ireland and the Cayman Islands. As of December 31, 2015 , we serviced $1.28 trillion &#32;of assets under custody and administration in the Asia/Pacific region, and in Japan, we serviced approximately 92% of the trust assets serviced by non-domestic trust banks. 

We are an alternative asset servicing provider worldwide, servicing hedge, private equity and real estate funds. As of December 31, 2015 , we serviced approximately $1.32 trillion of AUCA &#32;in such funds. 

&#160;

Investment M anagement 

We provide our Investment Management services through SSGA . SSGA provides a broad array of investment management, investment research and investment advisory services to corporations, public funds and other sophisticated investors. SSGA offers active and passive asset management strategies across equity, fixed-income and cash asset classes. Products are distributed directly and through intermediaries using a variety of investment vehicles including ETF s such as the SPDR &#174; &#32;ETF brand. 

Additional information about our lines of business is provided under &#8220;Line of Business Information&#8221; in Management's Discussion and Analysis included under Item 7, and in Note 24 &#32;to the consolidated financial statements included under Item 8 of this Form 10-K. Additional information about our non-U.S. activities is provided in Note 25 &#32;to the consolidated financial statements included under Item 8 of this Form 10-K. 

COMPET ITION 

We operate in a highly competitive environment and face global competition in all areas of our business. Our competitors include a broad range of financial institutions and servicing companies, including other custodial banks, deposit-taking institutions, investment management firms, insurance companies, mutual funds, broker/dealers, investment banks, benefits consultants, business service and software companies and information services firms. As our businesses grow and markets evolve, we may encounter increasing and new forms of competition around the world. 

We believe that many key factors drive competition in the markets for our business. For Investment Servicing, quality of service, economies of scale, technological expertise, quality and scope of sales and marketing, required levels of capital and price drive competition, and are critical to our servicing business. For Investment Management, key competitive factors include expertise, experience, availability of related service offerings, quality of service and performance, and price. 

Our competitive success may depend on our ability to develop and market new and innovative services, to adopt or develop new technologies, to bring new services to market in a timely fashion at competitive prices, to continue and expand our relationships with existing clients, and to attract new clients. 

SUPERVISION &#32; AND REGULATION 

State Street is registered with the Federal Reserve &#32;as a bank holding company pursuant to the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956. The Bank Holding Company Act limits the activities in which we and our non-banking subsidiaries may engage to those that the Federal Reserve considers to be closely related to banking, or to managing or controlling banks. These limits also apply to non-banking entities that we are deemed to &#8220;control&#8221; for purposes of the Bank Holding Company Act, which may include companies of which we own or control more than 5% of a class of voting shares. The Federal Reserve may order a bank holding company to terminate any activity, or its ownership or control of a non-banking subsidiary, if the Federal Reserve finds that the activity, ownership or control constitutes a serious risk to the financial safety, soundness or stability of a banking subsidiary or is inconsistent with sound banking principles or statutory purposes. The Bank Holding Company Act also requires a bank holding company to obtain prior approval of the Federal Reserve before it acquires substantially all the assets of any bank, or ownership or control of more than 5% of the voting shares of any bank. 

The parent company has elected to be treated as a financial holding company. A financial holding company and the entities under its control are permitted to engage both in activities closely related to banking and in activities considered &#8220;financial in nature&#8221; as defined by the Bank Holding Company Act and the Federal Reserve&#8217;s implementing rules and interpretations. As a financial holding company, State Street may engage in a broader range of activities than permitted for bank holding companies and their subsidiaries that have not elected to become financial holding companies. Financial holding companies may engage directly or indirectly in activities that are defined by the Federal Reserve to be financial in nature, either de novo or by acquisition, provided that the financial holding company gives the Federal Reserve after-the-fact notice of the new activities. Activities defined to be financial in nature include, but are not limited to, the following: providing financial or investment advice; underwriting; dealing in or making markets in securities; making merchant banking investments, subject to significant limitations; and any activities previously found by the Federal Reserve to be closely related to banking. In order to maintain our status as a financial holding company, we and each of our U.S. depository institution subsidiaries must be well capitalized and well managed, as defined in applicable regulations and determined in part by the results of regulatory examinations, and must comply with Community Reinvestment Act obligations. Failure to maintain these standards may ultimately permit the Federal Reserve to take enforcement actions against us and restrict our ability to engage in 

&#160;

activities defined to be financial in nature. Currently, under the Bank Holding Company Act, we may not be able to engage in new activities or acquire shares or control of other businesses. 

The Dodd-Frank Act, which became law in July 2010, has had, and will continue to have, a significant effect on the regulatory structure of the financial markets and supervision of bank holding companies, banks and other financial institutions. The Dodd-Frank Act, among other things: established the FSOC &#32;to monitor systemic risk posed by financial institutions; enacted new restrictions on proprietary trading and private-fund investment activities by banks and their affiliates, commonly known as the &#8220;Volcker rule&#8221; (refer to our discussion of the Volcker rule provided below under &#8220;Regulatory Capital Adequacy and Liquidity Standards&#8221; in this &#8220;Supervision and Regulation&#8221; section); created a new framework for the regulation of derivatives and the entities that engage in derivatives trading; altered the regulatory capital treatment of trust preferred and other hybrid capital securities; revised the assessment base that is used by the FDIC &#32;to calculate deposit insurance premiums; adopted capital planning and stress test requirements for large bank holding companies, including us; and required large financial institutions to develop plans for their resolution under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code (or other specifically applicable insolvency regime) in the event of material financial distress or failure. 

In addition, regulatory change is being implemented internationally with respect to financial institutions, including, but not limited to, the implementation of the Basel III final rule (refer to &#8220;Regulatory Capital Adequacy and Liquidity Standards&#8221; below in this &#8220;Supervision and Regulation&#8221; section and &#8220;Financial Condition - Capital&#8221; in Management's Discussion and Analysis included under Item 7 of this Form 10-K for a discussion of Basel III) and the AIFMD , the EMIR , revisions to the UCITS &#32;directive, revisions to the MiFID , and ongoing review of European Union data protection regulation. 

Many aspects of our business are subject to regulation by other U.S. federal and state governmental and regulatory agencies and self-regulatory organizations (including securities exchanges), and by non-U.S. governmental and regulatory agencies and self-regulatory organizations. Some aspects of our public disclosure, corporate governance principles and internal control systems are subject to SOX , the Dodd-Frank Act and regulations and rules of the SEC and the NYSE . 

Regulatory Capital Adequacy and Liquidity Standards 

Like other U.S. bank holding companies, we and our depository institution subsidiaries are subject to the current U.S. minimum risk-based capital and 

leverage ratio guidelines, referred to as Basel III. As noted above, the status of our parent company as a financial holding company also requires that we and our depository institution subsidiaries maintain specified regulatory capital ratio levels. As of December 31, 2015 , our regulatory capital levels on a consolidated basis, and the regulatory capital levels of State Street Bank, our principal banking subsidiary, exceeded the currently applicable minimum capital requirements under Basel III and the requirements we must meet for the parent company to qualify as a financial holding company. 

As an &#8220;advanced approaches&#8221; banking organization, State Street became subject to the U.S. Basel III final rule beginning on January 1, 2014. However, certain aspects of the U.S. Basel III final rule, including the new minimum risk-based and leverage capital ratios, capital buffers, regulatory adjustments and deductions and revisions to the calculation of risk-weighted assets under the so-called &#8220;standardized approach,&#8221; will commence at a later date or be phased in over several years. 

Among other things, the U.S. Basel III final rule introduced a minimum common equity tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 4.5% and raises the minimum tier 1 risk-based capital ratio from 4% to 6%. In addition, for advanced approaches banking organizations such as State Street, the U.S. Basel III final rule imposes a minimum supplementary tier 1 leverage ratio of 3%, the numerator of which is tier 1 capital and the denominator of which includes both on-balance sheet assets and certain off-balance sheet exposures. 

The U.S. Basel III final rule also introduced a capital conservation buffer and a countercyclical capital buffer that add to the minimum risk-based capital ratios. Specifically, the final rule limits a banking organization&#8217;s ability to make capital distributions and discretionary bonus payments to executive officers if it fails to maintain a common equity tier 1 capital conservation buffer of more than 2.5% of total risk-weighted assets and, if deployed during periods of excessive credit growth, a common equity tier 1 countercyclical capital buffer of up to 2.5% of total risk-weighted assets, above each of the minimum common equity tier 1, and tier 1 and total risk-based capital ratios. Banking regulators have initially set the countercyclical capital buffer at zero. 

To maintain the status of our parent company as a financial holding company, we and our insured depository institution subsidiaries are required to be &#8220;well-capitalized&#8221; by maintaining capital ratios above the minimum requirements. Effective on January 1, 2015, the &#8220;well-capitalized&#8221; standard for our banking subsidiaries was revised to reflect the higher capital requirements in the U.S. Basel III final rule. 

&#160;

In addition to introducing new capital ratios and buffers, the U.S. Basel III final rule revises the eligibility criteria for regulatory capital instruments and provides for the phase-out of existing capital instruments that do not satisfy the new criteria. For example, existing trust preferred capital securities were phased out from tier 1 capital over a two-year period that ended on January 1, 2016, and subsequently, the qualification of these securities as tier 2 capital will be phased out over a multi-year transition period beginning on January 1, 2016 and ending on January 1, 2022. We had trust preferred capital securities of $237 million &#32;and $475 million &#32;included in tier 1 regulatory capital as of December 31, 2015 &#32;and 2014, respectively. 

Under the U.S. Basel III final rule, certain new items are deducted from common equity tier 1 capital and certain regulatory capital deductions were modified as compared to the previously applicable capital regulations. Among other things, the final rule requires significant investments in the common stock of unconsolidated financial institutions, as defined, and certain deferred tax assets that exceed specified individual and aggregate thresholds to be deducted from common equity tier 1 capital. As an advanced approaches banking organization, after-tax unrealized gains and losses on AFS investment securities flow through to and affect State Street&#8217;s and State Street Bank's common equity tier 1 capital, subject to a phase-in schedule. 

We are required to use the advanced approaches framework as provided in the Basel III final rule to determine our risk-based capital requirements. The Dodd-Frank Act applies a "capital floor" to advanced approaches banking organizations, such as &#32; State Street and State Street Bank. Since January 1, 2015, the Basel III standardized approach has acted as that capital floor, and we are subject to the more stringent of the risk-based capital ratios calculated under the standardized approach and those calculated under the advanced approaches in the assessment of our capital adequacy under the PCA framework. 

In addition to the U.S. Basel III final rule, the Dodd-Frank Act requires the Federal Reserve to establish more stringent capital requirements for large bank holding companies, including State Street. On August 14, 2015, the Federal Reserve published a final rule on the implementation of capital requirements that impose a capital surcharge on U.S. G-SIBs. The surcharge requirements within the final rule began to phase-in on January 1, 2016 and will be fully effective on January 1, 2019. The eight U.S. banks deemed to be G-SIBs, including State Street, are required to calculate the G-SIB surcharge according to two methods, and be bound by the higher of the two: 

&#8226; 

Method 1: Assesses systemic importance based upon five equally-weighted components: size, interconnectedness, complexity, cross-jurisdictional activity and substitutability 

&#8226; 

Method 2: Alters the calculation from Method 1 by factoring in a wholesale funding score in place of substitutability and applying a 2x multiplier to the sum of the five components 

As part of the final rule, the Federal Reserve published estimated G-SIB surcharges for the eight U.S. G-SIBs based on relevant data from 2012 to 2014. Method 2 is identified as the binding methodology for State Street and the applicable surcharge on January 1, 2016 is calculated to be 1.5%. Assuming completion of the phase-in period for the capital conservation buffer, and a countercyclical buffer of 0%, the minimum capital ratios as of January 1, 2019, including a capital conservation buffer of 2.5% and G-SIB surcharge of 1.5% in 2019, would be 10.0% for tier 1 risk-based capital, 12.0% for total risk-based capital, and 8.5% for common equity tier 1 capital, in order for State Street to make capital distributions and discretionary bonus payments without limitation. Not all of our competitors have similarly been designated as systematically important, and therefore some of our competitors may not be subject to the same additional capital requirements. 

In 2014 the FSB &#32;published a consultative document with a proposal to enhance the TLAC &#32;of G-SIBs in resolution. The proposal calls for G-SIBs to maintain TLAC in excess of prescribed minimum thresholds. TLAC would include regulatory capital and liabilities that can be written down or converted into equity during resolution. 

On October 30, 2015, the Federal Reserve released its proposed TLAC and LTD requirements for U.S. domiciled G-SIBs, like State Street, that are intended to improve the resiliency and resolvability of certain U.S. banking organizations through new enhanced prudential standards. The proposed standards impose: (1) TLAC requirements (i.e., combined eligible Tier 1 regulatory capital and eligible LTD); (2) separate eligible LTD requirements; and (3) clean holding company requirements designed to make short-term unsecured debt (including deposits) and most other ineligible liabilities structurally senior to eligible LTD. The proposed rule would also require banking organizations subject to the Federal Reserve&#8217;s Basel III capital rules to deduct from regulatory capital any investments in unsecured debt issued by a G-SIB. 

If adopted as proposed, the rule would, among other things, subject State Street to minimum requirements for external TLAC and external LTD, plus an external TLAC buffer. Specifically, State Street would be required to hold (1) qualifying equity 

&#160;

and LTD in the amount equal to the greater of 21.5% of total risk-weighted assets (using the capital conservation buffer of 2.5% and an estimated G - SIB &#32; method 1 surcharge of 1%) and 9.5% of total leverage exposure, as defined by the SLR final rule and (2) qualifying external LTD equal to the greater of 7.5% of risk weighted assets (using an estimated G - SIB method 2 surcharge of 1.5%) and 4.5% of total leverage exposure, as defined by the SLR final rule. The risk-based requirements, if adopted as proposed, will be phased-in starting in 2019 through 2022. The proposed leverage requirements would be effective in 2019. 

On November 9, 2015, the FSB published its final principles on TLAC. The FSB final principles establish minimum levels of loss-absorbing capital that must be held as a percentage of a G-SIBs risk-weighted assets. Subject to certain conditions, the TLAC requirement can be partially met by tier 1 and tier 2 capital that meets the Basel III capital requirements. However, capital held for the following reasons cannot be counted towards a G-SIB&#8217;s TLAC requirements: (1) Basel III capital conservation buffer; (2) Basel III countercyclical capital buffer requirements; and (3) supplemental capital conservation buffer requirements. G-SIBs will be required to meet the minimum TLAC requirement of at least 16% of the risk-weighted assets minimum by January 1, 2019 and at least 18% by January 2022. Based on the FSB final principles on TLAC, State Street anticipates having to maintain a TLAC requirement of 21.5% of risk-weighted assets by January 2022. 

Supplementary Leverage Ratio Framework 

In 2014, U.S. banking regulators issued final rules implementing an SLR, for certain bank holding companies, like State Street, and their insured depository institution subsidiaries, like State Street Bank, which we refer to as the SLR final rule. Upon implementation, the SLR final rule requires that, as of January 1, 2018, (i) State Street Bank maintain an SLR of at least 6% to be well capitalized under the U.S. banking regulators&#8217; PCA framework and (ii) State Street maintain an SLR of at least 5% to avoid limitations on capital distributions and discretionary bonus payments. In addition to the SLR, State Street is subject to a minimum tier 1 leverage ratio of 4%, which differs from the SLR primarily in that the denominator of the tier 1 leverage ratio is only a quarterly average of on-balance sheet assets and does not include any off-balance sheet exposures. Beginning with reporting for September 30, 2015, State Street was required to include SLR disclosures, calculated on a transitional basis, with its other Basel disclosures. 

Liquidity Coverage Ratio and Net Stable Funding Ratio 

In addition to capital standards, the Basel III final rule introduced two quantitative liquidity standards: the LCR &#32;and the NSFR . 

In 2014, U.S. banking regulators issued a final rule to implement the BCBS' LCR in the United States. The LCR is intended to promote the short-term resilience of internationally active banking organizations, like State Street, to improve the banking industry's ability to absorb shocks arising from market stress over a 30 calendar day period and improve the measurement and management of liquidity risk. 

The LCR measures an institution&#8217;s HQLA against its net cash outflows. The LCR began being phased in on January 1, 2015, at 80%, with full implementation beginning on January 1, 2017. 

In January 2015, State Street was required to begin reporting its LCR to the Federal Reserve on a monthly basis. Daily reporting of the LCR to the Federal Reserve began in July 2015. As of December 31, 2015, our LCR was in excess of 100%. 

Compliance with the LCR has required that we maintain an investment portfolio that contains an adequate amount of HQLA . In general, HQLA investments generate a lower investment return than other types of investments, resulting in a negative impact on our net interest revenue and our net interest margin. In addition, the level of HQLA we are required to maintain under the LCR is dependent upon our client relationships and the nature of services we provide, which may change over time. For example, if the percentage of our operational deposits relative to deposits that are not maintained for operational purposes increases, we would expect to require less HQLA in order to maintain our LCR. Conversely, if the percentage of our operational deposits relative to deposits that are not maintained for operational purposes decreases, we would expect to require additional HQLA in order to maintain our LCR. 

In October 2014, the Basel Committee issued final guidance with respect to the NSFR. The NSFR will require banking organizations to maintain a stable funding profile relative to the composition of their assets and off-balance sheet activities. The NSFR limits over-reliance on short-term wholesale funding, encourages better assessment of funding risk across all on- and off-balance sheet exposures, and promotes funding stability. The final guidance establishes a one-year liquidity standard representing the proportion of long-term assets funded by long-term stable funding, with the NSFR scheduled to become a minimum standard beginning on January 1, 2018. 

&#160;

U.S. banking regulators have not yet issued a proposal to implement the NSFR. We are reviewing the specifics of the final Basel guidance and will evaluate the U.S. implementation of this standard to analyze the impact and develop strategies for compliance as rules are proposed. 

Failure to meet current and future regulatory capital requirements could subject us to a variety of enforcement actions, including the termination of State Street Bank's deposit insurance by the FDIC, and to certain restrictions on our business, including those that are described above in this &#8220;Supervision and Regulation&#8221; section. 

For additional information about our regulatory capital position and our regulatory capital adequacy, as well as current and future regulatory capital requirements, refer to &#8220;Financial Condition - Capital&#8221; in Management's Discussion and Analysis included under Item 7, and Note 16 &#32;to the consolidated financial statements included under Item 8 of this Form 10-K. 

Capital Planning, Stress Tests and Dividends 

Pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, the Federal Reserve has adopted capital planning and stress test requirements for large bank holding companies, including us, which form part of the Federal Reserve&#8217;s annual CCAR &#32;framework. CCAR is used by the Federal Reserve to evaluate our management of capital, the adequacy of our regulatory capital and the potential requirement for us to maintain capital levels above regulatory minimums. Under the Federal Reserve&#8217;s capital plan final rule, we must conduct periodic stress testing of our business operations and submit an annual capital plan to the Federal Reserve, taking into account the results of separate stress tests designed by us and by the Federal Reserve. 

The capital plan must include a description of all of our planned capital actions over a nine-quarter planning horizon, including any issuance of debt or equity capital instruments, any capital distributions, such as payments of dividends on, or purchases of, our stock, and any similar action that the Federal Reserve determines could affect our consolidated capital. The capital plan must include a discussion of how we will maintain capital above the minimum regulatory capital ratios, including the minimum ratios under the U.S. Basel III final rule that are phased in over the planning horizon, and serve as a source of strength to our U.S. depository institution subsidiaries under supervisory stress scenarios. The capital plan requirements mandate that we receive no objection to our plan from the Federal Reserve before making a capital distribution. These requirements could require us to revise our stress-testing or capital management approaches, resubmit our capital plan or postpone, cancel or alter our planned capital actions. In addition, changes in our strategy, merger or 

acquisition activity or unanticipated uses of capital could result in a change in our capital plan and its associated capital actions, including capital raises or modifications to planned capital actions, such as purchases of our stock, and may require resubmission of the capital plan to the Federal Reserve for its non-objection if, among other reasons, we would not meet our regulatory capital requirements after making the proposed capital distribution. 

For additional information regarding capital planning and stress test requirements and restrictions on dividends, refer to "Capital Planning, Stress Tests and Dividends&#8221; in this &#8220;Supervision and Regulation&#8221; section and Item 5, "Market for Registrant&#8217;s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchase of Equity Securities&#8221; in Part II of this Form 10-K. 

In addition to its capital planning requirements, the Federal Reserve has the authority to prohibit or to limit the payment of dividends by the banking organizations it supervises, including us and State Street Bank, if, in the Federal Reserve&#8217;s opinion, the payment of a dividend would constitute an unsafe or unsound practice in light of the financial condition of the banking organization. All of these policies and other requirements could affect our ability to pay dividends and purchase our stock, or require us to provide capital assistance to State Street Bank and any other banking subsidiary. 

In March 2015, we received the results of the Federal Reserve&#8217;s review of our 2015 capital plan in connection with its 2015 annual CCAR process. The Federal Reserve did not object to the capital actions we proposed in our 2015 capital plan and, in March 2015, our Board approved a new common stock purchase program authorizing the purchase of up to $1.8 billion &#32;of our common stock through June 30, 2016. As of December 31, 2015, we purchased approximately 14.2 million &#32;shares of our common stock at an average per-share cost of $73.72 &#32;and an aggregate cost of approximately $1.05 billion &#32;under this program. Our 2015 capital plan included an increase, subject to approval by our Board, to our quarterly stock dividend to $0.34 per share from $0.30 per share, beginning in the second quarter of 2015. 

In 2012, the Federal Reserve issued a final rule to implement its capital stress-testing requirements under the Dodd-Frank Act that require us to conduct semi-annual State Street-run stress tests. Under this rule, we are required to publicly disclose the summary results of our State Street-run stress tests under the severely adverse economic scenario. In July 2015, we provided summary results of our 2015 mid-cycle State Street-run stress tests on the &#8220;Investor Relations&#8221; section of our corporate website. The rule 

&#160;

also subjects us to an annual supervisory stress test conducted by the Federal Reserve. 

The Dodd-Frank Act also requires State Street Bank to conduct an annual stress test. State Street Bank must submit its 2016 annual State Street Bank-run stress test to the Federal Reserve by April 5, 2016. 

The Volcker Rule 

In December 2013, U.S. regulators issued final regulations to implement the Volcker rule. The Volcker rule prohibits banking entities, including us and our affiliates, from engaging in certain prohibited proprietary trading activities, as defined in the final Volcker rule regulations, subject to exemptions for market-making related activities, risk-mitigating hedging, underwriting and certain other activities. The Volcker rule will also require banking entities to either restructure or divest certain ownership interests in, and relationships with, covered funds (as such terms are defined in the final Volcker rule regulations). 

The Volcker rule became effective in July 2012, and the final implementing regulations became effective in April 2014. We were required to bring our activities and investments into conformance with the Volcker rule and its final regulations by July 21, 2015. In December 2014, the Federal Reserve issued an order, the 2016 conformance period extension, extending the Volcker rule&#8217;s general conformance period until July 21, 2016 for investments in and relationships with covered funds and certain foreign funds that were in place on or prior to December 31, 2013, referred to as legacy covered funds. Under the 2016 conformance period extension, all investments in and relationships with investments in a covered fund made or entered into after December 31, 2013 by a banking entity and its affiliates, and all proprietary trading activities of those entities, were required to be in conformance with the Volcker rule and its final implementing regulations by July 21, 2015. The Federal Reserve stated in the 2016 conformance period extension that it intends to grant a final one-year extension of the general conformance period, to July 21, 2017, for banking entities to conform ownership interests in and relationships with legacy covered funds. 

Whether certain types of investment securities or structures such as CLO s constitute covered funds, as defined in the final Volcker rule regulations, and do not benefit from the exemptions provided in the Volcker rule, and whether a banking organization's investments therein constitute ownership interests remain subject to (1) market, and ultimately regulatory, interpretation, and (2) the specific terms and other characteristics relevant to such investment securities and structures. 

As of December 31, 2015 , we held approximately $2.10 billion &#32;of investments in CLOs. As of the same date, these investments had an aggregate pre-tax net unrealized gain of approximately $43 million , composed of gross unrealized gains of $46 million &#32;and gross unrealized losses of $3 million . Comparatively, as of December 31, 2014, we held approximately $4.54 billion &#32;of investments in CLOs which had an aggregate pre-tax net unrealized gain of approximately $97 million &#32;composed of gross unrealized gains of $105 million &#32;and gross unrealized losses of $8 million . In the event that we or our banking regulators conclude that such investments in CLOs, or other investments, are covered funds, we may be required to divest such investments. If other banking entities reach similar conclusions with respect to similar investments held by them, the prices of such investments could decline significantly, and we may be required to divest such investments at a significant discount compared to the investments' book value. This could result in a material adverse effect on our consolidated statement of income or on our consolidated statement of condition in the period in which such a divestiture occurs. 

The final Volcker rule regulations also require banking entities to establish extensive programs designed to ensure compliance with the restrictions of the Volcker rule. We have established a compliance program which we believe complies with the final Volcker rule regulations as currently in effect. Such compliance program restricts our ability in the future to service certain types of funds, in particular covered funds for which SSGA acts as an advisor and certain types of trustee relationships. Consequently, Volcker rule compliance entails both the cost of a compliance program and loss of certain revenue and future opportunities. 

Enhanced Prudential Standards 

The Dodd-Frank Act established a new regulatory framework to regulate banking organizations designated as SIFI s, and has subjected them to heightened prudential standards, including heightened capital, leverage, liquidity and risk management requirements, single-counterparty credit limits and early remediation requirements. Bank holding companies with $50 billion or more in consolidated assets, which includes us, became automatically subject to the systemic-risk regime in 2010. 

The FSOC can recommend prudential standards, reporting and disclosure requirements to the Federal Reserve for SIFIs, and must approve any finding by the Federal Reserve that a financial institution poses a grave threat to financial stability and must undertake mitigating actions. The FSOC is also empowered to designate systemically important 

&#160;

payment, clearing and settlement activities of financial institutions, subjecting them to prudential supervision and regulation, and, assisted by the new Office of Financial Research within the U.S. Department of the Treasury, also established by the Dodd-Frank Act, can gather data and reports from financial institutions, including us. 

In February 2014, the Federal Reserve approved a final rule implementing certain of the Dodd-Frank Act&#8217;s enhanced prudential standards for large bank holding companies such as State Street. Under the final rule, we will have to comply with various liquidity-related risk management standards and maintain a liquidity buffer of unencumbered highly liquid assets based on the results of internal liquidity stress testing. This liquidity buffer is in addition to other liquidity requirements, such as the LCR and, when implemented, the NSFR. The final rule also establishes requirements and responsibilities for our risk committee and mandates risk management standards. We became subject to these new standards on January 1, 2015. Final rules on single counterparty credit limits and an early termination framework have not yet been promulgated. Refer to the risk factor titled &#8220;We assume significant credit risk to counterparties, many of which are major financial institutions. These financial institutions and other counterparties may also have substantial financial dependencies with other financial institutions and sovereign entities. This credit exposure and concentration could expose us to financial loss&#8221; included under "Risk Factors" under Item 1A of this Form 10-K. In addition, the final rules create a new early-remediation regime to address financial distress or material management weaknesses determined with reference to four levels of early remediation, including heightened supervisory review, initial remediation, recovery, and resolution assessment, with specific limitations and requirements tied to each level. 

The systemic-risk regime also provides that, for institutions deemed to pose a grave threat to U.S. financial stability, the Federal Reserve, upon an FSOC vote, must limit that institution&#8217;s ability to merge, restrict its ability to offer financial products, require it to terminate activities, impose conditions on activities or, as a last resort, require it to dispose of assets. Upon a grave-threat determination by the FSOC, the Federal Reserve must issue rules that require financial institutions subject to the systemic-risk regime to maintain a debt-to-equity ratio of no more than 15 to 1 if the FSOC considers it necessary to mitigate the risk of the grave threat. The Federal Reserve also has the ability to establish further standards, including those regarding contingent capital, enhanced public disclosures, and limits on short-term debt, including off-balance sheet exposures. 

Resolution Planning 

As required by the Dodd-Frank Act, the FDIC and the Federal Reserve jointly issued a final rule pursuant to which we are required to submit annually to the Federal Reserve and the FDIC a plan for our rapid and orderly resolution under the Bankruptcy Code (or other specifically applicable insolvency regime) in the event of material financial distress or failure, referred to as a resolution plan. The FDIC also issued a final rule pursuant to which State Street Bank is required to submit annually to the FDIC a plan for resolution in the event of its failure, referred to as an IDI plan. We timely submitted our most recent annual resolution plan to the Federal Reserve and the FDIC on July 1, 2015 and State Street Bank timely submitted its most recent IDI plan to the FDIC on September 1, 2015. Through resolution planning, State Street seeks, in the event of the insolvency of State Street, to maintain State Street Bank&#8217;s role as a key infrastructure provider within the financial system, while minimizing risk to the financial system and maximizing value for the benefit of State Street&#8217;s stakeholders. State Street has and will continue to focus management attention and resources to meet regulatory expectations with respect to resolution planning. As set out in its 2015 resolution plan, in the event of material financial distress or failure, State Street&#8217;s preferred resolution strategy, referred to as the single point of entry strategy, provides for the recapitalization of State Street Bank by the parent company (for example, by forgiving inter-company indebtedness of State Street Bank owed to the parent company) prior to the parent company&#8217;s entry into bankruptcy proceedings. The recapitalization is intended to enable State Street Bank and its material subsidiaries to continue operating. Under this single point of entry strategy, State Street Bank and its material entity subsidiaries would not themselves enter into resolution proceedings; they would instead be transferred to a newly organized holding company held by a reorganization trust for the benefit of the parent company&#8217;s claimants. In the event that such recapitalization actions occur and were unsuccessful in stabilizing State Street Bank, the parent company's financial condition would be adversely impacted and equity and debt holders of the parent company, may, as a consequence, be in a worse position than if the recapitalization did not occur. 

In 2014, the Federal Reserve and the FDIC announced the completion of their reviews of resolution plans submitted in 2013 by 11 large, complex banking organizations, including State Street, under the requirements of the Dodd-Frank Act, and informed each of these organizations of specific shortcomings with their respective 2013 resolution plans. As of February 19, 2016, the Federal Reserve and the FDIC had not announced the outcomes of their reviews of plans submitted in 2015. If we fail to 

&#160;

meet regulatory expectations to the satisfaction of the Federal Reserve and the FDIC in the submission of our 2015 resolution plan, we could be subject to more stringent capital, leverage or liquidity requirements, restrictions on our growth, activities or operations, or be required to divest certain of our assets or operations. 

Orderly Liquidation Authority 

Under the Dodd-Frank Act, certain financial companies, including bank holding companies such as State Street, and certain covered subsidiaries, can be subjected to a new orderly liquidation authority. The U.S. Treasury Secretary, in consultation with the President, must first make certain extraordinary financial distress and systemic risk determinations, and action must be recommended by two-thirds of the FDIC Board and two-thirds of the Federal Reserve Board. Absent such actions, we, as a bank holding company, would remain subject to the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. 

The orderly liquidation authority went into effect in July 2010, and rulemaking is proceeding in stages, with some regulations now finalized and others planned but not yet proposed. If we were subject to the orderly liquidation authority, the FDIC would be appointed as our receiver, which would give the FDIC considerable powers to resolve us, including: (1) the power to remove officers and directors responsible for our failure and to appoint new directors and officers; (2) the power to assign assets and liabilities to a third party or bridge financial company without the need for creditor consent or prior court review; (3) the ability to differentiate among creditors, including by treating junior creditors better than senior creditors, subject to a minimum recovery right to receive at least what they would have received in bankruptcy liquidation; and (4) broad powers to administer the claims process to determine distributions from the assets of the receivership to creditors not transferred to a third party or bridge financial institution. 

In December 2013, the FDIC released its proposed single-point-of-entry strategy for resolution of a SIFI under the orderly liquidation authority. The FDIC&#8217;s release outlines how it would use its powers under the orderly liquidation authority to resolve a SIFI by placing its top-tier U.S. holding company in receivership and keeping its operating subsidiaries open and out of insolvency proceedings by transferring the operating subsidiaries to a new bridge holding company, recapitalizing the operating subsidiaries and imposing losses on the shareholders and creditors of the holding company in receivership according to their statutory order of priority. 

Derivatives 

Title VII of the Dodd-Frank Act imposes a new regulatory structure on the over-the-counter derivatives market, including requirements for clearing, exchange trading, capital, margin, reporting and record-keeping. In addition, certain derivative activities are required to be pushed out of insured depository institutions and conducted in separately capitalized non-bank affiliates. Title VII also requires certain persons to register as a major swap participant, a swap dealer or a securities-based swap dealer. The CFTC , the SEC, and other U.S. regulators have adopted and are still in the process of adopting regulations to implement Title VII. Through this rulemaking process, these regulators collectively have adopted or proposed, among other things, regulations relating to reporting and record-keeping obligations, margin and capital requirements, the scope of registration and the central clearing and exchange trading requirements for certain over-the-counter derivatives. The CFTC has also issued rules to enhance the oversight of clearing and trading entities. The CFTC, along with other regulators, including the Federal Reserve, are also in the process of proposing and finalizing additional rules, such as with respect to margin requirements for uncleared derivatives transactions. 

State Street Bank has registered provisionally with the CFTC as a swap dealer. As a provisionally registered swap dealer, State Street Bank is subject to significant regulatory obligations regarding its swap activity and the supervision, examination and enforcement powers of the CFTC and other regulators. In December 2013, the CFTC granted State Street Bank a limited-purpose swap dealer designation. Under this limited-purpose designation, interest-rate swap activity engaged in by State Street Bank&#8217;s Global Treasury group is not subject to certain of the swap regulatory requirements otherwise applicable to swaps entered into by a registered swap dealer, subject to a number of conditions. For all other swap transactions, our swap activities remain subject to all applicable swap dealer regulations. 

Money Market Funds 

In July 2014, the SEC adopted amendments to the regulations governing money market funds to address potential systemic risks and improve transparency for money market fund investors. Among other things, the amendments require a floating net asset value for institutional prime money market funds (i.e., money market funds that are either not restricted to natural person investors or not restricted to investing primarily in U.S. government securities) and permit (and in some cases require) all money market funds to impose redemption fees and gates under certain circumstances. As a result of these reforms, money market funds may be required 

&#160;

to take certain steps that will affect their structure and/or operations, which could in turn affect the liquidity, marketability and return potential of such funds. Full conformance with these amendments is required by October 14, 2016. 

Money market reforms are also being considered in Europe. The timing and content of those regulations remains uncertain. The SEC's July 2014 amended regulations, and the potential reforms in Europe, could alter the business models of money market fund sponsors and asset managers, including many of our servicing clients and SSGA, and may result in reduced levels of investment in money market funds. As a result, these requirements may have an adverse impact on our business, our operations or our consolidated results of operations. 

Subsidiaries 

The Federal Reserve is the primary federal banking agency responsible for regulating us and our subsidiaries, including State Street Bank, with respect to both our U.S. and non-U.S. operations. 

Our banking subsidiaries are subject to supervision and examination by various regulatory authorities. State Street Bank is a member of the Federal Reserve System, its deposits are insured by the FDIC and it is subject to applicable federal and state banking laws and to supervision and examination by the Federal Reserve, as well as by the Massachusetts Commissioner of Banks, the FDIC, and the regulatory authorities of those states and countries in which State Street Bank operates a branch. Our other subsidiary trust companies are subject to supervision and examination by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, the Federal Reserve or by the appropriate state banking regulatory authorities of the states in which they are organized and operate. Our non-U.S. banking subsidiaries are subject to regulation by the regulatory authorities of the countries in which they operate. As of December 31, 2015 , the capital of each of these banking subsidiaries exceeded the minimum legal capital requirements set by those regulatory authorities. 

We and our subsidiaries that are not subsidiaries of State Street Bank are affiliates of State Street Bank under federal banking laws, which impose restrictions on various types of transactions, including loans, extensions of credit, investments or asset purchases by or from State Street Bank, on the one hand, to us and those of our subsidiaries, on the other. Transactions of this kind between State Street Bank and its affiliates are limited with respect to each affiliate to 10% of State Street Bank&#8217;s capital and surplus, as defined by the aforementioned banking laws, and to 20% in the aggregate for all affiliates, and in some cases are also subject to strict collateral requirements. Under the Dodd-Frank Act, effective in 

July 2012, derivatives, securities borrowing and securities lending transactions between State Street Bank and its affiliates became subject to these restrictions. The Dodd-Frank Act also expanded the scope of transactions required to be collateralized. In addition, the Volcker rule generally prohibits similar transactions between the parent company or any of its affiliates and covered funds for which we or any of our affiliates serve as the investment manager, investment adviser, commodity trading advisor or sponsor and other covered funds organized and offered pursuant to specific exemptions in the final Volcker rule regulations. 

Federal law also requires that certain transactions with affiliates be on terms and under circumstances, including credit standards, that are substantially the same, or at least as favorable to the institution, as those prevailing at the time for comparable transactions involving other non-affiliated companies. Alternatively, in the absence of comparable transactions, the transactions must be on terms and under circumstances, including credit standards, that in good faith would be offered to, or would apply to, non-affiliated companies. 

State Street Bank is also prohibited from engaging in certain tie-in arrangements in connection with any extension of credit or lease or sale of property or furnishing of services. Federal law provides as well for a depositor preference on amounts realized from the liquidation or other resolution of any depository institution insured by the FDIC. 

Our subsidiaries, SSGA FM &#32;and SSGA Ltd. , act as investment advisers to investment companies registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940. SSGA FM, incorporated in Massachusetts in 2001 and headquartered in Boston, Massachusetts, is registered with the SEC as an investment adviser under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 and is registered with the CFTC &#32;as a commodity trading adviser and pool operator. SSGA Ltd., incorporated in 1990 as a U.K. limited company and domiciled in the U.K., is also registered with the SEC as an investment adviser under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940. SSGA Ltd. is also authorized and regulated by the U.K. FCA and is an investment firm under the MiFID. SSGA FM and SSGA Ltd. each offer a variety of investment management solutions, including active, enhanced and passive equity, active and passive fixed-income, cash management, multi-asset class solutions and real estate. In addition, a major portion of our investment management activities are conducted by State Street Bank, which is subject to supervision primarily by the Federal Reserve with respect to these activities. 

Our U.S. broker/dealer subsidiary is registered as a broker/dealer with the SEC, is subject to 

&#160;

regulation by the SEC (including the SEC&#8217;s net capital rule) and is a member of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, a self-regulatory organization. The U.K. broker/dealer business operates through our subsidiary, State Street Global Markets International Limited, which is registered in the U.K. as a regulated securities broker, is authorized and regulated by the FCA and is an investment firm under the MiFID. It is also a member of the London Stock Exchange. In accordance with the rules of the FCA, the U.K. broker/dealer publishes information on its risk management objectives and on policies associated with its regulatory capital requirements and resources. Many aspects of our investment management activities are subject to federal and state laws and regulations primarily intended to benefit the investment holder, rather than our shareholders. 

Our activities as a futures commission merchant are subject to regulation by the CFTC in the U.S. and various regulatory authorities internationally, as well as the membership requirements of the applicable clearinghouses. In addition, we have a subsidiary registered with the CFTC as a swap execution facility, and our U.S. broker/dealer subsidiary also offers a U.S. equities alternative trading system registered with the SEC. 

These laws and regulations generally grant supervisory agencies and bodies broad administrative powers, including the power to limit or restrict us from conducting our investment management activities in the event that we fail to comply with such laws and regulations, and examination authority. Our business related to investment management and trusteeship of collective trust funds and separate accounts offered to employee benefit plans is subject to ERISA, and is regulated by the U.S. Department of Labor. 

Our businesses, including our investment management and securities and futures businesses, are also regulated extensively by non-U.S. governments, securities exchanges, self-regulatory organizations, central banks and regulatory bodies, especially in those jurisdictions in which we maintain an office. For instance, among others, the FCA, the U.K. PRA and the Bank of England regulate our activities in the U.K.; the Central Bank of Ireland regulates our activities in Ireland; the German Federal Financial Supervisory Authority regulates our activities in Germany; the Commission de Surveillance du Secteur Financier regulates our activities in Luxembourg; our German banking group and the Luxembourg banks are also subject to direct supervision by the European Central Bank under the ECB Single Supervisory Mechanism; the Australian Prudential Regulation Authority and the Australian Securities and Investments Commission regulate our activities in Australia; and the Financial Services Agency and the Bank of Japan regulate our activities 

in Japan. We have established policies, procedures, and systems designed to comply with the requirements of these organizations. However, as a global financial services institution, we face complexity and costs related to regulation. 

The majority of our non-U.S. asset servicing operations are conducted pursuant to the Federal Reserve's Regulation K through State Street Bank&#8217;s Edge Act subsidiary or through international branches of State Street Bank. An Edge Act corporation is a corporation organized under federal law that conducts foreign business activities. In general, banks may not make investments in their Edge Act corporations (and similar state law corporations) that exceed 20% of their capital and surplus, as defined, and the investment of any amount in excess of 10% of capital and surplus requires the prior approval of the Federal Reserve. 

In addition to our non-U.S. operations conducted pursuant to Regulation K, we also make new investments abroad directly (through us or through our non-banking subsidiaries) pursuant to the Federal Reserve's Regulation Y, or through international bank branch expansion, which are not subject to the investment limitations applicable to Edge Act subsidiaries. 

Additionally, Massachusetts has its own bank holding company statute, under which State Street, among other things, may be required to obtain prior approval by the Massachusetts Board of Bank Incorporation for an acquisition of more than 5% of any additional bank's voting shares, or for other forms of bank acquisitions. 

Anti-Money Laundering and Financial Transparency 

We and certain of our subsidiaries are subject to the Bank Secrecy Act of 1970, as amended by the USA PATRIOT Act of 2001, which contains AML &#32;and financial transparency provisions and requires implementation of regulations applicable to financial services companies, including standards for verifying client identification and monitoring client transactions and detecting and reporting suspicious activities. AML laws outside the U.S. contain similar requirements. We have implemented policies, procedures and internal controls that are designed to comply with all applicable AML laws and regulations. Compliance with applicable AML and related requirements is a common area of review for financial regulators, and our level of compliance with these requirements could result in fines, penalties, lawsuits, regulatory sanctions or difficulties in obtaining approvals, restrictions on our business activities or harm to our reputation. 

On June 1, 2015, State Street entered into a written agreement with the Federal Reserve and the Massachusetts Division of Banks relating to 

&#160;

deficiencies identified in State Street's compliance programs with the requirements of the Bank Secrecy Act, AML regulations and U.S. economic sanctions regulations promulgated by OFAC. As part of this enforcement action, State Street is required to, among other things, implement improvements to our compliance programs and to retain an independent firm to conduct a review of account and transaction activity covering a prior three-month period to evaluate whether any suspicious activity not previously reported should have been identified and reported in accordance with applicable regulatory requirements. If deficiencies in our historical reporting are identified as a result of the transaction review or if we fail to comply with the terms of the written agreement, we may become subject to fines and other regulatory sanctions, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. 

Deposit Insurance 

FDIC-insured depository institutions are required to pay deposit insurance assessments to the FDIC. The Dodd-Frank Act made permanent the general $250,000 deposit insurance limit for insured deposits. 

The FDIC&#8217;s DIF &#32;is funded by assessments on insured depository institutions. The FDIC assesses DIF premiums based on an insured depository institution's average consolidated total assets, less the average tangible equity of the insured depository institution during the assessment period. For larger institutions, such as State Street Bank, assessments are determined based on regulatory ratings and forward-looking financial measures to calculate the assessment rate, which is subject to adjustments by the FDIC, and the assessment base. 

The Dodd-Frank Act also directed the FDIC to determine whether and to what extent adjustments to the assessment base are appropriate for &#8220;custody banks". The FDIC has concluded that certain liquid assets could be excluded from the deposit insurance assessment base of custody banks that satisfy specified institutional eligibility criteria. This has the effect of reducing the amount of DIF insurance premiums due from custody banks. State Street Bank is a custody bank for this purpose. The custody bank assessment adjustment may not exceed total transaction account deposits identified by the institution as being directly linked to a fiduciary or custody and safekeeping asset. 

Prompt Corrective Action 

The FDIC Improvement Act of 1991 requires the appropriate federal banking regulator to take &#8220;prompt corrective action&#8221; with respect to a depository institution if that institution does not meet certain capital adequacy standards. While these regulations apply only to banks, such as State Street Bank, the Federal Reserve is authorized to take appropriate 

action against a parent bank holding company, such as our parent company, based on the under-capitalized status of any banking subsidiary. In certain instances, we would be required to guarantee the performance of the capital restoration plan for our under-capitalized banking subsidiary. 

Support of Subsidiary Banks 

Under Federal Reserve regulations, a bank holding company such as our parent company is required to act as a source of financial and managerial strength to its banking subsidiaries. This requirement was added to the Federal Deposit Insurance Act by the Dodd-Frank Act and means that we are expected to commit resources to State Street Bank and any other banking subsidiary in circumstances in which we otherwise might not do so absent such a requirement. In the event of bankruptcy, any commitment by us to a federal bank regulatory agency to maintain the capital of a banking subsidiary will be assumed by the bankruptcy trustee and will be entitled to a priority payment. 

Insolvency of an Insured U.S. Subsidiary Depository Institution 

If the FDIC is appointed the conservator or receiver of an FDIC-insured U.S. subsidiary depository institution, such as State Street Bank, upon its insolvency or certain other events, the FDIC has the ability to transfer any of the depository institution&#8217;s assets and liabilities to a new obligor without the approval of the depository institution&#8217;s creditors, enforce the terms of the depository institution&#8217;s contracts pursuant to their terms or repudiate or disaffirm contracts or leases to which the depository institution is a party. Additionally, the claims of holders of deposit liabilities and certain claims for administrative expenses against an insured depository institution would be afforded priority over &#32; other general unsecured claims against such an institution, including claims of debt holders of the institution and, under current interpretation, depositors in non-U.S. offices, in the liquidation or other resolution of such an institution by any receiver. As a result, such persons would be treated differently from and could receive, if anything, substantially less than the depositors in U.S. offices of the depository institution. 

ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND GOVERNMENT POLICIES 

Economic policies of the U.S. government and its agencies influence our operating environment. Monetary policy conducted by the Federal Reserve directly affects the level of interest rates, which may affect overall credit conditions of the economy. Monetary policy is applied by the Federal Reserve through open market operations in U.S. government securities, changes in reserve requirements for depository institutions, and changes in the discount 

&#160;

rate and availability of borrowing from the Federal Reserve. Government regulation of banks and bank holding companies is intended primarily for the protection of depositors of the banks, rather than for the shareholders of the institutions and therefore may, in some cases, be adverse to the interests of those shareholders. We are similarly affected by the economic policies of non-U.S. government agencies, such as the ECB . 

STATIS TICAL DISCLOSURE BY BANK HOLDING COMPANIES 

The following information, included under Items 6, 7 and 8 of this Form 10-K, is incorporated by reference herein: 

&#8220;Selected Financial Data&#8221; table (Item 6) - presents return on average common equity, return on average assets, common dividend payout and equity-to-assets ratios. 

&#8220;Distribution of Average Assets, Liabilities and Shareholders&#8217; Equity; Interest Rates and Interest Differential&#8221; table (Item 8) - presents consolidated average balance sheet amounts, related fully taxable-equivalent interest earned and paid, related average yields and rates paid and changes in fully taxable-equivalent interest revenue and interest expense for each major category of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities. 

&#8220;Investment Securities&#8221; section included in Management's Discussion and Analysis (Item 7) and Note 3 , &#8220;Investment Securities,&#8221; to the consolidated financial statements (Item 8) - disclose information regarding book values, market values, maturities and weighted-average yields of securities (by category). 

Note 4 , &#8220;Loans and Leases,&#8221; to the consolidated financial statements (Item 8) - discloses our policy for placing loans and leases on non-accrual status. 

&#8220;Loans and Leases&#8221; section included in Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis (Item 7) and Note 4 , &#8220;Loans and Leases,&#8221; to the consolidated financial statements (Item 8) - disclose distribution of loans, loan maturities and sensitivities of loans to changes in interest rates. 

&#8220;Loans and Leases&#8221; and &#8220;Cross-Border Outstandings&#8221; sections of Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis (Item 7) - disclose information regarding cross-border outstandings and other loan concentrations of State Street. 

&#8220;Credit Risk Management&#8221; section included in Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis (Item 7) and Note 4 , &#8220;Loans and Leases,&#8221; to the consolidated financial statements (Item 8) - present the allocation of the allowance for loan losses, and a description of factors which influenced management&#8217;s judgment in determining amounts of additions or reductions to the allowance, if any, charged or credited to results of operations. 

&#8220;Distribution of Average Assets, Liabilities and Shareholders&#8217; Equity; Interest Rates and Interest Differential&#8221; table (Item 8) - discloses deposit information. 

Note 8 , &#8220;Short-Term Borrowings,&#8221; to the consolidated financial statements (Item 8) - discloses information regarding short-term borrowings of State Street. 

