 ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

General 

Developments relating to individual aspects of the business of BOK Financial Corporation ("BOK Financial" or "the Company") are described below. Additional discussion of the Company’s activities during the current year appears within Item 7 "Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations." 

Description of Business 

BOK Financial is a financial holding company incorporated in the state of Oklahoma in 1990 whose activities are governed by the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 ("BHCA"), as amended by the Financial Services Modernization Act or Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act and the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the "Dodd-Frank Act"). BOK Financial offers full service banking in Oklahoma, Texas, New Mexico, Northwest Arkansas, Colorado, Arizona, and Kansas/Missouri. At December 31, 2015 , the Company reported total consolidated assets of $31 billion &#32;and ranked as the 53rd largest bank holding company based on asset size. 

BOKF, NA ("the Bank") is a wholly owned subsidiary bank of BOK Financial. BOKF, NA operates TransFund, Cavanal Hill Investment Management, BOK Financial Asset Management, Inc. and seven banking divisions: Bank of Albuquerque, Bank of Arizona, Bank of Arkansas, Bank of Kansas City, Bank of Oklahoma, Bank of Texas and Colorado State Bank and Trust. Other wholly owned subsidiaries of BOK Financial include BOSC, Inc., a broker/dealer that engages in retail and institutional securities sales and municipal bond underwriting and The Milestone Group, Inc., an investment adviser to high net worth clients. Other non-bank subsidiary operations do not have a significant effect on the Company’s financial statements. 

Our overall strategic objective is to emphasize growth in long-term value by building on our leadership position in Oklahoma through expansion into other high-growth markets in contiguous states. We operate primarily in the metropolitan areas of Tulsa and Oklahoma City, Oklahoma; Dallas, Fort Worth and Houston, Texas; Albuquerque, New Mexico; Denver, Colorado; Phoenix, Arizona, and Kansas City, Kansas/Missouri. Our acquisition strategy targets fairly priced quality organizations with demonstrated solid growth that would supplement our principal lines of business. We provide additional growth opportunities by hiring talent to enhance competitiveness, adding locations and broadening product offerings. Our operating philosophy embraces local decision-making in each of our geographic markets while adhering to common Company standards. 

Our primary focus is to provide a comprehensive range of nationally competitive financial products and services in a personalized and responsive manner. Products and services include loans and deposits, cash management services, fiduciary services, mortgage banking and brokerage and trading services to middle-market businesses, financial institutions and consumers. Commercial banking represents a significant part of our business. Our credit culture emphasizes building relationships by making high quality loans and providing a full range of financial products and services to our customers. Our energy financing expertise enables us to offer commodity derivatives for customers to use in their risk management. We also offer derivative products for customers to use in managing their interest rate and foreign exchange risk. Our diversified base of revenue sources is designed to generate returns in a range of economic situations. Historically, fees and commissions provide 43% to 49% of our total revenue. Approximately 48% &#32;of our revenue came from fees and commissions in 2015 . 

BOK Financial’s corporate headquarters is located at Bank of Oklahoma Tower, Boston Avenue at Second Street, Tulsa, Oklahoma 74172. 

The Company’s Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports are available on the Company’s website at www.bokf.com as soon as reasonably practicable after the Company electronically files such material with or furnishes it to the Securities and Exchange Commission. 

Operating Segments 

BOK Financial operates three principal lines of business: Commercial Banking, Consumer Banking and Wealth Management. Commercial Banking includes lending, treasury and cash management services and customer risk management products for small businesses, middle market and larger commercial customers. Commercial Banking also includes the TransFund electronic funds network. Consumer Banking includes retail lending and deposit services, lending and deposit services to small business customers served through the retail branch network and all mortgage banking activities. Wealth Management provides fiduciary services, private bank services and investment advisory services in all markets. Wealth Management also underwrites state and municipal securities and engages in brokerage and trading activities. Discussion of these principal lines of business appears within the Lines of Business section of "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and within Note 17 &#32;of the Company’s Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, both of which appear elsewhere herein. 

Competition 

BOK Financial and its operating segments face competition from other banks, thrifts, credit unions and other non-bank financial institutions, such as investment banking firms, investment advisory firms, brokerage firms, investment companies, government agencies, mortgage brokers and insurance companies. The Company competes largely on the basis of customer services, interest rates on loans and deposits, lending limits and customer convenience. Some operating segments face competition from institutions that are not as closely regulated as banks, and therefore are not limited by the same capital requirements and other restrictions. All market share information presented below is based upon share of deposits in specified areas according to SNL DataSource as of June 30, 2015 . 

We are the largest financial institution in the state of Oklahoma with 15% of the state’s total deposits. Bank of Oklahoma has 32% and 13% of the market share in the Tulsa and Oklahoma City areas, respectively. We compete with two banks that have operations nationwide and have greater access to funds at lower costs, higher lending limits, and greater access to technology resources. We also compete with regional and locally-owned banks in both the Tulsa and Oklahoma City areas, as well as in every other community in which we do business throughout the state. 

Bank of Texas competes against numerous financial institutions, including some of the largest in the United States, and has a market share of approximately 2% in the Dallas, Fort Worth area and less than 1% in the Houston area. Bank of Albuquerque has a number four market share position with 9% of deposits in the Albuquerque area and competes with four large national banks, some regional banks and several locally-owned smaller community banks. Colorado State Bank and Trust has a market share of approximately 2% in the Denver area. Bank of Arkansas serves Benton and Washington counties in Arkansas with a market share of approximately 4%. Bank of Arizona operates as a community bank with locations in Phoenix, Mesa and Scottsdale with a market share of approximately 1%. Bank of Kansas City serves the Kansas City, Kansas/Missouri market with a market share of approximately 2%. The Company’s ability to expand into additional states remains subject to various federal and state laws. 

Employees 

As of December 31, 2015 , BOK Financial and its subsidiaries employed 4,789 &#32;full-time equivalent employees. None of the Company’s employees are represented by collective bargaining agreements. Management considers its employee relations to be good. 

Supervision and Regulation 

BOK Financial and its subsidiaries are subject to extensive regulations under federal and state laws. These regulations are designed to promote safety and soundness, protect consumers and ensure the stability of the banking system as a whole. The purpose of these regulations is not necessarily to protect shareholders and creditors. As detailed below, these regulations require the Company and its subsidiaries to maintain certain capital balances and require the Company to provide financial support to its subsidiaries. These regulations may restrict the Company’s ability to diversify, to acquire other institutions and to pay dividends on its capital stock. These regulations also include requirements on certain programs and services offered to our customers, including restrictions on fees charged for certain services. 

The following information summarizes certain existing laws and regulations that affect the Company’s operations. It does not summarize all provisions of these laws and regulations and does not include all laws and regulations that affect the Company presently or in the future. 

General 

As a financial holding company, BOK Financial is regulated under the BHCA and is subject to regular inspection, examination and supervision by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the "Federal Reserve Board"). Under the BHCA, BOK Financial files quarterly reports and other information with the Federal Reserve Board. 

The Bank is organized as a national banking association under the National Banking Act, and is subject to regulation, supervision and examination by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (the "OCC"), the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (the "FDIC"), the Federal Reserve Board, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau and other federal and state regulatory agencies. The OCC has primary supervisory responsibility for national banks and must approve certain corporate or structural changes, including changes in capitalization, payment of dividends, change of place of business, and establishment of a branch or operating subsidiary. The OCC performs examinations concerning safety and soundness, the quality of management and directors, information technology and compliance with applicable regulations. The National Banking Act authorizes the OCC to examine every national bank as often as necessary. 

A financial holding company, and the companies under its control, are permitted to engage in activities considered "financial in nature" as defined by the BHCA, Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act and Federal Reserve Board interpretations. Activities that are "financial in nature" include securities underwriting and dealing, insurance underwriting, merchant banking, operating a mortgage company, performing certain data processing operations, servicing loans and other extensions of credit, providing investment and financial advice, owning and operating savings and loan associations, and leasing personal property on a full pay-out, non-operating basis. A financial holding company is required to notify the Federal Reserve Board within thirty days of engaging in new activities determined to be "financial in nature." BOK Financial is engaged in some of these activities and has notified the Federal Reserve Board. 

In order for a financial holding company to commence any new activity permitted by the BHCA, each insured depository institution subsidiary of the financial holding company must be "well capitalized" and "well managed" and received a rating of at least "satisfactory" in its most recent examination under the Community Reinvestment Act. A financial holding company and its depository institution subsidiaries are considered to be "well capitalized" if they meet the requirements discussed in the section captioned "Capital Adequacy and Prompt Corrective Action" which follows. A financial holding company and its depository institution subsidiaries are considered to be "well managed" if they receive a composite rating and management rating of at least "satisfactory" in their most recent examinations. If a financial holding company fails to meet these requirements, the Federal Reserve Board may impose limitations or conditions on the conduct of its activities and the company may not commence any new financial activities without prior approval. 

The BHCA requires the Federal Reserve Board’s prior approval for the direct or indirect acquisition of more than five percent of any class of voting stock of any non-affiliated bank. Under the Federal Bank Merger Act, the prior approval of the OCC is required for a national bank to merge with another bank or purchase the assets or assume the deposits of another bank. In reviewing applications seeking approval of merger and acquisition transactions, the bank regulatory authorities consider, among other things, the competitive effect and public benefits of the transactions, the capital position of the combined organization, the applicant’s performance record under the Community Reinvestment Act and fair housing laws and the effectiveness of the subject organizations in combating money laundering activities. 

A financial holding company and its subsidiaries are prohibited under the BHCA from engaging in certain tie-in arrangements in connection with the provision of any credit, property or services. Thus, a subsidiary of a financial holding company may not extend credit, lease or sell property, furnish any services or fix or vary the consideration for these activities on the condition that (1) the customer obtain or provide additional credit, property or services from or to the financial holding company or any subsidiary thereof, or (2) the customer may not obtain some other credit, property or services from a competitor, except to the extent reasonable conditions are imposed to insure the soundness of credit extended. 

The Bank and other non-bank subsidiaries are also subject to other federal and state laws and regulations. For example, BOSC, Inc. is regulated by the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"), the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority ("FINRA"), the Federal Reserve Board, and state securities regulators. Such regulations generally include licensing of certain personnel, customer interactions, and trading operations. 

Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act 

On July 21, 2010, the Dodd-Frank Act was signed into law, giving federal banking agencies authority to increase regulatory capital requirements, impose additional rules and regulations over consumer financial products and services and limit the amount of interchange fees that may be charged in an electronic debit transaction. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act made permanent the $250,000 limit for federal deposit insurance. It also repealed prohibitions on payment of interest on demand deposits, which could impact how interest is paid on business transaction and other accounts. Further, the Dodd-Frank Act prohibits banking entities from engaging in proprietary trading and restricts banking entities sponsorship of or investment in private equity funds and hedge funds. Final rules required to implement the Dodd-Frank Act have largely been issued. Many of these rules have extended phase-in periods and the full impact of this legislation on the banking industry, including the Company, remains unknown. 

The Durbin Amendment to the Dodd-Frank Act required that interchange fees on electronic debit transactions paid by merchants must be "reasonable and proportional to the cost incurred by the issuer" and prohibited card network rules that have limited price competition among networks. Effective October 1, 2011, the Federal Reserve issued its final ruling to implement the Durbin Amendment. This ruling established a cap on interchange fees banks with more than $10 billion in total assets can charge merchants for certain debit card transactions. The Durbin Amendment also required all banks to comply with the prohibition on network exclusivity and routing requirements. Debit card issuers are required to make at least two unaffiliated networks available to merchants. 

The Dodd-Frank Act established the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau ("CFPB") with powers to supervise and enforce consumer protection laws. The CFPB has broad rule-making authority for a wide range of consumer protection laws that apply to all banks and savings institutions, including the authority to prohibit "unfair, deceptive or abusive" acts and practices. Established July 21, 2011, the CFPB has examination and enforcement authority over all banks and savings institutions with more than $10 billion in assets for certain designated consumer laws and regulations. The CFPB issued mortgage servicing standards and mortgage lending rules, including "qualified mortgage" rules that are designed to protect consumers and ensure the reliability of mortgages. Mortgage lenders are required to make a reasonable and good faith determination based on verified and documented information that a consumer applying for a mortgage loan has a reasonable ability to repay the loan according to its terms. Qualified mortgages that meet this requirement and other specified criteria are given a safe harbor of compliance. Rules affecting mortgage lenders and servicers became effective on January 10, 2014. 

Title VI of the Dodd-Frank Act, commonly known as the Volcker Rule, prohibits banking entities from engaging in proprietary trading as defined by the Dodd-Frank Act and restricts sponsorship of, or investment in, private equity funds and hedge funds, subject to limited exceptions and exclusions. In December 2013, Federal banking agencies approved regulations that implement the Volcker Rule. In December 2014, the Federal Reserve extended the conformance period for key elements of the Rule relating to relationships with funds until July 2017. The Company’s private equity investment activities will be curtailed. The Company’s trading activity were largely unaffected, as most trading activities are exempted or excluded from the Volcker Rule trading prohibitions. 

Title VII of the Dodd-Frank Act subjects nearly all derivative transactions to the regulations of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission ("CFTC") or SEC. This includes registration, recordkeeping, reporting, capital, margin and business conduct requirements on swap dealers and major swap participants. The CFTC and SEC both approved interim final rules on the definition "swap" and "swap dealer" which were effective October 2012. Under these rules, entities transacting in less than $8 billion in notional value of swaps over any 12 month period during the first three years after these rules are effective will be exempt from the definition of "swap dealer." After December 2017, this threshold may be reduced to $3 billion subject to the results of studies the commissions intend to undertake once the derivative rules are effective. The Company currently estimates that the nature and volume of swap activity will not require it to register as a swap dealer any time prior to December 2017. Although the ultimate impact of Title VII remains uncertain, we currently believe its full implementation is likely not to impose significantly higher compliance costs on the Company. 

Capital Adequacy and Prompt Corrective Action 

The Federal Reserve Board, the OCC and the FDIC have issued substantially similar risk-based and leverage capital guidelines applicable to United States banking organizations to ensure capital adequacy based upon the risk levels of assets and off-balance sheet financial instruments. In addition, these regulatory agencies may from time to time require that a banking organization maintain capital above the minimum levels, whether because of its financial condition or actual or anticipated growth. Capital adequacy guidelines and prompt corrective action regulations involve quantitative measures of assets, liabilities, and certain off-balance sheet items calculated under regulatory accounting practices. Capital amounts and classifications are also subject to qualitative judgments by regulators regarding components, risk weighting and other factors. 

Prior to January 1, 2015, the Federal Reserve Board risk-based guidelines defined a three-tier capital framework. Core capital (Tier 1) included common shareholders' equity and qualifying preferred stock, less goodwill, most intangible assets and other adjustments. Supplementary capital (Tier 2) consisted of preferred stock not qualifying as Tier 1 capital, qualifying mandatory convertible debt securities, limited amounts of subordinated debt, other qualifying term debt and allowances for credit losses, subject to limitations. Market risk capital (Tier 3) included qualifying unsecured subordinated debt. Assets and off-balance sheet exposures were assigned to one of four categories of risk-weights, based primarily upon relative credit risk. Risk-based capital ratios are calculated by dividing Tier 1 and total capital by risk-weighted assets. 

New capital rules were effective for banks and bank holding companies, including BOK Financial on January 1, 2015 as part of a package of regulatory reforms developed by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision ("BCBS") to strengthen the regulation, supervision and risk management of the banking sector, commonly referred to as the Basel III framework. Components of these rules will phase in through January 1, 2019. The new capital rules reduced instruments that qualify as regulatory capital and generally increased risk weighted assets. The new capital rules established a 7% threshold for common equity Tier 1 ratio consisting of a minimum level plus a capital conservation buffer. The rules also changed both the Tier 1 risk based capital requirements and the total risk based requirements to a minimum of 6% and 8%, respectively, plus a capital conservation buffer of 2.5% totaling 8.5% and 10.5%, respectively. The Company elected to exclude unrealized gains and losses from available for sale securities from its calculation of Tier 1 capital, consistent with the treatment under previous capital rules. 

As of December 31, 2015 , BOK Financial's common equity Tier 1 ratio was 12.13% . BOK Financial's Tier 1 and total capital were 12.13% &#32;and 13.30% , respectively. 

The leverage ratio is determined by dividing Tier 1 capital by adjusted average total assets. Banking organizations are required to maintain a ratio of at least 4%. A bank which falls below these levels, including the capital conservation buffer, would be subject to regulatory restrictions on capital distributions (including but not limited to dividends and share repurchases) and executive bonus payments. BOK Financial's leverage ratio at December 31, 2015 &#32;was 9.25% . 

The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of 1991 (the "FDICIA"), among other things, identifies five capital categories for insured depository institutions from well capitalized to critically undercapitalized and requires the respective federal regulatory agencies to implement systems for prompt corrective action for institutions failing to meet minimum capital requirements within such categories. FDICIA imposes progressively more restrictive covenants on operations, management and capital distributions, depending upon the category in which an institution is classified. The various regulatory agencies have adopted substantially similar regulations that define the five capital categories identified by FDICIA, using the total risk-based capital, Tier 1 risk-based capital and leverage capital ratios as the relevant capital measures. Such regulations establish various degrees of corrective action to be taken when an institution is considered undercapitalized. Under these guidelines, the Bank was considered well capitalized as of December 31, 2015 . 

Liquidity Requirements 

The Basel III framework also requires bank holding companies and banks to measure their liquidity against specific liquidity tests. One test, referred to as the liquidity coverage ratio, is designed to ensure that the banking entity maintains a prescribed minimum level of unencumbered high-quality liquid assets equal to expected net cash outflows as defined. The other test, referred to as the net stable funding ratio, is designed to promote greater reliance on medium and long term funding sources. 

On September 3, 2014, U.S. federal banking agencies published the final rule covering Liquidity Risk Management Standards that would standardize minimum liquidity requirements for internationally active banking organizations as defined (generally those with total consolidated assets in excess of $250 billion) as well as modified liquidity requirements for other banking organizations with total consolidated assets in excess of $50 billion that are not internationally active. Although the final rule does not apply to banking organizations with total assets less than $50 billion, including the Company, if growth in the balance sheet of the Company were to approach the $50 billion threshold, the costs of such liquidity regulations would begin to be realized. 

Stress Testing 

As required by the Dodd-Frank Act, the Federal Reserve published regulations that require bank holding companies with $10 billion to $50 billion in assets to perform annual capital stress tests. The requirements for annual capital stress test became effective for the Company in the fourth quarter of 2013. The Dodd-Frank Act Stress Test ("DFAST") is a forward-looking exercise under which the Company and its banking subsidiary estimate the impact of a hypothetical severely adverse macroeconomic scenario provided by the Federal Reserve and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency on its financial condition and regulatory capital ratios over a nine-quarter time horizon. Under the scenario provided by the regulatory agencies for the Company's most recently completed stress test, all capital ratio measures remain comfortably above the minimum regulatory thresholds. Additional information concerning the annual stress test may be found on the Company's Investor Relations page at www.bokf.com under the "Presentations" tab. The results of future capital stress tests may place constraints on capital distributions or increases in required regulatory capital under certain circumstances. 

Further discussion of regulatory capital, including regulatory capital amounts and ratios, is set forth under the heading "Liquidity and Capital" within "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and in Note 15 &#32;of the Company's Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, both of which appear elsewhere herein. 

Executive and Incentive Compensation 

Guidelines adopted by federal banking agencies prohibit excessive compensation as an unsafe and unsound practice and describe compensation as excessive when the amounts paid are unreasonable or disproportionate to the services performed by an executive officer, employee, director or principal shareholder. The Federal Reserve Board has issued comprehensive guidance on incentive compensation intended to ensure that the incentive compensation policies do not undermine safety and soundness by encouraging excessive risk taking. This guidance covers all employees that have the ability to materially affect the risk profile of an organization, either individually or as part of a group, based on key principles that (i) incentives do not encourage risk-taking beyond the organization's ability to identify and manage risk, (ii) compensation arrangements are compatible with effective internal controls and risk management, and (iii) compensation arrangements are supported by strong corporate governance, including active and effective board oversight. Deficiencies in compensation practices may affect supervisory ratings and enforcement actions may be taken if incentive compensation arrangements pose a risk to safety and soundness. 

Deposit Insurance 

Substantially all of the deposits held by the Bank are insured up to applicable limits by the Deposit Insurance Fund ("DIF") of the FDIC and are subject to deposit insurance assessments to maintain the DIF. In 2011, the FDIC released a final rule to implement provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act that affect deposit insurance assessments. Among other things, the Dodd-Frank Act raised the minimum designated reserve ratio from 1.15% to 1.35% of estimated insured deposits, removed the upper limit of the designated reserve ratio, required that the designated reserve ratio reach 1.35% by September 30, 2020, and required that the FDIC offset the effect of increasing the minimum designated reserve ratio on depository institutions with total assets of less than $10 billion. The Dodd-Frank Act provided the FDIC flexibility in implementation of the increase in the designated reserve ratio, but it will ultimately result in increased deposit insurance costs to the Company. The Dodd-Frank Act also required that the FDIC redefine the assessment base to average consolidated assets minus average tangible equity. 

Dividends 

A key source of liquidity for BOK Financial is dividends from the Bank, which is limited by various banking regulations to net profits, as defined, for the year plus retained profits for the preceding two years. Dividends are further restricted by minimum capital requirements and the Company's internal capital policy. The Bank's dividend limitations are discussed under the heading "Liquidity and Capital" within "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations". 

Source of Strength Doctrine 

According to Federal Reserve Board policy, a bank holding company is expected to act as a source of financial strength to each subsidiary bank and to commit resources to support each such subsidiary. This support may be required at times when a bank holding company may not be able to provide such support. 

Transactions with Affiliates 

The Federal Reserve Board regulates transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries. Generally, the Federal Reserve Act and Regulation W, as amended by the Dodd-Frank Act, limit the Company’s banking subsidiary and its subsidiaries, to lending and other "covered transactions" with affiliates. The aggregate amount of covered transactions a banking subsidiary or its subsidiaries may enter into with an affiliate may not exceed 10% of the capital stock and surplus of the banking subsidiary. The aggregate amount of covered transactions with all affiliates may not exceed 20% of the capital stock and surplus of the banking subsidiary. 

Covered transactions with affiliates are also subject to collateralization requirements and must be conducted on arm’s length terms. Covered transactions include (a) a loan or extension of credit by the banking subsidiary, including derivative contracts, (b) a purchase of securities issued to a banking subsidiary, (c) a purchase of assets by the banking subsidiary unless otherwise exempted by the Federal Reserve, (d) acceptance of securities issued by an affiliate to the banking subsidiary as collateral for a loan, and (e) the issuance of a guarantee, acceptance or letter of credit by the banking subsidiary on behalf of an affiliate. 

Bank Secrecy Act and USA PATRIOT Act 

The Bank Secrecy Act ("BSA") and the The USA PATRIOT Act of 2001 ("PATRIOT Act") imposes many requirements on financial institutions in the interest of national security and law enforcement. BSA requires banks to maintain records and file suspicious activity reports that are of use to law enforcement and regulators in combating money laundering and other financial crimes. The PATRIOT Act is intended to deny terrorists and criminals the ability to access the U.S. financial services system and places significantly greater requirements on financial institutions. Financial institutions, such as the Company and its subsidiaries, must have a designated BSA Officer, internal controls, independent testing and training programs commensurate with their size and risk profile. As part of its internal control program, a financial institution is expected to have effective customer due diligence and enhanced due diligence requirements for high-risk customers, as well as processes to prohibit transaction with entities subject to Office of Foreign Asset Control sanctions. Documentation and recordkeeping requirements, as well as system requirements, aimed at identifying and reporting suspicious activity reporting, must increase with the institution's size and complexity. Failure to implement or maintain adequate programs and controls to combat terrorist financing and money laundering may have serious legal, financial, and reputational consequences. 

Governmental Policies and Economic Factors 

The operations of BOK Financial and its subsidiaries are affected by legislative changes and by the policies of various regulatory authorities and, in particular, the policies of the Federal Reserve Board. The Federal Reserve Board has statutory objectives to maximize employment and maintain price stability. Among the instruments of monetary policy used by the Federal Reserve Board to implement these objectives are: open-market operations in U.S. Government securities, changes in the discount rate and federal funds rate on bank borrowings, and changes in reserve requirements on bank deposits. The effect of future changes in such policies on the business and earnings of BOK Financial and its subsidiaries is uncertain. 

In response to the significant recession in business activity which began in 2007, the Federal Reserve took aggressive actions to reduce interest rates and provide liquidity. While many of the crisis-related programs have expired or been closed, government legislation and policies continue to be accommodative, including increases in government spending, reduction of certain taxes and promotion of home affordability programs. 

The Federal Reserve completed its bond purchase program designed to reduce longer-term rates in October of 2014, although it continues to maintain an accommodative policy of reinvesting principal payments from its holdings of agency debt and agency mortgage-backed securities in agency mortgage-backed securities and to rollover maturing Treasury securities. The Federal Reserve has indicated that it will likely foster a low-interest rate environment for a considerable time, dependent on inflation and employment levels the progress. The short-term effectiveness and long-term impact of these programs on the economy in general and on BOK Financial Corporation in particular are uncertain. 

Foreign Operations 

BOK Financial does not engage in operations in foreign countries, nor does it lend to foreign governments. 

