 Item 1. 

Business 

Development of the Company 

Preferred Apartment Communities, Inc. was formed as a Maryland corporation on September 18, 2009 and has elected to be taxed as a real estate investment trust, or REIT, under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the Code, effective with its tax year ended December 31, 2011. The Company was formed primarily to acquire and operate multifamily properties in select targeted markets throughout the United States. As part of our business strategy, we may enter into forward purchase contracts or purchase options for to-be-built multifamily communities, and we may make real estate related loans, provide deposit arrangements or provide performance assurances, as may be necessary or appropriate, in connection with the construction of multifamily communities and other properties. As a secondary strategy, we may acquire or originate senior mortgage loans, subordinate loans or real estate loans secured by interests in multifamily properties, membership or partnership interests in multifamily properties and other multifamily related assets and invest not more than 20% of our total assets in other real estate related investments, such as grocery-anchored shopping centers, as determined by Preferred Apartment Advisors, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, or our Manager, as appropriate for us. We have no employees of our own; our Manager provides all managerial and administrative personnel to us pursuant to the Fifth Amended and Restated Management Agreement, effective as of January 1, 2015, among the Company, Preferred Apartment Communities Operating Partnership, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership, or our Operating Partnership, and our Manager. As referred to herein, the Fifth Amended and Restated Management Agreement, as it may be amended, is referred to as the Management Agreement. Both our Manager and our Operating Partnership are related parties to us. 

Pursuant to the Management Agreement, the disposition fee on the sale of an asset was set at 1% of the contract sales price of the asset. In addition, our Manager has no obligation to provide our board of directors with prior notice of a proposed investment transaction, but leaves intact our Manager&#8217;s obligation to notify the board of directors within 30 days following completion of an investment transaction. The Management Agreement also provides for a possible deferral of asset management fees, general and administrative expense fees, property management fees, and acquisition fees and modified the fee structure to include leasing fees for retail properties. Pursuant to the First Amendment to the Management Agreement, which was effective January 1, 2016, we modified the Management Agreement by replacing the acquisition fee owed to the Manager in connection with acquiring real property with a loan coordination fee that is payable in relation to the amount of new debt financed or outstanding debt assumed secured directly by any of our owned real estate asset or the additional amount of any supplemental financing secured directly any of our owned real estate assets. In addition, the First Amendment to the Management Agreement changes the name of the fee paid on loans originated by the Company from an "acquisition fee" to a "loan origination fee." We will amortize these fees over the life of each of the underlying loans. 

At December 31, 2015, we owned 19 multifamily communities with a total of 6,136 units in eight states and 14 grocery-anchored shopping centers with a total of approximately 1,279,000 square feet of gross leasable area in five states. We also held 23 real estate loans and bridge loans, twelve of which are real estate loans which partially finance the construction of new multifamily communities and which contain exclusive options to purchase the to-be-developed properties, six of which are real estate loans which partially finance the construction of new student housing communities and which contain exclusive options to purchase the to-be-developed properties, one is supporting a planned grocery-anchored shopping center, and four of which are bridge loans or other similar loans, which are partially or wholly financing land acquisition and predevelopment costs of or otherwise supporting planned multifamily communities, student housing projects, and one of which is a first position loan secured by an existing grocery-anchored shopping center. If we were to ultimately exercise all of our purchase options in place at December 31, 2015, the transactions would add another 4,708 multifamily units and one grocery-anchored shopping center to our portfolio. There can be no assurance that these acquisitions in fact will occur. 

We completed our initial public offering, or the IPO, on April 5, 2011. Our common stock, par value $.01 per share, or our Common Stock, is traded on the NYSE exchange under the symbol "APTS." 

Our consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and the Operating Partnership. The Company controls the Operating Partnership through its sole general partnership interest and has and plans to continue to conduct substantially all its business through the Operating Partnership. 

On November 18, 2011, the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, declared effective our registration statement on Form S-11 (File No. 333-176604), as the same was amended from time to time, or our Registration Statement, for our offering of a minimum of 2,000 and a maximum of 150,000 Units, with each Unit consisting of one share of our Series A Redeemable Preferred Stock, stated value $1,000 per share, or Preferred Stock, and one warrant, or Warrant, to purchase 20 shares of our Common Stock. The offering described above is described herein as the Primary Series A Offering and was offered by International Assets Advisory, LLC, or the Dealer Manager, on a &#8220;reasonable best efforts&#8221; basis. Our Primary Series A Offering expired on December 31, 2013 and 89,408 Units were issued and sold under the Registration Statement. 

On October 11, 2013, the SEC declared effective our registration statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-183355), as the same may be amended from time to time, or our Follow-On Series A Registration Statement, for an offering of up to an additional 900,000 Units to be offered from time to time on a &#8220;reasonable best efforts&#8221; basis. The offering under the Follow-On Series A Registration Statement is referred to herein as the Follow-On Series A Offering, and, except as described in its prospectus, the terms of the Follow-On Series A Offering are substantially similar to the terms of the Primary Series A Offering. We commenced sales for the Follow-On Series A Offering on January 1, 2014. A total of 396,774 Units were issued and sold from that date through December 31, 2015 under the Follow-On Series A Offering. 

On May 17, 2013, we filed a registration statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-188677), or our Shelf Registration Statement, which was declared effective by the SEC on July 19, 2013. The Shelf Registration Statement allows us to offer equity or debt securities in an amount of up to $200 million. 

On February 28, 2014,we filed a prospectus supplement to our Shelf Registration Statement to issue and sell up to $100 million of Common Stock from time to time in an "at the market" offering, or the ATM Offering, through MLV &#38; Co. LLC, or the Agent. Since the commencement of the ATM Offering with the first settlement in April 2014, through December 31, 2015, approximately 6.5 million shares of Common Stock were issued and sold at an average price of $8.62 per share. 

This Annual Report on Form 10-K shall not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy the securities offered by the Company pursuant to the Follow-On Series A Registration Statement or the Shelf Registration Statement, nor shall there be any offer or sale of these securities in any jurisdiction in which such offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to registration or qualification under the securities laws of any such jurisdiction. Any offerings shall be made only by means of a prospectus, as the same may be supplemented from time to time, which will become, or that is, as applicable, a part of the Follow-On Series A Registration Statement, or the Shelf Registration Statement. 

Financial Information About Segments 

We evaluate the performance of our business operations and allocate financial and other resources by assessing the financial results and outlook for future performance across three distinct segments: multifamily communities, retail, and real estate related financing. 

Our multifamily communities segment consists of our 19 owned residential multifamily communities, which contributed approximately $65.2 million, $31.2 million, and $22.4 million to our consolidated revenues for the twelve-month periods ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. 

Our retail segment consists of our 14 owned grocery-anchored shopping centers, which contributed approximately $13.4 million and $3.5 million to our consolidated revenues for the twelve-month periods ended December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. 

Our financing segment consists of our portfolio of real estate loans, bridge loans and other financial instruments which partially finance the development, construction and prestabilization carrying costs of new multifamily communities and other real estate and real estate related assets. The financing segment contributed approximately $30.7 million, $21.8 million, and $9.7 million to our consolidated revenues for the twelve-month periods ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. 

&#32;&#32;The financial measures required by Item 101 of Regulation S-K to be presented in Item 1 are included in the Company's consolidated financial statements and notes thereto in Item 15 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

&#32; 

Investment Strategy 

We seek to maximize returns for our stockholders by taking advantage of the current environment in the real estate market and the United States economy. As, and if, the real estate market and economy continue to stabilize and improve, we intend to employ efficient management techniques to grow income and create asset value. Our investment strategies may include, without limitation, the following: 

&#8226; 

Acquiring Class &#8220;A&#8221; multifamily assets in performing and stable markets throughout the United States; these properties, we believe, will generate sustainable and growing cash flow from operations sufficient to allow us to cover the dividends that we expect to declare and pay and which we believe will have the potential for capital appreciation. These multifamily assets will generally be located in metropolitan statistical areas, or MSAs, with at least one million people which we expect will generate job growth and where we believe new multifamily development of comparable properties is able to be absorbed at attractive rental rates. 

&#8226; 

Acquiring Class &#8220;A&#8221; multifamily assets dedicated to student housing at major universities around the United States. These assets will be located proximate to campus with demonstrated track records of occupancy and rental rates. The universities served by these assets should generally be larger schools with stated policies of increased enrollment and market trends that indicate new development is being or should be absorbed at attractive rental rates. 

&#8226; 

Acquiring Class &#8220;A&#8221; multifamily assets that are intended to be financed with longer-term, assumable, fixed-rate debt typically provided by FHA/HUD programs. 

&#8226; 

Acquiring Class &#8220;A&#8221; multifamily assets that present an opportunity to implement a value-add program whereby the properties can be upgraded or improved physically to better take advantage of the market. 

&#8226; 

Acquiring grocery-anchored shopping centers, subject to a limitation that such other real estate related investments may not exceed 20% of our assets. These assets are typically anchored by one of the market dominant grocers in the trade area, have a track record of strong, increasing sales/sft at the anchor store. 

&#8226; 

Originating mezzanine loans secured by interests in multifamily properties, membership or partnership interests in multifamily properties, other multifamily related assets and grocery-anchored shopping centers, not to exceed the stated cap of not more than 20% of our total assets in other real estate related investments, such as as determined by our Manager as appropriate for us. 

&#8226; 

It is our policy to acquire any of our target assets primarily for income, and only secondarily for possible capital gain. As part of our business strategy, we may enter into forward purchase contracts or purchase options for to-be-built multifamily communities and we may make mezzanine loans, provide deposit arrangements, or provide performance assurances, as may be necessary or appropriate, in connection with the construction of multifamily communities and other properties. 

&#8226; 

We also may invest in real estate related debt, including, but not limited to, newly or previously originated first mortgage loans on multifamily properties that meet our investment criteria, which are performing or non-performing, newly or previously originated mezzanine loans on multifamily properties that meet our investment criteria (second or subsequent mortgages), which are performing or non-performing, and tranches of securitized loans (pools of collateralized mortgaged-backed securities) on multifamily properties that meet our investment criteria, which are performing or non-performing. In connection with our investments in mezzanine debt, we may negotiate the inclusion of exclusive purchase options on the to-be-developed properties. These purchase options may include a fixed purchase price set at the time we enter into the loan, or a purchase price which is calculated as a certain discount from market capitalization rates at the date of exercise of such purchase option. 

Any asset acquisitions from affiliated third parties have been, and will continue to be, subject to approval by our conflicts committee comprised solely of independent directors. Our Manager's investment committee will periodically review our investment portfolio and its compliance with our investment guidelines and policies, and provide our board of directors an investment report at the end of each quarter in conjunction with its review of our quarterly results. Our investment guidelines, the assets in our portfolio, the decision to utilize leverage, and the appropriate levels of leverage are periodically reviewed by our board of directors 

as part of their oversight of our Manager. Our board of directors may amend or revise our investment guidelines without a vote of the stockholders. 

Financing Strategy 

We intend to finance the acquisition of investments using various sources of capital, as described in the section entitled &#8220;Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources&#8221; included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Included in this discussion are details regarding our Primary Series A Offering, our Follow-On Series A Offering, and our Shelf Registration Statement under which we sold Common Stock in November 2013, and our ATM Program, which commenced with the first settlement in April 2014. 

We intend to utilize leverage in making our investments. The number of different investments we will acquire will be affected by numerous factors, including the amount of funds available to us. By operating on a leveraged basis, we will have more funds available for our investments. This will allow us to make more investments than would otherwise be possible, resulting in a larger and more diversified portfolio. See the section entitled "Risk Factors" in Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for more information about the risks related to operating on a leveraged basis. 

We intend to target leverage levels (secured and unsecured) between 50% and 65% of the fair market value of our tangible assets (including our real estate assets, real estate loans, notes receivable, accounts receivable and cash and cash equivalents) on a portfolio basis. As of December 31, 2015, our outstanding debt (both secured and unsecured) was approximately 50.8% of the value of our tangible assets on a portfolio basis based on our estimates of fair market value at December 31, 2015. Neither our charter nor our by-laws contain any limitation on the amount of leverage we may use. Our investment guidelines, which can be amended by our board without stockholder approval, limit our borrowings (secured and unsecured) to 75% of the cost of our tangible assets at the time of any new borrowing. These targets, however, will not apply to individual real estate assets or investments. The amount of leverage we will place on particular investments will depend on our Manager's assessment of a variety of factors which may include the anticipated liquidity and price volatility of the assets in our investment portfolio, the potential for losses and extension risk in the portfolio, the availability and cost of financing the asset, our opinion of the creditworthiness of our financing counterparties, the health of the U.S. economy and the health of the commercial real estate market in general. In addition, factors such as our outlook on interest rates, changes in the yield curve slope, the level and volatility of interest rates and their associated credit spreads, the underlying collateral of our assets and our outlook on credit spreads relative to our outlook on interest rate and economic performance could all impact our decision and strategy for financing the target assets. At the date of acquisition of each asset, we anticipate that the investment cost for such asset will be substantially similar to its fair market value. However, subsequent events, including changes in the fair market value of our assets, could result in our exceeding these limits. Finally, we intend to acquire all our properties through separate single purpose entities and intend to finance each of these properties using debt financing techniques for that property alone, without any cross-collateralization to our other multifamily communities or any guarantees by us or our Operating Partnership. We have an Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, or Credit Facility, with Key Bank, N.A., or Key Bank. The Credit Facility provides for our $70.0 million revolving credit facility, or the Revolving Line of Credit, as well as a $45 million term loan which was repaid during 2014. On January 5, 2016, we closed on another term loan of $35 million, or Term Loan. Other than with regard to our Revolving Line of Credit, as of December 31, 2015, we held no debt at the Company or operating partnership levels, had no cross-collateralization of our real estate mortgages, and had no contingent liabilities at the Company or operating partnership levels with regard to our secured mortgage debt on our communities. 

Leverage may be obtained from a variety of sources, including the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation, or Freddie Mac; the Federal National Mortgage Association, or Fannie Mae; commercial banks; credit companies; the Federal Housing Administration, or FHA, a unit of the Department of Housing and Urban Development, or HUD; insurance companies; pension funds; endowments; financial services companies and other institutions who wish to provide debt financing for our assets. 

Our secured and unsecured aggregate borrowings are intended by us to be reasonable in relation to our net assets and will be reviewed by our board of directors at least quarterly. In determining whether our borrowings are reasonable in relation to our net assets, we expect that our board of directors will consider many factors, including the lending standards of government-sponsored enterprises, such as Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and other companies for loans in connection with the financing of multifamily properties, the leverage ratios of publicly traded and non-traded REITs with similar investment strategies, whether we have positive leverage (in that, the board of directors will compare the capitalization rates of our properties to the interest rates on the indebtedness of such properties) and general market and economic conditions. There is no limitation on the amount that we may borrow for any single investment or the number of mortgages that may be placed on any one property. 

Marketing and Branding Strategy 

Our Manager has branded, and intends to brand, all apartment communities owned by us as &#8220;A Preferred Apartment Community&#8221; which we believe signifies outstanding brand and management standards, and has obtained all rights to the trademarks, including federal registration of the trademarks with the United States Patent and Trademark Office, to secure such brand in connection with such branding. We believe these campaigns will enhance each individual property's presence in relation to other properties within that marketplace. 

On September 17, 2010, we entered into a trademark license and assignment agreement pursuant to which we granted an exclusive, worldwide, fully-paid, royalty-free license of all our trademarks to our Manager and agreed to assign all of our trademarks to our Manager upon the applications related to our trademarks being successfully converted to use based applications with the United States Patent and Trademark Office. Pursuant to this agreement, in March 2012, we assigned these trademarks to our Manager and concurrently entered into a royalty-free license agreement for these trademarks with us as licensee. Similarly, in March 2012, our Manager entered into a royalty-free license agreement with us as licensee with respect to all other intellectual property of the Manager. The license agreements will terminate automatically upon termination of the Management Agreement, or upon a material breach of a license agreement that remains uncured for more than 30 days after receipt of notice of such breach. Following such termination, we will be required to enter into a new arrangement with our Manager in order to continue our rights to use our Manager's intellectual property. There can be no assurance that we will be able to enter into such arrangements on terms acceptable to us. 

We have implemented what we believe to be an innovative and unique marketing and branding strategy at each multifamily community that we own by implementing the PAC Concierge, PAC Rewards and PAC Partners programs. We intend to implement this same marketing and branding strategy at each multifamily community we acquire. 

&#160; 

Our PAC Concierge Program is a complimentary service for residents designed to offer them the type of personal concierge services that one might expect at a high end resort. The concierge services are provided by a professionally trained third party team and is available to our residents 24/7 by telephone, email or web access through our unique resident web portal. Our PAC Rewards program, once communities are enrolled in the program, allows residents to accumulate and redeem reward points for services and upgrades. Residents may accumulate Preferred Rewards, for example, when they sign their lease, pay their rent online, renew their leases, or when a resident's referral signs a new lease. Our PAC Partners program establishes reciprocal relationships between a Preferred Apartment Community and neighborhood businesses to provide our residents with benefits such as discounts, perks and other incentives as an enticement to frequent those businesses and to support the local community. 

Environmental Regulation 

We are subject to regulation at the federal, state and municipal levels and are exposed to potential liability should our properties or actions result in damage to the environment or to other persons or properties. These conditions include the presence or growth of black mold, potential leakage of underground storage tanks, breakage or leaks from sewer lines and risks pertaining to waste or chemical solvents. We could be liable for the potential costs of compliance, property damage restoration and other costs which could occur without regard to our fault or knowledge of such conditions. 

In the course of acquiring and owning real estate assets, we engage an independent environmental consulting firm to perform a level 1 environmental assessment (and if appropriate, a level 2 assessment) to identify and mitigate these risks as part of our due diligence process. We believe these assessment reports provide a reasonable basis for discovery of potential hazardous conditions prior to acquisition. Should any potential environmental risks or conditions be discovered during our due diligence process, the potential costs of remediation will be assessed carefully and factored into the cost of acquisition, assuming the identified risks and factors are deemed to be manageable and within reason. Some risks or conditions may be identified that are significant enough to cause us to abandon the possibility of acquiring a given property. As of December 31, 2015, we have no knowledge of any material claims made or pending against us with regard to environmental damage for which we may be found liable, nor are we aware of any potential hazards to the environment related to any of our properties which could reasonably be expected to result in a material loss. 

Competition 

The multifamily housing industry is highly fragmented and we compete for residents with a large number of other quality apartment communities in our target markets which are owned by public and private companies, including other REITs, many of which are larger and have more resources than our Company. The number of competitive multifamily properties in a particular market could adversely affect our ability to lease our multifamily communities, as well as the rents we are able to charge. In 

addition, other forms of residential properties, including single family housing and town homes, provide housing alternatives to potential residents of quality apartment communities. The factors on which we focus to compete for residents in our multifamily communities include our high level of resident service, the quality of our apartment communities (including our landscaping and amenity offerings), and the desirability of our locations. Resident leases at our apartment communities are priced competitively based on levels of supply and demand within our target markets and we believe our communities offer a compelling value to prospective residents. 

Similarly, competition for tenants and acquisition of existing centers in the grocery-anchored shopping center sector in our target markets is considerable, consisting of public and private companies, high net worth individuals and family offices. In addition, a significant competitor in this sector are some of the grocery anchors themselves as they acquire land and build their own stores or acquire the entire center where they are the anchor. We are faced with the challenge of maintaining high occupancy rates with a financially stable tenant base. In order to attract quality prospective tenants and retain current tenants upon expiration of their leases, we focus on improving the design and visibility of our centers, building strong relationships with our tenants, and reducing excess operating costs and increasing tenant satisfaction through proactive asset and property management. We target acquisitions in markets with solid surrounding demographics, quality underlying real estate locations, and centers where our asset management approach can provide an environment conducive to creating sales productivity for our tenants. 

Available Information 

The Company makes available all reports which are filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after such material has been filed with, or furnished to, the SEC for viewing or download free of charge at the Company's website: www.pacapts.com. You may read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549, or you may obtain information by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains a website at http://www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy statements and information statements, and other information, which you may obtain free of charge. 

