 ITEM 1 - DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS

Company History 

The Company was originally incorporated under the laws of the State of Idaho on November 9, 1935, under the name of Montgomery Mines, Inc. In April, 1978 controlling interest in the Montgomery Mines Corporation was obtained by a group of the Thunder Mountain property holders who then changed the corporate name to Thunder Mountain Gold, Inc. with the primary goal to further develop their holdings in the Thunder Mountain Mining District, Valley County, Idaho. 

Change in Situs and Authorized Capital 

The Company moved its situs from Idaho to Nevada, but maintains its corporate offices in Garden City, Idaho. On December 10, 2007, articles of incorporation were filed with the Secretary of State in Nevada for Thunder Mountain Gold, Inc., a Nevada Corporation. The Directors of Thunder Mountain Gold, Inc. (Nevada) were the same as for Thunder Mountain Gold, Inc. (Idaho). 

On January 25, 2008, the shareholders approved the merger of Thunder Mountain Gold, Inc. (Idaho) with Thunder Mountain Gold, Inc. (Nevada), which was completed by a share for share exchange of common stock. The terms of the merger were such that the Nevada Corporation was the surviving entity. The number of authorized shares for the Nevada Corporation is 200,000,000 shares of common stock with a par value of $0.001 per share and 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock with a par value of $0.0001 per share. 

The Company is structured as follows: The Company owns 100% of the outstanding stock of Thunder Mountain Resources, Inc., a Nevada Corporation. Thunder Mountain Resources, Inc. owns 100% of the outstanding stock of South Mountain Mines, Inc., an Idaho Corporation.

We have no patents, licenses, franchises or concessions which are considered by the Company to be of importance. The business is not of a seasonal nature. Since the potential products are traded in the open market, we have no control over the competitive conditions in the industry. There is no backlog of orders.

There are numerous Federal and State laws and regulation related to environmental protection, which have direct application to mining and milling activities. The more significant of these laws deal with mined land reclamation and wastewater discharge from mines and milling operations. We do not believe that these laws and regulations as presently enacted will have a direct material adverse effect on our operations.

Subsidiary Companies 

On May 21, 2007, the Company filed Articles of Incorporation with the Secretary of State in Nevada for Thunder Mountain Resources, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Thunder Mountain Gold, Inc. The financial information for the new subsidiary is included in the consolidated financial statements.

On September 27, 2007, Thunder Mountain Resources, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Thunder Mountain Gold, Inc., completed the purchase of all the outstanding stock of South Mountain Mines, Inc., an Idaho corporation. On November 8, 2012, South Mountain Mines, Inc., (&#147;SMMI&#148;) a wholly owned subsidiary of Thunder Mountain Resources, Inc., which in turn is a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, and Idaho State Gold Company II LLC (&#147;ISGC&#148;) formed Owyhee Gold Territory LLC (&#147;OGT&#148;) (aka Owyhee Gold Trust, LLC) a limited liability company (LLC). The details of this transaction were recorded on Form 8K at the time. SMMI is the Manager and holds all of the units of ownership in this LLC. The land package at South Mountain consists of a total of approximately 1,518 acres, consisting of (i) 17 patented claims (326 acres) and 360 acres of private land; (ii) lease on private ranch land (542 acres); and, (iii) 21 unpatented lode mining claims on BLM managed land (290 acres). All holdings are located in the South Mountain Mining District, Owyhee County, Idaho.

Current Operations 

Thunder Mountain Gold is a mineral exploration stage company with no producing mines. The Company intends to remain in the business of exploring for mining properties that have the potential to produce gold, silver, base metals and other commodities. 

Reports to Security Holders 

The Registrant does not issue annual or quarterly reports to security holders other than the annual Form 10-K and quarterly Forms 10-Q as electronically filed with the SEC. Electronically filed reports may be accessed at www.sec.gov. Interested parties also may read and copy any materials filed with the SEC at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 450 Fifth Street, N. W., Washington, D.C. 20549. Information may be obtained on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1 (800) SEC-0330. 

