 Item 1. Business 

Cautionary Statement Concerning Forward-Looking Statements 

The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with our audited consolidated financial statements and related notes included in this report. This report contains &#147;forward-looking statements.&#148; The statements contained in this report that are not historic in nature, particularly those that utilize terminology such as &#147;may,&#148; &#147;will,&#148; &#147;should,&#148; &#147;expects,&#148; &#147;anticipates,&#148; &#147;estimates,&#148; &#147;believes,&#148; or &#147;plans&#148; or comparable terminology are forward-looking statements based on current expectations and assumptions.

Various risks and uncertainties could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause actual results to differ from expectations include, but are not limited to, those set forth under the section &#147;Risk Factors&#148; set forth in this report.

The forward-looking events discussed in this report, the documents to which we refer you and other statements made from time to time by us or our representatives, may not occur, and actual events and results may differ materially and are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions about us. For these statements, we claim the protection of the &#147;bespeaks caution&#148; doctrine. All forward-looking statements in this document are based on information currently available to us as of the date of this report, and we assume no obligation to update any forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause the actual results to differ materially from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements.

The Company 

Mexus Gold US is an exploration stage mining company engaged in the evaluation, acquisition, exploration and advancement of gold, silver and copper projects in the State of Sonora, Mexico. Mexus Gold US is dedicated to protect the environment, provide employment and education opportunities for the communities that it operates in.

Our President and CEO, Paul Thompson, brings over 45 years&#146; experience in mining and mining development to Mexus Gold US. Mr. Thompson is currently recruiting additional management personnel for its Mexico and Nevada mining operations.

Our executive offices are located at, 1805 N. Carson Street, #150, Carson City, Nevada 89701. Our telephone number is (916) 776 2166. 

We were originally incorporated under the laws of the State of Colorado on June 22, 1990, as U.S.A. Connection, Inc. On September 18, 2009, we changed our domicile to Nevada and changed our name to Mexus Gold US to better reflect our new business operations. Our fiscal year end is March 31 st . 

Description of the Business of Mexus Gold US 

Mexus Gold US is engaged in the evaluation, acquisition, exploration and advancement of gold exploration and development projects in the United Mexican States, as well as, the salvage of precious metals from identifiable sources. Our main activities in the near future will be comprised of our mining operations in Mexico. Our mining opportunities located in the State of Sonora, Mexico will provide us with projects to recover gold, silver, copper and other precious metals. 

In addition, our management will look for opportunities to improve the value of the gold projects that we own or may acquire knowledge of or may acquire control through exploration drilling, introduction of technological innovations or acquisition with the goal of developing those properties into operating mines. We expect that emphasis on gold project acquisition and development will continue in the future. 

Business Strategy 

Our business plan was developed with the overriding goal of maximizing shareholder value through the exploration and development of our mineral properties, utilizing the extensive mining-related background and capabilities of our management consultants and advisors. To achieve this goal, our business plan focuses on the following prospective areas: 

Mexus Gold Mining S.A. de C.V. 

Effective March 31, 2011, we acquired Mexus Gold S.A. de C.V. We began funding the operations in Mexico and have instituted a small placer processing operation to evaluate various areas of interest within the project lands.

San Felix Mine , formerly known as the Mexus-Trinidad Joint Venture 

In March, 2014, we sold our 50% interest in the Joint Venture to Atzek Mineral S.A. de C.V. Under the terms of the instrument covering the sale of our interest to Atzek Mineral S.A. de C.V., the purchaser is now considered in default. We are evaluating our options and expect to conduct such activities whereby we will secure our ownership interest.

&#160; Santa Elena Prospect , formerly known as the Caborca Project 

Our Santa Elena Prospect is comprised of early-stage exploration, including limited production operations, on the concessions. Under the terms of the concession agreement we also will acquire the associated surface. This concession is situated in the State of Sonora, Mexico. 

Elias Prospects 

The Elias Prospects, also situated in the State of Sonora, Mexico are the 370 Prospect, San Ramon Prospect, La Platosa Prospect, Edgar Prospect, Edgar II Prospect, Los Lareles Prospect, El Scorpio Prospect, and Ocho Hermanos Prospect. All of the Elias Prospects are early-stage exploration.

Cable Salvage Operation 

The Company completed the first phase of its Cable Recovery Project in Alaskan waters. The cable which was recovered was smaller diameter cable which was excellent for testing the recovery equipment and vessels. The Company evaluated the project and plans to conduct exploration activities in an attempt to identify larger cable. Presently a mapping project of the large cable is being conducted with further testing of recovering this large diameter cable scheduled soon thereafter. Should those activities identify any cable suitable for salvage operations, the Company would determine the proper title and ownership, if any, of the cable and once such title is determined act accordingly as to whether or not a recovery operation is economically feasible. 

Mergers and Acquisitions 

We will routinely review merger and acquisition opportunities. An appropriate merger and acquisition opportunity must be accretive to the overall value of Mexus Gold US. Our primary focus will be on those opportunities involving precious metal production or near-term production with a secondary focus on other resource-based opportunities. Potential acquisition targets would include private and public companies or individual properties. Although our preference would be for candidates located in the United States and Mexico. Mexus Gold US will consider opportunities located in other countries where the geopolitical risk is acceptable. 

Mining Operations 

We classify our mineral properties into three categories: &#147;Development Properties&#148;, &#147;Advanced Exploration Properties&#148;, and &#147;Other Exploration Properties&#148;. Development Properties are properties where a decision to develop the property into a producing mine has been made. Advanced Exploration Properties are those properties where we retain a significant ownership interest or joint venture and where there has been sufficient drilling and analysis to identify and report proven and probable reserves or other mineralized material. We currently do not have a Development Property or Advanced Exploration Property. Other Exploration Properties are those that do not fall into the other categories. Please see below for information about our Other Exploration Properties. 

Other Exploration Properties 

Our Other Exploration Properties consist of the following:

Mining Properties Located in Mexico 

The following properties are located in Mexico and owned by Mexus Gold S.A. de C.V., our wholly owned subsidiary:

Santa Elena Prospect formerly known as the Caborca Project 

On January 5, 2011, Mexus Gold Mining S.A. de C.V. entered into a Purchase Agreement to purchase the Santa Elena Prospect, formerly known as the Caborca Project. The Santa Elena Prospect consists of 7,400 acres (3,000 hectares) about 50 kilometers northwest of the City of Caborca, Sonora State, Mexico. The Caborca Project lies on claims filed by the owners of the Santa Elena Ranch, which controls the surface rights over the project claims. The claims lie near 112 o 25' W, 31 o 7.5&#34; N. These claims were visited near the end of January, 2011. On or about July 11, 2011, we acquired five additional claims surrounding the Santa Elena Prospect consisting of approximately 1,000 additional acres. 

We have been unable to locate geologic maps of the area from the Government Geological Survey. However, pursuant to our investigation of the project, the claims were found to be underlain by an igneous complex. The rocks observed included many types of granitic rocks, exhibiting porphyrytic textures, gneissic and equigrannular textures. Quartz was variable. At times quartz &#34;eyes&#34; were observed, that is porphyrytic quartz which many workers consider to be indicative of a porphyry environment. In other localities, no quartz was evident. When no quartz was present, the rock was equigrannular. Quartz veining was evident throughout the claim group. A mine was developed along a major quartz vein, called the Julio 2 Mine with the vein being called the Julio Vein. 

There are multiple exploration targets on the Santa Elena Prospect. The two most important are the quartz stockwork zone and the Julio vein system. The first target will be the quartz stockwork zone area. A drilling program has been conducted and a limited mining production operation is scheduled to test this area.

[Please see Exhibit 99.1]

FIGURE 1 &#150; PRELIMINARY REPORT AND FIRST STAGE MAPPING 

Ocho Hermanos &#150; Guadalupe de Ures Project 

The Guadalupe de Ures Project is accessed from Hermosillo by driving via good paved road for 60 kilometers to the town of Guadalupe de Ures and then for 15 kilometers over dirt roads to the prospects. A base camp has been established near the town of Guadalupe de Ures using mainly trailers for accommodation, workshops and kitchen facilities.

FIGURE 2 - LOCATION MAP 

The Ocho Hermanos Project (also called the Guadalupe de Ures Project) consists of the &#147;Ocho Hermanos&#148; and &#34;San Ramon&#34; claims which are covered by the Sales and Production Contract dated the 4 th day of July, 2009 between &#147;Minerales Ruta Dorado de RL de CV&#148; (seller) and &#147;Mexus Gold Mining S.A. de C.V.&#148;, a wholly owned subsidiary of Mexus Gold US (buyer). The Ocho Hermanos Claim consists of 34.9940 hectares (1 acre = 0.4047 hectares) or 86.4690 acres while the San Ramon Claim consists of 80 hectares (197.6773 acres).(Figure 4).

The term of the agreement is 5 years. During the term Mexus must pay 40% of the net revenue received for minerals produced to the seller. At the conclusion of the 5 years, the lease can be purchased for USD 50,000. The agreement has expired and the Company is currently in negotiations to extend the agreement.

Minerales Ruta Dorado de RL de CV is a duly constituted Mexican Company and as such can hold mining claims in Mexico.

FIGURE 3 - OCHO HERMANOS 

PROJECT AREA CLAIM MAP 

We did not perform any systematic sampling or any systematic drilling and because of this did not set up a formal QA/QC program. All of the samples were submitted to Certified Laboratories (ALS - Chemex in Hermosillo or American Assay in Reno, Nevada) which insert their own QA/QC samples/duplicates. Also the laboratories run duplicates and blanks from each batch fired. The sequence of events so far are the following:

We located a previously mined area with interesting values &#150; Ocho Hermanos Mexus began to submit characterization samples to the above noted assay laboratories, in order to determine the range of Au - Ag values present. Mexus then began an investigation into recovery options by using material taken from the areas with the better values.

The above work was completed before any systematic exploration was done because if no recovery method could be found relatively quickly, the project would move more slowly because of the lead time involved. Mexus began work on an Environmental Impact Statement for the likely operational area (a total of 4 hectares to begin). In order to complete the EIS, figures for estimated tonnages were submitted to cover the hoped for volume. To date, no suitable recovery method was found due primarily to the partial oxidation of the principally sulfide deposit.

The Environmental Permits run for 35 years so there is time for further investigation.

The main geologic feature of this project area is an apparent &#147;manto&#148; sulfide zone composed primarily of galena with some pyrite, arsenopyrite and possibly phyrrotite. Above this zone there is an oxide zone composed of iron and lead oxides. The sulfides themselves are partially oxidized. Reconnaissance and characterization samples taken indicated sporadically high gold and silver values. The deposit occurs in shallow water sediments (principally quartzites, with some limestone and shales) and can be best characterized as a skarn type deposit due to the presence of intrusive rocks within 1 kilometer. 

Given the complex nature of the sulfide deposit and the partial oxidization of the material (indicated by the presence of yellow colored lead oxides), a satisfactory recovery method has not yet been found. Consequently, at this time, no further systematic work beyond the initial reconnaissance and characterization sampling has been completed. The entire project was essentially put on hold until a suitable recovery method is found, which is a continuing effort and at this time is being pursued by member of the faculty at the University of Sonora in Hermosillo. The faculty member teaches metallurgy and assay practices at the University. After a suitable recovery method has been identified, the process will need to be confirmed by a certified metallurgical testing laboratory.

The Environmental Permits detail all of the affected flora and fauna. The land is presently used for cattle grazing and the surface rights are owned by the community of Guadelupe de Ures. An agreement is in place with Mexus Gold Mining S.A. de C.V. for surface access and disturbance. The Environmental Permit concludes that no permanent damage or degradation of the present land use will result from the intended activity on the lands. At present, the Environmental Permits cover a total of 4 hectares - 3 hectares cover the initial site of the mineral as presently understood and 1 hectare is permitted for the erection of a suitable extraction plant. 

No known contamination from past mining activities was found or is known to locals. The historic workings consisted of a few shallow adits and pits. In the course of obtaining the Environmental Permission the permit stipulated that properly lined ponds etc. must be used to prevent any potential surface or ground water contamination from any proposed activities. 

Only separation is proposed to be conducted on site if found to be possible, while final metal recovery will be conducted at a properly licensed and certified metal refining facility. Current efforts to find suitable recovery methods are being conducted off site in a University laboratory. Up sizing the process, if found, will be completed by a licensed, certified metallurgical laboratory.

Figures of the proposed permitted sites are attached. These were extracted from the environmental permit

Application.

FIGURE 4- MICROLOCALIZACION PROYECTO &#147;URES MINING DISTRICT&#148; 

FIGURE 5 &#150; LOCALIZACION DE AREAS DE EXTRACCION 

FIGURE 6 - PLANTA DE BENEFICIO 

AREA DE EXTRACCION 

370 Area 

This zone is composed of a sedimentary sequence (limestone, quartzite, shale) intruded by dacite and diorite as well as rhyolite. The dacite exhibits argillic alterations as well as silicification (quartz veins). The entire area is well oxidized on the surface. This is an area of classic disseminated low grade gold and silver mineralization. Surface grab sample assays show 0.14 grams per ton to as high as 29.490 grams per ton gold. This area is an important area for potentially defining an open pit heap leach project.

El Scorpion Project Area 

This area has several shear zones and veins which show copper and gold mineralization. Recent assays of an 84 &#8242; drill hole shows 1.750% per ton to .750% per ton of copper and 3.971 grams per ton to 0.072 grams per ton of gold. Another assay of rock sample from the area shows greater than 4.690% per ton copper. This land form distribution appears to be synonymous to the ideal porphyry deposit at Baja La Alumbrera, Argentina.

Los Laureles 

Los Laureles is a vein type deposit mainly gold with some silver and copper. Recent assays from grab samples show gold values of 67.730 grams per ton gold, 38.4 grams per ton silver, 2,800 grams per ton copper.

As of the date of this Report, we have opened up old workings at the Los Laureles claim and have discovered a gold carrying vein running north and south into the mountain to the south. 

Cable Salvage Operation 

The Company completed the first phase of its Cable Recovery Project in Alaskan waters. The cable which was recovered was smaller diameter cable, which was excellent for testing the recovery equipment and vessels. The Company evaluated the project and plans to conduct exploration activities in an attempt to identify larger cable. Presently, a mapping project of the large cable is being conducted with further testing of recovering this large diameter cable scheduled soon thereafter. Should those activities identify any cable suitable for salvage operations, the Company would determine the proper title and ownership, if any, of the cable and once such title is determined act accordingly as to whether or not a recovery operation is economically feasible. 

Employees 

We have no employees at this time in the United States. In Mexico we currently have seven employees carrying out administrative and security duties. Consultants with specific skills are utilized to assist with various aspects of the requirements of activities such as project evaluation, property management, due diligence, acquisition initiatives, corporate governance and property management. If we complete our planned activation of the operations of the Mexican mining properties, our total workforce will be approximately 20 persons. Mr. Paul D. Thompson is our sole officer and director.

Competition 

We compete with other mining companies in connection with the acquisition of gold properties. There is competition for the limited number of gold acquisition opportunities, some of which is with companies having substantially greater financial resources than Mexus Gold US. As a result, Mexus Gold US may have difficulty acquiring attractive gold projects at reasonable prices. 

Management of Mexus Gold US believes that no single company has sufficient market power to affect the price or supply of gold in the world market. 

Legal Proceedings 

There are no legal proceedings to which Mexus Gold US or Mexus Gold S.A. de C.V. is a party or of which any of our properties are the subject thereof.

Property Interests, Mining Claims and Risk 

Property Interests and Mining Claims 

Our exploration activities and operations in Mexico are subject to the rules and regulations of the United Mexican States. The Ministry (Secretariat) of Mining is the Federal Mexican Government ministry charged with controlling all mining matters. A concession is granted on the acceptance of an application which identifies the specific minerals to be mined and description of the exact location of the lands to be mined. The concession is subject to a semiannual tax to continue the concession in good standing. Usually, our arrangements with a concessionaire describe specific period payments to be concessionaire and a royalty on the minerals recovered from mining operations. Where prospective mineral properties are identified by the Company, some type of conveyance of the mining rights and property acquisition agreement is necessary in order for us to explore or develop such property. Generally, these agreements take the form of long term mineral leases under which we acquire the right to explore and develop the property in exchange for periodic cash payments during the exploration and development phase and a royalty, usually expressed as a percentage of gross production or net profits derived from the leased properties if and when mines on the properties are brought into production. Other forms of acquisition agreements are exploration agreements coupled with options to purchase and joint venture agreements.

Reclamation 

We may be required to mitigate long-term environmental impacts by stabilizing, contouring, re-sloping and re-vegetating various portions of a site after mining and mineral processing operations are completed. These reclamation efforts will be conducted in accordance with detailed plans, which must be reviewed and approved by the appropriate regulatory agencies. 

While the Company, as of March 31, 2016, does not have a legal obligation associated with the disposal of certain chemicals used in its leaching process, the Company estimates it will incur costs up to $50,000 to neutralize those chemicals at the close of the leaching pond.

Risk 

Our success depends on our ability to recover precious metals, process them, and successfully sell them for more than the cost of production. The success of this process depends on the market prices of metals in relation to our costs of production. We may not always be able to generate a profit on the sale of gold or other minerals because we can only maintain a level of control over our costs and have no ability to control the market prices. The total cash costs of production at any location are frequently subject to great variation from year to year as a result of a number of factors, such as the changing composition of ore grade or mineralized material production, and metallurgy and exploration activities in response to the physical shape and location of the ore body or deposit. In addition costs are affected by the price of commodities, such as fuel and electricity. Such commodities are at times subject to volatile price movements, including increases that could make production at certain operations less profitable. A material increase in production costs or a decrease in the price of gold or other minerals could adversely affect our ability to earn a profit on the sale of gold or other minerals. Our success depends on our ability to produce sufficient quantities of precious metals to recover our investment and operating costs. 

Distribution Methods of the Products 

The end product of our operations will usually be dor&#233; bars. Dor&#233; is an alloy consisting of gold, silver and other precious metals. Dor&#233; is sent to refiners to produce bullion that meets the required market standard of 99.95% pure gold. Under the terms of refining agreements we expect to execute, the dor&#233; bars are refined for a fee and our share of the refined gold, silver and other metals are credited to our account or delivered to our buyers who will then use the refined metals for fabrication or held for investment purposes. 

General Market 

The general market for gold has two principal categories, being fabrication and investment. Fabricated gold has a variety of end uses, including jewelry, electronics, dentistry, industrial and decorative uses, medals, medallions and official coins. Gold investors buy gold bullion, official coins and jewelry. The supply of gold consists of a combination of current production from mining and the draw-down of existing stocks of gold held by governments, financial institutions, industrial organizations and private individuals. 

&#160;

Patents, trademarks, licenses, franchises, concessions, royalty agreements, or labor contracts, including duration; 

We do not have any designs or equipment which is copyrighted, trademarked or patented.

Effect of existing or probable governmental regulations on the business 

Government Regulation 

Mining operations and exploration activities in Mexico are subject to the Ministry of Mining federal laws and regulations which govern prospecting, development, mining, production, exports, taxes, labor standards, occupational health, waste disposal, protection of the environment, mine safety, hazardous substances and other matters. We have obtained or have pending applications for those licenses, permits or other authorizations currently required to conduct our exploration and other programs. We believe that Mexus Gold US is in compliance in all material respects with applicable mining, health, safety and environmental statutes and the regulations passed thereunder any jurisdiction in which we will operate. We are not aware of any current orders or directions relating to Mexus Gold US with respect to the foregoing laws and regulations. 

Environmental Regulation 

&#160;

Our gold projects are subject to various Mexican federal laws and regulations governing protection of the environment. These laws are continually changing and, in general, are becoming more restrictive. It is our policy to conduct business in a way that safeguards public health and the environment. We believe that the actions and operations of Mexus Gold US will be conducted in material compliance with applicable laws and regulations. Changes to current Mexican federal laws and regulations where we operate currently, or in jurisdictions where we may operate in the future, could require additional capital expenditures and increased operating and/or reclamation costs. Although we are unable to predict what additional legislation, if any, might be proposed or enacted, additional regulatory requirements could impact the economics of our projects. 

Research and Development 

We do not foresee any immediate future research and development costs.

Costs and effects of compliance with environmental laws 

Our gold projects are subject to various federal and state laws and regulations governing protection of the environment. These laws are continually changing and, in general, are becoming more restrictive. It is our policy to conduct business in a way that safeguards public health and the environment. We believe that our operations are and will be conducted in material compliance with applicable laws and regulations. The economics of our current projects consider the costs and expenses associated with our compliance policy.

Changes to current state or federal laws and regulations in Mexico, where we operate currently, or in jurisdictions where we may operate in the future, could require additional capital expenditures and increased operating and/or reclamation costs. Although we are unable to predict what additional legislation, if any, might be proposed or enacted, additional regulatory requirements could impact the economics of our projects. 

