 Item 1. 

Business 

We are a green mining company, primarily engaged in acquiring mineral assets and applying green innovation to traditional mining methods and combining renewable energy and technology into the process. 

Overview 

We were incorporated in the State of Nevada on July 21, 2005, under the name &#147;Nava Resources, Inc.&#148; for the purpose of conducting mineral exploration activities. We were authorized to issue 400,000,000 shares of common stock, having a par value of $0.001 per share. On January 4, 2007, we obtained written consent from our shareholders to amend our Articles of Incorporation to change the par value of our common stock from $0.001 to $0.00001 per share, which change was effected on February 28, 2007. Effective July 30, 2013, we changed our name from &#147;Nava Resources, Inc.&#148; to &#147;Blox Inc.&#148;.

On February 27, 2014, we consummated an Amalgamation Agreement (the &#147; Amalgamation Agreement &#148;) with our wholly-owned subsidiary, Ourco Capital Ltd., (&#147; Ourco &#148;), International Eco Endeavors Corp. (&#147; Eco Endeavors &#148;), which was incorporated on April 28, 2011 under the laws of the Province of British Columbia, Kenderesh Endeavors Corp. (&#147; Kenderesh &#148;), and Kenderes Biogaz Termelo 

Korlatolt Fele Lossegu Tarsasag (&#147; Kenderes Biogaz &#148;), pursuant to which Ourco and Eco Endeavors amalgamated to form Blox Energy Inc. (&#147; Blox Energy &#148;), pursuant to the provisions of the Business Corporations Act &#160;(British Columbia). Blox Energy is a private company incorporated pursuant to the Business Corporations Act (British Columbia) and is engaged in the development of renewable energy projects and intends to expand into the provision of renewable energy services. Kenderes Biogaz was a wholly-owned subsidiary of Kenderesh which, in turn, was a wholly-owned subsidiary of Eco Endeavors. Kenderes Biogaz owned and operated a biogas plant located near Budapest, Hungary.

Due to uneconomic conditions brought on by political and economic forces in Hungary we deemed it necessary and in the best interest of our company to cease operations at our Kenderes Biogas Plant in Hungary, which has been moved to Africa where we will look to provide energy to mining projects. We completed the sale of our wholly-owned Hungarian subsidiary and any assets that we deemed to be uneconomical to move were sold off. 

Recent Corporate Developments 

During the year ended March 31, 2016, we dissolved our wholly-owned inactive subsidiaries, Nava Resources Canada, Inc. and Kenderesh Endeavours Corp.

By Agreement dated April 29, 2016, Waratah Capital Ltd. agreed to increase its bridge loan from C$600,000 to C$1,500,000 for our general working capital costs.

Change of Officers and Directors 

The following changes in officers and directors occurred during the year ended March 31, 2016:

&#183;

On April 14, 2015 Robert Abenate, Cedric Wilson and Robert Ironside resigned as directors of our company and all subsidiaries, and on May 1, 2015 Robert Abenate resigned as President and Chief Executive Officer and Rick Low resigned as Chief Financial Officer.

&#183;

Brigitte McArthur resigned as Corporate Secretary effective May 15, 2015.

&#183;

On July 31, 2015, Robert Spiers was appointed as a director and Chief Executive Officer, Trevor Pickett was appointed as a director and Chief Operating Officer and Donna M. Moroney was appointed as Corporate Secretary.

&#183;

On September 10, 2015, Nancy Zhao was appointed as Chief Financial Officer.

Description of Property 

We entered into a Deed of Assignment and Assumption Agreement dated July 24, 2014 (the &#34; Assumption Agreement &#34;) with Joseph Boampong Memorial Institute Ltd. (&#34; JBMIL &#34;) and Equus Mining Ltd. (&#34; EML &#34;), Burey Gold Guinee sarl (&#34; BGGs &#34;) and Burey Gold Limited (&#34; BGL &#34;) and, collectively with EML and BGGs, (the &#34; Vendors &#34;), pursuant to which we agreed to assume JBMIL's right to acquire a 78% beneficial interest in the Mansounia Concession (the &#34; Mansounia Property &#34;) from the Vendors. We also announced that we had exercised that right and acquired a 78% beneficial interest in the Mansounia Property.

The Mansounia Property lies in the southwest margin of the Siguiri Basin, in the Kouroussa Prefecture, Kankan Region, in Guinea, West Africa and covers a surface area of 145 square kilometres. The Mansounia Property is located approximately 80 kilometres west, by road, from the country's third largest city, Kankan.

An exploration permit for the Mansounia Property was granted by the Minist&#232;re des Mines et de la G&#233;ologie on August 20, 2013. As part of our due diligence, we obtained a legal opinion which confirmed that the license was in good standing at the time of acquisition. It is our intention to obtain an exploitation permit, to allow us the exclusive right to mine and dispose of minerals for 15 years, with a possible 5 year extension. 

In consideration for the acquisition of the interest in the Mansounia Property, we paid $100,000 to BGL and $40,000 to EML and on July 31, 2014, issued BGL and EML an aggregate of 6,514,350 shares of common stock of our company (the &#34; First Tranche Shares &#34;), at a deemed price of $0.1765 per share, for an aggregate deemed value of $1,150,000. The First Tranche Shares were issued to BGL and EML in the proportions of 71.43% and 28.57%, respectively. For accounting purposes, we recorded the cash payment of $150,000 plus $781,722 as the fair value of the First Tranche Shares in mineral interest. The fair value of the First Tranche Shares was based on the closing price of our shares on the OTCQB on July 24, 2014.

Within 14 days of commercial gold production being publicly declared from ore mined from the Mansounia Property, we will issue BGL and EML a second tranche of shares of common stock of our company (the &#34; Second Tranche Shares &#34;). The number of Second Tranche 

Shares to be issued shall be calculated by dividing $1,150,000 by the volume weighted average share price of our common stock over a 20 day period preceding the issuance date. The Second Tranche Shares shall be issued to BGL and EML in the proportions of 71.43% and 28.57%, respectively.

Near Surface Infill Sampling Program - Mansounia 

A near surface infill sampling campaign which focused on further defining the near surface supergene mineralization continuity resulted in further high grade results. The sampling program was in response to positive results from a desktop study and data collation and a review of the historical Preliminary Economic Assessment (PEA) completed by Spiers Geological Consultants (&#147;SGC&#148;). 

Resulting from the review and as part of the ongoing development of the project toward feasibility, SGC advised that diamond core samples associated with mineralised grades near surface within the proposed open pit areas were under-sampled and required further delineation. 

We elected to commence infill sampling to both infill absent data and to potentially extend the resource base, which is believed would further improve the project economics. 

Some significant results from the infill sampling of existing diamond core holes include; 

&#8226; 

44m at 0.68g/t Au from 4 to 48m in drill hole MDD009

&#8226; 

12m @ 0.90 g/t Au from surface in drill hole MDD013

&#8226; 

36m @ 0.52 g/t Au from 4 metres in drill hole MDD015

&#8226; 

24m @ 0.71 g/t Au from 6m in drill hole MDD017

Note: Intersections are reported as down-hole length and not true width. 

The infill sampling confirmed that the mineralisation displays continuity near surface at depths less than 50m. These early results have confirmed that the Mansounia mineralised trend extends near surface as a broad moderately continuous zone of economic mineralisation (above a 0.4 gt Au cut-off grade) which continues to provide a strong case for the development of a heap leach project.

The completion of the infill sampling will now trigger a period of independent resource review and update which will be conducted with a view to upgrading the project Mineral Resource Estimates and subsequently fast-track the project into production. 

Concurrent with the planned project feasibility analysis during 2016, other work will include geological and structural evaluations of the immediate and surrounding geological terrain, local and regional targeting and identification of potential additional mineralisation in-line with a move to an updated economic assessment. 

Ghana &#150; Pramkese, Osenase and Asamankese 

On August 20 th , 2015, we announced that the directors conducted their first visit to Ghana between the 5 th and the 15 th August, 2015. Upon arrival, the directors, which included Mr. Ronald Renne, Chairman, Mr. Robert Spiers, CEO, and Mr. Trevor Pickett, COO, visited the Birim Region where the three Ghanaian concessions are located.

The objective was to carry out a geological reconnaissance over the areas to identify potentially favourable lithologies. The directors inspected the existing field programs in Ghana and oversaw the planning and implementation of programs for the near future.

Geological and Technical Consultants 

Robert Spiers has held a number of senior Geologist and mine management positions, over the last 25 years, with companies in Australia and across the world, operating in a broad range of commodities, including gold. He has a vast degree of experience in all aspects of project valuation, resource estimation, exploration planning and management, resource development programs, construction and application of 3D geological models with utilization in the estimation and extraction of ore bodies. Mr Spiers is also a Competent Person (Qualified Person) under the JORC 2012 Code &#38; Guidelines and the NI 43-101 instrument for the reporting of Mineral Resource Estimates. 

We also intend to retain qualified persons on a contract basis as needed to assist us with our exploration activities, including the survey, exploration, excavation of any mineral property we may acquire. We do not presently have any verbal or written agreement regarding the retention of any such persons.

Competitive Conditions 

The mineral exploration business is an extremely competitive industry. We are competing with many other exploration companies looking for minerals. We are a very early stage mineral exploration company and a very small participant in the mineral exploration business. Being a junior mineral exploration company, we compete with other companies like ours for financing and joint venture partners. Additionally, we compete for resources such as professional geologists, camp staff, helicopters and mineral exploration supplies. 

Government Approvals and Recommendations 

Mining operations and exploration activities are subject to various national and local laws and regulations in West Africa, which govern prospecting, development, exploitation, production, export, taxes, labour standards, occupational health, waste disposal, protection of the environment, mine safety, hazardous substances and other matters. We intend to secure all necessary permits for the Mansounia Property.

Our activities are also subject to various federal and state/provincial laws and regulations governing protection of the environment. These laws are continually changing and, in general, are becoming more restrictive. We intend to conduct business with a view to safeguarding public health and the environment and operating in compliance with applicable laws and regulations. We will generally be required to mitigate long-term environmental impacts by stabilizing, contouring, resloping and revegetating various portions of a site after mining operations are completed. These reclamation efforts will be conducted in accordance with detailed plans, which must be reviewed and approved by the appropriate regulatory agencies. Changes to current l laws and regulations in West Africa could in the future require additional capital expenditures and increased operating and/or reclamation costs. Although we are unable to predict what additional legislation, if any, might be proposed or enacted, additional regulatory requirements could impact the economics of our projects.

Guinea&#146;s National Transition Council (CTN) amended its mining code in April 2013, in an effort to improve its investment record. The amendments brought profit taxes down to 30 percent, and cut the tax on bauxite to 0.15 percent of the international market price for aluminum. However, the new version still contains the controversial clause, which grants the government a free 15-percent stake in mining projects, as well as the option of purchasing an additional 20 percent stake. The clause is designed to encourage companies to process raw materials inside the sovereign&#146;s borders, rather than just shipping the ore out. The state&#146;s stake in the projects is said to shrink as the portion of value added inside the country&#146;s borders increases. 

Under the new mining code, an industrial exploitation or operating permit will be granted for 15 years. It can be renewed for five-year periods, provided the holder of the title complies with its obligations. Upon non-commencement of work within a year of the issuance of an exploitation permit for industrial operations, the previous monthly fine of GNF5m has been revised to GNF10m, imposed for the first three months, with a monthly increase of 10 percent of the penalty amount thereafter.

Mining convention: The granting of a mining concession and an exploitation permit must be accompanied by the mining convention. The maximum duration of a mining convention is 25 years, renewable for one or several periods of 10 years. Mining conventions are subject to an executive order and will be signed by the Minister of Mines, following the advice of the National Mining Committee and the authorization of the Council of Ministers. Mining conventions will then be submitted for the legal opinion of the Supreme Court and ratified by Parliament.

Costs and Effects of Compliance with Environmental Laws 

Although we currently have no costs to comply with environmental laws concerning our mineral property, we will have to sustain the cost of reclamation and environmental remediation for all work undertaken which causes sufficient surface disturbance to necessitate reclamation work. Both reclamation and environmental remediation refer to putting disturbed ground back as close to its original state as possible. Other potential pollution or damage must be cleaned and renewed along standard guidelines outlined in the usual permits. Reclamation is the process of bringing the land back to a natural state after completion of exploration activities. Environmental remediation refers to the physical activity of taking steps to remediate, or remedy, any environmental damage caused, i.e. refilling trenches after sampling or cleaning up fuel spills. At this time, we do not require any reclamation or remediation other than minor clean up and removal of supplies because of minimal disturbance to the ground. The amount of these costs is not known at this time as we do not know the extent of the exploration program we will undertake. Because there is presently no information on the size, tenor, or quality of any resource or reserve at this time, it is impossible to assess the impact of any capital expenditures on our earnings or competitive position in the event a potentially economic deposit is discovered.

Employees 

We currently have no employees. Our officers and directors provide consulting services to us on a part time basis. We intend to retain the services of geologists, prospectors and consultants on a contract basis to conduct the exploration programs on our mineral claims and to assist with regulatory compliance and preparation of financial statements.

