 ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

Gotham Capital Holdings, Inc. (F/K/A Creative Beauty Supply of New Jersey Corporation) (the &#147;Company&#148;) was incorporated in the state of New Jersey on October 1, 2003. It was formed pursuant to a resolution of the board of directors of Creative Beauty Supply, Inc., as a wholly-owned subsidiary of that company, a publicly traded New Jersey corporation. 

Corporate Operations

On January 1, 2004, the Company commenced operations in the beauty supply industry at both the wholesale and retail levels. On November 30, 2007, the Company&#146;s Board of Directors approved a plan to dispose of its wholesale and retail beauty supply business. As of January 1, 2009, the Company has had no operations and is a shell company. 

The Company&#146;s business plan is to attempt to identify and negotiate with a business target for the merger of that entity with and into the Company. In certain instances, a target company may wish to become a subsidiary of the Company or may wish to contribute or sell assets to the Company rather than to merge. No assurances can be given that the Company will be successful in identifying or negotiating with any target company. The Company seeks to provide a method for a foreign or domestic private company to become a reporting or public company whose securities are qualified for trading in the United States secondary markets.

A business combination with a target company normally will involve the transfer to the target company of the majority of the issued and outstanding common stock of the Company, and the substitution by the target company of its own management and board of directors. No assurances can be given that the Company will be able to enter into a business combination, or, if the Company does enter into such a business combination, no assurances can be given as to the terms of a business combination, or as to the nature of the target company.

The current and proposed business activities described herein classify the Company as a blank check company. The Securities and Exchange Commission and many states have enacted statutes, rules and regulations limiting the sale of securities of blank check companies. Management does not intend to undertake any efforts to cause a market to develop in the Company&#146;s securities until such time as the Company has successfully implemented its business plan described herein.

In 2015, the Board of Directors of the Company adopted resolutions to amend their Articles of Incorporation to increase the authorized shares to 200,000,000, to amend Articles of Incorporation to change the Company&#146;s name to Gotham Capital Holdings, Inc., and to authorize a 1-for-2 reverse split of all outstanding common shares. The corporation actions became effective as of May 18, 2015. 

On April 1, 2015, the Company entered into a Securities Purchase Agreement with Gotham Capital, Inc. and certain Gotham Capital, Inc. shareholders which will result in a change of control of the Company upon execution of the agreement. After the change of control, the Company will pursue new lines of business.

