 Item 1. BUSINESS 

Overview 

Synta Pharmaceuticals Corp. is a company that has been historically focused on research, development and commercialization of novel oncology medicines that have the potential to change the lives of cancer patients. In October 2015, we announced the decision to terminate for futility the Phase 3 GALAXY-2 trial of our novel heat shock protein 90 (Hsp90) inhibitor, ganetespib, and docetaxel in the second-line treatment of patients with advanced non-small cell lung adenocarcinoma. Based on the review of a pre-planned interim analysis, the study's Independent Data Monitoring Committee (IDMC) concluded that the addition of ganetespib to docetaxel was unlikely to demonstrate a statistically significant improvement in overall survival, the primary endpoint of the study, compared to docetaxel alone. 

We have also been evaluating several candidates from our proprietary Hsp90 inhibitor Drug Conjugate, or HDC, program, which leverages the preferential accumulation of Hsp90 inhibitors in tumors to selectively deliver a wide array of anti-cancer payloads. We are currently conducting preclinical studies for our first clinical candidate from the HDC program, STA-12-8666, in anticipation of potentially submitting an investigational new drug application, or IND, for STA-12-8666. While we have determined not to pursue an IND submission for STA-12-8666 in the immediate future, we may determine to do so at a later date. 

Following termination of the GALAXY-2 trial in October 2015, we initiated a comprehensive review of our strategy. In November 2015, we committed to a restructuring that consisted primarily of a workforce reduction to better align our workforce to our revised operating plans, which included support of key ongoing ganetespib investigator-sponsored studies and continued effort on the development of candidates from the HDC program, in particular STA-12-8666. As announced in March 2016, in order to conserve cash while we continue to evaluate strategic alternatives to maximize value for stockholders, we committed to a further restructuring in February 2016 that consisted primarily of a workforce reduction of 23 positions, including 19 research and development positions, to a total of 10 remaining positions. In connection with this restructuring, we discontinued a substantial portion of our research and development activities. 

We continue to conduct limited activities with respect to ganetespib and the drug candidates from the HDC program, including STA-12-8666. With the exception of ongoing clinical trials in ovarian cancer and sarcoma, we have undertaken efforts to wind down existing ganetespib investigator-sponsored clinical trials. We no longer anticipate expending material resources on any of our current drug candidates. 

As previously announced in our Current Report on Form 8-K filed on March 1, 2016, reporting the restructuring of our workforce, we have been considering potential strategic alternatives to enhance stockholder value. Such strategic alternatives include, but are not limited to, a sale of the company, a business combination or collaboration, joint development and partnership opportunities, a distribution of all or a significant amount of cash to stockholders, and liquidation of the company. We do not know if we will be successful in pursuing any strategic alternative or that any transaction will occur; however, we are committed to pursuing a strategic direction that our Board of Directors believes is in the best interests of our stockholders. 

We currently do not have any drugs that are commercially available and none of our drug candidates have obtained the approval of the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, or any similar foreign regulatory authority. 

Our Oncology Drug Candidates 

We have a clinical-stage drug candidate in oncology (ganetespib) and a novel, proprietary small molecule cancer drug development program (the HDC program). 

Ganetespib (Hsp90 Inhibitor) 

Summary 

Ganetespib is a novel, potent, small molecule inhibitor of Hsp90, a molecular chaperone which is required for the proper folding and activation of many cancer-promoting proteins. Inhibition of Hsp90 by ganetespib leads to the simultaneous degradation of many of these client proteins and the subsequent death or cell cycle arrest of cancer cells dependent on those proteins. A number of Hsp90 client proteins are also involved in the resistance of cancer cells to other anti-cancer treatments, such as chemotherapy. The ability to reduce cancer-cell drug resistance suggests that the combination of ganetespib with chemotherapies or other anti-cancer agents may provide greater benefit than those agents administered alone. In preclinical studies, ganetespib has shown potent anti-cancer activity against a broad range of solid and hematologic cancers, both as a monotherapy and in combination with a variety of anti-cancer treatment approaches including chemotherapy, radiation, targeted therapy and immunotherapy. 

Ganetespib Mechanism of Action 

Hsp90 is required for the structural and functional maturation of numerous client proteins, many of which play critical roles in cell growth, differentiation and survival. Preclinical results have shown that ganetespib is a selective inhibitor of Hsp90. Relative to their normal counterparts, cancer cells are more reliant on the active Hsp90 complex. Recent published work has shown that cancer cells overexpress a modified form of Hsp90 that preferentially binds Hsp90 inhibitors. This preferential binding provides a possible explanation for the observed anticancer activity and lack of severe toxicity of Hsp90 inhibitors. 

Ongoing Ganetespib Clinical Trials 

We plan to continue to support the clinical trials in ovarian cancer and sarcoma described below by providing ganetespib drug supply and required safety and regulatory oversight until each of these respective studies conclude. We are also currently conducting limited preclinical activities with ganetespib. 

GANNET53 Trial&#151;Ganetespib in ovarian cancer 

GANNET53, a Seventh Framework Programme (FP7) research project funded by the European Commission, is a pan-European randomized trial designed to evaluate the combination of ganetespib and paclitaxel vs. paclitaxel alone in over 200 patients with metastatic, predominantly p53 mutant, platinum-resistant ovarian cancer. Preclinical models have shown that mutant p53 is critical to the growth and proliferation of these cancers. Many mutations render p53 unable to fold appropriately, leaving the protein highly dependent on Hsp90 for stability. Inhibition of Hsp90 destroys the complex between Hsp90 and mutant p53, leading to the degradation of the protein and cancer cell death. We believe this hypothesized mechanism is further supported by results detailed in a July 2015 Nature publication, Improving survival by exploiting tumor dependence on stabilized mutant p53 for treatment , by E.M. Alexandrova, et al. Mice harboring mutant p53 treated with ganetespib had prolonged survival as compared to treated p53 null mice, and this activity is correlated with degradation of mutant p53 and tumor apoptosis. In the aggregate, we believe these data suggest the potential of mutated p53 to serve as a predictive biomarker for Hsp90 inhibitors such as ganetespib. 

Hsp90 inhibition has also been shown to sensitize mutant p53 cancer cells to treatment with chemotherapies, as has been seen in preclinical studies evaluating ganetespib in other tumor types, supporting the planned trial design evaluating the combination of ganetespib and paclitaxel vs. paclitaxel alone. 

Enrollment of the safety lead-in Phase 1 portion of GANNET53 in centers in Austria, Belgium, France, and Germany began in July 2014 and is now complete. Initial results from the Phase 1 portion were presented in June 2015 at the American Society of Clinical Oncology (ASCO) Annual Meeting, and these results demonstrated the feasibility and tolerability of combining ganetespib and paclitaxel in this treatment setting. In June 2015, we announced that the first patient was enrolled into the randomized Phase 2 portion of the trial. 

We expect that enrollment in the Phase 2 portion of this trial will continue and be completed in 2017; however, as GANNET53 is an investigator-sponsored trial, we do not ultimately control the enrollment timeline for the study. 

SARC 023&#151;Ganetespib in Sarcoma 

SARC 023, a clinical trial sponsored by the Sarcoma Alliance for Research through Collaboration (SARC), is an open label Phase 1/2 clinical trial of ganetespib in combination with the mTOR inhibitor sirolimus in patients with refractory sarcoma, including malignant peripheral nerve sheath tumors (MPNSTs). The Pediatric Subcommittee of the Oncologic Drugs Advisory Committee (ODAC) reviewed the design of SARC 023, as well as pre-clinical data demonstrating the scientific rationale for studying this combination in a clinical trial. The Phase 1 portion of the clinical trial, which is currently ongoing, is designed to assess the safety, tolerability, and maximum tolerated/recommended dose of the combination. 

We expect completion of enrollment in the Phase 1 portion of this clinical trial to occur in 2017; however, as SARC 023 is an investigator-sponsored trial, we do not ultimately control the enrollment timeline for the study. 

Other Ganetespib Clinical Trials 

In light of the termination of the GALAXY-2 trial in October 2015, we have elected to no longer support investigator-sponsored clinical trials, other than GANNET53 and SARC 023, with the exception of ensuring drug supply of ganetespib to currently enrolled patients deemed to be receiving medical benefit and providing required safety and regulatory monitoring. Our expectation is that no additional patients will be enrolled on ganetespib containing treatment arms of clinical studies other than the ovarian cancer and sarcoma trials described above. Our intent is to wind down the ganetespib containing arms in all other remaining investigator-sponsored trials by mid-2016. 

Included in these studies are the AML-LI (Less Intensive)-1 and AML-18 trials evaluating ganetespib in acute myeloid leukemia (AML) and myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS), and the I-SPY 2 TRIAL ( I nvestigation of S erial Studies to P redict Y our T herapeutic R esponse with I maging A nd mo L ecular Analysis 2) evaluating ganetespib in women with newly diagnosed, locally advanced breast cancer. 

HDC Program 

In September 2013, we announced the launch of a novel, proprietary small molecule cancer drug development program: the HDC program. 

The HDC program is based on the observation that small molecule inhibitors of Hsp90 are retained in tumors for as much as 20 times longer than in blood or normal tissue. Preclinical experiments have shown that following intravenous administration in animals, ganetespib can persist in 

tumor cells for over a week, while it is cleared from blood and normal tissues in a matter of hours. Similar results demonstrating this characteristic have been published by others using first-generation Hsp90 inhibitors such as 17-AAG and its derivatives, as well as other classes of Hsp90 inhibitors. 

HDCs are drug candidates consisting of an Hsp90 inhibitor (targeting moiety) joined to an anti-cancer agent (payload) via a cleavable chemical linker optimized for controlled release of payload drug inside cancer cells. HDCs are small molecules that do not rely on cell surface antigens for targeting and internalization for cellular uptake. Upon cell entry, typically via small molecule uptake (passive diffusion and possibly active transport), HDCs can bind intracellular Hsp90 that is present in significant amounts in a wide range of cancers. 

Upon systemic administration HDCs have the potential to achieve significantly higher concentrations of active anticancer drugs (payloads) in tumors than the concentrations achieved when such anticancer drugs are given in their original, unconjugated form. It is important to note that such high concentrations are sustained over prolonged periods of time, thus significantly increasing the exposure of tumors to the anticancer drug relative to the exposure that can be achieved when such anticancer drugs are given in their original, unconjugated form. 

In October 2013, we announced the publication of the first key patent application covering our proprietary HDC technology, which includes composition of matter claims covering HDC compounds, methods for identifying therapeutically effective compounds, and methods of use against a wide range of diseases and conditions. Any resulting patent, if issued, would expire no earlier than 2034. 

Our lead drug candidate from our HDC program is STA-12-8666, a conjugate of an Hsp90 inhibitor bound to SN-38, the highly potent active metabolite of the widely used chemotherapy irinotecan. We are currently conducting preclinical studies for STA-12-8666 in anticipation of potentially submitting an IND for STA-12-8666. As part of our strategic direction and in light of recent corporate developments, however, we have determined not to pursue an IND submission for STA-12-8666 at this time. We may, depending on a variety of corporate factors, determine to revisit our strategic direction and make such a submission in the future. 

Other Programs 

Elesclomol (Mitochondria-Targeting Agent) 

In January 2016, we entered into an asset purchase agreement with a third party to further develop our drug candidate, elesclomol. We will no longer be performing research activities on this drug candidate and, as part of the arrangement, we will receive a minority interest and Board representation in the third party, payments based on achievement of certain development milestones and product royalties upon commercialization. 

CRACM Ion Channel Inhibitors 

In May 2014, we entered into a license arrangement for our CRACM program, including two lead candidates and the associated intellectual property portfolio, with PRCL Research Inc. (PRCL), a company funded by TVM Life Science Venture VII and the Fonds de Solidarit&#233; des Travailleurs du Qu&#233;bec, based in Montreal, Canada. PRCL's plans were to develop one of the two lead candidates licensed from us to proof-of-concept. We have recently been informed that PRCL has selected one of these candidates to move forward into IND enabling studies. 

We hold a minority interest in PRCL and a seat on PRCL's Board of Directors. We are not required to provide any research funding or capital contributions to PRCL, and we are not required to perform any research activities related to these candidates. We are reimbursed by PRCL for intellectual property management costs in connection with the contributed intellectual property. If and when proof-of-concept is reached with either drug candidate, Eli Lilly and Company, which is an investor in TVM, will help manage the development program through one of its divisions and will have an option to acquire PRCL or its assets at the then fair value. 

Manufacturing and Supply 

We have historically relied on contract manufacturers to produce drug substances and drug products required for our clinical trials under current good manufacturing practices, or cGMP, with oversight by internal managers. We continue to provide limited ganetespib drug supply for the clinical trials in ovarian cancer and sarcoma described above. See "&#151;Ongoing Ganetespib Clinical Trials." 

Competition 

The development and commercialization of new drugs is highly competitive. We will face competition with respect to all drug candidates we may develop or commercialize in the future from pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies worldwide. The key competitive factors affecting the success of any approved product will be its efficacy, safety profile, price, method of administration and level of promotional activity. The efficacy and safety profile of our drug candidates relative to competitors will depend upon the results of our clinical trials and experience with the approved product in the commercial marketplace. For risks associated with competition, see "Risks Related to Our Industry&#151;Our market is subject to intense competition. If we are unable to compete effectively, our drug candidates may be rendered noncompetitive or obsolete" under "Risk Factors" below in Part I, Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Patents and Proprietary Rights 

Our success depends in part on our ability to obtain and maintain proprietary protection for our drug candidates, technology, and know-how, to operate without infringing on the proprietary rights of others, and to prevent others from infringing our proprietary rights. Our policy is to seek to protect our proprietary position by, among other methods, filing U.S. and foreign patent applications related to our proprietary technology, inventions, and improvements that are important to the development of our business. We also rely on trade secrets, know-how, continuing technological innovation, and in-licensing opportunities to develop and maintain our proprietary position. 

As of February 29, 2016, our complete patent portfolio had a total of 631 patents and patent applications filed worldwide, including specific patent filings with claims to the composition-of-matter of, and methods of use for, ganetespib and STA-12-8666. We own a total of 73 issued U.S. patents and 369 foreign patents. 

Our Hsp90 inhibitor patent portfolio includes 544 domestic and international patents and patent applications. This portfolio covers ganetespib and structurally related analogs, pharmaceutical compositions comprising these compounds, and methods for treating different cancer types. Any U.S. or foreign patent that issues covering ganetespib will expire no earlier than 2025. The U.S. composition of matter patent claiming ganetespib will expire in 2027. We have also filed numerous U.S. and foreign patent applications covering our proprietary HDC program, including composition of matter claims for hundreds of compounds synthesized by us to date, methods for identifying therapeutically effective compounds, and methods of use against a wide range of diseases and conditions. Any resulting patent from our HDC program portfolio will expire no earlier than 2034. 

Government Regulation 

Government authorities in the United States, at the federal, state and local level, and other countries extensively regulate, among other things, the research, development, testing, manufacture, labeling, packaging, promotion, storage, advertising, distribution, marketing and export and import of products such as those we are developing. Our drug candidates must be approved by the FDA through the new drug application, or NDA, process before they may be legally marketed in the United States. 

United States Government Regulation 

NDA Approval Processes 

In the United States, the FDA regulates drugs under the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, or the FDCA, and implementing regulations. Failure to comply with the applicable U.S. requirements at any time during the product development process, approval process or after approval, may subject an applicant to administrative or judicial sanctions. These sanctions could include: 

&#149; refusal to approve pending applications; &#149; withdrawal of an approval; &#149; imposition of a clinical hold; &#149; warning letters; &#149; product seizures; &#149; total or partial suspension of production or distribution; or &#149; injunctions, fines, civil penalties or criminal prosecution. Any agency regulatory or judicial enforcement action could have a material adverse effect on us. The process of obtaining regulatory approvals and the subsequent substantial compliance with appropriate federal, state, local, and foreign statutes and regulations require the expenditure of substantial time and financial resources. 

The process required by the FDA before a drug may be marketed in the United States generally involves the following: 

&#149; completion of preclinical laboratory tests, formulation studies, animal studies conducted according to Good Laboratory Practices, or GLPs, or other applicable regulations; &#149; submission of an IND, which must become effective before human clinical trials may begin; &#149; performance of adequate and well-controlled human clinical trials according to Good Clinical Practices, or GCPs, to establish the safety and efficacy of the proposed drug for its intended use; &#149; submission to the FDA of an NDA; &#149; satisfactory completion of an FDA inspection of the manufacturing facility or facilities at which the product candidate is produced to assess compliance with current Good Manufacturing Practices, or cGMPs, and to assure that the facilities, methods and controls are adequate to preserve the drugs identity, strength, quality and purity; and &#149; FDA review and approval of the NDA. Once a pharmaceutical candidate is identified for development, it enters the preclinical or nonclinical testing stage. Preclinical tests include laboratory evaluations of product chemistry, toxicity and formulation, as well as animal studies. An IND sponsor must submit the results of the preclinical tests, together with manufacturing information and analytical data, to the FDA as part of the IND. Some nonclinical testing may continue even after the IND is submitted. In addition to including the results of the preclinical studies, the IND will also include a protocol detailing, among other things, the objectives of the clinical trial, the parameters to be used in monitoring safety and the effectiveness criteria to be evaluated if the first phase lends itself to an efficacy determination. The IND automatically becomes effective 30 days after receipt by the FDA, unless the FDA, within the 30-day time period, specifically places the IND on clinical hold. In such a case, the IND sponsor and the FDA must resolve any outstanding concerns before clinical trials can begin. A clinical hold may occur at any 

time during the life of an IND, and may affect one or more specific studies or all studies conducted under the IND. 

All clinical trials must be conducted under the supervision of one or more qualified investigators in accordance with GCPs. They must be conducted under protocols detailing the objectives of the trial, dosing procedures, research subject selection and exclusion criteria and the safety and effectiveness criteria to be evaluated. Each protocol must be submitted to the FDA as part of the IND, and progress reports detailing the status of the clinical trials must be submitted to the FDA annually. Sponsors also must timely report to FDA serious and unexpected adverse reactions, any clinically important increase in the rate of a serious suspected adverse reaction over that listed in the protocol or investigation brochure, or any findings from other studies or animal or in vitro testing that suggest a significant risk in humans exposed to the drug. An institutional review board, or IRB, at each institution participating in the clinical trial must review and approve the protocol before a clinical trial commences at that institution and must also approve the information regarding the trial and the consent form that must be provided to each research subject or the subject's legal representative, monitor the study until completed and otherwise comply with IRB regulations. 

Human clinical trials are typically conducted in three sequential phases that may overlap or be combined: 

&#149; Phase 1. The drug is initially introduced into healthy human subjects or patients with the disease and tested for safety, dosage tolerance, pharmacokinetics, pharmacodynamics, absorption, distribution metabolism, and elimination. In the case of some products for severe or life-threatening diseases, especially when the product may be inherently too toxic to ethically administer to healthy volunteers, the initial human testing is often conducted in patients. &#149; Phase 2. Clinical trials are initiated in a limited patient population to identify possible adverse effects and safety risks, to preliminarily evaluate the efficacy of the product for specific targeted diseases and to determine dosage tolerance and optimal dosage. &#149; Phase 3. Clinical trials are undertaken to further evaluate dosage, clinical efficacy and safety in an expanded patient population at geographically dispersed clinical study sites. These studies are intended to establish the overall risk-benefit ratio of the product and provide an adequate basis for product labeling. Phase 1, Phase 2, and Phase 3 testing may not be completed successfully within any specified period, if at all. The FDA or the sponsor may suspend a clinical trial at any time for a variety of reasons, including a finding that the research subjects or patients are being exposed to an unacceptable health risk. In addition, an IRB can suspend or terminate approval of a clinical trial at its institution if the clinical trial is not being conducted in accordance with the IRB's requirements, in accordance with the clinical protocol, or if the drug has been associated with unexpected serious harm to patients. 

During the development of a new drug, sponsors are given an opportunity to meet with the FDA at certain points. These points are: prior to submission of an IND, at the end of Phase 1 or Phase 2, and before an NDA is submitted. Meetings at other times may be requested. These meetings can provide an opportunity for the sponsor to share information about the data gathered to date, for the FDA to provide advice, and for the sponsor and FDA to reach agreement on the next phase of development. Sponsors typically use the end of Phase 2 meeting to discuss their Phase 2 clinical results and present their plans for the pivotal Phase 3 clinical trial that they believe will support approval of the new drug. If a Phase 3 clinical trial is the subject of discussion at an end of Phase 2 meeting with the FDA, a sponsor may be able to request a Special Protocol Assessment, the purpose of which is to reach agreement with the FDA on the design of the Phase 3 clinical trial protocol design and analysis that will form the primary basis of an efficacy claim. If such an agreement is reached, it will be documented and made part of the administrative record, and it will be binding on the FDA unless 

public health concerns unrecognized at the time of protocol assessment are evident, and may not be changed except under a few specific circumstances. 

According to published guidance on the SPA process, a sponsor that meets the prerequisites may make a specific request for a SPA and provide information regarding the design and size of the proposed clinical trial. The FDA is supposed to evaluate the protocol within 45 days of the request to assess whether the proposed trial is adequate, and that evaluation may result in discussions and a request for additional information. A SPA request must be made before the proposed trial begins, and all open issues must be resolved before the trial begins. 

On occasion, the FDA may suggest or the sponsor of a clinical trial may decide to use an independent data monitoring committee, or DMC, to provide advice regarding the continuing safety of trial subjects and the continuing validity and scientific merit of a trial. In 2006, the FDA published a final Guidance for Clinical Trial Sponsors on the Establishment and Operations of Clinical Trial Data Monitoring Committees in which it describes the types of situations in which the use of a DMC is appropriate and suggests how a DMC should be established and operated. DMCs evaluate data that may not be available to the sponsor during the course of the study to perform interim monitoring of clinical trials for safety and/or effectiveness and consider the impact of external information on the trial. They often make recommendations to the sponsor regarding the future conduct of the trial. 

Concurrent with clinical trials, companies usually complete additional animal safety studies and must also develop additional information about the chemistry and physical characteristics of the drug and finalize a process for manufacturing the product in accordance with cGMP requirements. The manufacturing process must be capable of consistently producing quality batches of the drug candidate and the manufacturer must develop methods for testing the quality, purity and potency of the final drugs. Additionally, appropriate packaging must be selected and tested and stability studies must be conducted to demonstrate that the drug candidate does not undergo unacceptable deterioration over its shelf-life. 

The results of product development, preclinical studies and clinical trials, along with descriptions of the manufacturing process, analytical tests conducted on the chemistry of the drug, results of chemical studies and other relevant information are submitted to the FDA as part of an NDA requesting approval to market the product. The submission of an NDA is subject to the payment of user fees, but a waiver of such fees may be obtained under specified circumstances. The FDA reviews all NDAs submitted to ensure that they are sufficiently complete for substantive review before it accepts them for filing. It may request additional information rather than accept a NDA for filing. In this event, the NDA must be resubmitted with the additional information. The resubmitted application also is subject to review before the FDA accepts it for filing. 

Once the NDA is accepted for filing, the FDA begins an in-depth review. NDAs receive either standard or priority review. A drug representing a significant improvement in treatment, prevention or diagnosis of disease may receive priority review. The FDA may refuse to approve an NDA if the applicable regulatory criteria are not satisfied or may require additional clinical or other data. Even if such data are submitted, the FDA may ultimately decide that the NDA does not satisfy the criteria for approval. The FDA reviews an NDA to determine, among other things, whether a product is safe and effective for its intended use and whether its manufacturing is cGMP-compliant to assure and preserve the product's identity, strength, quality and purity. The FDA may refer the NDA to an advisory committee for review and recommendation as to whether the application should be approved and under what conditions. The FDA is not bound by the recommendation of an advisory committee, but it generally follows such recommendations. Before approving an NDA, the FDA will inspect the facility or facilities where the product is manufactured and tested. 

The FDA may require, as a condition of approval, restricted distribution and use, enhanced labeling, special packaging or labeling, expedited reporting of certain adverse events, pre-approval of 

promotional materials, restrictions on direct-to-consumer advertising or commitments to conduct additional research post-approval. The FDA will issue a complete response letter if the agency decides not to approve the NDA in its present form. The complete response letter usually describes all of the specific deficiencies in the NDA identified by the FDA. If a complete response letter is issued, the applicant may either resubmit the NDA, addressing all of the deficiencies identified in the letter, or withdraw the application. 

Satisfaction of FDA requirements or similar requirements of foreign regulatory authorities can take a considerable amount of time and the actual time required may vary substantially, based upon, among other things, the indication and the type, complexity and novelty of the product. Government regulation may delay or prevent marketing of potential products for a considerable period of time and impose costly requirements upon us. Success in early stage clinical trials does not assure success in later stage clinical trials. Data obtained from clinical activities are not always conclusive and may be susceptible to varying interpretations, which could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. The FDA may not grant approval on a timely basis, or at all. Even if a product receives regulatory approval, the approval may be significantly limited to specific diseases and dosages or the indications for use may otherwise be limited, which could restrict the commercial application of the product. Further, even after regulatory approval is obtained, later discovery of previously unknown problems with a product may result in restrictions on the product or even complete withdrawal of the product from the market. Delays in obtaining, or failures to obtain, regulatory approvals for any drug candidate could substantially harm our business and cause our stock price to drop significantly. In addition, we cannot predict what adverse governmental regulations may arise from future U.S. or foreign governmental action. 

Foreign Regulation 

In addition to regulations in the United States, we will be subject to a variety of foreign regulations governing clinical trials and commercial sales and distribution of our products. Whether or not we obtain FDA approval for a product, we must obtain approval by the comparable regulatory authorities of foreign countries before we can commence clinical trials or marketing of the product in those countries. The approval process varies from country to country and the time may be longer or shorter than that required for FDA approval. The requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials, product licensing, pricing and reimbursement vary greatly from country to country. 

Under European Union regulatory systems, a company may submit marketing authorization applications either under a centralized or decentralized procedure. The centralized procedure, which is compulsory for medicines produced by biotechnology or those medicines intended to treat AIDS, cancer, neurodegenerative disorders, or diabetes and optional for those medicines which are highly innovative, provides for the grant of a single marketing authorization that is valid for all European Union member states. The decentralized procedure provides for approval by one or more "concerned" member states based on an assessment of an application performed by one member state, known as the "reference" member state. Under the decentralized approval procedure, an applicant submits an application, or dossier, and related materials to the reference member state and concerned member states. The reference member state prepares a draft assessment and drafts of the related materials within 120 days after receipt of a valid application. Within 90 days of receiving the reference member state's assessment report, each concerned member state must decide whether to approve the assessment report and related materials. If a member state does not recognize the marketing authorization, the disputed points are eventually referred to the European Commission, whose decision is binding on all member states. 

As in the United States, we may apply for designation of a product as an orphan drug for the treatment of a specific indication in the European Union before the application for marketing authorization is made. Orphan drugs in Europe enjoy economic and marketing benefits, including up to 

10 years of market exclusivity for the approved indication unless another applicant can show that its product is safer, more effective or otherwise clinically superior to the orphan-designated product. 

Employees 

As of the date of this filing, we have 10 full-time employees, principally in general and administrative functions. Our employees are not represented by any collective bargaining agreement. 

Company History and Available Information 

Our principal executive offices are located at 45 Hartwell Avenue, Lexington, Massachusetts 02421, and our telephone number is (781) 274-8200. Our website address is www.syntapharma.com . The information contained on our website is not incorporated by reference into, and does not form any part of, this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We have included our website address as a factual reference and do not intend it to be an active link to our website. Our trademarks include Synta Pharmaceuticals, our corporate logo and the GALAXY trial. Other service marks, trademarks and trade names appearing in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are the property of their respective owners. Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to those reports, are available free of charge through the Investors section of our website as soon as reasonably practicable after such materials have been electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC. You may also read and copy any document we file at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. Please call 1-800-SEC-0330 for further information on the operation of the Public Reference Room. 

