 ITEM 1. 

BUSINESS 

Overview 

We are a leading online provider of automotive aftermarket parts and repair information. Our vision is that vehicle repairs and upgrades are easy and affordable. Our mission is to provide an exceptionally easy experience for our customers. Our mantra is "make it easy for our customers." Our five core values are: customer focus, teamwork, integrity, quality, and continuous improvement. 

We operate under two reportable operating segments. The criteria we use to identify operating segments are primarily the nature of the products we sell or services we provide and the consolidated operating results that are regularly reviewed by our chief operating decision maker to assess performance and make operating decisions. The two reportable operating segments we identified are the core auto parts business (&#8220;Base USAP&#8221;) and an online automotive repair information source of which we are a majority stockholder (&#8220;AutoMD&#8221;). 

We principally sell our products, identified as stock keeping units (&#8220;SKUs&#8221;), to individual consumers through our network of websites and online marketplaces. Our user-friendly websites provide customers with a comprehensive selection of over 1.0 million SKUs with detailed product descriptions, attributes and photographs. We have developed a proprietary product database that maps our SKUs to product applications based on vehicle makes, models and years. 

Our online sales channel and relationships with suppliers enable us to eliminate intermediaries in the traditional auto parts supply chain and to offer a broader selection of SKUs than can easily be offered by offline competition. 

We were incorporated in California in 1995 as a distributor of aftermarket auto parts and launched our first website in 2000. We reincorporated in Delaware in 2006 and expanded our online operations, increasing the number of SKUs sold through our e-commerce network, adding additional websites, improving our internet marketing proficiency, and commencing sales on online marketplaces. Like most e-commerce retailers, our success depends on our ability to attract online consumers to our websites and convert them into customers in a cost-effective manner. Historically, marketing through search engine optimization provided the most efficient opportunity to reach online auto part buyers. In order to improve our business, we worked towards enhancing the process of consolidation and implementing improvements to our multiple websites in order to improve our search ranking through the increased use of paid search advertising and pursued opportunities in third-party online marketplaces. Our efforts to improve the website purchase experience for our online customers have included our efforts to: 

(1) help our customers find the parts they want to buy through a customized and guided shopping experience specific to key part names; (2) increase order size across our sites through improved recommendation engines; and (3) provide leading customer service and product support. 

We intend to continue to implement strategies designed to build and increase our customer lifetime value by focusing on increasing gross profit per transaction, transaction attachment rate, repeat purchases and conversion. 

In October 2008, we acquired AutoMD.com for the purpose of developing content and a user community to educate consumers on maintenance and service of their vehicles. The site provides auto information, with tools for diagnosing car troubles, locating repair shops, estimating the cost of repairs, accessing recalls and technical service bulletins, reading do-it-yourself (&#8220;DIY&#8221;) repair guides, and getting questions answered in the automotive enthusiast community forum. Currently, AutoMD estimates auto repair costs to help consumers understand the costs and time involved in selected repairs and to improve the consumer&#8217;s experience when getting their vehicle serviced. In 2013, we launched our AutoMD Insta-Quotes! &#32;program. In locations where service shops were selected to participate in the AutoMD Insta-Quotes! &#32;program, AutoMD provides real-time price estimates specific to each participating shop. In locations without the AutoMD Insta-Quotes! &#32;program, AutoMD provides general estimates based on industry standard parts and labor data as available for the consumer&#8217;s location. In October 2014, we sold a noncontrolling interest in AutoMD to outside investors and certain of our existing shareholders. We are using this investment primarily to help grow the number of repair shops participating in the AutoMD Insta-Quotes! &#32;program, with the goal of establishing AutoMD as the preferred resource for vehicle repair information for consumers. 

In August 2010, we acquired all of the issued and outstanding shares of Automotive Specialty Accessories and Parts, Inc. and its wholly-owned subsidiary Whitney Automotive Group, Inc. (referred to herein as &#8220;WAG&#8221;), at the time, the nation&#8217;s leading catalog and internet direct marketer of automotive aftermarket performance parts and accessories. The acquisition of WAG allowed us to expand of our product line, which increased our ability to reach customers in the DIY automobile and off-road accessories market. 2015 marked the 100 year anniversary of JC Whitney and we celebrated this milestone with a centennial celebration and other promotional events throughout the year. 

Our flagship websites are located at www.autopartswarehouse.com , www.carparts.com , www.jcwhitney.com &#32;and www.AutoMD.com &#32;and our corporate website is located at www.usautoparts.net . 

We report on a 52/53-week fiscal year, ending on the Saturday nearest the end of December. References to 2015 relate to the 52-week fiscal year ended January 2, 2016. References to 2014 relate to the 53-week fiscal year ended January 3, 2015. References to 2013 relate to the 52-weeks ended December 28, 2013. 

Our Products 

We offer a broad selection of aftermarket auto parts. We continually refine our product offering by introducing new brands and parts categories, while discontinuing low-selling brands and SKUs. We broadly classify our products into three subcategories by function: collision parts serving the body repair segment, engine parts to serve the replacement/wear parts market and performance parts and accessories. 

Collision Parts . The collision parts category is primarily comprised of parts for the exterior of an automobile. Our parts in this category are typically replacement parts for original body parts that have been damaged as a result of a collision or through general wear and tear. The majority of these products are sold through our websites. In addition, we sell an extensive line of mirror products, including our own private-label brand called Kool-Vue&#8482;, which are marketed and sold as aftermarket replacement parts and as upgrades to existing parts. 

Engine Parts . The engine parts category is comprised of engine and chassis components as well as other mechanical and electrical parts. These parts serve as replacement parts for existing engine parts and are generally used by professionals and do-it-yourselfers for engine and mechanical maintenance and repair. 

Performance Parts and Accessories . We offer performance versions of many parts sold in each of the above categories. Performance parts and accessories generally consist of parts that enhance the performance of the automobile, upgrade existing functionality of a specific part or improve the physical appearance or comfort of the automobile. 

Our Sales Channels 

Our sales channels include the online channel and the offline channel. 

Online Sales Channel . Our online sales channel consists of our e-commerce websites, online marketplaces and online advertising. Our e-commerce channel includes a network of e-commerce websites, supported by our call-center sales agents. We also sell our products through online marketplaces, including third-party auction sites and shopping portals, which provide 

us with access to additional consumer segments. The majority of our online sales are to individual consumers. We sell online advertising and sponsorship positions on our e-commerce websites to highlight vendor brands and offer complementary products and services that benefit our customers. Advertising is targeted to specific sections of the websites and can also be targeted to specific users based on the vehicles they drive. Advertising partners primarily include part vendors, national automotive aftermarket brands, and automobile manufacturers. 

Offline Sales Channel . We sell and deliver to collision repair shops from our Chesapeake, Virginia warehouse facility. We also market our Kool-Vue&#8482; products nationwide to auto parts wholesale distributors and serve consumers by operating a retail outlet store in LaSalle, Illinois. 

Our Fulfillment Operations 

We fulfill customer orders using two primary methods: (1) stock-and-ship, where we take physical delivery of merchandise and store it in one of our distribution centers until it is shipped to a customer, and (2) drop-ship, where merchandise is shipped directly to customers from our suppliers. We believe that the flexibility of fulfilling orders using two different fulfillment methods allows us to offer a broader product selection, helps optimize product inventory and enhances our overall business profitability. 

Stock-and-Ship Fulfillment . Our stock-and-ship products are sourced primarily from manufacturers and other suppliers located in Asia and in the U.S. and are stored in one of our distribution centers in Chesapeake, Virginia or LaSalle, Illinois. All products received into our distribution centers are entered into our inventory management systems, allowing us to closely monitor inventory availability. We consider a number of factors in determining which items to stock in our distribution centers, including which products can be purchased at a meaningful discount to domestic prices for similar items, which products have historically sold in high volumes, and which products may be out of stock when we attempt to fulfill via drop-ship. 

Drop-Ship Fulfillment . We have developed relationships with several U.S.-based automobile parts distributors that operate their own distribution centers and can deliver products directly to our customers. We internally developed a proprietary distributor selection system, Auto-Vend&#8482;, which allows us to electronically select multiple vendors for a given order. Auto-Vend&#8482; will attempt to first direct an order to one of our warehouses. If the product is not in stock, Auto-Vend&#8482; will process the order to the next appropriate vendor based on customer location, cost, contractual agreements, and service level history. 

Suppliers 

We source our products from two primary regions: (1) our private label product sourced primarily through manufacturers and distributors in the Asia-Pacific region, and (2) our branded product sourced primarily through drop-ship manufacturers and distributors located in the United States. 

Private Label Product . Our private label suppliers offer products which are generally less expensive and we believe provide better value for our consumers. As a result, our mix shift towards private label product has continued to increase on a year-over-year basis. We stock-and-ship our private label products in our distribution centers. We currently have over 50,000 private label SKUs in our product selection. 

Branded Product . We have developed and implemented application programming interfaces with the majority of our branded, drop ship suppliers that allow us to electronically transmit orders, check inventory availability, and receive the shipment tracking information which is easily passed on to our customers. We are a significant customer for many of our drop-ship vendors and have long standing relationships and contracts with many of these suppliers. For the fiscal year ended January 2, 2016 , three of our drop-ship vendors accounted for approximately 11% &#32;of our total product purchases. We currently have over 1.0 million branded SKUs in our product selection. 

Marketing 

Our online marketing efforts are designed to attract visitors to our websites, convert visitors into purchasing customers and encourage repeat purchases among our existing customer base. We use a variety of marketing methods, including online marketing methods to attract visitors, which include paid search advertising, search engine optimization, affiliate programs, e-mail marketing, print catalogues and inclusion in online shopping engines. To convert visitors into paying customers, we periodically run promotions for discounted products. We seek to create cross-selling opportunities by displaying complementary and related products available for sale throughout the purchasing process. We utilize several marketing techniques, including targeted e-mails about specific vehicle promotions, to increase customer awareness of our products. 

International Operations 

In April 2007, we established offshore operations in the Philippines. Our offshore operations allow us to access a workforce with the necessary technical skills at a significantly lower cost than comparably experienced U.S.-based professionals. Our offshore operations are responsible for a majority of our website development, catalog management, and back office support. Our offshore operations also house our main call center. We had 768 &#32;employees in the Philippines as of January 2, 2016 . In addition to our operations in the Philippines, we have a Canadian subsidiary; the subsidiary currently has no operations or employees. We primarily source our private label product from suppliers in the Asia-Pacific region. 

Competition 

The auto repair information and parts industry is competitive and highly fragmented, with products distributed through multi-tiered and overlapping channels. We compete with both online and offline retailers who offer original equipment manufacturer (&#8220;OEM&#8221;), aftermarket and private label parts to either the DIY or do-it-for-me (&#8220;DIFM&#8221;) customer segments. Current or potential competitors include the following: 

&#8226; 

national auto parts retailers such as Advance Auto Parts, AutoZone, Napa Auto Parts, CarQuest, O&#8217;Reilly Automotive and Pep Boys; 

&#8226; 

large online marketplaces such as Amazon.com and sellers on eBay; 

&#8226; 

other online retailers of automotive products and auto repair information websites; 

&#8226; 

local independent retailers or niche auto parts retailers; 

&#8226; 

wholesale aftermarket auto parts distributors such as LKQ Corporation; and 

&#8226; 

manufacturers, brand suppliers and other distributors selling online directly to consumers. 

We believe the principal competitive factors in our market are helping customers easily find their parts, educating consumers on the service and maintenance of their vehicles, maintaining a proprietary product catalog that maps individual parts to relevant vehicle applications, broad product selection and availability, price, knowledgeable customer service, rapid order fulfillment and delivery, and easy product returns. We believe we compete favorably on the basis of these factors. However, some of our competitors may be larger, may have stronger brand recognition or may have access to greater financial, technical and marketing resources or may have been operating longer than we have. 

Government Regulation 

We are subject to federal and state consumer protection laws, including laws protecting the privacy of customer non-public information and the handling of customer complaints and regulations prohibiting unfair and deceptive trade practices. The growth and demand for online commerce has and may continue to result in more stringent consumer protection laws that impose additional compliance burdens on online companies. These laws may cover issues such as user privacy, spyware and the tracking of consumer activities, marketing e-mails and communications, other advertising and promotional practices, money transfers, pricing, product safety, content and quality of products and services, taxation, electronic contracts and other communications and information security. In addition, most states have passed laws that prohibit or limit the use of aftermarket auto parts in collision repair work and/or require enhanced disclosure or vehicle owner consent before using aftermarket auto parts in such repair work and additional legislation of this kind may be introduced in the future. 

There is also great uncertainty over whether or how existing laws governing issues such as sales and other taxes, auctions, libel and personal privacy apply to the Internet and commercial online services. These issues may take years to resolve. For example, tax authorities in a number of states, as well as a Congressional advisory commission, are currently reviewing the appropriate tax treatment of companies engaged in online commerce, and new state tax regulations may subject us to additional state sales and income taxes. New legislation or regulation, the application of laws and regulations from jurisdictions whose laws do not currently apply to our business or the application of existing laws and regulations to the Internet and commercial online services could result in significant additional taxes or regulatory restrictions on our business. These taxes or restrictions could have an adverse effect on our cash flows and results of operations. Furthermore, there is a possibility that we may be subject to significant fines or other payments for any past failures to comply with these requirements. 

Seasonality 

We believe our business is subject to seasonal fluctuations. We have historically experienced higher sales of body parts in winter months when inclement weather and hazardous road conditions typically result in more automobile collisions. Engine parts and performance parts and accessories have historically experienced higher sales in the summer months when consumers 

have more time to undertake elective projects to maintain and enhance the performance of their automobiles and the warmer weather during that time is conducive for such projects. We expect the historical seasonality trends to continue, and such trends may have a material impact on our financial condition and results of operations in subsequent periods. 

Employees 

As of January 2, 2016 , we had 316 employees in the United States and 768 &#32;employees in the Philippines for a total of 1,084 employees. None of our employees are represented by a labor union, and we have never experienced a work stoppage. 

Available Information 

Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports are available free of charge on the Investor Relations section of our corporate website located at www.usautoparts.net &#32;as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (&#8220;SEC&#8221;). The inclusion of our website address in this report does not include or incorporate by reference into this report any information on our website. 

&#160; 

