 Item 1. 

Business 

The Company 

First American Financial Corporation (the &#8220;Company&#8221;) was incorporated in the state of Delaware in January 2008 to hold the financial services businesses of the Company&#8217;s prior parent. On June 1, 2010, the Company&#8217;s common stock was listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol &#8220;FAF.&#8221; The businesses operated by the Company&#8217;s subsidiaries have, in some instances, been in existence since the late 1800s. 

The Company has its executive offices at 1 First American Way, Santa Ana, California 92707-5913. The Company&#8217;s telephone number is (714) 250-3000. 

General 

The Company, through its subsidiaries, is engaged in the business of providing financial services through its title insurance and services segment and its specialty insurance segment. The title insurance and services segment provides title insurance, closing and/or escrow services and similar or related services domestically and internationally in connection with residential and commercial real estate transactions. It also provides products, services and solutions involving the use of real property related data, including data derived from its proprietary database, which are designed to mitigate risk or otherwise facilitate real estate transactions. It maintains, manages and provides access to title plant records and images and, in addition, provides banking, trust and investment advisory services. The specialty insurance segment issues property and casualty insurance policies and sells home warranty products. In addition, our corporate function consists of certain financing facilities as well as the corporate services that support our business operations. Financial information regarding these business segments and the corporate function is included in &#8220;Item 7. Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations&#8221; and &#8220;Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data&#8221; of Part II of this report. 

The substantial majority of our business is dependent upon activity in the real estate and mortgage markets, which are cyclical and seasonal. In the current market environment, we are focused on growing our core title insurance and closing services business, building and expanding our data assets to strengthen our core business and offer additional solutions for our customers, and managing complementary businesses in ways that support our core business. We are also focused on continued improvement of our customers&#8217; experiences with our products, services and solutions, and we remain committed to efficiently managing our business to market conditions throughout business cycles.

Title Insurance and Services Segment 

Our title insurance and services segment issues title insurance policies on residential and commercial property in the United States and offers similar or related products and services internationally. This segment also provides closing and/or escrow services; accommodates tax-deferred exchanges of real estate; provides products, services and solutions involving the use of real property related data designed to mitigate risk or otherwise facilitate real estate transactions; maintains, manages and provides access to title plant records and images; and provides banking, trust and investment advisory services. In 2015, 2014, and 2013 the Company derived 92.5%, 92.0% and 92.9% of its consolidated revenues, respectively, from this segment.

Overview of Title Insurance Industry 

In most instances mortgage lenders and purchasers of real estate desire to be protected from loss or damage in the event of defects in the title they acquire. Title insurance is a means of providing such protection. 

Title Policies. Title insurance policies insure the interests of owners or lenders against defects in the title to real property. These defects include adverse ownership claims, liens, encumbrances or other matters affecting title. Title insurance policies generally are issued on the basis of a title report, which is typically prepared after a search of one or more of public records, maps, documents and prior title policies to ascertain the existence of easements, restrictions, rights of way, conditions, encumbrances or other matters affecting the title to, or use of, real property. In certain limited instances, a visual inspection of the property is also made. To facilitate the preparation of title reports, copies and/or abstracts of public records, maps, documents and prior title policies may be compiled and indexed to specific properties in an area. This compilation is known as a &#8220;title plant.&#8221; 

The beneficiaries of title insurance policies usually are real estate buyers and mortgage lenders . A title insurance policy indemnifies the named insured and certain successors in interest against title defects, liens and encumbrances existing as of the date of the policy and not specifically excepted from its provisions. The policy typically provides coverage for the real property mortgage lender in the amount of its outstanding mortgage loan balance and for the buyer in the amount of the purchase price of the property. In some cases the policy might provide insurance in a greater amount, such as wher e the buyer anticipates constructing improvements on the property. The potential for claims under a title insurance policy issued to a mortgage lender generally ceases upon repayment of the mortgage loan. The potential for claims under a title insurance po licy issued to a buyer generally ceases upon the sale or transfer of the insured property. 

Before issuing title policies, title insurers typically seek to limit their risk of loss by accurately performing title searches and examinations and, in many instances, curing title defects identified therein. These searches, examinations and curative efforts distinguish title insurers from other insurers, such as property and casualty insurers. Whereas title insurers generally insure against losses arising out of circumstances existing as of the date of the policy, property and casualty insurers generally insure against losses arising out of events that occur subsequent to policy issuance. As a result of these differences, title insurers typically experience relatively low claims, as a percentage of premiums, when compared to property and casualty insurers, but have relatively high expenses. The primary costs of a title insurer pertain to personnel and other costs associated with the search and examination process, the curative process, the preparation of preliminary reports or commitments, title plant maintenance, and sales, as well as technology and other administrative expenses.

The Closing Process. Title insurance is essential to the real estate closing process in most transactions involving real property mortgage lenders. In a typical residential real estate sale transaction where title insurance is issued, a real estate broker, lawyer, developer, lender, closer or other participant involved in the transaction orders the title insurance on behalf of an insured. Once the order has been placed, a title insurance company or an agent typically conducts a title search to determine the current status of the title to the property. When the search is complete, the title insurer or agent prepares, issues and circulates a commitment or preliminary report to the parties to the transaction. The commitment or preliminary report identifies the conditions, exceptions and/or limitations that the title insurer intends to attach to the policy and identifies items appearing on the title that must be eliminated prior to closing. 

The closing or settlement function, sometimes called an escrow in the western United States, is, depending on the local custom in the region, performed by a lawyer, an escrow company or a title insurance company or agent, generally referred to as a &#8220;closer.&#8221; Once documentation has been prepared and signed, and any required mortgage lender payoff demands are obtained, the transaction closes. The closer typically records the appropriate title documents and arranges the transfer of funds to pay off prior loans and extinguish the liens securing such loans. Title policies are then issued, typically insuring the priority of the mortgage of the real property mortgage lender in the amount of its mortgage loan and the buyer in the amount of the purchase price. The time between the opening of the title order and the issuance of the title policy is usually between 30 and 90 days. Before a closing takes place, however, the closer typically requests that the title insurer or agent provide an update to the commitment to discover any adverse matters affecting title and, if any are found, works with the seller to eliminate them so that the title insurer or agent issues the title policy subject only to those exceptions to coverage which are acceptable to the title insurer, the buyer and the buyer&#8217;s lender. 

Issuing the Policy: Direct vs. Agency. A title insurance policy can be issued directly by a title insurer or indirectly on behalf of a title insurer through agents, which usually operate independently of the title insurer and often issue policies for more than one insurer. Where the policy is issued by a title insurer, the search is performed by or on behalf of the title insurer, and the premium is collected and retained by the title insurer. Where the policy is issued by an agent, the agent typically performs the search, examines the title, collects the premium and retains a portion of the premium. The agent remits the remainder of the premium to the title insurer as compensation for the insurer bearing the risk of loss in the event a claim is made under the policy and for other services the insurer may provide. The percentage of the premium retained by an agent varies from region to region. A title insurer is obligated to pay title claims in accordance with the terms of its policies, regardless of whether it issues its policy directly or indirectly through an agent. In addition, as part of the policy, a title insurer may issue a closing protection letter that protects a lender from certain misuse of funds by the title insurer&#8217;s agent. When a loss to the title insurer occurs under a policy issued through an agent or a closing protection letter, under certain circumstances the title insurer may seek recovery of all or a portion of the loss from the agent or the agent&#8217;s errors and omissions insurance carrier. 

Premiums. The premium for title insurance is typically due and earned in full when the real estate transaction is closed. Premiums generally are calculated with reference to the policy amount. The premium charged by a title insurer or an agent is subject to regulation in most areas. Such regulations vary from state to state. 

Our Title Insurance Operations 

Overview. We conduct our title insurance and closing business through a network of direct operations and agents. Through this network, we issue policies in the 49 states that permit the issuance of title insurance policies and the District of Columbia. We also offer title insurance, closing services and similar or related products and services, either directly or through third parties in other countries, including Canada, the United Kingdom, Australia and various other established and emerging markets as described in the &#8220;International Operations&#8221; section below. 

Customers, Sales and Marketing. The mortgage markets in the United States and Canada are concentrated. We believe that five institutions, Wells Fargo &#38; Company, JPMorgan Chase &#38; Co., U.S. Bancorp, Quicken Loans Inc. and Bank of America Corporation, together with their affiliates, originate or are involved in approximately 34% of the mortgages in the United States. Each of these institutions purchases title insurance policies and other products and services from us. These institutions also benefit from products and services which are purchased for their benefit by others, such as title insurance policies purchased by borrowers as a condition to the making of a loan. The refusal of one or more of these or other significant lending institutions to purchase products and services from us or to accept our products and services that are to be purchased for their benefit could have a material adverse effect on the title insurance and services segment. 

We distribute our title insurance policies and related products and services through our direct and agent channels. In our direct channel, the distribution of our policies and related products and services occurs through sales representatives located at numerous offices throughout the United States where real estate transactions are handled. Title insurance policies issued and other products and services delivered through this channel are primarily delivered in connection with sales and refinances of residential and commercial real property. 

Within the direct channel, our sales and marketing efforts are focused on the primary sources of business referrals. For residential business referred by local or decentralized customers, we market to real estate agents and brokers, mortgage brokers, real estate attorneys, mortgage originators, homebuilders and escrow service providers. For refinance and default related business referred by customers with centrally managed platforms, we market to mortgage originators, servicers, and governmental sponsored enterprises. For the commercial business we market primarily to commercial real estate investors, including real estate investment trusts, insurance companies and asset managers, as well as to law firms, commercial banks, investment banks, mortgage brokers and the owners of commercial real estate. We also market directly to national homebuilders focused on newly constructed residential property. In some instances we may supplement the efforts of our sales force with general marketing. Our marketing efforts emphasize the quality and timeliness of our services, our financial strength, process innovation and our national presence. We also provide educational information on our website and through other means to help consumers better understand our services and the homebuying/settlement process in general. 

Underwriting. Before a title insurance policy is issued, a number of underwriting decisions are made. For example, matters of record revealed during the title search may require a determination as to whether an exception should be taken in the policy. We believe that it is important for the underwriting function to operate efficiently and effectively at all decision-making levels so that transactions may proceed in a timely manner. To perform this function, we have underwriters at the regional, divisional and corporate levels with varying levels of underwriting authority. 

Agency Operations. As described above, we also issue title insurance policies through a network of agents. Our agreements with our agents typically state the conditions under which the agent is authorized to issue title insurance policies on our behalf. The agency agreement also typically prescribes the circumstances under which the agent may be liable to us if a policy loss occurs. Such agency agreements typically are terminable without cause after a specified notice period has been met and are terminable immediately for cause. As is standard in our industry, our agents typically operate with a substantial degree of independence from us and frequently act as agents for other title insurers. We evaluate the profitability of our agency relationships on an ongoing basis, including a review of premium splits, deductibles and claims. As a result, from time to time we may terminate or renegotiate the terms of some of our agency relationships. 

In determining whether to engage an independent agent, we often obtain information about the agent, including the agent&#8217;s experience and background. We maintain loss experience records for each agent and also maintain agent representatives and agent auditors. Our agents typically are subject to audit or examination. In addition to routine examinations, other examinations may be triggered if certain &#8220;warning signs&#8221; are evident. Adverse findings in an agency audit may result in various actions, including, if warranted, termination of the agency relationship. 

International Operations. We provide products and services in a number of countries outside of the United States, and our international operations accounted for approximately 6.4% of our title insurance and services segment revenues in 2015. Today we have direct operations and a physical presence in several countries, including Canada, the United Kingdom and Australia. While reliable data are not available, we believe that we have the largest market share for title insurance outside of the United States. The Company&#8217;s revenues from external customers and long-lived assets are broken down between domestic and foreign operations in Note 21 Segment Financial Infor mation to the consolidated financial statements included in &#8220;Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data&#8221; of Part II of this report. 

Our range of international products and services is designed to lower our clients&#8217; risk profiles and reduce their operating costs through enhanced operational efficiencies. In established markets, primarily British Commonwealth countries, we have combined title insurance with customized processing offerings to enhance the speed and efficiency of the mortgage and conveyancing processes. In these markets we also offer products designed to mitigate risk and otherwise facilitate real estate transactions. 

Our international operations present risks that may not exist to the same extent in our domestic operations, including those associated with differences in the nature of the products provided, the scope of coverage provided by those products and the manner in which risk is underwritten. Limited claims experience in certain foreign jurisdictions makes it more difficult to set prices and reserve rates. There may also be risks associated with differences in legal systems and/or unforeseen regulatory changes. 

Title Plants. &#160; Our collection of title plants constitutes one of our principal assets. A title search is typically conducted by searching the abstracted information from public records or utilizing a title plant holding information abstracted from public records. While public title records generally are indexed by reference to the names of the parties to a given recorded document, our title plants primarily arrange their records on a geographic basis. Because of this difference, title plant records generally may be searched more efficiently, which we believe reduces the risk of errors associated with the search. Many of our title plants also index prior policies, adding to searching efficiency. Certain locations utilize jointly owned plants or utilize a plant under a joint user agreement with other title companies. In addition to these ownership interests, we are in the business of maintaining, managing and providing access to title plant records and images that may be owned by us or other parties. We believe that our title plants, whether wholly or partially owned or utilized under a joint user agreement, are among the most comprehensive in the industry. 

Reserves for Claims and Losses . We provide for losses associated with title insurance policies, closing protection letters and other risk based products based upon our historical experience and other factors by a charge to expense when the related premium revenue is recognized. The resulting reserve for incurred but not reported claims, together with the reserve for known claims, reflects management&#8217;s best estimate of the total costs required to settle all claims reported to us and claims incurred but not reported, and are considered to be adequate for such purpose. Each period the reasonableness of the estimated reserves is assessed; if the estimate requires adjustment, such an adjustment is recorded. 

Reinsurance and Coinsurance. We plan to continue our practice of assuming and ceding large title insurance risks through reinsurance. In reinsurance arrangements, the primary insurer retains a certain amount of risk under a policy and cedes the remainder of the risk under the policy to the reinsurer. The primary insurer pays the reinsurer a premium in exchange for accepting this risk of loss. The primary insurer generally remains liable to its insured for the total risk, but is reinsured under the terms of the reinsurance agreement. Prior to 2010, our title reinsurance arrangements primarily involved other industry participants. Beginning in January of 2010, we established a global reinsurance program involving treaty reinsurance provided by a global syndicate of highly rated non-industry reinsurers. Subject to the treaty limits and certain other limitations, the program generally covers claims made while the program is in effect. 

We also serve as a coinsurer in connection with certain commercial transactions. In a coinsurance scenario, two or more insurers are selected by the insured and each coinsurer is liable for its specified percentage share of the total liability. 

Competition. The business of providing title insurance and related products and services is highly competitive. The number of competing companies and the size of such companies vary in the different areas in which we conduct business. Generally, in areas of major real estate activity, such as metropolitan and suburban localities, we compete with many other title insurers and agents. Our major nationwide competitors in our principal markets include Fidelity National Financial, Inc., Stewart Title Guaranty Company, Old Republic International Corporation and their affiliates. In addition to these national competitors, small nationwide, regional and local competitors, as well as numerous agency operations throughout the country, provide aggressive competition on the local level. We are currently the second largest provider of title insurance in the United States, based on the most recent American Land Title Association market share data. 

We believe that competition for title insurance, closing services and related products and services is based primarily on the quality, price and timeliness of the preparation and issuance of the insurance policy and the provision of the related products and services. Customer service is an important competitive factor because parties to real estate transactions are usually concerned with time schedules and costs associated with delays in closing transactions. In certain transactions, such as those involving commercial properties, financial strength and scope of coverage are also important. In addition, we regularly evaluate our pricing and agent splits, and based on competitive, market and regulatory conditions and claims history, among other factors, adjust our prices and agent splits as and where appropriate. 

Trust and Investment Advisory Services. &#160; Our federal savings bank subsidiary offers trust and investment advisory services, deposit services and asset management services. As of December 31, 2015 this company administered fiduciary and custodial assets having a market value in excess of $3.0 billion which includes managed assets of $1.2 billion, had assets of $3.0 billion, deposits of $2.7 billion and stockholder&#8217;s equity of $244.3 million. 

Specialty Insurance Segment 

Property and Casualty Insurance. &#160; Our property and casualty insurance business provides insurance coverage to residential homeowners and renters for liability losses and typical hazards such as fire, theft, vandalism and other types of property damage. We are licensed to issue policies in all 50 states and the District of Columbia and actively issue policies in 46 states. The majority of policy liability is in the western United States, including approximately 63% in California. In certain markets we also offer preferred risk auto insurance to better compete with other carriers offering bundled home and auto insurance. We market our property and casualty insurance business using both direct distribution channels, including cross-selling through our existing closing-service activities, and through a network of independent brokers. We purchase reinsurance to limit risk associated with large losses from single events. 

Home Warranties. Our home warranty business provides residential service contracts that cover residential systems, such as heating and air conditioning systems, and certain appliances against failures that occur as the result of normal usage during the coverage period. Coverage is typically for one year and is renewable annually at the option of the contract holder and upon our approval. Coverage and pricing typically vary by geographic region. Fees for the warranties generally are paid at the closing of the home purchase or directly by the consumer. Renewal premiums may be paid by a number of different options. In addition, under the contract, the holder is responsible for a service fee for each trade call. First year warranties primarily are marketed through real estate brokers and agents, and we also increasingly market directly to consumers. We generally sell renewals directly to consumers. Our home warranty business currently operates in 39 states and the District of Columbia. 

Corporate 

The Company&#8217;s corporate function consists primarily of certain financing facilities as well as the corporate services that support our business operations. 

Regulation 

Many of our subsidiaries are subject to extensive regulation by applicable domestic or foreign regulatory agencies. The extent of such regulation varies based on the industry involved, the nature of the business conducted by the subsidiary (for example, licensed title insurers are subject to a heightened level of regulation compared to underwritten title companies or agencies), the subsidiary&#8217;s jurisdiction of organization and the jurisdictions in which it operates. In addition, the Company is subject to regulation as both an insurance holding company and a savings and loan holding company. 

Our domestic subsidiaries that operate in the title insurance industry or the property and casualty insurance industry are subject to regulation by state insurance regulators. Each of our underwriters, or insurers, is regulated primarily by the insurance department or equivalent governmental body within the jurisdiction of its organization, which oversees compliance with the laws and regulations pertaining to such insurer. For example, our primary title insurance underwriter, First American Title Insurance Company, is a Nebraska corporation and, accordingly, is primarily regulated by the Nebraska Department of Insurance. Insurance regulations pertaining to insurers typically place limits on, among other matters, the ability of the insurer to pay dividends to its parent company or to enter into transactions with affiliates. They also may require approval of the insurance commissioner prior to a third party directly or indirectly acquiring &#8220;control&#8221; of the insurer. 

In addition, our insurers are subject to the laws of other jurisdictions in which they transact business, which laws typically establish supervisory agencies with broad administrative powers relating to issuing and revoking licenses to transact business, regulating trade practices, licensing agents, approving policy forms, accounting practices and financial practices, establishing requirements pertaining to reserves and capital and surplus as regards policyholders, requiring the deferral of a portion of all premiums in a reserve for the protection of policyholders and the segregation of investments in a corresponding amount, establishing parameters regarding suitable investments for reserves, capital and surplus, and approving rate schedules. The manner in which rates are established or changed ranges from states which promulgate rates, to states where individual companies or associations of companies prepare rate filings which are submitted for approval, to a few states in which rate changes do not need to be filed for approval. In addition, each of ou r insurers is subject to periodic examination by regulatory authorities both within its jurisdiction of organization as well as the other jurisdictions where it is licensed to conduct business. 

Our foreign insurance subsidiaries are regulated primarily by regulatory authorities in the regions, provinces and/or countries in which they operate and may secondarily be regulated by the domestic regulator of First American Title Insurance Company as a part of the First American insurance holding company system. Each of these regions, provinces and countries has established a regulatory framework with respect to the oversight of compliance with its laws and regulations. Therefore, our foreign insurance subsidiaries are generally subject to regulatory review, examination, investigation and enforcement in a similar manner as our domestic insurance subsidiaries, subject to local variations. 

Our underwritten title companies, agencies and property and casualty insurance agencies are also subject to certain regulation by insurance regulatory or banking authorities, including, but not limited to, minimum net worth requirements, licensing requirements, statistical reporting requirements, rate filing requirements and marketing restrictions. 

In addition to state-level regulation, our domestic subsidiaries that operate in the insurance business, as well as our home warranty subsidiaries and other subsidiaries, are subject to regulation by federal agencies, including the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (&#8220;CFPB&#8221;). The CFPB has broad authority to regulate, among other areas, the mortgage and real estate markets, including our domestic subsidiaries, in matters which impact consumers. This authority includes the enforcement of federal consumer financial laws, including the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act. The CFPB has been actively utilizing its supervisory powers by bringing enforcement actions against various participants in the mortgage and settlement industries. It has also implemented regulations pertaining to the mortgage and settlement industries, including the TILA-RESPA integrated disclosure (TRID) rule. The TRID rule has required extensive modifications to the process of closing a federally-regulated mortgage loan and the systems that support that process. The full impact of the TRID rule and the extent to which such impact is temporary or permanent is not currently known. Similarly, the full manner in which the CFPB will utilize its rulemaking and supervisory powers in the future is not known. Regulations issued by the CFPB, or the manner in which it interprets and enforces existing consumer protection laws, have impacted and could continue to impact the way in which we conduct our businesses and the profitability of those businesses. 

In addition, our home warranty and settlement services businesses are subject to regulation in some states by insurance authorities or other applicable regulatory entities. Our federal savings bank is regulated by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, with the Federal Reserve Board supervising its parent holding company, and is subject to regulation by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.

Investment Policies 

The Company&#8217;s investment portfolio activities such as policy setting, compliance reporting, portfolio reviews, and strategy are overseen by an investment committee made up of certain senior executives. Additionally, certain of the Company&#8217;s regulated subsidiaries have established and maintain investment committees to oversee their own investment portfolios. The Company&#8217;s investment policies are designed to comply with regulatory requirements and to align the investment portfolio asset allocation with strategic objectives. For example, our federal savings bank is required to maintain at least 65% of its asset portfolio in loans or securities that are secured by real estate. Our federal savings bank currently does not make real estate loans, and therefore fulfills this regulatory requirement through investments in mortgage-backed securities. In addition, applicable law imposes certain restrictions upon the types and amounts of investments that may be made by our regulated insurance subsidiaries. 

The Company&#8217;s investment policies further provide that investments are to be managed to maximize long-term returns consistent with liquidity, regulatory and risk objectives, and that investments should not expose the Company to excessive levels of market, credit, liquidity, and interest rate risks. 

As of December 31, 2015, our debt and equity securities portfolio consisted of 93 % of fixed income securities. As of that date, 65% of our fixed income investments were held in securities that are United States government-backed or rated AAA, and 95 % of the fixed income portfolio were rated or classified as investment grade. Percentages are based on the estimated fair values of the securities. Credit ratings reflect published ratings obtained from Standard &#38; Poor&#8217;s Rating Services, DBRS, Inc., Fitch Ratings, Inc. and Moody&#8217;s Investor Services, Inc . If a security was rated differently among the rating agencies, the lowest rating was selected. 

In addition to our debt and equity investment securities portfolio, we maintain certain money-market and other short-term investments. We also hold strategic equity investments in companies engaged in our businesses or similar or related businesses. 

Employees 

As of December 31, 2015, the Company employed 17,955 people on either a part-time or full-time basis. 

Available Information 

The Company maintains a website, www.firstam.com, which includes financial information and other information for investors, including open and closed title insurance orders (which typically are posted approximately 10 to 12 days after the end of each calendar month). The Company&#8217;s Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are available free of charge through the &#8220;Investors&#8221; page of the website as soon as reasonably practicable after the Company electronically files such material with, or furnishes it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company&#8217;s website and the information contained therein or connected thereto are not intended to be incorporated into this Annual Report on Form 10-K, or any other filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission unless the Company expressly incorporates such materials. 

&#160;

