 Item 1. Business Overview 

Nucor Corporation and its affiliates (&#147;Nucor,&#148; the &#147;Company&#148; or &#147;we&#148;) manufacture steel and steel products. The Company also produces direct reduced iron (&#147;DRI&#148;) for use in the Company&#146;s steel mills. Through The David J. Joseph Company and its affiliates (&#147;DJJ&#148;), the Company also processes ferrous and nonferrous metals and brokers ferrous and nonferrous metals, pig iron, hot briquetted iron (&#147;HBI&#148;) and DRI. Most of the Company&#146;s operating facilities and customers are located in North America, but Nucor does business outside of North America as well. The Company&#146;s operations include several international trading companies that buy and sell steel and steel products manufactured by the Company and others. 

Nucor is North America&#146;s largest recycler, using scrap steel as the primary raw material in producing steel and steel products. In 2015, we recycled approximately 16.9 million tons of scrap steel. 

General Development of our Business in Recent Years 

Nucor has invested significant capital in recent years to improve our cost structure, enhance our operational flexibility and expand our product portfolios to include more value-added, higher-margin offerings. Our investments total more than $6 billion since the economic downturn began in 2009, with approximately two-thirds going to capital expenditures and one-third going to acquisitions. The Company believes that this focus on lowering cost will enable us to execute on our strategy of delivering profitable growth. Expanding our product mix and market diversity will make us less susceptible to imports. 

A major emphasis of our cost improvement and operational flexibility plan relates to controlling our raw materials cost. We have a goal of being able to produce in house between six and seven million tons of annual capacity in high-quality scrap substitutes so that we can better control both the cost and reliable sourcing of these raw materials. Our 2,500,000 metric tons-per-year DRI facility in St. James Parish, Louisiana began production in December 2013. Between our DRI plant in Trinidad with an annual capacity of 2,000,000 metric tons and our new facility in Louisiana, we are approximately two-thirds of the way towards that goal. Our DRI production capability gives us the flexibility to optimize Nucor&#146;s overall iron units mix based on current market pricing for scrap and scrap substitutes to provide us with a low cost feedstock for our steel mills. 

The DRI production process requires significant volumes of natural gas. To ensure our DRI plant in Louisiana has a sustained advantage from lower natural gas costs, Nucor entered into two long-term, onshore natural gas working interest drilling programs in U.S.-based proven reserves with Encana Oil &#38; Gas (USA) Inc. (&#147;Encana&#148;). The natural gas produced by these two programs is sold to third parties to offset our exposure to spot prices of natural gas consumed by the Louisiana DRI facility and our other operations. Beginning in January 2014, Nucor and Encana temporarily suspended drilling of new natural gas wells as a result of current low natural gas prices. This joint decision demonstrates the flexibility of our partnership with Encana to react to short-term market conditions while preserving our ability to manage Nucor&#146;s long-term exposure to higher natural gas prices at our operating divisions that consume natural gas. Nucor retains its contractual rights to resume drilling in a higher natural gas pricing environment. 

Of the approximately $4 billion that we have spent since 2009 on capital expenditures, the main focus of that spending has been on projects that further our raw materials and value-added product diversification strategies. Within the steel mills segment, Nucor has deployed significant amounts of capital to expand our product offerings, enhance productivity and improve costs at our existing operations. Many of those steel mill capital projects came out of start-up during the last few years and are beginning to provide returns to Nucor&#146;s stockholders. At our Hertford County, North Carolina plate mill, several expansions made between 2011 and 2013 have positioned the mill to increase its diversity of product offerings that are less exposed to imports. A heat treat line was added at that plate mill to facilitate Nucor&#146;s growth in higher-margin plate products where 

&#160; 

greater strength and abrasion resistance is required. The heat treat line allows us to improve the product mix allocation between our two plate mills and five sheet mills to improve margins at those facilities. Also at the Hertford County mill, we commissioned a vacuum tank degasser and began operating a normalizing line. The final components of Nucor&#146;s $290 million project at our South Carolina, Nebraska and Tennessee bar mills to expand our special bar quality (&#147;SBQ&#148;) and wire rod production capabilities by approximately one million tons were completed in 2015. Our South Carolina bar mill is producing wire rod on its new mill, and our Nebraska mill is now using the fifth strand at its melt shop caster and its upgraded rolling mill. Our Tennessee mill added a second ladle metallurgy furnace, a fourth strand at its melt shop caster and a new quality assurance line. These SBQ projects are an important component of our strategy because they allow us to produce engineered bar for more demanding applications that are less exposed to imports while maintaining our position as a low-cost commodity bar producer by shifting production to our other bar mills. In 2014, our Berkeley County, South Carolina mill successfully started up its nearly $100 million capital project that allows us to produce wider and thinner high-strength steel grades that can be used in a wide range of end use markets, including metal buildings, rail cars, water heaters, automotive, heavy equipment and motor lamination. 

Nucor&#146;s steel mills segment has also grown significantly in recent years through the acquisitions of Gallatin Steel Company (&#147;Gallatin&#148;) and Skyline Steel LLC (&#147;Skyline&#148;). Nucor acquired Gallatin in 2014 for a cash purchase price of $779 million. Located on the Ohio River in Ghent, Kentucky, Gallatin has an annual sheet steel production capacity of approximately 1,800,000 tons. This acquisition is strategically important as it expands Nucor&#146;s footprint in the midwestern United States market. The acquisition of Skyline in 2012 for $675 million was an important strategic investment as it paired Skyline&#146;s leadership position in the steel piling distribution market with our Nucor-Yamato Steel Company (&#147;Nucor-Yamato&#148;) joint venture&#146;s position as the market leader in steel piling manufacturing. To build upon the synergies in the piling market serviced by Skyline, Nucor-Yamato invested $115 million in a project to broaden its range of hot-rolled piling products. Completed in late 2014, this project added several new sheet piling sections, which expanded our product offerings to include wider piling sections that are lighter and stronger, covering more area at a lower installed cost. We recently announced a $75 million quench and self-tempering project at Nucor-Yamato, which is expected to be commissioned during the second half of 2016. Upon completion, the mill will be the sole North American producer of certain high-strength, low-alloy structural sections. 

Segments 

Nucor reports its results in three segments: steel mills, steel products and raw materials. Net sales to external customers, intercompany sales, depreciation expense, amortization expense, earnings before income taxes and noncontrolling interests, assets and capital expenditures by segment for each of the three fiscal years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2015 are set forth in Note 23 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Nucor&#146;s 2015 Annual Report, which is incorporated by reference. The steel mills segment is Nucor&#146;s largest segment, representing approximately 67% of the Company&#146;s sales to external customers in the fiscal year ended December 31, 2015. 

Principal Products Produced 

In the steel mills segment, Nucor produces and distributes sheet steel (hot-rolled, cold-rolled and galvanized), plate steel, structural steel (wide-flange beams, beam blanks, H-piling and sheet piling) and bar steel (blooms, billets, concrete reinforcing bar, merchant bar, wire rod and SBQ). Nucor manufactures steel principally from scrap steel and scrap steel substitutes using electric arc furnaces, continuous casting and automated rolling mills. Nucor&#146;s equity method investments in Duferdofin Nucor S.r.l. and NuMit LLC are included in the steel mills segment. Also included in the steel mills segment are our distribution and international trading companies that buy and sell steel and steel products that Nucor and other steel producers have manufactured. In the steel products segment, Nucor produces steel joists and joist girders, steel deck, fabricated concrete reinforcing steel, cold finished steel, steel fasteners, metal building systems, steel grating, and wire and wire mesh. In the raw materials segment, the Company produces DRI; brokers ferrous and nonferrous metals, pig iron, HBI and DRI; 

&#160; 

supplies ferro-alloys; and processes ferrous and nonferrous scrap metal. The raw materials segment also includes our natural gas working interest drilling programs with Encana and Nucor&#146;s equity method investment in Hunter Ridge Energy Services LLC. 

Markets and Marketing 

The steel mills segment sells its products primarily to steel service centers, fabricators and manufacturers located throughout the United States, Canada, Mexico and elsewhere in the world. Nucor produces hot-rolled, cold-rolled and galvanized sheet steel in standard grades and to customers&#146; specifications while maintaining inventories to fulfill anticipated orders. We estimate that approximately 60% of our sheet steel sales in 2015 were to contract customers. The balance of our sheet steel sales was made in the spot market at prevailing prices at the time of sale. The proportion of tons sold to contract customers at any given time depends on a variety of factors, including our consideration of current and future market conditions, our strategy to appropriately balance spot and contract tons in a manner to meet our customers&#146; requirements while considering the expected profitability, our desire to sustain a diversified customer base, and our end-use customers&#146; perceptions about future market conditions. These sheet sales contracts permit price adjustments to reflect changes in the current market-based indices and/or raw material costs near the time of shipment. These sheet sales contracts typically have terms ranging from six to twelve months. Steel contract sales outside of our sheet operations are not significant. 

Our plate, structural, reinforcing and merchant bar steel come in standard sizes and grades, which allows us to maintain inventory levels of these products to meet our customers&#146; expected orders. In addition, our bar mill group manufactures hot-rolled SBQ products to exacting specifications primarily servicing the automotive, energy, agricultural, heavy equipment and transportation sectors. Almost all of our plate, structural, rebar, merchant bar and SBQ steel sales occur in the spot market at prevailing market prices. 

In 2015, approximately 86% of the shipments made by our steel mills segment were to external customers. The balance of the steel mills segment&#146;s shipments went to our piling distributor and our downstream joist, deck, rebar fabrication, fastener, metal buildings and cold finish operations. 

In the steel products segment, we sell steel joists and joist girders, and steel deck to general contractors and fabricators located throughout the United States and Canada. We make these products to the customers&#146; specifications and do not maintain inventories of these finished steel products. The majority of these contracts are firm, fixed-price contracts that are in most cases competitively bid against other suppliers. Longer-term supply contracts may or may not permit us to adjust our prices to reflect changes in prevailing raw materials costs. We sell and install fabricated reinforcing products primarily on a construction contract bid basis. These products are used by contractors in constructing highways, bridges, reservoirs, utilities, hospitals, schools, airports, stadiums and high-rise buildings. We manufacture cold finished steel, steel fasteners, steel grating, wire and wire mesh in standard sizes and maintain inventories of these products to fulfill anticipated orders. We sell cold finished steel and steel fasteners primarily to distributors and manufacturers located throughout the United States and Canada. 

We market products from the steel mills and steel products segments mainly through in-house sales forces. We also utilize our internal distribution and trading companies to market our products abroad. The markets for these products are largely tied to capital and durable goods spending and are affected by changes in general economic conditions. 

In the raw materials segment, we process ferrous and nonferrous scrap metal for use in our steel mills and for sale to various domestic and international external customers. We also broker ferrous and nonferrous metals and scrap substitutes, supply ferro-alloys, and provide transportation, material handling and other services to users of scrap metals. Our primary external customers for ferrous scrap are electric arc furnace steel mills and foundries that use ferrous scrap as a raw material in their manufacturing process. External customers purchasing nonferrous scrap metal include aluminum can producers, secondary aluminum smelters, steel mills and other processors and consumers of various nonferrous metals. We market scrap metal products and related services to 

&#160; 

our external customers through in-house sales forces. In 2015, approximately 11% of the ferrous and nonferrous metals and scrap substitutes tons we processed were sold to external customers. We used the balance in our steel mills. 

Also within the raw materials segment are our DRI plants in Trinidad and Louisiana that produce iron inputs exclusively for use in the Nucor mills, as well as our natural gas working interest drilling programs. All natural gas produced by the working interest drilling programs is and will be sold to outside parties. 

Competition 

We compete in a variety of steel and metal markets, including markets for finished steel products, unfinished steel products and raw materials. These markets are highly competitive with many domestic and foreign firms participating, and, as a result of this highly competitive environment, we find that we primarily compete on price and service. 

Our electric arc furnace steel mills face many different forms of competition, including integrated steel producers (who use iron ore converted into liquid form in a blast furnace as their basic raw material instead of scrap steel), other electric arc steel furnace mills, foreign imports and alternative materials. Large integrated steel producers have the ability to manufacture a wide variety of products but face significantly higher energy costs and are often burdened with higher capital and fixed operating costs. Electric arc furnace steel mill producers such as Nucor are sensitive to increases in scrap prices but tend to have lower capital and fixed operating costs compared with integrated steel producers. 

Excess global steelmaking capacity, particularly in non-market economies, continues to be a significant challenge for Nucor and the entire U.S. steel industry. With the U.S. economy performing better than most other economies around the world, the U.S. steel market is the destination of choice for global steel producers. Finished imports last year captured 29% market share, the second consecutive year that figure was at a historically high level. While imports were down slightly from 2014, they were still 27% higher than they were in 2013. These imports, which are often artificially-priced, make it very difficult for Nucor to maintain sales prices and profit levels. 

Competition from foreign steel and steel product producers presents unique challenges for us. Imported steel and steel products often benefit from government subsidies, either directly or indirectly through government-owned enterprises or government-owned or controlled financial institutions. China, which accounts for almost half of the steel produced annually in the world, is the prime example of how some foreign governments impact the global steel market. Nucor believes that Chinese producers, many of which are government-owned in whole or in part, benefit from their government&#146;s manipulation of foreign currency exchange rates and from the receipt of government subsidies, which allow them to sell their products below cost. Other foreign governments utilize similar tactics to artificially lower their steel production costs. These distorting trade practices are widely recognized as being unfair and have been challenged successfully as violating world trade rules. In 2015, the U.S. government made preliminary determinations of injury in three flat-rolled steel trade cases involving corrosion resistant, cold-rolled and hot-rolled steel products. All three cases are expected to be finalized in 2016. China&#146;s continued treatment as a non-market economy in trade disputes in 2016 and beyond is vital for the continued assertive enforcement of world trade rules. China was a government-run, non-market economy in 2001 when it entered its Protocol of Accession to the World Trade Organization (&#147;Protocol&#148;), and China remains a government-run, non-market economy today. The main objective of the Protocol was to encourage, and in some cases to require, China to make market-based economic reforms. However, over the past 15 years, China has failed to take the required steps to establish that it is a market economy under U.S. law. Therefore, the United States has no reason to change its treatment of China as a non-market economy when only one of the relevant provisions of the Protocol expires in December 2016. By treating China as a non-market economy in antidumping cases, the Commerce Department can assume that Chinese prices and costs are distorted, and uses other methodologies to calculate antidumping duties. This often results in appropriately higher duties against Chinese products in order to offset its unfair trade practices. 

&#160; 

Aggressive trade practices, left unchallenged, seriously undermine the ability of Nucor and other domestic producers to compete on price. Competition from countries with subsidized production costs has significantly contributed to the exodus of manufacturing jobs from the United States. When such an exodus occurs, the U.S. economy is weakened and Nucor&#146;s customer base is diminished. Rigorous trade law enforcement is critical to our ability to maintain our competitive position against foreign producers that engage in unlawful trade practices. Nucor has been active in calling on policymakers to enforce global trade agreements. 

We also experience competition from other materials. Depending on our customers&#146; end use of our products, there are sometimes other materials, such as concrete, aluminum, plastics, composites and wood that compete with our steel products. When the price of steel relative to other raw materials rises, these alternatives become more attractive to our customers. 

Competition in our scrap and raw materials business is also vigorous. The scrap metals market consists of many firms and is highly fragmented. Firms typically compete on price and geographic proximity to the sources of scrap metal. 

Backlog 

In the steel mills segment, Nucor&#146;s backlog of orders was approximately $1.17 billion and $1.56 billion at December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. Order backlog for the steel mills segment includes only orders from external customers and excludes orders from our downstream businesses. Nucor&#146;s backlog of orders in the steel products segment was approximately $1.35 billion and $1.49 billion at December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. The majority of these orders will be filled within one year. Order backlog within our raw materials segment is not significant because the majority of the raw materials that segment produces are used internally. 

Sources and Availability of Raw Materials 

For the past decade, Nucor has focused on securing access to low-cost raw material inputs as they are the Company&#146;s largest expense. Nucor&#146;s broad, balanced supply chain is an important strength which allows us to reduce the cost of our steelmaking operations, create a shorter supply chain and have greater optionality over our metallics inputs. Our investment in DRI production facilities and scrap yards, as well as our access to international raw materials markets, provides Nucor with significant flexibility in optimizing our raw materials costs. Additionally, having a significant portion of our raw materials supply under our control minimizes risk associated with the global sourcing of raw materials, particularly since a good deal of scrap substitutes comes from regions of the world that have historically experienced greater political turmoil. Continued successful implementation of our raw material strategy, including key investments in DRI production, coupled with the scrap brokerage and processing services performed by our team at DJJ, give us greater control over our metallic inputs and thus help us mitigate the risk of significant price fluctuations in input costs. 

The primary raw materials for our steel mills segment are ferrous scrap and scrap substitutes such as pig iron, DRI and HBI. On average, it takes approximately 1.1 tons of scrap and scrap substitutes to produce a ton of steel. As of December 31, 2015, DJJ operated approximately 70 scrap recycling facilities, and our annual scrap processing capability exceeded five million tons. DJJ acquires ferrous scrap from numerous sources including manufacturers of products made from steel, industrial plants, scrap dealers, peddlers, auto wreckers and demolition firms. We purchase pig iron as needed from a variety of sources and operate DRI plants in Trinidad and Louisiana with respective capacities of 2,000,000 and 2,500,000 metric tons annually. The primary raw material for our DRI facilities is iron ore, which we purchase from various international suppliers. 

In June 2010, Nucor entered into an agreement with Encana that involves drilling and completing onshore natural gas wells in the United States. Nucor entered into a second and more extensive drilling agreement with Encana in late 2012 that is projected to span more than 20 years. Natural gas produced by these working interest drilling programs is sold to offset our exposure to spot prices of natural gas consumed by our Louisiana DRI 

&#160; 

facility and our other operations. Starting in January 2014, Nucor and Encana temporarily suspended drilling new natural gas wells as a result of current low natural gas prices. Under its agreements with Encana, Nucor retains its contractual rights to resume drilling in a higher natural gas pricing environment. 

The primary raw material for our steel products segment is steel produced by Nucor&#146;s steel mills. 

DJJ generally purchases ferrous and nonferrous scrap for sale to external customers from the same variety of sources it purchases ferrous scrap for use as a raw material in Nucor&#146;s steel mills. DJJ does not purchase a significant amount of scrap metal from a single source or from a limited number of major sources. The availability and price of ferrous scrap and other metallic inputs such as iron ore are affected by changes in the global supply and demand for steel and steel products. 

Energy Consumption and Costs 

Our steel mills are large consumers of electricity and natural gas. Our DRI facilities in Trinidad and Louisiana are also large consumers of natural gas. Consequently, we use a variety of strategies to manage our exposure to price risk of natural gas, including cash flow hedges and our natural gas working interest drilling programs. 

Historically, manufacturers in the United States have benefited from relatively stable and competitive energy costs that have allowed them to compete on an equal footing in the increasingly global marketplace. The availability and prices of electricity and natural gas are influenced today, however, by many factors including changes in supply and demand, advances in drilling technology and, increasingly, changes in public policy relating to energy production and use. Because energy is such a significant cost for Nucor, we strive continually to make our operations in all three of our business segments more energy efficient. We also closely monitor developments in public policy relating to energy production and consumption. When appropriate, we work to shape those developments in ways that we believe will allow us to continue to be a competitive producer of steel and steel products in an increasingly competitive global marketplace. 

Environmental Laws and Regulations 

Our business operations are subject to numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations intended to protect the environment. The principal federal environmental laws include the Clean Air Act that regulates air emissions; the Clean Water Act (&#147;CWA&#148;) that regulates water discharges; the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (&#147;RCRA&#148;) that addresses solid and hazardous waste treatment, storage and disposal; and the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (&#147;CERCLA&#148;) that governs releases of, and remediation of, sites contaminated by hazardous substances. Our operations are also subject to state laws and regulations that are patterned on these and other federal laws. 

We believe that we are in substantial compliance with the provisions of all federal and state environmental laws and regulations applicable to our business operations. However, both federal and state laws and regulations are becoming increasingly stringent, making compliance with them increasingly expensive and burdensome. In many instances the total costs of compliance are not readily quantifiable because compliance is so engrained in our operating philosophy that these costs are simply considered part of our standard operating procedures. 

The United States Environmental Protection Agency (&#147;USEPA&#148;) recently issued a final rule for the Ozone National Ambient Air Quality Standard (&#147;NAAQS&#148;). The impact of the new Ozone NAAQS on Nucor is expected to be minimal and will create no adverse impacts. USEPA also issued a final rule regarding the Clean Power Plan (&#147;CPP&#148;). While the CPP is directed at electric generating units Nucor expects indirect impact through increased electric costs. There are ongoing legal challenges to the CPP which will likely delay any potential adverse impacts to us. Even after resolution of these legal challenges, we expect the impacts will be spread over a significant timeframe, further mitigating these impacts on Nucor&#146;s operations. Despite this atmosphere of constant regulatory change, at this time we do not believe that compliance with these new environmental regulations will have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows, or financial condition. 

&#160; 

The USEPA has recently revised the rules and definitions with respect to recycling and disposal of solid wastes. The new rules require states to develop new programs and certification processes that will be forthcoming during the next year. We do not expect these rules to have any adverse impact on Nucor&#146;s ability to recycle steel or to continue recycling wastes that are routinely handled at our facilities. 

Nucor uses electric arc furnaces (&#147;EAF&#148;) to recycle scrap metal into new steel products. These EAFs use electricity as their primary source of energy. As the new greenhouse gas (&#147;GHG&#148;) regulations, air toxics rules and new emissions standards recently imposed on electric utilities are fully implemented it is reasonable to expect that the cost of electricity produced by these utilities will increase. See Item 1A. &#147;Risk Factors&#148; for more information about the potential impact of GHG regulations on Nucor&#146;s business. 

The CWA regulates water discharges and withdrawals. Nucor maintains discharge and withdrawal permits as appropriate at its facilities under the national pollutant discharge elimination system program of the CWA and conducts its operations in compliance with those permits. Nucor also maintains permits from local governments for the discharge of water into publicly owned treatment works where available. 

RCRA establishes standards for the management of solid and hazardous wastes. RCRA also addresses the environmental impact of contamination from waste disposal activities and from recycling of and storage of most wastes. While Nucor believes it is in substantial compliance with these regulations, past waste disposal activities that were legal when conducted but now may pose a contamination threat are periodically discovered. These activities and off-site properties that USEPA has determined are contaminated, for which Nucor may be potentially responsible at some level, are quickly evaluated and corrected. While Nucor has conducted and is in the final stages of completing some cleanups under RCRA, these liabilities either are identified already and being resolved or have been fully resolved. 

Because Nucor long ago implemented environmental practices that have resulted in the responsible disposal of waste materials, Nucor is also not presently considered a major contributor to any major cleanups under CERCLA for which Nucor has been named a potentially responsible party. Nucor continually evaluates these types of potential liabilities and, if appropriate, maintains reserves sufficient to remediate the identified liabilities. Under RCRA, private citizens may also bring an action against the operator of a regulated facility for potential damages and payment of cleanup costs. Nucor is confident that its system of internal evaluation and due diligence has sufficiently identified these types of potential liabilities so that compliance with these regulations will not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows or financial condition beyond that already reflected in the reserves established for them. 

The primary raw material of Nucor&#146;s steelmaking operations is scrap metal. The process of recycling scrap metal brings with it many contaminants such as paint, zinc, chrome and other metals that produce air emissions which are captured in specialized emission control equipment. This filtrant (EAF dust) is classified as a listed hazardous waste under the RCRA. Because these contaminants contain valuable metals, this filtrant is recycled to recover those metals. Nucor sends all but a small fraction of the EAF dust it produces to recycling facilities that recover the zinc, lead, chrome and other valuable metals from this dust. By recycling this material, Nucor is not only acting in a sustainable, responsible manner but is also substantially limiting its potential for future liability under both CERCLA and RCRA. 

Nucor operates an aggressive and sustainable environmental program that incorporates the concept of individual employee as well as management responsibility for environmental performance. All of Nucor&#146;s steelmaking operations are ISO 14001 certified. Achieving ISO 14001 certification means that each of Nucor&#146;s steel mills has put an environmental management system in place with measurable targets and objectives, such as reducing the use of oil and grease and minimizing electricity use, and has implemented site-wide recycling programs. These environmental management systems make environmental commitment each Nucor teammate&#146;s responsibility. Nucor&#146;s environmental program maintains a high level of ongoing training, commitment, outreach and visibility. 

&#160; 

Capital expenditures at our facilities that are associated with environmental regulation compliance for 2016 and 2017 are estimated to be less than $100 million per year. 

Employees 

Nucor has a simple, streamlined organizational structure to allow our employees to make quick decisions and to innovate. Our organization is highly decentralized, with most day-to-day operating decisions made by our division general managers and their staff. We have slightly more than 100 employees in our executive office. The vast majority of Nucor&#146;s approximately 23,700 employees are not represented by labor unions. 

Available Information 

Nucor&#146;s annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to these reports, are available on our website at www.nucor.com, as soon as reasonably practicable after Nucor files these reports electronically with, or furnishes them to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (&#147;SEC&#148;). Except as otherwise stated in these reports, the information contained on our website or available by hyperlink from our website is not incorporated into this Annual Report on Form 10-K or other documents we file with, or furnish to, the SEC. 

&#160;

