 ITEM 1. BUSINESS. 

Company Overview 

Inuvo, Inc. is an internet advertising technology and digital publishing company incorporated in the state of Nevada. Our corporate office is located in Little Rock, Arkansas. Our common stock is listed on the NYSE MKT under the symbol &#8220;INUV.&#8221; 

We develop technology to deliver content and targeted advertisements over the internet. We generate revenue when an end user clicks on the advertisements we delivered. We manage our business as two segments, the Partner Network and the Owned and Operated Network. In 2015 and 2014, Partner Network represented 43% &#32;and 52% &#32;of our revenue and the Owned and Operated Network 57% &#32;&#32;and 48% , respectively. 

The Partner Network delivers advertisements to our partners' owned or managed websites and applications on desktop, tablet and mobile devices. We generate revenue in this segment when an advertisement we serve is clicked. At that time, we share a portion of the revenue we collect from the advertiser with the publishing partner where the click originated. Our proprietary technology platform allows for targeted distribution of advertisements at a scale that measures in the hundreds of millions of advertisements delivered monthly. 

The Owned and Operated Network designs, builds and markets consumer websites and applications. This segment consists of our mobile-ready ALOT websites and acquired web properties. The focus is on providing engaging content to our users. The majority of revenue generated by this segment is derived from clicks on advertisements delivered through web searches and advertisements displayed on the websites. 

We have taken several significant steps to position our business for long-term success including investments in ad serving technology, the development of adaptive, native advertising technology, the creation of proprietary content, the expansion of publishers within the Partner Network, the continued expansion of direct relationships with advertisers, and the optimization of overhead and operational costs all of which we expect will improve revenue and profitability. Our ALOT-branded websites and applications have a broad appeal focusing on popular topics such as health, local search, finance, careers, travel, living and education. These sites are content rich, searchable, mobile-ready web properties. We plan to continue the expansion of our website and mobile application business by expanding the ALOT brand and acquiring websites. In 2015, we launched our proprietary native advertising solution for web publishers and application developers, "SearchLinks" &#174; . This is our entry product in the fast growing native advertising marketplace where ad copy seamlessly integrates with the content of the host website or application. SearchLinks was made available to the marketplace in the third quarter of 2015. We expect it to be a contributor to growth in 2016. 

Products and Services 

We deliver content and targeted advertisements to internet users, described as follows. 

Partner Network 

The Partner Network provides advertising services to businesses and owners of websites and applications interested in an advertising revenue stream for their desktop, tablet or mobile properties. 

&#8226; 

ValidClick: A proprietary software as a service platform that helps owners of websites and mobile applications monetize their properties. It offers a pay-per-click solution where advertisements are targeted to consumers based on content and behaviors. We are able to provide ValidClick users with access to hundreds of thousands of advertisers. 

&#8226; 

MYAP: A proprietary online affiliate management solution that provides advertisers with the ability to sign up, manage and track the activities of publishers through a privately-branded platform with full data transparency. Typically, each advertising customer is supported by a customized software implementation. 

Owned and Operated Network 

We own and operate consumer-facing internet sites and apps under the ALOT brand as well as under other brands we acquire. During 2012, we launched a local directory listing service at local.alot.com. During 2013, 2014, and 2015, we expanded our portfolio by launching content-rich, mobile-ready sites at health.alot.com, finance.alot.com careers.alot.com, travel.alot.com, 

living.alot.com, education.alot.com, search.alot.com and re-launching the alot.com home site. We generate revenue on these sites from advertising. 

Key Relationships 

We maintain long-standing relationships with Yahoo! and Google that provide access to hundreds of thousands of advertisers from which the revenue we generate originates. When an advertisement within either our Partner Network or Owned and Operated Network is clicked, we effectively sell that click to these partners who then sell it to the advertisers. We maintain multi-year service contracts with both companies. We renewed the Google agreement effective February 1, 2015 and the Yahoo! agreement, which was automatically renewed in April 2015 for a one year term, was extended until July 2016. In 2015 , these two customers accounted for 98.0% &#32;of our total revenue. 

Because our primary customers have significant influence in the marketplace, they will from time to time implement policy changes that impact our ability to display ads within our networks. Such changes may cause significant volatility in our revenue and earnings. The loss of either of these customers would have a material adverse effect on our business. 

In addition to our key customer relationships, in the Partner Network we maintain important distribution relationships with owners and publishers of websites and mobile applications. Through our relationship with Yahoo! we provide these partners with advertisements through which they monetize their websites and mobile applications. We continuously monitor our partners' traffic with a variety of proprietary and patent protected software tools that can determine the quality of the traffic that is viewing and clicking on served advertisements. 

Strategy 

We believe we have a competitive advantage due to owning three essential components of the end-to-end digital advertising ecosystem. Content : Virtually all the content we display on our sites is owned and developed by us. Our in-house team of writers and marketers develop material that attracts traffic to our internet properties. Marketing : The marketing of web properties is a sophisticated, data-driven, statistical endeavor that requires expert analysts and statisticians as well as experienced marketing professionals. We believe our team is among the best in the industry. Technology : We have state-of-the-art ad serving technology developed over the past ten years by our expert team of IT professionals. The technology assures instant ad serving of targeted ads which we believe yields high returns on investment, or ROIs, for publishers and more sales for advertisers. Owning these three assets gives us better control over our business and higher margins as we do not have the expense of outsourcing. 

Our Partner Network strategy has been to develop new advertising technology and expand our network of partners while maintaining the highest quality ad-clicks in the industry. We plan to continue this strategy into 2016 with a principal focus around the mobile channel. We plan to achieve our objectives by offering innovative ad units that we first develop on our Owned and Operated Network and then make available to our partners. We believe our ad units provide competitive monetization and superior targeting, particularly our native ad solution, SearchLinks. 

During 2015, we continued to expand our Owned and Operated Network, launching new ALOT-branded websites and significantly expanding the quantity and quality of content. We expanded our content team that generates our proprietary content that can be utilized and reused in a number of owned properties and applications. We plan to continue this strategy into 2016. These websites are all mobile ready and designed to deliver engaging content to our users. We also acquired two websites that further expanded our growth strategy within the Owned and Operated segment. 

Sales and Marketing 

We drive general awareness of our brands through various marketing channels including our websites, social media, blogs, public relations, trade shows, conferences and similar means. Marketing for our products differs by segment. 

The Partner Network employs sales professionals that build and maintain relationships with advertisers and partners. Owners and publishers of websites and mobile applications are recruited into our network, serving as a delivery vehicle for the advertisements within this segment. 

The Owned and Operated Network uses various marketing and optimization techniques to drive traffic and build awareness for the sites, engaging with various direct and indirect advertisers whose offers are placed on the sites and within the apps. 

Competition 

We face significant competition in our industry. Competitors are increasing their suite of offerings across marketing channels as a means to better compete for total advertising dollars. 

A significant number of our competitors in both segments have greater name recognition and are better capitalized than we are. Our ability to remain competitive in our market segment depends upon our ability to be innovative and to efficiently provide unique solutions to our customers and vendors. There are no assurances we will be able to remain competitive in our markets in the future. 

Partner Network 

Success in the Partner Network is dependent on recruiting and retaining owners and publishers of websites and mobile applications who display our advertisements. We believe our proprietary software platform, the ability to quickly implement and provide new services, and the access to thousands of advertisements are significant advantages for us in building our partner base. Our competitors include companies with direct access to advertisers, such as Yahoo! and Google, Criteo SA, Blucora, Inc. and a number of companies like ours with access to advertisers. Our partners face few barriers to switching advertising technology providers, so to compete effectively we must offer a better service than our competitors with a competitive rate of return for our partners. 

Owned and Operated Network 

Consumers have many choices in online content, and we believe that our success in the Owned and Operated Network is directly tied to our ability to provide easy access to valuable content and market it effectively. Our experience in search engine marketing and the creation of proprietary content helps us compete in this segment. We have many direct competitors, including Google, Yahoo!, WebMD LLC, Internet Brands, Inc., Demand Media, Inc. and others, all of which offer online media or entertainment through websites, mobile apps or software products. 

Technology Platforms 

Our proprietary applications are constructed from established, readily available technologies. Some of the basic components our products are built on components from leading software and hardware providers such as Oracle, Microsoft, Sun, Dell, EMC, and Cisco, while some components are constructed from leading Open Source software projects such as Apache Web Server, MySQL, Java, Perl, and Linux. By seeking to strike the proper balance between using commercially available software and Open Source software, our technology expenditures are directed toward maintaining our technology platforms while minimizing third-party technology supplier costs. 

We strive to build high-performance, availability and reliability into our product offerings. We safeguard against the potential for service interruptions at our third-party technology vendors by engineering controls into our critical components. We deliver our hosted solutions from facilities, geographically disbursed throughout the United States. Our applications are monitored 24 hours a day, 365 days a year by specialized monitoring systems that aggregate alarms to a human-staffed network operations center. If a problem occurs, appropriate engineers are notified and corrective action is taken. 

Intellectual Property Rights 

We currently rely on a combination of copyright, trademark and trade secret laws and restrictions on disclosure to protect our intellectual property rights. Our success depends on the protection of the proprietary aspects of our technology as well as our ability to operate without infringing on the proprietary rights of others. We also enter into proprietary information and confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants and commercial partners and control access to, and distribution of, our software documentation and other proprietary information. We have registered a number of trademarks including ValidClick&#174;, ValidClick AdExchange&#174;, MyAP&#174;, Second Bite&#174;, Kowa!Bunga&#174;, Inuvo&#174;, Zubican&#8482;, LocalXML&#8482;, Yellowise&#8482; and trade and service registrations related to our products or services, including U.S. Federal Registration for ALOT&#174; in the United States. 

As of the date of this report we own two patents issued by the United States Patent and Trademark Office and have applied for a provisional patent to protect the technology that drives the SearchLinks process and algorithms. 

"System and Method for Enabling Information Associations" which was issued on April 1, 2008, and the expiration date of which as determined based on patent term adjustment as calculated by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office ("USPTO") is 

September 11, 2021. "Method for Preventing Real Time Click Fraud Detection, Prevention and Reporting for Online Advertising" which was issued on November 27, 2012, and the expiration date of which is January 22, 2030, as determined based on patent term adjustment as calculated by the USPTO. The applied for SearchLinks provisional patent relates to pairing relevant advertisements with established web page content and more particularly to processing page content and retrieving relevant advertisements based on optimal comparisons and scoring criteria. 

Although patents are only one component of the protection of intellectual property rights, if our patent applications are challenged, it may result in increased competition and the development of products substantially similar to our own. In addition, it is difficult to monitor unauthorized use of technology, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States, and our competitors may independently develop technology similar to our own. We will continue to assess appropriate occasions for seeking patent and other intellectual property protections for those aspects of our technology that we believe constitute innovations providing significant competitive advantages. 

In addition to www.inuvo.com, we own multiple domain names that we may or may not operate in the future. However, as with phone numbers, we do not have and cannot acquire any property rights in an Internet address. The regulation of domain names in the United States and in other countries is also subject to change. Regulatory bodies could establish additional top-level domains, appoint additional domain name registrars or modify the requirements for holding domain names. As a result, we might not be able to maintain our domain names or obtain comparable domain names, which could harm our business. 

Employees 

As of January 31, 2016 , we had 52 &#32;full-time employees, none of which are covered by a collective bargaining agreement. 

Seasonality 

Our future results of operations may be subject to fluctuation as a result of seasonality. Historically, in the later part of the fourth quarter and the earlier part of the first quarter we experience lower Revenue Per Click (&#8220;RPC&#8221;) due to a decline in demand for inventory on websites and apps and the recalibrating of advertiser&#8217;s marketing budgets after the holiday selling season. If we are not able to appropriately adjust to seasonal or other factors, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. 

History 

We were incorporated under the laws of the state of Nevada in October 1987 and operated within the oil and gas industry. This endeavor was not profitable, and from 1993 to 1997 we had essentially no operations. In 1997 we reorganized and through 2006 we acquired a number of companies involved in advertising and internet marketing. In 2009, following the weakness in the economy, a new team was called in to assess the array of businesses that had been acquired in the preceding years and as a result between 2009 and 2011, we sold or retired eleven businesses. 

In March 2012, we acquired Vertro, Inc. ("Vertro"), which owns and operates the ALOT product portfolio. This acquisition included the ALOT brand and the Appbar product, as well as a long-standing relationship with Google. 

More Information 

Our web site address is www.inuvo.com. We file with, or furnish to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports, as well as various other information. This information can be found on the SEC website at www.sec.gov. In addition, we make available free of charge through the Investor Relations page of our web site our annual reports, quarterly reports, and current reports, and all amendments to any of those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after providing such reports to the SEC. 

