 ITEM 1. BUSINESS General Description of Business 

Air Products and Chemicals, Inc. (&#147;we,&#148; &#147;our,&#148; &#147;us,&#148; the &#147;Company,&#148; &#147;Air Products,&#148; or &#147;registrant&#148;), a Delaware corporation originally founded in 1940, serves energy, electronics, chemicals, metals, and manufacturing customers globally with a unique portfolio of products, services, and solutions that include atmospheric gases, process and specialty gases, electronics and performance materials, equipment, and services. The Company is the world&#146;s largest supplier of hydrogen and has built leading positions in growth markets such as helium, refinery hydrogen, semiconductor materials, natural gas liquefaction, and advanced coatings and adhesives. As used in this report, unless the context indicates otherwise, the terms &#147;we,&#148; &#147;our,&#148; &#147;us,&#148; the &#147;Company,&#148; or &#147;registrant&#148; include controlled subsidiaries, affiliates, and predecessors of Air Products and its controlled subsidiaries and affiliates. 

During its fiscal year ended 30 September 2016 (&#147;fiscal year 2016&#148;), the Company manufactured and distributed products in two principal lines of business: Industrial Gases and Materials Technologies. Industrial Gases&#146; primary products were atmospheric gases, process gases, and equipment for air separation. Materials Technologies&#146; primary products were performance materials and chemicals, such as epoxy amine curing agents, polyurethane catalysts, additives, and specialty surfactants, and electronic materials such as specialty gases, chemical mechanical planarization slurries, and specialty chemicals. The Company also designs and manufactures equipment for natural gas liquefaction and helium distribution. 

At the beginning of the fiscal year, the Company reported its business in seven reporting segments under which it managed its operations, assessed performance, and reported earnings: Industrial Gases &#150; Americas; Industrial Gases &#150; EMEA (Europe, Middle East, and Africa); Industrial Gases &#150; Asia; Industrial Gases &#150; Global; Materials Technologies; Energy-from-Waste; and Corporate and other. On 29 March 2016, the Board of Directors approved the Company&#146;s exit of its Energy-from-Waste business based on continued difficulties encountered in making its two Energy-from-Waste projects operational and the Company&#146;s conclusion, based on testing and analysis completed during the second quarter of fiscal year 2016, that significant additional time and resources would be required to make the projects operational. The Energy-from-Waste segment is now presented as a discontinued operation. Refer to Note 26, Business Segment and Geographic Information, to the consolidated financial statements for additional details on our reportable business segments.

On 16 September 2015, the Company announced that its Board of Directors approved a preliminary plan to spin off its Materials Technologies business, which contained the Electronic Materials and Performance Materials businesses. On 6 May 2016, the Company entered into an agreement to sell certain subsidiaries and assets comprising the Performance Materials business to Evonik Industries AG for $3.8 billion in cash and the assumption of certain liabilities. The Company also announced its intention to proceed with the spin-off of the Electronic Materials business. In preparation for the spin-off, Air Products transferred operations, employees, assets, and liabilities of the Electronic Materials business to its wholly owned subsidiary, Versum Materials, Inc. (Versum). On 1 October 2016, Air Products distributed all of the shares of Versum Materials, Inc. to its shareholders, creating a new publicly traded corporation. As of 30 September 2016, the results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows for the Electronic Materials and Performance Materials businesses are presented within the Company&#146;s consolidated financial statements as continuing operations. Beginning with the first quarter of fiscal year 2017, the historical results of Electronic Materials will be presented as a discontinued operation. The historical results of Performance Materials will be reflected as a discontinued operation when it becomes probable for the sale to occur and actions required to meet the plan of sale indicate that it is unlikely that significant changes will occur. 

&#160;

Narrative Description of Business by Segments 

Industrial Gases Business 

The Company&#146;s Industrial Gases business produces atmospheric gases (oxygen, nitrogen, argon, and rare gases), process gases (hydrogen, helium, carbon dioxide, carbon monoxide, syngas and specialty gases) and equipment for the production or processing of gases such as air separation units and non-cryogenic generators. Atmospheric gases are produced through various air separation processes of which cryogenic is the most prevalent. Process gases are produced by methods other than air separation. For example, hydrogen is produced by steam methane reforming of natural gas or by purifying byproduct sources obtained from the chemical and petrochemical industries; and helium is produced as a byproduct of gases extracted from underground reservoirs, primarily natural gas, but also carbon dioxide purified before resale. 

The Company&#146;s Industrial Gases business is organized and operated regionally. The regional Industrial Gases segments (Americas, EMEA, and Asia) supply gases and related equipment in the relevant region to diversified customers in many industries, including those in metals, glass, chemical processing, electronics, energy production and refining, food processing, metallurgical industries, medical, and general manufacturing. Hydrogen is used by refiners to facilitate the conversion of heavy crude feedstock and lower the sulfur content of gasoline and diesel fuels. The chemicals industry uses hydrogen, oxygen, nitrogen, carbon monoxide and syngas as feedstocks in the production of many basic chemicals. The energy production industry uses nitrogen injection for enhanced recovery of oil and natural gas and oxygen for gasification. Oxygen is used in combustion and industrial heating applications, including in the steel, certain nonferrous metals, glass and cement industries. Nitrogen applications are used in food processing for freezing and preserving flavor and nitrogen for inerting is used in various fields, including the metallurgical, chemical, and semiconductor industries. Helium is used in laboratories and healthcare for cooling and in other industries for pressurizing, purging and lifting. Argon is used in the metals and other industries for its unique inerting, thermal conductivity and other properties. Industrial gases are also used in welding and providing healthcare and are utilized in various manufacturing processes to make them more efficient and to optimize performance. 

We distribute gases to our customers through a variety of supply modes: 

Liquid Bulk&#151; Product is delivered in bulk (in liquid or gaseous form) by tanker or tube trailer and stored, usually in its liquid state, in equipment designed and installed typically by the Company at the customer&#146;s site for vaporizing into a gaseous state as needed. Liquid bulk sales are usually governed by three- to five-year contracts. 

Packaged Gases&#151; Small quantities of product are delivered in either cylinders or dewars. The Company operates packaged gas businesses in Europe, Asia, and Latin America. In the United States, the Company&#146;s packaged gas business sells products only for the electronics and magnetic resonance imaging (principally helium) industries. 

On-Site Gases&#151; Large quantities of hydrogen, nitrogen, oxygen, carbon monoxide, and syngas (a mixture of hydrogen and carbon monoxide) are provided to customers, principally the energy production and refining, chemical, and metallurgical industries worldwide who require large volumes of gases that have relatively constant demand. Gases are produced at large facilities located adjacent to customers&#146; facilities or by pipeline systems from centrally located production facilities and are generally governed by 15- to 20- year contracts. The Company also delivers small quantities of product through small on-site plants (cryogenic or non-cryogenic generators), typically either via a 10- to 15- year sale of gas contract or through the sale of the equipment to the customer. 

Electricity is the largest cost component in the production of atmospheric gases, and natural gas is the principal raw material for hydrogen, carbon monoxide, and syngas production. We mitigate energy and natural gas price fluctuations contractually through pricing formulas, surcharges, and cost pass-through arrangements. During fiscal year 2016, no significant difficulties were encountered in obtaining adequate supplies of power and natural gas. 

The regional Industrial Gases segments also include our share of the results of several joint ventures accounted for by the equity method. The largest of these joint ventures operate in Mexico, Italy, South Africa, India, Saudi Arabia, and Thailand. 

&#160;

Each of the regional Industrial Gases segments competes against three global industrial gas companies: Air Liquide S.A., Linde AG, and Praxair, Inc.; as well as regional competitors. Competition in Industrial Gases is based primarily on price, reliability of supply, and the development of industrial gas applications. In locations where we have pipeline networks, which enable us to provide reliable and economic supply of products to larger customers, we derive a competitive advantage. 

Overall regional industrial gases sales constituted approximately 76% of consolidated sales in fiscal year 2016, 76% in fiscal year 2015, and 77% in fiscal year 2014. Sales of tonnage hydrogen and related products constituted approximately 17% of consolidated sales in fiscal year 2016, 19% in fiscal year 2015, and 22% in fiscal year 2014. Sales of atmospheric gases constituted approximately 36% of consolidated sales in fiscal year 2016, 35% in fiscal year 2015 and 33% in fiscal year 2014.

Industrial Gases Equipment 

The Company designs and manufactures equipment for air separation, hydrocarbon recovery and purification, natural gas liquefaction (LNG), and liquid helium and liquid hydrogen transport and storage. The Industrial Gases &#150; Global segment includes cryogenic and non-cryogenic equipment for air separation. The equipment is sold worldwide to customers in a variety of industries, including chemical and petrochemical manufacturing, oil and gas recovery, and processing and steel and primary metals processing. Other activities, which are managed globally instead of regionally, are also part of this segment, such as technology development for air separation. The Corporate and other segment includes two global equipment businesses, our LNG sale of equipment business and our liquid helium and liquid hydrogen transport and storage containers business. Steel, aluminum, and capital equipment subcomponents (compressors, etc.) are the principal raw materials in the manufacturing of equipment in this business segment. Adequate raw materials for individual projects are acquired under firm purchase agreements. Equipment is produced at the Company&#146;s manufacturing sites with certain components being procured from subcontractors and vendors. Competition in the equipment business is based primarily on technological performance, service, technical know-how, price and performance guarantees. 

The backlog of equipment orders was approximately $1.1 billion on 30 September 2016 (as compared with a total backlog of approximately $1.5 billion on 30 September 2015) and primarily contains Air Products&#146; share of the multi-year contract with a joint venture in Jazan, Saudi Arabia for the construction of an industrial gas facility that will supply gases to Saudi Arabian Oil Company (Saudi Aramco). Revenue from this contract is recognized under the percent complete method based on costs incurred to date compared with total expected costs to be incurred. The Company estimates that between 60-70% of the total sales backlog as of 30 September 2016 will be recognized as revenue during fiscal year 2017, dependent on execution schedules of the relevant projects. 

Materials Technologies 

Materials Technologies is a global business that delivers innovation-driven solutions for specific customer applications within niche markets. This segment employs applications technology to provide solutions to a broad range of global industries through chemical synthesis, analytical technology, process engineering, and surface science. It is comprised of two business divisions: Performance Materials, which is focused on a portfolio of additives products that provide high value properties at low cost across a variety of industries, and Electronic Materials, which is focused on supplying critical materials and equipment to the semiconductor industry. The Company completed the spin-off of the Electronic Materials business on 1 October 2016 and has entered into an agreement for the sale of the Performance Materials business, which is subject to regulatory approval and other conditions. 

The Performance Materials business has critical competencies in specialty amines, alkoxylates and silicone chemistries. The business provides a range of products concentrated in the areas of epoxy curing agents, accelerators and catalysts, polyurethane catalysts, surfactants and curatives and specialty additives, including surfactants, wetting agents, dispersants and de-foaming agents. The products are used in a variety of industry applications, including coatings, inks, adhesives, construction and civil engineering, personal care, institutional and industrial cleaning, mining, oil refining, and polyurethanes. The Performance Materials businesses focus on the development of new additive materials aimed at providing unique technologies and functionality. 

The Electronic Materials business maintained critical competencies in molecular design, formulation expertise, and ultra-high purity chemistry. This division provided the semiconductor industry with high purity process materials for deposition, metallization, chamber cleaning and etching, chemicals mechanical planarization slurries, 

&#160;

organosilanes, organometalics and liquid dopants for thin film deposition, formulated chemical products for post-etch cleaning and delivery equipment and services primarily for the manufacture of silicon and compound semiconductors and thin film transistor liquid crystal displays. 

Both businesses are based on strong customer relationships and collaborative development, technology and innovation leadership, unique product positioning, and a strong global infrastructure with in-region flexible manufacturing capabilities. The segment maintains manufacturing operations in North America, Europe and Asia and manages a complex global supply chain. Products are delivered in bulk containers of different sizes, some of which are returnable. 

Materials Technologies uses a wide variety of raw materials including amines and amine derivatives, alcohols and surfactants, tungsten powder, ethylene oxide, and ketones. During fiscal year 2016, no significant difficulties were encountered in obtaining adequate supplies of energy or raw materials. 

Materials Technologies faces competition on a product-by-product basis against competitors ranging from niche suppliers with a single product to larger and more vertically integrated companies. Competition is principally conducted on the basis of price, quality, product performance, reliability of product supply, technical innovation, service, and global infrastructure. 

Total sales from Materials Technologies constituted approximately 21% of consolidated sales in fiscal year 2016, 21% of consolidated sales in fiscal year 2015, and 20% in fiscal year 2014. Performance Materials Division sales constituted approximately 11% of consolidated sales in fiscal year 2016, 11% in fiscal year 2015, and 11% in fiscal year 2014, and Electronic Materials Division sales constituted approximately 10% of consolidated sales in fiscal year 2016, 10% of consolidated sales in fiscal year 2015, and 9% in fiscal year 2014. 

Narrative Description of the Company&#146;s Business Generally 

The Company, through subsidiaries, affiliates, and less-than-controlling interests, conducts business in 50 countries outside the United States. Its international businesses are subject to risks customarily encountered in foreign operations, including fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and controls; import and export controls; and other economic, political, and regulatory policies of local governments. 

The Company has majority or wholly owned foreign subsidiaries that operate in Canada, 17 European countries (including the United Kingdom, the Netherlands, and Spain), 11 Asian countries (including China, Korea, and Taiwan), 7 Latin American countries (including Chile and Brazil), 2 African countries, and 1 Middle Eastern country. The Company also owns less-than-controlling interests in entities operating in Europe, Asia, Africa, the Middle East, and Latin America (including Italy, Germany, China, India, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, Thailand, United Arab Emirates, South Africa, and Mexico). 

Financial information about the Company&#146;s foreign operations and investments is included in Note 8, Summarized Financial Information of Equity Affiliates; Note 23, Income Taxes; and Note 26, Business Segment and Geographic Information, to the consolidated financial statements included under Item 8, herein. Information about foreign currency translation is included under &#147;Foreign Currency&#148; in Note 1, Major Accounting Policies, and information on the Company&#146;s exposure to currency fluctuations is included in Note 13, Financial Instruments, to the consolidated financial statements, included under Item 8, below, and in &#147;Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk,&#148; included under Item 7A, below. Export sales from operations in the United States to third-party customers amounted to $307.7 million, $398.8 million, and $378.7 million in fiscal years 2016, 2015, and 2014, respectively. 

Technology Development 

The Company pursues a market-oriented approach to technology development through research and development, engineering, and commercial development processes. It conducts research and development principally in its laboratories located in the United States (Trexlertown, Pennsylvania; Carlsbad, California; Milton, Wisconsin; and Phoenix, Arizona), Canada (Vancouver), the United Kingdom (Basingstoke and Carrington), Germany (Hamburg), the Netherlands (Utrecht), Spain (Barcelona), Japan (Kawasaki), China (Shanghai), Korea (Giheung), and Taiwan (Chupei and Hsinchu City). The Company also funds and cooperates in research and development programs conducted by a number of major universities and undertakes research work funded by others&#151;principally the United States government. 

The Company&#146;s research groups are aligned with and support the research efforts of various businesses throughout the Company. Development of technology for use within the Industrial Gases business focuses 

&#160;

primarily on new and improved processes and equipment for the production and delivery of industrial gases and new or improved applications for industrial gas products. Research and technology development for Materials Technologies supports development of new products and applications to strengthen and extend the Company&#146;s present positions as well as to lower processing costs and develop new processes for the new products. 

Research and development expenditures were $132.0 million during fiscal year 2016, $137.1 million during fiscal year 2015, and $139.8 million in fiscal year 2014. In addition, the Company expended approximately $1 million on customer sponsored research activities during fiscal year 2016, $6 million during fiscal year 2015, and $19 million in fiscal year 2014. 

The Company owns approximately 970 United States patents, approximately 3,900 foreign patents, and is a licensee under certain patents owned by others. While the patents and licenses are considered important, the Company does not consider its business as a whole to be materially dependent upon any particular patent, patent license, or group of patents or licenses. 

Environmental Controls 

The Company is subject to various environmental laws and regulations in the countries in which it has operations. Compliance with these laws and regulations results in higher capital expenditures and costs. In the normal course of business, the Company is involved in legal proceedings under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (CERCLA: the federal Superfund law); Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA); and similar state and foreign environmental laws relating to the designation of certain sites for investigation or remediation. Additional information with respect to these proceedings is included under Item 3, Legal Proceedings, below. The Company&#146;s accounting policy for environmental expenditures is discussed in Note 1, Major Accounting Policies, and environmental loss contingencies are discussed in Note 17, Commitments and Contingencies, to the consolidated financial statements, included under Item 8, below. 

The amounts charged to income from continuing operations related to environmental matters totaled $27.0 million in fiscal year 2016, $28.3 million in fiscal 2015, and $35.1 million in 2014. These amounts represent an estimate of expenses for compliance with environmental laws and activities undertaken to meet internal Company standards. Refer to Note 17, Commitments and Contingencies, to the consolidated financial statements for additional information. 

The Company estimates that we spent $7 million in 2016, $4 million in 2015 and $5 million in 2014 on capital projects to control pollution. Capital expenditures to control pollution in future years are estimated to be approximately $3 million in both 2017 and 2018.

Employees 

On 30 September 2016, the Company (including majority-owned subsidiaries) had approximately 18,600 employees, of whom approximately 18,300 were full-time employees and of whom approximately 11,800 were located outside the United States. The Company has collective bargaining agreements with unions at various locations that expire on various dates over the next four years. The Company considers relations with its employees to be satisfactory. 

Available Information 

All periodic and current reports, registration statements, and other filings that the Company is required to file with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), including the Company&#146;s annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the 1934 Act Reports), are available free of charge through the Company&#146;s Internet website at www.airproducts.com. Such documents are available as soon as reasonably practicable after electronic filing of the material with the SEC. All 1934 Act Reports filed during the period covered by this report were available on the Company&#146;s website on the same day as filing. 

The public may also read and copy any materials filed by the Company with the SEC at the SEC&#146;s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy, and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. The address of that site is www.sec.gov. 

&#160;

Seasonality 

Although the Company&#146;s businesses are not subject to seasonal fluctuations to any material extent, Materials Technologies is susceptible to the cyclical nature of the electronics industry and to seasonal fluctuations in underlying end-use performance materials markets. 

Working Capital 

Our working capital balance was a positive $1,034 at 30 September 2016. The cash and cash items balance is higher than our historical trend and primarily results from transactions related to the anticipated spin-off of Versum and positive operating cash flows. 

The Company maintains inventory where required to facilitate the supply of products to customers on a reasonable delivery schedule. Industrial Gases&#146; inventory consists primarily of industrial gas, specialty gas, and crude helium inventories supplied to customers through liquid bulk and packaged gases supply modes. Materials Technologies&#146; inventories consist primarily of bulk and packaged specialty gases and chemicals, bulk and packaged performance chemical solutions and also include inventories to support sales of equipment and services. 

Customers 

We do not have a homogeneous customer base or end market, and no single customer accounts for more than 10% of our consolidated revenues. We do have concentrations of customers in specific industries, primarily refining, chemicals, and electronics. Within each of these industries, the Company has several large-volume customers with long-term contracts. A negative trend affecting one of these industries, or the loss of one of these major customers, although not material to our consolidated revenue, could have an adverse impact on the affected segment. 

Governmental Contracts 

No segment&#146;s business is subject to a government entity&#146;s renegotiation of profits or termination of contracts that would be material to our business as a whole. 

&#160;

Executive Officers of the Company 

The Company&#146;s executive officers and their respective positions and ages on 21 November 2016 follow. Information with respect to offices held is stated in fiscal years. 

&#160;

Name &#160; Age &#160; &#160; Office &#160; &#160; M. Scott Crocco

&#160; &#160; 52 &#160; &#160; Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (became Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer in 2016; Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer in 2013; and Vice President and Corporate Controller in 2008). &#160; Russell A. Flugel

&#160; &#160; 47 &#160; &#160; Vice President, Corporate Controller and Principal Accounting Officer (became Vice President, Corporate Controller and Principal Accounting Officer in 2015; Corporate Controller in 2014; Director, Accounting and Corporate Decision Support in 2013; and Director, Corporate Decision Support, Technical Accounting and Consolidation in 2011). &#160; Seifi Ghasemi

&#160; &#160; 72 &#160; &#160; Chairman, President, and Chief Executive Officer (became Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer in 2014 and Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Rockwood Holdings, Inc. in 2001). Mr. Ghasemi is a member and Chairman of the Board of Directors and the Chairman of the Executive Committee of the Board of Directors. &#160; Jennifer L. Grant

&#160; &#160; 44 &#160; &#160; Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer (became Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer in 2013). Prior to joining Air Products, was Vice President of Human Resources for Pfizer Inc. Specialty Products and Oncology Divisions from 2009-2013. &#160; Corning F. Painter

&#160; &#160; 54 &#160; &#160; Executive Vice President Industrial Gases (became Executive Vice President Industrial Gases in 2015; Senior Vice President and General Manager &#150;Merchant Gases in 2014; Senior Vice President &#150; Supply Chain in 2012; Senior Vice President &#150;Corporate Strategy and Technology in 2011; and Vice President and General Manager, Global Electronics in 2007). &#160; &#160;

