 Item 1. 

BUSINESS 

(Dollar amounts in millions, except for per share data, unless otherwise stated) 

General 

The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc. (together with its subsidiaries, &#8220;The Hartford&#8221;, the &#8220;Company&#8221;, &#8220;we&#8221;, or &#8220;our&#8221;) is a holding company for a group of subsidiaries that provide property and casualty insurance, group benefits and mutual funds to individual and business customers in the United States and continues to administer life and annuity products previously sold. The Hartford is headquartered in Connecticut and its oldest subsidiary, Hartford Fire Insurance Company, dates to 1810. At December 31, 2015 , total assets and total stockholders&#8217; equity of The Hartford were $228 billion and $17.6 billion , respectively. 

Organization 

The Hartford strives to maintain and enhance its position as a market leader within the financial services industry. The Company sells diverse and innovative products through multiple distribution channels to individuals and businesses. The Company seeks on an ongoing basis to develop and expand its distribution channels, achieving cost efficiencies through economies of scale and investments in technology, and capitalize on the strength of its brand, including The Hartford Stag logo, one of the most recognized symbols in the financial services industry. 

As a holding company, The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc. is separate and distinct from its subsidiaries and has no significant business operations of its own. Therefore, it relies on the dividends from its insurance companies and other subsidiaries as the principal source of cash flow to meet its obligations, pay dividends and repurchase common stock. Information regarding the cash flow and liquidity needs of The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc. may be found in Part II, Item 7, Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (&#8220;MD&#38;A&#8221;) &#8212; Capital Resources and Liquidity. 

Reporting Segments 

The Hartford conducts business principally in six reporting segments including Commercial Lines, Personal Lines, Property &#38; Casualty Other Operations, Group Benefits, Mutual Funds and Talcott Resolution, as well as a Corporate category. The Hartford includes in its Corporate category the Company&#8217;s capital raising activities (including debt financing and related interest expense), purchase accounting adjustments related to goodwill and other expenses not allocated to the reporting segments. 

The following discussion describes the principal products and services, marketing and distribution, and competition of The Hartford's reporting segments. For further discussion of the reporting segments, including financial disclosures of revenues by product line, net income (loss), and assets for each reporting segment, see Note 3 &#32;- Segment Information &#32;of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Commercial Lines 

Principal Products and Services 

Commercial Lines provides workers&#8217; compensation, property, automobile, liability, umbrella, marine and livestock insurance products to businesses, primarily throughout the United States. The Commercial Lines segment includes three lines of business: small commercial; middle market; and specialty. The majority of Commercial Lines written premium is generated by small commercial and middle market, which provide coverage options and customized pricing based on the policyholder&#8217;s individualized risk characteristics. Specialty provides a variety of customized insurance products and services including workers&#8217; compensation, automobile, general liability, professional liability, bond, and specialty casualty coverages. 

Small commercial provides workers' compensation, automobile, property and liability coverages for small businesses. The Company considers small businesses those with annual payroll under $12, revenues under $25 and property values less than $20 per location. Property and liability coverages are offered as part of a single package policy, marketed under the Spectrum name. Middle market provides medium-sized businesses, which are companies whose payroll, revenue and property values exceed the small business definition, with workers&#8217; compensation, property, automobile, liability, umbrella, marine and livestock coverages. 

Within specialty, a significant portion of the business is written through large deductible programs for national accounts. The business also provides retrospectively-rated programs where the premiums are adjustable based on loss experience. The financial products business provides management and professional liability products including D&#38;O (directors and officers) and E&#38;O (errors and omissions) insurance. The bond business provides businesses with contract surety bonds, commercial surety and fidelity coverage. The captive programs business provides tailored programs primarily to customers with common risk characteristics and those seeking a loss sensitive solution. 

Marketing and Distribution 

Commercial Lines provide insurance products and services through the Company&#8217;s domestic offices and insurance centers. The products are marketed nationally utilizing independent agents, brokers and wholesalers. The independent agent and broker distribution channel is consolidating and this trend is expected to continue. This will likely result in a larger proportion of written premium being concentrated among fewer agents and brokers. In addition, the Company offers insurance products to customers of payroll service providers through its relationships with major national payroll companies and to members of affinity organizations. 

Competition 

In small commercial, The Hartford competes against large national carriers, as well as regional carriers in certain territories. Competitors include stock companies, mutual companies and other underwriting organizations. The small commercial market is competitive as carriers seek to differentiate themselves through product expansion, price reduction, enhanced service and cutting-edge technology. Larger carriers such as The Hartford have improved their pricing sophistication and ease of doing business with agents and customers through the use of technology, analytics and other capabilities that improve the process of evaluating a risk, quoting new business and servicing customers. The Company is also adding to its digital capabilities as customers and distributors demand more access and convenience, and expanding product and underwriting capabilities to accommodate both larger accounts and a broader risk appetite. 

Written premium growth rates have been low for the insurance industry in the small commercial market due to weak economic conditions. This has put pressure on underwriting margins as competitors seek new business by increasing their underwriting appetite, and deepening their relationships with distribution partners. Also, carriers serving middle market-sized accounts are more aggressively competing for small commercial accounts, which are generally less price-sensitive. 

Middle market business is considered &#8220;high touch&#8221; and involves individualized underwriting and pricing decisions. The pricing of middle market accounts is prone to significant variation or cyclicality over time due to changes in individual account characteristics and exposure, as well as legislative and macro-economic forces. In addition, various state legislative reforms in recent years designed to control workers compensation indemnity costs have led to rate reductions in many states. These factors, characterized by highly competitive pricing on new business, have resulted in more customers shopping their policies for a lower price. In the face of this competitive environment, The Hartford is working to deepen its product and underwriting capabilities, and leverage its sales and underwriting talent with tools it has introduced in recent years. Through advanced training and analytics, the Company&#8217;s field underwriters are working to improve risk selection and pricing decisions. In product development, and related areas such as claims and risk engineering, the Company is extending its capabilities in industry verticals, such as construction, auto parts manufacturing and hospitality. The Company has also added new middle market underwriters into the Midwest and Western U.S. to deepen relationships with its distribution partners. 

Specialty competes on an account- by-account basis due to the complex nature of each transaction. Competition in this market includes stock companies, mutual companies, alternative risk sharing groups and other underwriting organizations. The Hartford&#8217;s relatively large size and underwriting capacity is a competitive advantage over smaller insurance companies. 

For specialty casualty businesses, written pricing competition continues to be significant, particularly for the larger individual accounts. Carriers are aggressively negotiating renewals with customers by initiating the process in advance of the policy renewal date to improve retention and reduce new business opportunities for competitors. As written pricing increases, more insureds may opt for the loss-sensitive products offered in our national accounts segment, including retrospectively rated contracts, in lieu of guaranteed cost policies. Within national accounts, the Company is planning to introduce a new risk management platform, allowing customers better access to claim data and other information needed by corporate risk managers. This investment will allow the Company to work more closely with customers to improve long-term account performance. 

In the bond business, favorable underwriting results in recent years have led to increased competition for market share, setting the stage for potential written price decreases. Public construction project work has slowed, resulting in only modest growth for Contract Surety business. 

In professional liability, large and medium-sized businesses are in differing competitive environments. Large public D&#38;O, specifically excess layers, is under significant competitive price pressure. The middle market private management liability segment is in a more stable competitive and pricing environment. 

Personal Lines 

Principal Products and Services 

Personal Lines provides automobile, homeowners and personal umbrella coverages to individuals across the United States, including a program designed exclusively for members of AARP (&#8220;AARP Program&#8221;). The Hartford's auto and homeowners products provide coverage options and pricing tailored to a customer's individual risk. The Hartford has individual customer relationships with AARP Program policyholders and, as a group, they represent a significant portion of the total Personal Lines' business. Business sold to AARP members, either direct or through independent agents, amounted to earned premiums of $3.2 billion , $3.0 billion &#32;and $2.9 billion &#32;in 2015 , 2014 &#32;and 2013 , respectively. 

During 2015, Personal Lines completed the rollout of its new auto product, Open Road , which is now available in 44 states. The Open Road product increases pricing flexibility and market responsiveness, and continues to be refined based on experience. In addition, Personal Lines has rolled out its telematics program, TrueLane , to more states, and the program is currently available to customers in 44 states in both the direct and independent agent channels. 

Marketing and Distribution 

Personal Lines reaches diverse customers through multiple distribution channels, including direct-to-consumer and independent agents. In direct-to-consumer, Personal Lines markets its products through a mix of media, including direct mail, digital marketing, television and advertising, both digitally and in publications. Through the agency channel, Personal Lines provides products and services to customers through a network of independent agents in the standard personal lines market, primarily serving mature, preferred consumers. These independent agents are not employees of the Company. 

Personal Lines has made significant investments in offering direct and agency-based customers the opportunity to interact with the company online, including via mobile devices. In addition, its technology platform for telephone sales centers enables sales representatives to provide an enhanced customer experience, positioning The Hartford to offer unique capabilities to AARP&#8217;s member base. 

Most of Personal Lines' sales are associated with its exclusive licensing arrangement with AARP, with the current agreement in place through January 1, 2023 , to market automobile, homeowners and personal umbrella coverages to AARP's nearly 38 million &#32;members, either direct or through independent agents. This agreement provides Personal Lines with an important competitive advantage given the expected growth of the population of those over age 50 &#32;and the strength of the AARP brand. The Company has expanded its relationship with AARP to provide its industry-leading small business products offered by Commercial Lines to AARP members who are small business owners. 

In addition to selling product through its relationship with AARP, Personal Lines sells products to non-AARP customers, primarily through the independent agent channel and within select underwriting markets where we believe we have a competitive advantage. 

Competition 

The personal lines automobile and homeowners insurance markets are highly competitive. Personal lines insurance is written by insurance companies of varying sizes that compete on the basis of price, product, service (including claims handling), stability of the insurer and brand recognition. Companies with recognized brands, direct sales capability and economies of scale will have a competitive advantage. In recent years, a number of carriers have increased their advertising in an effort to gain new business and retain profitable business. This has been particularly true of carriers that sell directly to the consumer. Industry sales of personal lines insurance direct to the consumer have been growing faster than sales through agents, particularly for auto insurance. 

Carriers that distribute products mainly through agents compete by offering agents commissions and additional incentives to attract new business. To distinguish themselves in the marketplace, top tier carriers are offering online and self service capabilities to agents and consumers. A large majority of agents have been using &#8220;comparative rater&#8221; tools that allow the agent to compare premium quotes among several insurance companies. The use of comparative rater tools increases price competition. Carriers that are able to differentiate their offering and work with agents to identify value beyond price are more likely to be successful in this market. 

The use of data mining and predictive modeling is used by more and more carriers to target the most profitable business, and carriers have further segmented their pricing plans to expand market share in what they believe to be the most profitable segments. Some companies, such as The Hartford, have written a greater percentage of their new business in preferred market segments. Such segments tend to have better loss experience but also have lower average premiums. Also, new auto technology advancements &#8212; including lane departure warnings, backup cameras, automatic braking and active collision alerts &#8212; are being deployed rapidly and are expected to improve driver safety and reduce the likelihood of vehicle collisions. The Hartford is one of the first companies to introduce a vehicle safety discount to consumers whose vehicle is equipped with new safety-promoting technology. 

In Personal Lines, the Company is investing in capabilities to better utilize data and analytics, and thereby, refine and manage underwriting and pricing. The Company is also working to maximize the value of its long-term partnership with AARP. Investments in digital tools, contact center capabilities and direct marketing efficiencies are designed to attract and retain more AARP members. The Hartford will leverage its agency channel to target AARP members and other customer segments that value the expertise of agents who actively seek the benefits of The Hartford's product suite and who value its service model. 

Group Benefits 

Principal Products and Services 

Group Benefits provides group life, accident and disability coverage and group retiree health benefits to members of employer groups, associations, and affinity groups. In addition to employer paid coverages, Group Benefits offers voluntary product coverages including accident, life, disability and critical illness coverages through employee payroll deductions. Group Benefits also offers disability underwriting, administration, claims processing and reinsurance to other insurers and self-funded employer plans. In addition, Group Benefits offers a single-company leave management solution, The Hartford Productivity Advantage , which integrates work absence data from the insurer&#8217;s short-term and long-term group disability and workers&#8217; compensation insurance with its leave management administration services. 

Group Benefits generally offers term insurance policies, allowing for the adjustment of rates or policy terms in order to minimize the adverse effect of market trends, declining interest rates, and other factors. Policies are typically sold with one, two or three-year rate guarantees depending upon the product and market segment. 

Marketing and Distribution 

The Group Benefits distribution network is managed through a regional sales office system, to distribute its group insurance products and services through a variety of distribution outlets including brokers, consultants, third-party administrators and trade associations. Additionally, Group Benefits has relationships with several private exchanges which offer Group Benefits products to employer groups. 

Competition 

Group Benefits competes with numerous insurance companies and financial intermediaries marketing insurance products. This line of business focuses on both its risk management expertise and economies of scale to derive a competitive advantage. Competitive factors affecting Group Benefits include the variety and quality of products and services offered, the price quoted for coverage and services, the Company&#8217;s relationships with its third-party distributors and private exchanges, and the quality of customer service. In addition, active price competition continues in the marketplace resulting in multi-year rate guarantees being offered to customers. Top tier carriers in the marketplace also offer on-line and self service capabilities to agents and consumers. The relatively large size and underwriting capacity of the Group Benefits business provides a competitive advantage over smaller companies. Additionally, as employers continue to focus on reducing the cost of employee benefits, the shift to employee paid products will become greater. Competitive factors affecting the sale of voluntary products include the breadth of products, product education, enrollment capabilities, and overall customer service. 

In Group Benefits, the Company is working to grow revenue from both its employer group product offerings as well as its voluntary product suite, which includes Disability FLEX, critical illness, and accident coverages. The Company's enhanced enrollment and marketing tools help individual participants make sound decisions for their unique benefit needs. 

Mutual Funds 

Principal Products and Services 

Mutual Funds provides investment management, administration, distribution and related services to investors through investment products in both domestic and international markets, and is separated into two distinct asset categories referred to as Mutual Fund assets under management and Talcott assets under management. Mutual Fund assets under management includes equity, fixed income, alternative and asset allocation investment products that are actively sold primarily through retail, bank trust and registered investment advisor channels. Talcott assets under management represents those assets held in separate accounts supporting legacy runoff Hartford variable insurance products. 

Marketing and Distribution 

The Mutual Funds distribution team is organized to sell across a variety of channels including national and regional broker-dealer organizations, independent financial advisors, defined contribution plans, consultants, record keepers, bank trust groups, and registered investment advisors. 

Competition 

Mutual Funds competes with other mutual fund companies and investment brokerage companies and differentiates itself through fund performance, product innovation and solutions, and service. 

Talcott Resolution 

Talcott Resolution is comprised of the runoff of the Company's U.S. annuity, institutional and private-placement life insurance businesses, and the retained yen denominated fixed payout annuity liabilities. Talcott Resolution's mission is to efficiently manage the runoff of the business while honoring the Company's obligations to its contractholders. Talcott Resolution manages approximately 852 thousand &#32;annuity contracts with account value of approximately $67 billion &#32;and private placement life insurance with account value of approximately $40 billion as of December 31, 2015 . 

The Talcott Resolution business segment also includes our Retirement Plans and Individual Life businesses sold in 2013 through reinsurance agreements with the respective buyers. In 2014, the Company completed the sale of Hartford Life Insurance KK, a Japanese company ("HLIKK"). In addition, the Company completed the sale of its U.K. annuity business in 2013. For further discussion of these transactions, see Note 18 &#32;- Discontinued Operations and Business Dispositions &#32;of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Reserves 

The Hartford establishes and carries as liabilities reserves for its insurance products to estimate for the following: 

&#8226; 

a liability for unpaid losses, including those that have been incurred but not yet reported, as well as estimates of all expenses associated with processing and settling these claims; 

&#8226; 

a liability equal to the balance that accrues to the benefit of the life and annuity insurance policyholder as of the consolidated financial statement date, otherwise known as the account value; 

&#8226; 

a liability for future policy benefits, representing the present value of future benefits to be paid to or on behalf of policyholders less the present value of future net premiums; 

&#8226; 

fair value reserves for living benefits embedded derivative guarantees; and 

&#8226; 

death and living benefit reserves which are computed based on a percentage of revenues less actual claim costs. 

Further discussion of The Hartford&#8217;s property and casualty insurance product reserves, including asbestos and environmental claims reserves, may be found in Part II, Item 7, MD&#38;A &#8212; Critical Accounting Estimates &#8212; Property and Casualty Insurance Product Reserves, Net of Reinsurance. Additional discussion may be found in the Company&#8217;s accounting policies for insurance product reserves within Note 1 &#32;- Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies &#32;of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Reinsurance 

The Hartford cedes insurance to affiliated and unaffiliated insurers for both its property and casualty and life insurance products. Such arrangements do not relieve The Hartford of its primary liability to policyholders. Failure of reinsurers to honor their obligations could result in losses to The Hartford. For further discussion of reinsurance, see Part II, Item 7, MD&#38;A &#8212; Enterprise Risk Management and Note 5 &#32;- Reinsurance &#32;of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 

For property and casualty insurance products, reinsurance arrangements are intended to provide greater diversification of business and limit The Hartford&#8217;s maximum net loss arising from large risks or catastrophes. A major portion of The Hartford&#8217;s property and casualty insurance product reinsurance is effected under general reinsurance contracts known as treaties, or, in some instances, is negotiated on an individual risk basis, known as facultative reinsurance. The Hartford also has in-force excess of loss contracts with reinsurers that protect it against a specified part or all of a layer of losses over stipulated amounts. 

For life insurance products, The Hartford is involved in both the cession and assumption of insurance with other insurance and reinsurance companies. The Company has ceded reinsurance in connection with the sales of its Retirement Plans and Individual Life businesses in 2013. For further discussion of these transactions, see Note 18 &#32;- Discontinued Operations and Business Dispositions &#32;of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. In addition, the Company has reinsured to third parties a portion of the risk associated with U.S. individual variable annuities and the associated guaranteed minimum death benefit (&#8220;GMDB&#8221;) and guaranteed minimum withdrawal benefit (&#8220;GMWB&#8221;) riders. 

Investment Operations 

The majority of the Company&#8217;s investment portfolios are managed by Hartford Investment Management Company (&#8220;HIMCO&#8221;). HIMCO manages the portfolios to maximize economic value, and generate the returns necessary to support the Company&#8217;s various product obligations, within internally established objectives, guidelines and risk tolerances. The portfolio objectives and guidelines are developed based upon the asset/liability profile, including duration, convexity and other characteristics within specified risk tolerances. The risk tolerances considered include, for example, asset sector, credit issuer allocation limits, and maximum portfolio limits for below investment grade holdings. The Company attempts to minimize adverse impacts to the portfolio and the Company&#8217;s results of operations from changes in economic conditions through asset diversification, asset allocation limits, asset/liability duration matching and through the use of derivatives. For further discussion of HIMCO&#8217;s portfolio management approach, see Part II, Item 7, MD&#38;A &#8212; Enterprise Risk Management. 

In addition to managing the general account assets of the Company, HIMCO is also a SEC registered investment adviser for a variable insurance trust and third party institutional clients, a sub-advisor for certain mutual funds and serves as the sponsor and collateral manager for capital markets transactions. HIMCO specializes in investment management that incorporates proprietary research and active portfolio management within a disciplined risk framework that seeks to provide value added returns versus peers and benchmarks. In January 2016, HIMCO announced the decision to no longer pursue new business in institutional separate accounts. The change is not expected to have a significant impact on the Company's financial position or results of operations. As of December 31, 2015 &#32;and 2014 , the fair value of HIMCO&#8217;s total assets under management was approximately $102.9 billion &#32;and $109.5 billion , respectively, of which $5.4 billion &#32;and $6.2 billion , respectively, were held in HIMCO managed third party accounts. 

Enterprise Risk Management 

The Company has an enterprise risk management function (&#8220;ERM&#8221;) that is charged with providing analysis of the Company's risks on an individual and aggregated basis and with ensuring that the Company's risks remain within its risk appetite and tolerances. ERM plays an integral role at The Hartford by fostering a strong risk management culture and discipline. The mission of ERM is to support the Company in achieving its strategic priorities by: 

&#8226; 

Providing a comprehensive view of the risks facing the Company, including risk concentrations and correlations; 

&#8226; 

Helping management define the Company's overall capacity and appetite for risk by evaluating the risk/return profile of the business relative to the Company's strategic intent and financial underpinning; 

&#8226; 

Assisting management in setting specific risk tolerances and limits that are measurable, actionable, and comply with the Company's overall risk philosophy; 

&#8226; 

Communicating and monitoring the Company's risk exposures relative to set limits and recommending, or implementing as appropriate, mitigating strategies; and 

&#8226; 

Providing insight to assist leaders in growing the businesses and achieving optimal risk-adjusted returns within established guidelines. 

Enterprise Risk Management Structure and Governance 

At The Hartford, the Board of Directors (&#8220;the Board&#8221;) has ultimate responsibility for risk oversight. It exercises its oversight function through its standing committees, each of which has primary risk oversight responsibility with respect to all matters within the scope of its duties as contemplated by its charter. In addition, the Finance, Investment and Risk Management Committee (&#8220;FIRMCo&#8221;), which is comprised of all members of the Board, has responsibility for the oversight of the investment, financial, and risk management activities of the Company, except as otherwise provided in the Company Governance Guidelines. The oversight of all risk exposures includes, but is not limited to: 

&#8226; 

Market risk, including credit, interest rate, equity market, and foreign exchange; 

&#8226; 

Liquidity and capital requirements of the Company; 

&#8226; 

Insurance risks, including those arising out of catastrophes and acts of terrorism; 

&#8226; 

Cybersecurity risk; and 

&#8226; 

Any other risk that poses a material threat to the strategic viability of the Company. 

The Audit Committee is responsible for, among other things, discussing with management policies with respect to risk assessment and risk management. 

At the corporate level, the Company's Enterprise Chief Risk Officer (&#8220;Chief Risk Officer&#8221;) leads ERM. The Chief Risk Officer reports directly to the Company's Chief Executive Officer (&#8220;CEO&#8221;). The Company has established the Enterprise Risk and Capital Committee (&#8220;ERCC&#8221;) that includes the Company&#8217;s CEO, President, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Investment Officer, Chief Risk Officer, General Counsel and others as deemed necessary by the committee chair. The ERCC oversees the risk profile and risk management practices of the Company. The ERCC also oversees capital management and the allocation of capital to the lines of business. The ERCC is responsible for significant company-wide risk exposures including, but not limited to, financial risk, liquidity and capital requirements, insurance risk, operational risks, and any other risk deemed significant. The ERCC reports to the Board primarily through the FIRMCo and through interactions with the Audit Committee. 

The Company also has committees that manage specific risks and recommend risk mitigation strategies to the ERCC. These committees include, but are not limited to, Asset Liability Committees, Catastrophe Risk Committee, Emerging Risk Committees, Model Oversight Committees and the Operational Risk Committee. 

Risk Management Framework 

At the Company, risk is managed at multiple levels. The Hartford utilizes three lines of defense in risk management to integrate its risk management strategy and appetite into all areas of the Company. The first line of defense in risk management is generally the responsibility of the lines of business. Senior business leaders are responsible for managing risks specific to their business objectives and business environment. The second line of defense in risk management is generally owned by ERM. ERM has the responsibility to ensure that the Company has insight into its aggregate risk and that risks are managed within the Company's overall risk appetite. Legal and Compliance also commonly act as a second line of defense in risk management. The third line of defense in risk management is owned by Internal Audit. Internal Audit provides independent assurance that each business unit&#8217;s controls are present, compliant, and effective, informs the risk identification process and provides audit and consultative support to the Company. 

The Company's Risk Management Framework consists of five core elements: 

1. 

Risk Culture and Governance: The Company has established policies for its major risks and a formal governance structure with leadership oversight and an assignment of accountability and authority. The governance structure starts at the Board and cascades to the ERCC and then to individual risk committees across the Company. In addition, the Company promotes a strong risk management culture and high expectations around ethical behavior. 

2. 

Risk Identification and Assessment: Through its ERM organization, the Company has developed processes for the identification, assessment, and, when appropriate, response to internal and external risks to the Company's operations and business objectives. Risk identification and prioritization has been established within each risk area, including processes around emerging risks. 

3. 

Risk Appetite, Tolerances, and Limits: The Company has a formal enterprise risk appetite framework and policy that is approved by the ERCC and reviewed by the Board. The risk appetite framework includes an enterprise risk appetite statement, risk preferences, risk tolerances and enterprise risk limits. Enterprise risk limits which quantify tolerances into specific limits by risk category are defined in underlying enterprise risk policies. 

4. 

Risk Management and Controls: While the Company utilizes the committee structure to elevate risk discussions and decision-making, there are a variety of working groups that provide decisioning and management of risk within determined tolerances and limits. ERM and the appropriate governing risk committees regularly monitor the Company's risk exposure as compared to defined limits and tolerances and provide regular reporting to the ERCC and FIRMCo. 

5. 

Risk Reporting and Communication: The Company monitors its major risks at the enterprise level through a number of enterprise reports, including but not limited to, a monthly risk dashboard, and regular stress testing. ERM communicates the Company's risk exposures to senior and executive management and the Board, and reviews key business performance metrics, risk indicators, audit reports, risk/control self-assessments and risk event data. 

Risk Exposures and Quantification 

The Company quantifies its enterprise insurance and financial risk exposures using multiple lenses including statutory, economic and, where appropriate, U.S. GAAP. ERM leverages various modeling techniques and metrics to provide a view of the Company's risk exposure in both normal and stressed environments. 

In order to quantify group capital levels the Company uses an Economic Capital Model (&#8220;ECM&#8221;) to quantify the value of diversification across the business lines and to advance its risk-based decision-making and optimization across risk and business. The Company also uses the ECM to inform capital attribution across the businesses. The Company categorizes its main risks as follows in order to achieve a consistent and disciplined approach to quantifying, evaluating, and managing risk: 

&#8226; 

Insurance Risk 

&#8226; 

Operational Risk 

&#8226; 

Financial Risk 

Additionally, the Company manages its legal and management risks across the enterprise. Management risk includes strategic risk, the risk of ineffective or inefficient execution of the Company's strategy, as well as tax risk and reputational risk. 

Insurance Risk 

The Company defines insurance risk as its exposure to loss due to property, liability, mortality, morbidity, disability, longevity and other perils and risks covered under its policies, including adverse development on loss reserves supporting its products and geographic accumulations of loss over time due to natural catastrophes, casualty catastrophes, terrorism and pandemic events. 

Operational Risk 

The Company defines operational risk as the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people and systems, or from external events. 

Financial Risk 

Financial risk is broadly defined by the Company to include liquidity, interest rate, equity, foreign exchange, and credit risks, all of which have the potential to materially impact the Company's financial condition. Financial risk also includes exposure to events that may cause correlated movement in the above risk factors. 

For further discussion on risk management, see Part II, Item 7, MD&#38;A - Enterprise Risk Management. 

Regulation 

Insurance companies are subject to comprehensive and detailed regulation and supervision throughout the United States. The extent of such regulation varies, but generally has its source in statutes which delegate regulatory, supervisory and administrative powers to state insurance departments. Such powers relate to, among other things, the standards of solvency that must be met and maintained; the licensing of insurers and their agents; the nature of and limitations on investments; establishing premium rates; claim handling and trade practices; restrictions on the size of risks which may be insured under a single policy; deposits of securities for the benefit of policyholders; approval of policy forms; periodic examinations of the affairs of companies; annual and other reports required to be filed on the financial condition of companies or for other purposes; minimum rates for accumulation of surrender values; and the adequacy of reserves and other necessary provisions for unearned premiums, unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses and other liabilities, both reported and unreported. 

Most states have enacted legislation that regulates insurance holding company systems such as The Hartford. This legislation provides that each insurance company in the system is required to register with the insurance department of its state of domicile and furnish information concerning the operations of companies within the holding company system that may materially affect the operations, management or financial condition of the insurers within the system. All transactions within a holding company system affecting insurers must be fair and equitable. Notice to the insurance departments is required prior to the consummation of transactions affecting the ownership or control of an insurer and of certain material transactions between an insurer and any entity in its holding company system. In addition, certain of such transactions cannot be consummated without the applicable insurance department&#8217;s prior approval. In the jurisdictions in which the Company&#8217;s insurance company subsidiaries are domiciled, the acquisition of more than 10% of The Hartford&#8217;s outstanding common stock would require the acquiring party to make various regulatory filings. 

Certain of the Company&#8217;s life insurance subsidiaries sold variable life insurance, variable annuity, and some fixed guaranteed products that are &#8220;securities&#8221; registered with the SEC under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. Some of the products have separate accounts that are registered as investment companies under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended (the &#8220;1940 Act&#8221;), and/or are regulated by state law. Separate account investment products are also subject to state insurance regulation. Moreover, each separate account is generally divided into sub-accounts, each of which invests in an underlying mutual fund that is also registered as an investment company under the 1940 Act (&#8220;Underlying Funds&#8221;). The Company offers these Underlying Funds and retail mutual funds that are registered with and regulated by the SEC. 

In addition, other subsidiaries of the Company sold and distributed the Company&#8217;s variable insurance products, Underlying Funds and retail mutual funds as broker-dealers and are subject to regulation promulgated and enforced by the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (&#8220;FINRA&#8221;), the SEC and/or in, some instances, state securities administrators. Other entities operate as investment advisers registered with the SEC under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 and are registered as investment advisers under certain state laws, as applicable. Because federal and state laws and regulations are primarily intended to protect investors in securities markets, they generally grant regulators broad rulemaking and enforcement authority. Some of these regulations include, among other things, regulations impacting sales methods, trading practices, suitability of investments, use and safekeeping of customers&#8217; funds, corporate governance, capital, record keeping, and reporting requirements. 

The Hartford operates in limited foreign jurisdictions. The extent of financial services regulation on business outside the United States varies significantly among the countries in which The Hartford operates. Some countries have minimal regulatory requirements, while others regulate financial services providers extensively. Foreign financial services providers in certain countries are faced with greater restrictions than domestic competitors domiciled in that particular jurisdiction. 

In addition, as described under &#8220;Legislative Developments,&#8221; we are subject to a number of Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 (the &#8220;Dodd-Frank Act&#8221;) provisions. Failure to comply with federal and state laws and regulations may result in censure, fines, the issuance of cease-and-desist orders or suspension, termination or limitation of the activities of our operations and/or our employees. We cannot predict the impact of these actions on our businesses, results of operations or financial condition. 

Intellectual Property 

We rely on a combination of contractual rights and copyright, trademark, patent and trade secret laws to establish and protect our intellectual property. 

We have a trademark portfolio that we consider important in the marketing of our products and services, including, among others, the trademarks of The Hartford name, the Stag Logo and the combination of these two marks. The duration of trademark registrations may be renewed indefinitely subject to country-specific use and registration requirements. We regard our trademarks as extremely valuable assets in marketing our products and services and vigorously seek to protect them against infringement. In addition, we own a number of patents and patent applications relating to on-line quoting, insurance related processing, insurance telematics, proprietary interface platforms, and other matters, some of which may be important to our business operations. Patents are of varying duration depending on filing date, and will typically expire at the end of their natural term. 

Employees 

The Hartford has approximately 17,400 &#32;employees as of December 31, 2015 . 

Available Information 

The Company&#8217;s Internet address is www.thehartford.com. Our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports are available, without charge, on the investor relations section of our website, http://ir.thehartford.com, as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed electronically with the SEC. Reports filed with the SEC may be viewed at www.sec.gov or obtained at the SEC&#8217;s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington D.C. Information regarding the operation of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. References in this report to our website address are provided only as a convenience and do not constitute, and should not be viewed as, an incorporation by reference of the information contained on, or available through, the website. Therefore, such information should not be considered part of this report. 

