 ITEM 1. &#160; BUSINESS. 

Unless otherwise stated or the context requires otherwise, references in this annual report on Form 10-K to "Carbon Sciences," the "Company," "we," "us," or "our" refer to Carbon Sciences, Inc.

Introduction

In December 2015, Carbon Sciences entered into a new Sponsored Research Agreement with the University of California at Santa Barbara ("UCSB") to develop a new graphene-based optical modulator, a critical fiber optics component needed to help unclog the existing bottlenecks and enable ultrafast communication in data centers for Cloud computing. At this time, we do not see an opportunity to commercialize the research findings from our first UCSB Sponsored Research Agreement and are terminating our joint venture through Transphene, Inc., our 50% owned subsidiary, and expect to wind up and dissolve it in 2016. In addition, on February 9, 2016, we announced a growth-by-acquisition strategy to extend our presence in the information technology ("IT") market. On March 7, 2016, we announced that Christopher S. Kelly joined the Company to serve as our Chief Executive Officer and help execute the growth-by-acquisition strategy.

Graphene is a naturally occurring sheet of pure carbon that is only one atom thick. It is flexible, transparent, impermeable to moisture, strong, and highly conductive. A Nobel Prize was awarded to the scientists who isolated graphene from graphite in 2010. Experts believe that graphene is a versatile material that can enable new applications such as bendable touchscreen displays, rapid charge batteries, super-capacitors, low cost solar cells, extreme high-speed semiconductors, biosensors, as well as water purification.

After research and development of methods to produce low cost graphene, Carbon Sciences is currently focused on the research and development of graphene-based devices to enable ultrafast fiber optics communication in cloud computing infrastructure.

Moore's Law has enabled computers to process information at extreme high speeds. The speed of data movement between computers on the Internet, also referred to as the "Cloud," is, however, bottlenecked by fundamental limitations of today's fiber optics technology. By exploiting the natural optical and electrical properties of graphene, we hope to develop the next generation fiber optics components that are ultrafast, low power and low cost.

We believe high speed and low cost graphene-based components, such as optical modulators (for sending) and photodetectors (for receiving), has the potential to unclog the bottlenecks in the Cloud. This advance would enable a global era of high-resolution video on demand, high fidelity music streaming, high volume e-commerce and many more Cloud-based services.

Our research program is expected to be secondary to the execution of our new growth-by-acquisition strategy. We intend to focus the majority of our resources on acquiring, integrating, and expanding high quality businesses in the IT industry. We believe that there is in excellent opportunity to consolidate profitable private companies engaged in the IT business on an accretive synergistic basis

Market Opportunity

Cloud computing allows application software and services to be delivered from large server farms in data centers over the Internet. Almost every web service we use today such as Netflix, Google and Amazon are all delivered from the Cloud. As more and more people use Cloud services, more and more data are created that need to be stored, transmitted and processed. This explosion of data requires larger and larger data centers &#8211; as big as one square mile. The size of current and future data centers is challenging the fundamental speed limits of today's cutting edge fiber optics technology.

&#160;

According to a 2014 report by ACG Research, the growth of Cloud-based services in consumer and business applications during the past five years has been spectacular. By 2019, mobile network traffic is forecasted to increase tenfold. Fifty percent of this increase is expected to be in video services, and an additional 10% is expected to be in social networking applications. Over the same time, business Cloud computing services are expected to increase at a 40% average annual rate. By 2019 there are expected to be 60 percent more data centers in the world's major cities than there are today, and data center interconnect volumes are expected to increase by more than 400 percent.

We believe that graphene-based fiber optic components will be the next generation of devices to enable the transmission of large amounts of data, specifically between computer servers inside datacenters. 

&#160;

Business Model

We are in the early stages of researching and developing graphene-based technologies and devices. If successfully developed and commercialized, we plan to license our graphene manufacturing processes and device designs to other companies.

Research and Development

On June 18, 2014, we entered into a Sponsored Research Agreement ("SRA #1") with UCSB, pursuant to which UCSB performed research work for the mutual benefit of UCSB and the Company. The purpose of SRA #1 includes the development of a low-cost and scalable method to produce large-area graphene for transparent electrode applications. The term of SRA #1 commenced on July 1, 2014 and expired on June 30, 2015. The total cost to the Company was $387,730, which has been fully paid. 

After successfully producing high quality graphene under SRA #1, we determined that the best way to commercialize graphene was to focus on complete devices that use graphene. Since February 2015, we have been engaged in researching commercial opportunities for graphene-based devices. In June 2015, we announced a plan to develop high-speed graphene-based photonics devices, such as photodetectors and modulators, for fiber optics communication.

On December 15, 2015, we entered into another Sponsored Research Agreement ("SRA #2" and collectively with SRA #1, "SRAs") with UCSB, pursuant to which UCSB will perform research work for the mutual benefit of UCSB and the Company. The purpose of SRA #2 includes the development of a graphene based optical modulator for the high-speed transmission of digital data in fiber optic networks. The term of SRA #2 commenced on January 1, 2016 and expires on June 30, 2016. The total cost to the Company is $65,497. 

For optical data to be transmitted through a fiber optic cable, light from a laser beam must be modulated, meaning changed or pulsed, to encode specific digital data. Otherwise, a constant beam of light does not communicate anything. The faster the light beam can be modulated, the more data can be encoded and transmitted. One of the very important attributes of graphene is extreme high speed and tunable conductivity. Incidentally, changing the conductivity of graphene also changes its optical properties, which means light passing through it will also be changed accordingly to encode digital data. It is these fundamental features of graphene that SRA #2 aims to exploit in developing an ultrafast, low cost, and low power, graphene-based optical modulator. 

Intellectual Property

We have filed numerous patent applications with the United States Patent and Trademark Office ("USPTO") in the course of our business history. However, patent applications that are not related to the current business focus of graphene have all been abandoned.

We currently do not have any patent applications filed for graphene. Our SRAs with UCSB give us the first right to review any new inventions arising out of the SRAs, and negotiate a license or option agreement for such inventions.

&#160;

On January 5, 2015, Carbon Sciences formed Transphene, Inc., a Nevada corporation ("Transphene"), of which the Company owns 50% of the total issued and outstanding capital stock. The remaining 50% is owned by Dr. Kaustav Banerjee ("Banerjee"), a director and Chief Technical Officer of Transphene. Transphene was formed to commercialize any technology that the Company licensed from UCSB as a result of SRA #1. In consideration for its interest in Transphene, the Company agreed to assign the intellectual property rights acquired by the Company from SRA #1 to Transphene. At this time, the Company does not see an opportunity to commercialize the research findings of SRA #1. As of the date of this report, the Company has not licensed any intellectual property from UCSB, and therefore has not assigned any intellectual property to Transphene. The Company does not intend to continue Transphene, and expects to terminate, wind-up and dissolve the subsidiary in 2016. 

&#160;

Competition

Competition in the market for optical subsystems and components, such as photodetectors and optical modulators, are intense with large and well-capitalized companies. For example, large companies include Avago Technologies, Finisar, JDS Uniphase, Oclaro, GigaOptix, and Sumitomo. However, we do not see these companies as direct competitors because our business model is licensing our graphene technologies to original equipment manufacturers like them. To our knowledge, there are currently no commercially available graphene-based optical components on the market. Most of our direct competitors for that potential business are in the research and development phase.

Employees

We currently have two full-time employee s . We have arrangements with various independent contractors and consultants to meet additional needs, including management, accounting, investor relations, research and development and other administrative functions.

