 ITEM 1 . BUSINESS. 

CORPORATE BACKGROUND 

Western Lucrative Enterprises, Inc. was incorporated pursuant to the laws of the State of Iowa on July 14, 2008. 

Our Business 

We are a development stage company whose business plan is to develop an online landscape design construction and consulting business to service do-it-yourself individuals and companies who want to beautify their home or business without the cost and disruption of designers / architects / construction workers. 

Our current business model is built around online delivery using the Internet. The World Wide Web has become an economical distribution channel. We plan to leverage the technological innovations of the Internet to offer our services to clients, to communicate directly with them, to provide consulting and design services, to advertise our designs books, to sell designs , and to perform all necessary financial transactions electronically. We plan to use the online services of Pay Pal for customer orders. 

Our plan is to outsource the development of the website and to launch our marketing plan. Initially , we plan to commence marketing of our services using Google and Yahoo website CPC programs and through viral marketing, such as blogs, postings on online communities such as Yahoo!(R) Groups and amateur websites such as YouTube . com, and other methods of getting Internet users to refer others to our website by e-mail or word of mouth. We also intend to use search engine optimization, the marketing of our website via search engines by purchasing sponsored placement in search result, and to enter into affiliate marketing relationships with website providers to increase our access to Internet consumers . In our management's opinion there will be a need for design consulting in the do-it-yourself sector of the market once the current housing market returns to more normal levels of activity. 

Due to financial limitations, our operations to date have been limited to conceptual planning. We are now considering alternative business directions that can maximize shareholder value such as acquisitions. To date the Company and its officers and directors have not had any contract or discussions with any target acquisition or with the owners or representatives of any target acquisitions 

Our Competition 

See the Risk Factors section of this prospectus for a discussion on the competition we currently face or may face in the future. 

Proprietary Rights 

We currently have no proprietary rights.

Our Research and Development 

We are not currently conducting any research and development activities . 

Government Regulation 

See the Risk Factors section of this prospectus for a discussion relevant government regulation and the legal uncertainties related to our business activities . 

Employees 

As of December 31, 2015 we have no employees other than our sole officer and director and one additional director. We anticipate that we will not hire any employees in the next twelve months, unless we generate significant revenues, raise capital, or make a complete change of course from our current business plan. 

