 Item 1. Business 

General 

First National Corporation (the Company) is a bank holding company incorporated under Virginia law on September 7, 1983. The Company owns all of the stock of its primary operating subsidiary, First Bank (the Bank), which is a commercial bank chartered under Virginia law. The Company&#146;s subsidiaries are: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; First Bank (the Bank). The Bank owns: &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; First Bank Financial Services, Inc. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Shen-Valley Land Holdings, LLC &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; First National (VA) Statutory Trust II (Trust II) &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; First National (VA) Statutory Trust III (Trust III) &#160;

First Bank Financial Services, Inc. invests in entities that provide title insurance and investment services. Shen-Valley Land Holdings, LLC was formed to hold other real estate owned and future office sites. The Trusts were formed for the purpose of issuing redeemable capital securities, commonly known as trust preferred securities and are not included in the Company&#146;s consolidated financial statements. 

The Bank first opened for business on July 1, 1907 under the name The Peoples National Bank of Strasburg. On January 10, 1928, the Bank changed its name to The First National Bank of Strasburg. On April 12, 1994, the Bank received approval from the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond (the Federal Reserve) and the Virginia State Corporation Commission&#146;s Bureau of Financial Institutions to convert to a state chartered bank with membership in the Federal Reserve System. On June 1, 1994, the Bank consummated such conversion and changed its name to First Bank. 

Access to Filings 

The Company&#146;s internet address is www.fbvirginia.com. The Company&#146;s Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports, as filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC), are available free of charge at www.fbvirginia.com as soon as reasonably practicable after being filed with or furnished to the SEC. A copy of any of the Company&#146;s filings will be sent, without charge, to any shareholder upon written request to: M. Shane Bell, Chief Financial Officer, at 112 West King Street, Strasburg, Virginia 22657. 

Products and Services 

The Bank provides loan, deposit, wealth management and other products and services in the Shenandoah Valley and central regions of Virginia. Loan products and services include personal loans, residential mortgages, home equity loans and commercial loans. Deposit products and services include checking, savings, money market accounts, individual retirement accounts, certificates of deposit and cash management accounts.

The Bank&#146;s wealth management department offers estate planning, investment management of assets, trustee under an agreement, trustee under a will, individual retirement accounts, and estate settlement. The Bank launched a mortgage department during the second quarter of 2014. The mortgage department began originating residential mortgage loans to customers in the third quarter of 2014. Loans originated through this department may be sold to investors in the secondary market or held in the Bank&#146;s loan portfolio. Mortgage services are offered to customers throughout the Bank&#146;s market area. 

The Bank&#146;s office locations are well-positioned in attractive markets along the Interstate 81, Interstate 66 and Interstate 64 corridors in the Shenandoah Valley and central regions of Virginia. Within this market area, there are various types of industry including medical and professional services, manufacturing, retail, government contracting and higher education. Customers include individuals, small and medium-sized businesses, local governmental entities and non-profit organizations. 

The Bank&#146;s products and services are delivered through its mobile banking platform, its website, www.fbvirginia.com , a network of ATMs located throughout its market area, two loan production offices, a customer service center in a retirement village, and 15 bank branch office locations located throughout the Shenandoah Valley and central regions of Virginia. The branch offices are comprised of 13 full service retail banking offices and two drive-thru express banking offices. For the location and general character of each of these offices, see Item 2 of this Form 10-K. 

Competition 

The financial services industry remains highly competitive and is constantly evolving. The Company experiences strong competition in all aspects of its business. In its market areas, the Company competes with large national and regional financial institutions, credit unions, other independent community banks, as well as consumer finance companies, mortgage companies, loan production offices, mutual funds and life insurance companies. Competition for deposits and loans is affected by various factors including interest rates offered, the number and location of branches and types of products offered, and the reputation of the institution. Credit unions have been allowed to increasingly expand their membership definitions and, because they enjoy a favorable tax status, may be able to offer more attractive loan and deposit pricing. 

The Company believes its competitive advantages include long-term customer relationships, local management and directors, a commitment to excellent customer service, dedicated and loyal employees, and the support of and involvement in the communities that the Company serves. The Company focuses on providing products and services to individuals, small to medium-sized businesses and local governmental entities within its communities. The Company&#146;s primary operating subsidiary, First Bank, generally has a strong deposit market share of the markets it serves. According to Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) deposit data as of June 30, 2015, the Bank was ranked third overall in its market area with 11.45% of the total deposit market. 

&#160;

No material part of the business of the Company is dependent upon a single or a few customers, and the loss of any single customer would not have a materially adverse effect upon the business of the Company. 

Employees 

At December 31, 2015, the Bank employed a total of 187 full-time equivalent employees. The Company considers relations with its employees to be excellent. 

SUPERVISION AND REGULATION 

Bank holding companies and banks are extensively and increasingly regulated under both federal and state laws. The following description briefly addresses certain historic and current provisions of federal and state laws and certain regulations, proposed regulations, and the potential impacts on the Company and the Bank. To the extent statutory or regulatory provisions or proposals are described in this report, the description is qualified in its entirety by reference to the particular statutory or regulatory provisions or proposals. 

Regulatory Reform &#150; The Dodd-Frank Act 

The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the Dodd-Frank Act), enacted in 2010, implemented and continues to implement significant changes to the regulation of the financial services industry, including provisions that, among other things: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Centralize responsibility for consumer financial protection by creating a new agency, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (the CFPB), with broad rulemaking, supervisory and enforcement authority with respect to a wide range of consumer protection laws that apply to providers of consumer financial products and services. Smaller financial institutions, including the Bank, continue to be subject to the supervision and enforcement of their primary federal banking regulator with respect to the federal consumer financial protection laws. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Apply the same leverage and risk-based capital requirements that apply to insured depository institutions to bank holding companies. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Require the FDIC to seek to make its capital requirements for banks countercyclical so that the amount of capital required to be maintained increases in times of economic expansion and decreases in times of economic contraction. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Change the assessment base for federal deposit insurance from the amount of insured deposits to consolidated assets less tangible capital. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Implement corporate governance revisions, including advisory votes on executive compensation by stockholders. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Established extensive requirements applicable to mortgage lending, including detailed requirements concerning mortgage originator compensation and underwriting, high-cost mortgages, servicing, appraisals, counseling and other matters. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Make permanent the $250,000 limit for federal deposit insurance. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Repeal the federal prohibitions on the payment of interest on demand deposits, thereby permitting depository institutions to pay interest on business transaction and other accounts. The Dodd-Frank Act amends the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (the BHCA) to require the federal financial regulatory agencies to adopt rules that prohibit banks and their affiliates from engaging in proprietary trading and investing in and sponsoring certain unregistered investment companies (defined as hedge funds and private equity funds). The statutory provision is commonly called the &#147;Volcker Rule&#148;. The Federal Reserve Board issued final rules implementing the Volcker Rule on December 10, 2013. The Volcker Rule became effective on July 21, 2012 and the final rules were effective April 1, 2014, but the Federal Reserve Board issued an order extending the period during which institutions have to conform their activities and investments to the requirements of the Volcker Rule to July 21, 2017. We do not currently anticipate that the Volcker Rule will have a material effect on the operations of the holding company or the Bank, as we generally do not engage in activities or hold investments impacted by the Volcker Rule. 

Many aspects of the Dodd-Frank Act still remain subject to rulemaking by various regulatory agencies and will take effect over several years, making it difficult to anticipate the overall financial impact on the Company, its customers or the financial 

&#160;

industry more generally. The changes resulting from the Dodd-Frank Act may affect the profitability of business activities, require changes to certain business practices, impose more stringent capital requirements, liquidity and leverage ratio requirements, or otherwise adversely affect the business of the Company and the Bank. These changes may also require the Company to invest significant management attention and resources to evaluate and make necessary changes to comply with new statutory and regulatory requirements. 

The Company 

General . As a bank holding company registered under the BHCA, the Company is subject to supervision, regulation, and examination by the Federal Reserve. The Company is also registered under the bank holding company laws of Virginia and is subject to supervision, regulation, and examination by the Virginia State Corporation Commission (the SCC). 

Permitted Activities . A bank holding company is limited to managing or controlling banks, furnishing services to or performing services for its subsidiaries, and engaging in other activities that the Federal Reserve determines by regulation or order to be so closely related to banking or managing or controlling banks as to be a proper incident thereto. In determining whether a particular activity is permissible, the Federal Reserve must consider whether the performance of such an activity reasonably can be expected to produce benefits to the public that outweigh possible adverse effects. Possible benefits include greater convenience, increased competition, and gains in efficiency. Possible adverse effects include undue concentration of resources, decreased or unfair competition, conflicts of interest, and unsound banking practices. Despite prior approval, the Federal Reserve may order a bank holding company or its subsidiaries to terminate any activity or to terminate ownership or control of any subsidiary when the Federal Reserve has reasonable cause to believe that a serious risk to the financial safety, soundness or stability of any bank subsidiary of that bank holding company may result from such an activity. 

Banking Acquisitions; Changes in Control . The BHCA requires, among other things, the prior approval of the Federal Reserve in any case where a bank holding company proposes to (i) acquire direct or indirect ownership or control of more than 5% of the outstanding voting stock of any bank or bank holding company (unless it already owns a majority of such voting shares), (ii) acquire all or substantially all of the assets of another bank or bank holding company, or (iii) merge or consolidate with any other bank holding company. In determining whether to approve a proposed bank acquisition, the Federal Reserve will consider, among other factors, the effect of the acquisition on competition, the public benefits expected to be received from the acquisition, the projected capital ratios and levels on a post-acquisition basis, and the acquiring institution&#146;s performance under the Community Reinvestment Act of 1977 (the CRA). 

Subject to certain exceptions, the BHCA and the Change in Bank Control Act, together with the applicable regulations, require Federal Reserve approval (or, depending on the circumstances, no notice of disapproval) prior to any person or company&#146;s acquiring &#147;control&#148; of a bank or bank holding company. A conclusive presumption of control exists if an individual or company acquires the power, directly or indirectly, to direct the management or policies of an insured depository institution or to vote 25% or more of any class of voting securities of any insured depository institution. A rebuttable presumption of control exists if a person or company acquires 10% or more but less than 25% of any class of voting securities of an insured depository institution and either the institution has registered securities under Section 12 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Exchange Act) or no other person will own a greater percentage of that class of voting securities immediately after the acquisition. The Company&#146;s common stock is registered under Section 12 of the Exchange Act. 

Source of Strength . Federal Reserve policy has historically required bank holding companies to act as a source of financial and managerial strength to their subsidiary banks. The Dodd-Frank Act codified this policy as a statutory requirement. The federal bank regulatory agencies must still issue regulations to implement the source of strength provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act. Under this requirement, the Company is expected to commit resources to support the Bank, including at times when the Company may not be in a financial position to provide such resources. Any capital loans by a bank holding company to any of its subsidiary banks are subordinate in right of payment to depositors and to certain other indebtedness of such subsidiary banks. In the event of a bank holding company&#146;s bankruptcy, any commitment by the bank holding company to a federal bank regulatory agency to maintain the capital of a subsidiary bank will be assumed by the bankruptcy trustee and entitled to priority of payment. 

Safety and Soundness . There are a number of obligations and restrictions imposed on bank holding companies and their subsidiary banks by law and regulatory policy that are designed to minimize potential loss to the depositors of such depository institutions and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (the FDIC) insurance fund in the event of a depository institution default. For example, under the Federal Deposit Insurance Company Improvement Act of 1991, to avoid receivership of an insured depository institution subsidiary, a bank holding company is required to guarantee the compliance of any subsidiary bank that may become &#147;undercapitalized&#148; with the terms of any capital restoration plan filed by such subsidiary with its appropriate federal bank regulatory agency up to the lesser of (i) an amount equal to 5% of the 

&#160;

institution&#146;s total assets at the time the institution became undercapitalized, or (ii) the amount that is necessary (or would have been necessary) to bring the institution into compliance with all applicable capital standards as of the time the institution fails to comply with such capital restoration plan. 

Under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (the FDIA), the federal bank regulatory agencies have adopted guidelines prescribing safety and soundness standards. These guidelines establish general standards relating to internal controls and information systems, internal audit systems, loan documentation, credit underwriting, interest rate exposure, asset growth and compensation, fees and benefits. In general, the guidelines require, among other things, appropriate systems and practices to identify and manage the risk and exposures specified in the guidelines. 

Capital Requirements. The Federal Reserve imposes certain capital requirements on bank holding companies under the BHCA, including a minimum leverage ratio and a minimum ratio of &#147;qualifying&#148; capital to risk-weighted assets. These requirements are described below under &#147;The Bank-Capital Requirements&#148;. Subject to its capital requirements and certain other restrictions, the Company is able to borrow money to make a capital contribution to the Bank, and such loans may be repaid from dividends paid by the Bank to the Company. 

Limits on Dividends and Other Payments . The Company is a legal entity, separate and distinct from its subsidiaries. A significant portion of the revenues of the Company result from dividends paid to it by the Bank. There are various legal limitations applicable to the payment of dividends by the Bank to the Company and to the payment of dividends by the Company to its shareholders. The Bank is subject to various statutory restrictions on its ability to pay dividends to the Company. Under the current supervisory practices of the Bank&#146;s regulatory agencies, prior approval from those agencies is required if cash dividends declared in any given year exceed net income for that year, plus retained net profits of the two preceding years. The payment of dividends by the Bank or the Company may be limited by other factors, such as requirements to maintain capital above regulatory guidelines. Bank regulatory agencies have the authority to prohibit the Bank or the Company from engaging in an unsafe or unsound practice in conducting their business. The payment of dividends, depending on the financial condition of the Bank, or the Company, could be deemed to constitute such an unsafe or unsound practice. 

The Company&#146;s subordinated debt is in a superior ownership position compared to its common stock and all current and future junior subordinated debt obligations. Following the occurrence of any event of default on its subordinated debt, the Company may not make any payments on its junior subordinated debt; declare or pay any dividends on its common stock; redeem or otherwise acquire any of its common stock; or make any other distributions with respect to its common stock or set aside any monies or properties for such purposes. The Company is current in its interest payments on subordinated debt. 

Our ability to pay dividends on common stock is also limited by contractual restrictions under our junior subordinated debt. Interest must be paid on the junior subordinated debt before dividends may be paid to common shareholders. The Company is current in its interest payments on junior subordinated debt; however, it has the right to defer distributions on its junior subordinated debt, during which time no dividends may be paid on its common stock. If the Company does not have sufficient earnings in the future and begins to defer distributions on the junior subordinated debt, it will be unable to pay dividends on its common stock until it becomes current on those distributions. 

The Bank 

General . The Bank is supervised and regularly examined by the Federal Reserve and the SCC. The various laws and regulations administered by the regulatory agencies affect corporate practices, such as the payment of dividends, incurrence of debt, and acquisition of financial institutions and other companies; they also affect business practices, such as the payment of interest on deposits, the charging of interest on loans, types of business conducted, and location of offices. Certain of these law and regulations are referenced above under &#147;The Company.&#148; 

Capital Requirements. The Federal Reserve and the other federal banking agencies have issued risk-based and leverage capital guidelines applicable to U. S. banking organizations. In addition, those regulatory agencies may from time to time require that a banking organization maintain capital above the minimum levels because of its financial condition or actual or anticipated growth. The Company meets eligibility criteria of a small bank holding company in accordance with the Federal Reserve Board&#146;s Small Bank Holding Company Policy Statement issued in February 2015, and is no longer obligated to report consolidated regulatory capital. 

&#160;

In July 2013, the U.S. banking regulators adopted a final rule which implements the Basel III regulatory capital reforms from the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, and certain changes required by the Dodd-Frank Act. The final rule established an integrated regulatory capital framework and introduces the &#147;Standardized Approach&#148; for risk-weighted assets, which replaced the Basel I risk-based guidance for determining risk-weighted assets as of January 1, 2015, the date the Bank became subject to the new rules. Based on the Bank&#146;s current capital composition and levels, the Bank believes it is in compliance with the requirements as set forth in the final rules. 

The rules included new risk-based capital and leverage ratios, which are being phased in from 2015 to 2019, and refined the definition of what constitutes &#147;capital&#148; for purposes of calculating those ratios. The new minimum capital level requirements applicable to the Bank under the final rules were as follows: a new common equity Tier 1 capital ratio of 4.5%; a Tier 1 capital ratio of 6% (increased from 4%); a total capital ratio of 8% (unchanged from previous rules); and a Tier 1 leverage ratio of 4% for all institutions. The final rules also established a &#147;capital conservation buffer&#148; above the new regulatory minimum capital requirements. The capital conservation buffer will be phased-in over four years beginning on January 1, 2016, as follows: the maximum buffer will be 0.625% of risk-weighted assets for 2016, 1.25% for 2017, 1.875% for 2018, and 2.5% for 2019 and thereafter. This will result in the following minimum ratios beginning in 2019: a common equity Tier 1 capital ratio of 7.0%, a Tier 1 capital ratio of 8.5%, and a total capital ratio of 10.5%. Under the final rules, institutions are subject to limitations on paying dividends, engaging in share repurchases, and paying discretionary bonuses if its capital level falls below the buffer amount. These limitations establish a maximum percentage of eligible retained income that could be utilized for such actions. 

The following table shows the Bank&#146;s regulatory capital ratios at December 31, 2015: 

&#160;

&#160; &#160; First Bank &#160; Total capital to risk-weighted assets

&#160; &#160; 13.86 % Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets

&#160; &#160; 12.62 % Common equity Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets

&#160; &#160; 12.62 % Tier 1 capital to average assets

&#160; &#160; 8.12 % The final rules also contain revisions to the prompt corrective action framework, which is designed to place restrictions on insured depository institutions if their capital levels begin to show signs of weakness. Under the prompt corrective action requirements, which are designed to complement the capital conservation buffer, insured depository institutions are now required to meet the following increased capital level requirements in order to qualify as &#147;well capitalized:&#148; a new common equity Tier 1 capital ratio of 6.5%; a Tier 1 capital ratio of 8% (increased from 6%); a total capital ratio of 10% (unchanged from previous rules); and a Tier 1 leverage ratio of 5% (unchanged from previous rules). 

Deposit Insurance. Substantially all of the deposits of the Bank are insured up to applicable limits by the Deposit Insurance Fund (the DIF) of the FDIC and are subject to deposit insurance assessments to maintain the DIF. On April 1, 2011, the deposit insurance assessment base changed from total deposits to average total assets minus average tangible equity, pursuant to a rule issued by the FDIC as required by the Dodd-Frank Act. 

The FDIA, as amended by the Federal Deposit Insurance Reform Act and the Dodd-Frank Act, requires the FDIC to set a ratio of deposit insurance reserves to estimated insured deposits of at least 1.35%. The FDIC utilizes a risk-based assessment system that imposes insurance premiums based upon a risk matrix that takes into account a bank&#146;s capital level and supervisory rating. On February 7, 2011, the FDIC introduced three possible adjustments to an institution&#146;s initial base assessment rate: (i) a decrease of up to five basis points for long-term unsecured debt, including senior unsecured debt (other than debt guaranteed under the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program) and subordinated debt and, for small institutions, a portion of Tier 1 capital; (ii) an increase for holding long-term unsecured or subordinated debt issued by other insured depository institutions known as the Depository Institution Debt Adjustment or DIDA; and (iii) for non-Risk Category I institutions, an increase not to exceed 10 basis points for brokered deposits in excess of 10% of domestic deposits. 

In addition, all FDIC insured institutions are required to pay assessments to the FDIC at an annual rate of approximately one basis point of insured deposits to fund interest payments on bonds issued by the Financing Corporation, an agency of the federal government established to recapitalize the predecessor to the Savings Association Insurance Fund. These assessments will continue until the Financing Corporation bonds mature in 2017 through 2019. 

Transactions with Affiliates . Pursuant to Sections 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act and Regulation W, the authority of the Bank to engage in transactions with related parties or &#147;affiliates&#148; or to make loans to insiders is limited. Loan transactions with an affiliate generally must be collateralized and certain transactions between the Bank and its affiliates, including the sale of assets, the payment of money or the provision of services, must be on terms and conditions that are substantially the same, or at least as favorable to the Bank, as those prevailing for comparable nonaffiliated transactions. In addition, the Bank generally may not purchase securities issued or underwritten by affiliates. 

&#160;

Loans to executive officers, directors or to any person who directly or indirectly, or acting through or in concert with one or more persons, owns, controls or has the power to vote more than 10% of any class of voting securities of a bank (a &#147;10% Shareholder&#148;), are subject to Sections 22(g) and 22(h) of the Federal Reserve Act and their corresponding regulations (Regulation O) and Section 13(k) of the Exchange Act relating to the prohibition on personal loans to executives (which exempts financial institutions in compliance with the insider lending restrictions of Section 22(h) of the Federal Reserve Act). Among other things, these loans must be made on terms substantially the same as those prevailing on transactions made to unaffiliated individuals and certain extensions of credit to those persons must first be approved in advance by a disinterested majority of the entire board of directors. Section 22(h) of the Federal Reserve Act prohibits loans to any of those individuals where the aggregate amount exceeds an amount equal to 15% of an institution&#146;s unimpaired capital and surplus plus an additional 10% of unimpaired capital and surplus in the case of loans that are fully secured by readily marketable collateral, or when the aggregate amount on all of the extensions of credit outstanding to all of these persons would exceed the Bank&#146;s unimpaired capital and unimpaired surplus. Section 22(g) of the Federal Reserve Act identifies limited circumstances in which the Bank is permitted to extend credit to executive officers. 

Prompt Corrective Action . Immediately upon becoming &#147;undercapitalized,&#148; a depository institution becomes subject to the provisions of Section 38 of the FDIA, which: (i) restrict payment of capital distributions and management fees; (ii) require that the appropriate federal banking agency monitor the condition of the institution and its efforts to restore its capital; (iii) require submission of a capital restoration plan; (iv) restrict the growth of the institution&#146;s assets; and (v) require prior approval of certain expansion proposals. The appropriate federal banking agency for an undercapitalized institution also may take any number of discretionary supervisory actions if the agency determines that any of these actions is necessary to resolve the problems of the institution at the least possible long-term cost to the DIF, subject in certain cases to specified procedures. These discretionary supervisory actions include: (i) requiring the institution to raise additional capital; (ii) restricting transactions with affiliates; (iii) requiring divestiture of the institution or the sale of the institution to a willing purchaser; and (iv) any other supervisory action that the agency deems appropriate. These and additional mandatory and permissive supervisory actions may be taken with respect to significantly undercapitalized and critically undercapitalized institutions. The Bank meets the definition of being &#147;well capitalized&#148; as of December 31, 2015. 

Community Reinvestment Act . The Bank is subject to the requirements of the Community Reinvestment Act of 1977. The CRA imposes on financial institutions an affirmative and ongoing obligation to meet the credit needs of the local communities, including low and moderate income neighborhoods. If the Bank receives a rating from the Federal Reserve of less than satisfactory under the CRA, restrictions on operating activities could be imposed. 

Privacy Legislation . Several recent regulations issued by federal banking agencies also provide new protections against the transfer and use of customer information by financial institutions. A financial institution must provide to its customers information regarding its policies and procedures with respect to the handling of customers&#146; personal information. Each institution must conduct an internal risk assessment of its ability to protect customer information. These privacy provisions generally prohibit a financial institution from providing a customer&#146;s personal financial information to unaffiliated parties without prior notice and approval from the customer. 

USA Patriot Act of 2001 . In October 2001, the USA Patriot Act of 2001 (&#147;Patriot Act&#148;) was enacted in response to the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks. The Patriot Act is intended to strengthen U. S. law enforcement and the intelligence communities&#146; abilities to work cohesively to combat terrorism. The continuing impact on financial institutions of the Patriot Act and related regulations and policies is significant and wide ranging. The Patriot Act contains sweeping anti-money laundering and financial transparency laws, and imposes various regulations, including standards for verifying customer identification at account opening, and rules to promote cooperation among financial institutions, regulators and law enforcement entities to identify persons who may be involved in terrorism or money laundering. 

Consumer Laws and Regulations . The Bank is also subject to certain consumer laws and regulations issued thereunder that are designed to protect consumers in transactions with banks. These laws include the Truth in Lending Act, the Truth in Savings Act, the Electronic Funds Transfer Act, the Expedited Funds Availability Act, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act, Home Mortgage Disclosure Act, the Fair Credit Reporting Act, the Fair Housing Act and the Dodd-Frank Act, among others. The laws and related regulations mandate certain disclosure requirements and regulate the manner in which financial institutions transact business with customers. The Bank must comply with the applicable provisions of these consumer protection laws and regulations as part of its ongoing customer relations. 

&#160;

Incentive Compensation . In June 2010, the federal banking agencies issued comprehensive final guidance on incentive compensation policies intended to ensure that the incentive compensation policies of financial institutions do not undermine the safety and soundness of such institutions by encouraging excessive risk-taking. The Interagency Guidance on Sound Incentive Compensation Policies , which covers all employees that have the ability to materially affect the risk profile of a financial institution, either individually or as part of a group, is based upon the key principles that a financial institution&#146;s incentive compensation arrangements should (i) provide incentives that do not encourage risk-taking beyond the institution&#146;s ability to effectively identify and manage risks, (ii) be compatible with effective internal controls and risk management, and (iii) be supported by good corporate governance, including active and effective oversight by the financial institution&#146;s board of directors. 

The Federal Reserve will review, as part of the regular, risk-focused examination process, the incentive compensation arrangements of financial institutions, such as the Company, that are not &#147;large, complex banking organizations.&#148; These reviews will be tailored to each financial institution based on the scope and complexity of the institution&#146;s activities and the prevalence of incentive compensation arrangements. The findings of the supervisory initiatives will be included in reports of examination. Deficiencies will be incorporated into the institution&#146;s supervisory ratings, which can affect the institution&#146;s ability to make acquisitions and take other actions. Enforcement actions may be taken against a financial institution if its incentive compensation arrangements, or related risk-management control or governance processes, pose a risk to the institution&#146;s safety and soundness and the financial institution is not taking prompt and effective measures to correct the deficiencies. At December 31, 2015, the Company had not been made aware of any instances of non-compliance with the guidance. 

Effect of Governmental Monetary Policies 

The Company&#146;s operations are affected not only by general economic conditions but also by the policies of various regulatory authorities. In particular, the Federal Reserve regulates money and credit conditions and interest rates to influence general economic conditions. These policies have a significant impact on overall growth and distribution of loans, investments and deposits; they affect interest rates charged on loans or paid for time and savings deposits. Federal Reserve monetary policies have had a significant effect on the operating results of commercial banks, including the Company, in the past and are expected to do so in the future. 

