 Item 1. Business 

Exterran Corporation (together with its subsidiaries, &#8220;Exterran Corporation,&#8221; &#8220;our,&#8221; &#8220;we&#8221; or &#8220;us&#8221;), a Delaware corporation formed in March 2015, is a market leader in the provision of compression, production and processing products and services that support the production and transportation of oil and natural gas throughout the world. 

Spin-off 

On November 3, 2015, Archrock, Inc. (named Exterran Holdings, Inc. prior to November 3, 2015) (&#8220;Archrock&#8221;) completed the spin-off (the &#8220;Spin-off&#8221;) of its international contract operations, international aftermarket services (the international contract operations and international aftermarket services businesses combined are referred to as the &#8220;international services businesses&#8221; and include such activities conducted outside of the United States of America (&#8220;U.S.&#8221;)) and global fabrication businesses into an independent, publicly traded company named Exterran Corporation. We refer to the global fabrication business previously operated by Archrock as our product sales business. To effect the Spin-off, on November 3, 2015, Archrock distributed, on a pro rata basis, all of our shares of common stock to its stockholders of record as of October 27, 2015 (the &#8220;Record Date&#8221;). Archrock shareholders received one share of Exterran Corporation common stock for every two shares of Archrock common stock held at the close of business on the Record Date. Pursuant to the separation and distribution agreement with Archrock and certain of our and Archrock&#8217;s respective affiliates, on November 3, 2015, we transferred cash of $532.6 million to Archrock. Our Registration Statement on Form 10, as amended, initially filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 13, 2015, was declared effective on October 21, 2015 (&#8220;Registration Statement&#8221;). On November 4, 2015, Exterran Corporation common stock began &#8220;regular-way&#8221; trading on the New York Stock Exchange under the stock symbol &#8220;EXTN.&#8221; Following the completion of the Spin-off, we and Archrock are independent, publicly traded companies with separate boards of directors and management. 

General 

We provide our products and services to a global customer base consisting of companies engaged in all aspects of the oil and natural gas industry, including large integrated oil and natural gas companies, national oil and natural gas companies, independent oil and natural gas producers and oil and natural gas processors, gatherers and pipeline operators. We operate in three primary business lines: contract operations, aftermarket services and product sales. 

In our contract operations business, which accounted for 25% &#32;of our revenue and 61% &#32;of our gross margin in 2015, we own and operate natural gas compression equipment and crude oil and natural gas production and processing equipment on behalf of our customers outside of the U.S. These services can include engineering, design, procurement, on-site construction and operation of natural gas compression and crude oil or natural gas production and processing facilities for our customers. Our contract operations business is underpinned by long-term commercial contracts with large customers, including several national oil and natural gas companies, which we believe provide us with relatively stable cash flows due to our exposure to the production phase of oil and gas development, compared to drilling and completion related energy services and product providers. We believe our contract operations services generally allow our customers that outsource their compression or production and processing needs to achieve higher production rates than they would achieve with their own operations, resulting in increased revenue for our customers. In addition, outsourcing allows our customers flexibility for their compression and production and processing needs while limiting their capital requirements. These contracts generally involve initial terms ranging from three to five years, and in some cases can be in excess of 10 years. In many instances, we are able to renew those contracts prior to the expiration of the initial term; in some cases, we may sell the underlying assets to our customers pursuant to purchase options or otherwise. 

In our aftermarket services business, which accounted for 7% &#32;of our revenue and 7% &#32;of our gross margin in 2015, we provide operations, maintenance, overhaul and reconfiguration services outside of the U.S. to support our customers who own their own compression, production, processing, treating and related equipment. Our services range from routine maintenance services and parts sales to the full operation and maintenance of customer-owned assets. We seek to couple our aftermarket services with our product sales business to provide ongoing services to customers who buy equipment from us and to sell those services to customers who have bought equipment from other companies. 

In our product sales business, which accounted for approximately 68% &#32;of our revenue and 32% &#32;of our gross margin in 2015, we design, engineer, manufacture, install and sell natural gas compression packages as well as equipment used in the production, treating and processing of crude oil and natural gas to customers both in the U.S. and internationally. Additionally, we design, engineer, manufacture and install this equipment for use in our contract operations business. Our product sales business line also provides engineering, procurement and manufacturing services related to the manufacture of critical process equipment for refinery and petrochemical facilities, the manufacture of tanks for tank farms and the manufacture of evaporators and brine heaters for desalination plants. Furthermore, we combine our products into an integrated solution that we design, engineer, procure and, in certain cases, construct on-site for sale to our customers. We believe the expansive range of products we sell through our global platform enables us to take advantage of the ongoing, worldwide energy infrastructure build-out. 

Competitive Strengths 

We believe the following key competitive strengths will allow us to create shareholder value: 

&#8226; 

Global platform and expansive service and product offerings poised to capitalize on the global energy infrastructure build-out. Despite the recent decline in oil and natural gas prices and the impact on demand for our services and products, we expect that global oil and natural gas infrastructure will continue to be built out and provide us with opportunities for growth, as we believe our global customer base will continue to invest in infrastructure projects based on longer-term fundamentals that are less tied to near-term commodity prices. We believe our size, geographic scope and broad customer base provide us with a unique advantage in meeting our customers&#8217; needs, particularly with regard to large-scale project construction and development, and will allow us to capture future growth opportunities. We provide our customers a broad variety of products and services in approximately 30 &#32;countries worldwide, including outsourced compression, production and processing services, as well as the sale of a large portfolio of natural gas compression and oil and natural gas production and processing equipment and installation services. We believe our contract operations services generally allow our customers that outsource their compression or production and processing needs to achieve higher production rates than they would achieve with their own operations, resulting in increased revenue for our customers. In addition, outsourcing allows our customers flexibility for their compression and production and processing needs while limiting their capital requirements. By offering a broad range of services and products that leverage our core strengths, we believe we provide unique integrated solutions that meet our customers&#8217; needs. We believe the breadth and quality of our products and services, the depth of our customer relationships and our presence in many major oil and natural gas-producing regions place us in a position to capture additional business on a global basis. 

&#8226; 

High-quality products and services. We have built a network of high-quality energy infrastructure assets that are strategically deployed across our global platform. Through our history of operating a wide variety of products in many energy-producing markets around the world, we have developed the technical expertise and experience required to understand the needs of our customers and meet those needs through a range of products and services. These products and services include highly customized compression, production and processing solutions as well as standard products based on our expertise, in support of a range of projects, from those requiring quick completion to those that may take several years to fully develop. Additionally, our experience has allowed us to develop efficient systems and processes and a skilled workforce that allow us to provide high-quality services throughout international markets. We utilize this technical expertise and long history of developing and operating projects for our customers to continually improve our products and services, which enables us to provide our customers with high-quality, comprehensive oil and natural gas infrastructure support worldwide. 

&#8226; 

Complementary businesses enable us to offer customers integrated infrastructure solutions. We aim to provide our customers with a single source to meet their energy infrastructure needs, and we believe we have the ability to serve our customers&#8217; changing needs in a variety of ways. For customers that seek to limit capital spending on energy infrastructure projects, we offer our full operations services through our contract operations business. Alternatively, for customers that prefer to develop and acquire their own infrastructure assets, we are able to sell equipment and facilities for their operations. In addition, in those cases, we can also provide operations, maintenance, overhaul and reconfiguration services following the sale through our aftermarket services business. We also provide aftermarket services to customers that own compression, production, processing and treating equipment that was not purchased from us. Furthermore, we combine our products into an integrated solution that we design, engineer, procure and, in certain cases, construct on-site for sale to our customers. Because of the breadth of our products and our ability to deliver those products through our different delivery models, we believe we are able to provide the solution that is most suitable to our customers in the markets in which they operate. We believe this ability to provide our customers with a variety of products and services provides us with greater stability, as we are able to adjust the products and services we provide to reflect our customers&#8217; changing needs. 

&#8226; 

Cash flows from contract operations business supported by long-term contracts with diverse customer base. We provide contract operations services to customers located in approximately 15 &#32;countries. Within our contract operations business, we seek to enter into long-term contracts with a diverse collection of customers, including large integrated oil and natural gas companies and national energy companies. These contracts generally involve initial terms ranging from three to five years, and in some cases can be in excess of 10 years, and typically require our customers to pay our monthly service fee even during periods of limited or disrupted natural gas flows. In addition, our large, international customer base provides a diversified revenue stream, which we believe reduces customer and geographic concentration risk. Furthermore, our customer base includes several companies that are among the largest and most well-known companies within their respective regions throughout our global platform. 

&#8226; 

Experienced management team. We have an experienced and skilled management team with a long track record of driving growth through organic expansion and selective acquisitions. The members of our management team have strong relationships in the oil and gas industry and have operated through numerous commodity price cycles throughout our areas of operations. Members of our management team have spent a significant portion of their respective careers at highly regarded energy and manufacturing companies and have accumulated an average of over 25 years &#32;of industry experience. 

&#8226; 

Well-balanced capital structure with sufficient liquidity. We intend to maintain a capital structure with an appropriate amount of leverage and the financial flexibility to invest in our operations and pursue attractive growth opportunities that we believe will increase the overall earnings and cash flow generated by our business. At December 31, 2015, taking into account guarantees through letters of credit, we had undrawn and available capacity of $278.6 million &#32;under our revolving credit facility. In addition, as of December 31, 2015, we had $29.0 million &#32;of cash and cash equivalents on hand. 

Business Strategies 

We intend to continue to capitalize on our competitive strengths to meet our customers&#8217; needs through the following key strategies: 

&#8226; 

Strategically grow our business to generate attractive returns to our shareholders. Our primary strategic focus involves the growth of our business through expanding our product and services offerings and growing our customer base, as well as targeting redevelopment opportunities in the U.S. energy market and expansions into new international markets benefiting from the global energy infrastructure build-out. Our diverse product and service portfolio allows us to readily respond to changes in industry and economic conditions. We believe our global footprint allows us to provide the prompt product availability our customers require, and we can construct projects in new locations as needed to meet customer demand. We have the ability to readily deploy our capital to construct new or supplemental projects that we build, own and operate on behalf of our customers through our contract operations business. In addition, we seek to provide our customers with integrated infrastructure solutions by combining product and service offerings across our businesses. We plan to supplement our organic growth with select acquisitions in key markets to further enhance our geographic reach, product offerings and other capabilities. We believe acquisitions of this nature will allow us to generate incremental revenues from existing and new customers and obtain greater market share. 

&#8226; 

Expand customer base and deepen relationships with existing customers. We believe the uniquely broad range of services we offer, the quality of our products and services and our diverse geographic footprint position us well to attract new customers and cross-sell our products and services to existing customers. In addition, we have a long history of providing our products and services to our customers, which we couple with the technical expertise of our experienced engineering personnel to understand and meet our customers&#8217; needs, particularly as those needs develop and change over time. We intend to devote significant business development resources to market our products and services, leverage existing relationships and expedite our growth potential. We also seek to provide supplemental projects and services to our customers as their needs evolve over time. Finally, we expect to be able to offer certain of our products, including manufactured compressors, to prospective customers that are competitors of Archrock, which increases our prospective customer base and provides us with the opportunity to diversify our revenue sources. 

&#8226; 

Continue our industry-leading safety performance. Because of our emphasis on training and safety protocols for our employees, we have delivered industry-leading safety performance, which has resulted in our achieving a strong reputation for safety. We believe our safety performance and reputation help us to attract and retain customers and employees. We have adopted rigorous processes and procedures to facilitate our compliance with safety regulations and policies. We work diligently to meet or exceed applicable safety regulations, and we intend to continue to focus on our safety monitoring function as our business grows and operating conditions change. 

&#8226; 

Continue to optimize our global platform, products and services and enhance our profitability. We regularly review and evaluate the quality of our operations, products and services. This process includes customer review programs to assess the quality of our performance. In addition, we intend to use our global platform to reach a wide variety of customers, which we believe can enable us to achieve cost savings in our operations. We believe our ongoing focus on improving the quality of our operations, products and services results in greater satisfaction among our customers, which we believe results in greater profitability and value for our shareholders. 

Our Businesses 

We conduct our operations through three businesses: contract operations, aftermarket services and product sales. For financial data relating to our business segments or geographic regions that accounted for 10% or more of our revenue in any of the last three fiscal years or 10% or more of our property, plant and equipment, net, as of December 31, 2015 &#32;or December 31, 2014 , see Part II, Item 7 (&#8220;Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations&#8221;) and Note 21 &#32;to our Consolidated and Combined Financial Statements included in Part IV, Item 15 (collectively referred to as &#8220;Financial Statements,&#8221; and individually referred to as &#8220;balance sheets,&#8221; &#8220;statements of operations,&#8221; &#8220;statements of comprehensive income,&#8221; &#8220;statements of stockholders&#8217; equity&#8221; and &#8220;statements of cash flows&#8221; herein). 

Contract Operations 

We provide comprehensive contract operations services to customers outside of the U.S. based on each customer&#8217;s needs and operating specifications. These services include the provision of the personnel, equipment, tools, materials and supplies to meet our customers&#8217; natural gas compression or oil or natural gas production or processing service needs, as well as designing, sourcing, owning, installing, operating, servicing, repairing and maintaining equipment owned by us necessary to provide these services. 

We generally enter into contracts with our contract operations customers with initial terms between three to five years, and in some cases can be in excess of 10 years. These contracts can require us to provide complete engineering, design and installation services and a significant investment in equipment, facilities and related installation costs. These projects may include several compressor units on one site or entire facilities designed to process and treat oil or natural gas to make it suitable for end use. Our customers generally are required to pay a monthly service fee even during periods of limited or disrupted oil or natural gas flows, which enhances the stability and predictability of our cash flows. Additionally, because we typically do not take title to the natural gas we compress, process or treat and because the natural gas we use as fuel for our compressors and other equipment is supplied by our customers, we have limited direct exposure to commodity price fluctuations. 

Our equipment is maintained in accordance with established maintenance schedules. These maintenance procedures are updated as technology changes and as our operations team develops new techniques and procedures. In addition, because our field technicians provide maintenance on our contract operations equipment, they are familiar with the condition of our equipment and can readily identify potential problems. In our experience, these maintenance procedures maximize equipment life and unit availability, minimize avoidable downtime and lower the overall maintenance expenditures over the equipment life. 

During the year ended December 31, 2015 , approximately 25% &#32;of our revenue and 61% &#32;of our gross margin was generated from contract operations. As of December 31, 2015 , our contract operations business provided contract operations services using a fleet of 901 &#32;natural gas compression units with an aggregate capacity of approximately 1,181,000 &#32;horsepower and a fleet of production and processing equipment. 

We believe that our aftermarket services and product sales businesses, described below, provide opportunities to cross-sell our contract operations services. 

Aftermarket Services 

Our aftermarket services business sells parts and components and provides operation, maintenance, overhaul and reconfiguration services to customers outside of the U.S. who own compression, production, processing and treating equipment. We believe that we are particularly well qualified to provide these services because of our highly experienced operating personnel and technical and engineering expertise. In addition, our aftermarket services business is a component of our ability to provide integrated infrastructure solutions to our customers because it enables us to continue to serve our customers after the sale of any assets or facilities manufactured through our product sales business. As a result, we seek to couple aftermarket services with our other businesses to maintain and develop our relationships with our customers. 

During the year ended December 31, 2015 , approximately 7% &#32;of our revenue and 7% &#32;of our gross margin was generated from aftermarket services. 

Product Sales 

We design, engineer, manufacture, sell and, in certain cases, install a broad range of oil and natural gas production and processing equipment designed to heat, separate, dehydrate and condition crude oil and natural gas to make them suitable for end use. Our products include line heaters, oil and natural gas separators, glycol dehydration units, condensate stabilizers, dew point control plants, water treatment, mechanical refrigeration and cryogenic plants and skid-mounted production packages designed for both onshore and offshore production facilities. We sell standard production and processing equipment, which is used for processing wellhead production from onshore or shallow-water offshore platform production primarily into U.S. markets. In addition, we sell custom-engineered, built-to-specification production and processing equipment, including designing facilities comprised of a combination of our products integrated into a solution that meets our customers&#8217; needs. Some of these projects are in remote areas and in developing countries with limited oil and natural gas industry infrastructure. To meet most customers&#8217; rapid response requirements and minimize customer downtime, we maintain an inventory of standard products and long delivery components used to manufacture our products to our customers&#8217; specifications. Typically, we expect our production and processing equipment backlog to be produced within a three to 24 month period. 

We also design, engineer, manufacture, sell and, in certain cases, install, skid-mounted natural gas compression equipment to meet standard or unique customer specifications. Generally, we assemble compressors sold to third parties according to each customer&#8217;s specifications. We purchase components for these compressors from third party suppliers including several major engine and compressor manufacturers in the industry. We also sell pre-packaged compressor units designed to our standard specifications. 

We also provide engineering, procurement and manufacturing services related to the manufacture of critical process equipment for refinery and petrochemical facilities, the manufacture of tanks for tank farms and the manufacture of evaporators and brine heaters for desalination plants. 

We sell our compression and production and processing equipment primarily to major and independent oil and natural gas producers as well as national oil and natural gas companies in the countries where we operate, both within the U.S. and internationally. 

During the year ended December 31, 2015 , approximately 68% &#32;of our revenue and 32% &#32;of our gross margin was generated from product sales. As of December 31, 2015 , our backlog in product sales was $452.4 million , of which approximately $47.8 million &#32;of future revenue is expected to be recognized after December 31, 2016. 

Industry Overview 

Natural Gas Compression 

The international compression business is comprised primarily of large horsepower compressors that are typically deployed in facilities comprised of several compressors on one site. A significant portion of this business involves comprehensive projects that require the design, engineering, manufacture, delivery and installation of several compressors on one site along with related natural gas treatment and processing equipment. We are able to serve our customers&#8217; needs for such projects through our product sales business or through the provision of our contract operations services. 

Natural gas compression is a mechanical process whereby the pressure of a given volume of natural gas is increased to a desired higher pressure for transportation from one point to another and is essential to the production and transportation of natural gas. Compression is typically required several times during the natural gas production and transportation cycle, including (i) at the wellhead, (ii) throughout gathering and distribution systems, (iii) into and out of processing and storage facilities and (iv) along pipelines. 

Production and Processing 

Crude oil and natural gas are generally not marketable as produced at the wellhead and must be processed or treated before they can be transported to market. Production and processing equipment is used to separate and treat oil and natural gas as they are produced to achieve a marketable quality of product. Production processing typically involves the separation of oil and natural gas and the removal of contaminants. The end result is &#8220;pipeline&#8221; or &#8220;sales&#8221; quality oil and natural gas. Further processing or refining is almost always required before oil or natural gas is suitable for use as fuel or feedstock for petrochemical production. Production processing normally takes place in the &#8220;upstream&#8221; and &#8220;midstream&#8221; segments, while refining and petrochemical processing is referred to as the &#8220;downstream&#8221; segment. Wellhead or upstream production and processing equipment include a wide and diverse range of products. 

We manufacture and stock standard production equipment based on historical product mix and expected customer purchases following general trends of oil and natural gas production. In addition, we sell custom-engineered, built-to-specification production and processing equipment. We also provide integrated solutions comprised of a combination of our products into a single offering, which typically consists of much larger equipment packages than standard equipment and is generally used in much larger scale production operations. The custom equipment segment is driven by global economic trends, and the specifications for purchased equipment can vary significantly. Technology, engineering capabilities, project management, available manufacturing space and quality control standards are the key drivers in the custom equipment segment. 

Outsourcing 

Natural gas producers, transporters and processors choose to outsource their operations due to the benefits and flexibility of contract operations. We believe outsourcing compression, production and processing operations to service providers such as us offers customers: 

&#8226; 

access to the service provider&#8217;s specialized personnel and technical skills, including engineers and field service and maintenance employees, which we believe generally leads to improved production rates and/or increased throughput and higher revenues; 

&#8226; 

the ability to increase their profitability by transporting or producing a higher volume of natural gas through decreased equipment downtime and reduced operating, maintenance and equipment costs by allowing the service provider to efficiently manage their operations; and 

&#8226; 

the flexibility to deploy their capital on projects more directly related to their primary business by reducing their investment in compression, production and processing equipment and related maintenance capital requirements. 

Cyclicality, Volatility and Seasonality 

Changes in oil and natural gas exploration and production spending normally result in changes in demand for our products and services. However, we believe our contract operations business is typically less impacted by commodity prices than certain other energy service products and services because compression, production and processing services are necessary for oil and natural gas to be delivered from the wellhead to end users. Furthermore, our contract operations business is tied primarily to oil and natural gas production and consumption, which are generally less cyclical in nature than exploration activities. 

Demand for oil and natural gas is cyclical and subject to fluctuations. This is primarily because the industry is driven by commodity demand and corresponding price movements. When oil and natural gas price increases occur, producers typically increase their capital expenditures, which generally results in greater activity levels and revenues for equipment providers to the oil and gas industry. During periods of lower oil or natural gas prices, producers typically decrease their capital expenditures, which generally results in lower activity levels and revenues for equipment providers to the oil and gas industry. 

Our results of operations have not historically reflected any material seasonal tendencies and we currently do not believe that seasonal fluctuations will have a material impact on us in the foreseeable future. 

Markets, Customers and Competition 

Our global customer base consists primarily of companies engaged in all aspects of the oil and natural gas industry, including large integrated oil and natural gas companies, national energy companies, independent producers and natural gas processors, gatherers and pipeline operators. 

During the years ended December 31, 2015 &#32;and 2014 , Archrock and Archrock Partners accounted for approximately 10% and 11%, respectively, of our total revenues. We expect to continue providing Archrock and Archrock Partners with certain manufactured products, including compressors, and we will depend on them for a significant amount of our product sales revenue. The loss of our business with Archrock or Archrock Partners, unless offset by additional product sales to other customers, or the inability or failure of Archrock or Archrock Partners to meet its payment obligations could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. See Note 15 &#32;to the Financial Statements for further discussion on transactions with affiliates. No other customer accounted for more than 10% of our revenues in 2015 &#32;and 2014 . During the year ended December 31, 2013 , no individual customer accounted for more than 10% of our revenues. 

We currently operate in approximately 30 &#32;countries. We have product sales facilities in the U.S., Europe, Asia and the Middle East. 

The businesses in which we operate are highly competitive. Overall, we experience considerable competition from companies that may be able to more quickly adapt to changes within our industry and changes in economic conditions as a whole and to more readily take advantage of available opportunities. We believe we are competitive with respect to price, equipment availability, customer service, flexibility in meeting customer needs, technical expertise, quality and reliability of our compression, production and processing equipment and related services. We face vigorous competition throughout our businesses, with some firms competing with us in multiple businesses. In our product sales business, we have different competitors in the standard and custom-engineered equipment segments. Competitors in the standard equipment segment include several large companies and a large number of small, regional fabricators. Our competition in the custom-engineered segment consists mainly of larger companies with the ability to provide integrated projects and product support after the sale. The ability to manufacture large custom-engineered systems near the point of end-use is often a competitive advantage. 

We expect to face increased competition as we seek to diversify our customer base and increase utilization of our service offerings. 

We also expect to be able to offer certain of our products, including manufactured compressors, to prospective customers that were previously competitors of Archrock, which increases our prospective customer base and ability to diversify our revenue sources. In addition, in connection with the completion of the Spin-off, we entered into a supply agreement pursuant to which we provide Archrock and Archrock Partners with manufactured equipment. 

The separation and distribution agreement contains certain noncompetition provisions addressing restrictions for a limited period of time after the Spin-off on our ability to provide contract operations services in the U.S. and on Archrock&#8217;s ability to provide contract operations services outside of the U.S. and product sales to customers worldwide, subject to certain exceptions. 

Sources and Availability of Raw Materials 

We manufacture natural gas compression and oil and natural gas production and processing equipment to provide contract operations services and to sell to third parties from components which we acquire from a wide range of vendors. These components represent a significant portion of the cost of our compressor and production and processing equipment products. In addition, we manufacture tanks for tank farms and critical process equipment for refinery and petrochemical facilities and other vessels used in the production, processing and treating of crude oil and natural gas. Steel prices can fluctuate widely and represent a significant portion of the cost of raw materials for these products. Increases in raw material costs cannot always be offset by increases in our products&#8217; sales prices. While many of our materials and components are available from multiple suppliers at competitive prices, we obtain some of the components, including compressors and engines, used in our products from a limited group of suppliers. We occasionally experience long lead times for components, including compressors and engines, from our suppliers and, therefore, we may at times make purchases in anticipation of future orders. 

Environmental and Other Regulations 

Government Regulation 

Our operations are subject to stringent and complex U.S. federal, state, local and international laws and regulations that could have a material impact on our operations or financial condition. Our operations are regulated under a number of laws governing, among other things, discharges of substances into the air, ground and regulated waters, the generation, transportation, treatment, storage and disposal of hazardous and non-hazardous substances, disclosure of information about hazardous materials used or produced in our operations, and occupational health and safety. 

Compliance with these environmental laws and regulations may expose us to significant costs and liabilities and cause us to incur significant capital expenditures in our operations. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, imposition of investigatory and remedial obligations, and the issuance of injunctions delaying or prohibiting operations. In certain circumstances, laws may impose strict, joint and several liability without regard to fault or the legality of the original conduct on classes of persons who are considered to be responsible for the release of hazardous substances into the environment. In addition, it is not uncommon for third parties to file claims for personal injury, property damage and recovery of response costs allegedly caused by hazardous substances or other pollutants released into the environment. We currently own or lease, and in the past have owned or leased, a number of properties that have been used in support of our operations for a number of years. Although we have utilized operating and disposal practices that were standard in the industry at the time, hydrocarbons, hazardous substances, or other regulated wastes may have been disposed of or released on or under the properties owned or leased by us or on or under other locations where such materials have been taken for disposal by companies sub-contracted by us. In addition, many of these properties have been previously owned or operated by third parties whose treatment and disposal or release of hydrocarbons, hazardous substances or other regulated wastes was not under our control. These properties and the materials released or disposed thereon may be subject to various laws that could require us to remove or remediate historical property contamination, or to perform certain operations to prevent future contamination. We are not currently under any order requiring that we undertake or pay for any cleanup activities. However, we cannot provide any assurance that we will not receive any such order in the future. 

The clear trend in environmental regulation is to place more restrictions on activities that may affect the environment, and thus, any changes in these laws and regulations that result in more stringent and costly waste handling, storage, transport, disposal, emission or remediation requirements could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position. 

Employees 

As of December 31, 2015 , we had approximately 7,000 &#32;employees. Many of our employees outside of the U.S. are covered by collective bargaining agreements. We generally consider our relationships with our employees to be satisfactory. 

Available Information 

Our website address is www.exterran.com . Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports are available on our website, without charge, as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed electronically with the Securities and Exchange Commission (&#8220;SEC&#8221;). Information on our website is not incorporated by reference in this report or any of our other securities filings. Paper copies of our filings are also available, without charge, from Exterran Corporation, 4444 Brittmoore Road, Houston, Texas 77041, Attention: Investor Relations. Alternatively, the public may read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at its Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. 

Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC also maintains a website that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers who file electronically with the SEC. The SEC&#8217;s website address is www.sec.gov . 

Additionally, we make available free of charge on our website: 

&#8226; 

our Code of Business Conduct; 

&#8226; 

our Corporate Governance Principles; and 

&#8226; 

the charters of our audit, compensation and nominating and corporate governance committees. 

