 Item 1. Business 

Overview 

j2 Global, Inc., together with its subsidiaries (&#8220;j2 Global&#8221;, &#8220;our&#8221;, &#8220;us&#8221; or &#8220;we&#8221;), is a leading provider of Internet services. Through our Business Cloud Services Division, we provide cloud services to businesses of all sizes, from individuals to enterprises, and license our intellectual property ("IP") to third parties. In addition, the Business Cloud Services Division includes our j2 Cloud Connect business which is primarily focused on our voice and fax products. Our Digital Media Division specializes in the technology and gaming markets, reaching in-market buyers and influencers in both the consumer and business-to-business space. 

Our Business Cloud Services Division generates revenues primarily from customer subscription and usage fees and from IP licensing fees. Our Digital Media Division generates revenues from advertising, performance marketing and licensing fees. 

In addition to growing our business organically, on a regular basis we acquire businesses to grow our customer bases, expand and diversify our service offerings, enhance our technologies, acquire skilled personnel and to enter into other jurisdictions. 

Our consolidated revenues are currently generated from three basic business models, each with different financial profiles and variability. Our Business Cloud Services Division is driven primarily by subscription revenues that are relatively higher margin, stable and predictable from quarter-to-quarter with some seasonal weakness in the fourth quarter. The Business Cloud Services Division also includes the results of our IP licensing business, which can vary dramatically in both revenues and profitability from period-to-period. Our Digital Media Division is driven primarily by advertising revenues, has relatively higher sales and marketing expense and has seasonal strength in the fourth quarter. We continue to pursue additional acquisitions, which may include companies operating under business models that differ from those we operate under today. Such acquisitions could impact our consolidated profit margins and the variability of our revenues. 

We were incorporated in 2014 as a Delaware corporation through the creation of a new holding company structure, and our Business Cloud Services segment, operated by our wholly-owned subsidiary, j2 Cloud Services, Inc, and its subsidiaries, was founded in 1995. We manage our operations through two business segments: Business Cloud Services and Digital Media. Information regarding revenue and operating income attributable to each of our reportable segments and certain geographic information is included within Note 16 - Segment Information of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, which is incorporated herein by reference. IP licensing activities are included within the Business Cloud Services segment. 

Business Cloud Services 

We believe that businesses of all sizes are increasingly purchasing cloud services to meet their communication, messaging, data backup, hosting, customer relationship management and other needs. Cloud-based services represent a model for delivering and consuming, independent of location, real time business technology services, resources and solutions over the Internet. Their goal is to reduce or eliminate costs, increase sales and enhance productivity, mobility, business continuity and security. Our eFax&#174; &#32;and MyFax&#174; &#32;online fax services enable users to receive faxes into their email inboxes and to send faxes via the Internet. eVoice&#174; &#32;and Onebox&#174; &#32;provide our customers a virtual phone system with various available enhancements. KeepItSafe&#174; &#32;enables our customers to securely back up their data and dispose of tape or other physical systems. Our FuseMail&#174; &#32;service provides our customers email, archival and perimeter protection solutions, while Campaigner&#174; &#32;provides our customers enhanced email marketing solutions. CampaignerCRM&#174; &#32;provides customer relationship management solutions designed to increase our customers' sales and increase efficiency. All of these services represent software-as-a-service solutions except online backup which represents an infrastructure-as-a-service solution. We believe these services represent more efficient and less expensive solutions than many existing alternatives, and provide increased security, privacy, flexibility and mobility. 

We generate substantially all of our Business Cloud Services revenues from "fixed" subscription revenues for basic customer subscriptions and, to a lesser extent, &#8220;variable&#8221; usage revenues generated from actual usage by our subscribers. Our online fax, virtual phone, email and customer relationship management products have both a fixed and variable subscription component with the substantial majority of revenues derived from the fixed portion. Our online backup products derive revenue solely from fixed subscriptions. In addition, the cost structures of all our Business Cloud Services are very similar in terms of fixed and variable components and include capital expenditures that are in proportion to revenue for each product offering. We also generate Business Cloud Services revenues from patent licensing and sales and advertising. We categorize our Business Cloud Services and solutions into two basic groups: number-based, which are services provided in whole or in part through a telephone number, and non-number-based, which are our other cloud services for business. 

- 3 - 

We market our Business Cloud Services offerings to a broad spectrum of prospective business customers including sole proprietors, small to medium-sized businesses, and enterprises and government organizations. Our marketing efforts include enhancing brand awareness; utilizing online advertising, search engines and affiliate programs; selling through both a telesales and direct sales force; and cross-selling. We continuously seek to extend the number of distribution channels through which we acquire paying customers and improve the cost and volume of customers obtained through our current channels. 

We offer the following cloud services and solutions: 

Fax 

eFax&#174; &#32;is the leading brand in the global online fax market. Various tiers of service provide increasing levels of features and functionality to sole proprietors, small and medium-sized businesses, and enterprises around the world. &#32; Our most popular services allow individuals to receive and send faxes as email attachments. In addition to eFax&#174; , we offer online fax services under a variety of alternative brands including MyFax&#174; , eFax Plus &#174;, eFax Pro&#8482;, eFax Corporate&#8482; and &#32;eFax Developer&#8482; . 

Voice and Unified Communications 

eVoice&#174; &#32;is a virtual phone system that provides small and medium-sized businesses on-demand voice communications services, featuring a toll-free or local company number, auto-attendant and menu tree. With these services, a subscriber can assign departmental and individual extensions that can connect to multiple U.S. or Canadian numbers, including land-line and mobile phones and IP networks, and can enhance reachability through &#8220;find me/follow me&#8221; capabilities. These services also include advanced integrated voicemail for each extension, effectively unifying mobile, office and other separate voicemail services and improving efficiency by delivering voicemails in both native audio format and as transcribed text. 

Onebox&#174; &#32;is a full-featured unified communications suite. It combines the features of many of our other branded services, plus added functionality, to provide a full virtual office. Onebox &#32;includes a virtual phone system, hosted email, online fax, audio conferencing and web conferencing. 

Online Backup 

KeepItSafe&#174; &#32;provides fully managed and monitored online backup solutions for businesses, using its ISO-certified platform. By securing critical digital assets via the Internet to highly secure data vaults, customers enjoy peace of mind knowing they have reliable and cost effective backups, and equally importantly rapid restores of the data that keeps their businesses operating. The software installs simply and provides full-server imaging and proven off-site data recovery capabilities without costly investments. Company data is protected from human error, file corruption and other harmful factors. 

LiveDrive&#174; , which was acquired in February 2014, provides online backup with added file-sync features for professionals and individuals. 

SugarSync&#174;, which was acquired in March 2015, provides online file backup, synchronization and sharing of assets. 

LiveVault &#174;, which was acquired in September 2015, provides data backup and recovery services. 

Email and Customer Relationship Management 

FuseMail&#174; &#32;offers hosted email security, email encryption and email archival services to businesses. &#160; These solutions are hosted offsite and seamlessly integrated into a customer's existing email system. The services include hosted email, VirusSMART&#8482; &#32;virus scanning, CypherSMART&#8482; &#32;encryption services, SpamSMART&#8482; &#32;SPAM filtering and VaultSMART&#8482; &#32;/ PolicySMART&#8482; &#32;archiving which delivers a secure, scalable email archiving and customizable compliance tool to correspond with a company's retention policy. 

Campaigner&#174; &#32;is an email marketing service that enables businesses to easily create and send highly personalized one-to-one email communications to subscribers and customers to build better relationships. Campaigner &#32;also helps businesses increase the size of their mailing lists, comply with email regulations like CAN-SPAM and get more emails to more inboxes. CampaignerCRM&#174; is an easy-to-use, cloud-based CRM solution specifically designed to help small/medium-sized businesses close more deals, reduce the sales cycle and sell larger deals. 

- 4 - 

IP Licensing 

We hold a number of issued U.S. and foreign patents and other intellectual property rights. We seek to license some of these intellectual property rights to third parties in exchange for fees. We include the results of these activities within the Business Cloud Services segment, exclusive of brand licensing by the Digital Media segment. 

Global Network and Operations 

Our Business Cloud Services business operates multiple physical Points of Presence (&#8220;POPs&#8221;) worldwide, a central data center in Los Angeles and several remote disaster recovery facilities. We connect our POPs to our central data centers via redundant, and often times diverse, Virtual Private Networks (&#8220;VPNs&#8221;) using the Internet. Our network is designed to deliver value-added user applications, customer support and billing services for our customers anywhere in the world and a local presence for our number-based service customers from thousands of cities in 50 countries on six continents. We offer numbers covering all major metropolitan areas in the U.S., U.K. and Canada, and such other major cities as Berlin, Hong Kong, Madrid, Manila, Mexico City, Milan, Paris, Rome, Singapore, Sydney, Taipei, Tokyo and Zurich. We have customers located throughout the world. 

Customer Support Services 

Our Business Cloud Services customer service organization supports our cloud services customers through a combination of online self-help, email communications, interactive chat sessions and telephone calls. Our Internet-based online self-help tools enable customers to resolve simple issues on their own, eliminating the need to speak or write to our customer service representatives. We use internal personnel and contracted third parties (on a dedicated personnel basis) to answer our customer emails and telephone calls and to participate in interactive chat sessions. 

Our Business Cloud Services segment customer service organization provides email support seven days per week, 24 hours per day to all subscribers. Paying subscribers have access to live-operator telephone support seven days per week, 24 hours per day. Dedicated telephone support is provided for corporate customers 24 hours per day, seven days per week. Live sales and customer support services are available in various languages, including English, Spanish, Dutch, German, French and Cantonese. 

Competition 

Our Business Cloud Services segment faces competition from, among others, online fax-providers, traditional fax machine or multi-function printer companies, unified messaging/communications providers, telephone companies, voicemail providers, companies offering PBX systems and outsourced PBX solutions, email providers, various data backup and hosting providers and customer relationship management solutions. Historically, our most popular solutions have related to online faxing, including the ability of our customers to access faxes via email and our outbound desktop faxing capabilities. These solutions compete primarily against traditional fax machine manufacturers, which are generally large and well-established companies, as well as publicly traded and privately-held providers of fax servers and related software and outsourced fax services. Some of these companies may have greater financial and other resources than we do. 

We believe that the primary competitive factors determining our success in the market for our Business Cloud Services include financial strength and stability; pricing; reputation for reliability and security of service; intellectual property ownership; effectiveness of customer support; sign-up, service and software ease-of-use; service scalability; customer messaging and branding; geographic coverage; scope of services; currency and payment method acceptance; and local language sales, messaging and support. 

For more information regarding the competition that we face, please refer to the section entitled Risk Factors contained in Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Digital Media 

Our Digital Media business segment consists of the web properties and business operations of Ziff Davis. The Ziff Davis portfolio of web properties - including &#32;PCMag.com, IGN.com, Speedtest.net, AskMen.com and &#32;TechBargains.com, &#32;among many others - &#32;features trusted reviews of technology, gaming and men's lifestyle products and services; news and commentary related to these vertical markets; professional networking tools, targeted emails and white papers for IT professionals; speed testing for Internet and mobile network connections; and online deals and discounts for consumers. 

- 5 - 

We generate Digital Media revenues from the sale of display and video advertising on our owned-and-operated properties as well as third-party sites, from the sale of customer clicks to online merchants and business-to-business leads to IT vendors, and through the licensing of technology, data and other intellectual material to clients. During 2015, our Digital Media web properties attracted 4.0 billion visits and 10.3 billion page views. 

We believe competitive factors relating to attracting and retaining users include the ability to provide premium and exclusive content and the reach, effectiveness, and efficiency of our marketing services to attract advertisers and publishers are important. We continue to seek opportunities to acquire additional web properties, both within and outside of the technology, gaming and men's lifestyle verticals, with the goal of monetizing their audiences and content though application of our proprietary technologies and insight. 

Web Properties 

Our Digital Media properties and services include the following: 

PCMag &#32;is a trusted online resource for laboratory-based product reviews, technology news and buying guides. We operate the largest and oldest independent testing facility for consumer technology products. Founded in 1984, our lab produces more than 2,200 unbiased technology product and service reviews annually. PCMag's &#32; &#8220; Editor's Choice&#8221; award is recognized globally as the trust-mark for buyers and sellers of technology products and services. 

I GN.com &#32;is a leading online media and services company focused on gaming and entertainment. Our premium gaming and entertainment content attracts one of the largest online concentrations of men within the 18-34-year old age category. 

Speedtest.net &#32;is a global market leader in allowing consumers and businesses to test broadband connection speed and mobile network speed. Our desktop solutions test connections to the Internet as well as on internal networks. Our mobile apps test cellular connections and Wi-Fi speeds. 

AskMen.com &#32;is a leading online source of information and advice focused on men&#8217;s lifestyles. AskMen.com features the latest in fashion, grooming, health, sports, fine living and finance. 

TechBargains.com &#32;is a destination for the best deals and discounts on the web. Our site curates up-to-the-minute deals and coupons from top brands for electronics, hardware, software and more. 

Display and Video Advertising 

We sell online display and video advertising on our owned-and-operated web properties and on third party sites as well as targeted advertising across the Internet through various unaffiliated third party digital advertising networks. 

We have contractual arrangements with advertisers either directly or through agencies. The terms of these contracts specify the price of the advertising to be sold and the volume of advertisements that will be served over the course of a campaign. 

In addition to the contracts with advertisers and agencies, we have contractual arrangements with certain third party websites not owned by us and third party advertising networks to deliver online display and video advertising to their websites or to third-party sites. 

Our technology allows for both online display and video advertising to be targeted by subject matter, keyword, ad size and placement as well as by past browsing behavior, geography and other factors (such advertising is commonly referred to as interest-based advertising), subject to applicable laws. We use Internet cookies and other end-user tracking technologies to learn about user activity, including: what pages were visited; which links were clicked; and other actions taken by users on our owned and operated websites and certain third party sites. This practice allows us to provide visitors to our owned and operated websites and certain third party websites with more useful and relevant advertisements. 

Performance &#32;Marketing 

We generate business-to-business leads for IT vendors through the marketing of content, including white papers and webinars, and offer additional lead qualification and nurturing services. On the consumer side, we generate clicks to online merchants by promoting deals and discounts on our web properties. 

- 6 - 

Licensing 

We license our proprietary technology, data and intellectual property to third parties for various purposes. For instance, we will license our Speedtest technology to businesses to allow them to test their internal networks, or we will license the right to use PCMag's &#8220;Editors' Choice&#8221; logo and other copyrighted editorial content to businesses whose products have earned such distinction. 

Competition 

Competition in the digital media space is fierce and continues to intensify. Our digital media business competes with online publishers including CNET, PCWorld, TechTarget, AOL Tech, GameSpot and others as well as with portals, advertising networks, social media sites and other platforms, including Yahoo, Facebook, Twitch and others. 

We believe that the primary competitive factors determining our success in the market for our digital media include Ziff Davis' reputation as a trusted source of objective information and our ability to attract Internet users and advertisers to our web properties. 

For more information regarding the competition that we face, please refer to the section entitled Risk Factors contained in Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Patents and Proprietary Rights 

We regard the protection of our intellectual property rights as important to our success. We aggressively protect these rights by relying on a combination of patents, trademarks, copyrights, trade dress and trade secrets. We also enter into confidentiality and intellectual property assignment agreements with employees and contractors, and nondisclosure agreements with parties with whom we conduct business in order to limit access to and disclosure of our proprietary information. 

Through a combination of internal technology development and acquisitions, we have built a portfolio of numerous U.S. and foreign patents. We generate licensing revenues from some of these patents. We are currently engaged in litigation to enforce several of our patents. For a more detailed description of the lawsuits in which we are involved, see Item 3. Legal Proceedings. We intend to continue to invest in patents, to aggressively protect our patent assets from unauthorized use and to generate patent licensing revenues from authorized users. 

Several of our U.S. patents have been reaffirmed through reexamination proceedings before the United States Patent and Trademark Office ("USPTO"). We have generated royalties from licensing certain of our patents and have enforced certain patents against companies using our patented technology without our permission. 

We seek patents for inventions that may contribute to our business or technology sector. In addition, we have multiple pending U.S. and foreign patent applications, covering components of our technology and in some cases technologies beyond those that we currently offer. Unless and until patents are issued on the pending applications, no patent rights can be enforced. 

We have obtained patent licenses for certain technologies where such licenses are necessary or advantageous. 

We own and use a number of trademarks in connection with our services, including word and logo trademarks for eFax, MyFax, eFax Corporate, eVoice, KeepItSafe, Fusemail, Onebox, PCMag, IGN and AskMen, among others. Many of these trademarks are registered worldwide, and numerous trademark applications are pending around the world. We hold numerous Internet domain names, including &#8220;efax.com&#8221;, &#8220;efaxcorporate.com&#8221;, &#8220;myfax.com&#8221;, &#8220;fax.com&#8221;, &#8220;evoice.com&#8221;, &#8220;keepitsafe.com&#8221;, &#8220;fusemail.com&#8221;, &#8220;campaigner.com&#8221;, &#8220;onebox.com&#8221;, &#8220;pcmag.com&#8221;, &#8220;techbargains.com&#8221;, &#8220;ign.com&#8221; &#8220;askmen.com&#8221;, "Speedtest.net" and "offers.com" among others. We have filed to protect our rights to our brands in certain alternative top-level domains such as &#8220;.org&#8221;, &#8220;.net&#8220;, &#8220;.biz&#8221;, &#8220;.info&#8221; and &#8220;.us&#8221;, among others. 

Like other technology-based businesses, we face the risk that we will be unable to protect our intellectual property and other proprietary rights, and the risk that we will be found to have infringed the proprietary rights of others. For more information regarding these risks, please refer to the section entitled Risk Factors contained in Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Government Regulation 

We are subject to a number of foreign and domestic laws and regulations that affect companies conducting business over the Internet and, in some cases, using services of third-party telecommunications and Internet service providers. These include, 

- 7 - 

among others, laws and regulations addressing privacy, data storage, retention and security, freedom of expression, content, taxation, numbers, advertising and intellectual property. We are not a regulated telecommunications provider in the U.S. For information about the risks we face with respect to governmental regulation, please see Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K entitled Risk Factors. 

Seasonality 

Our Business Cloud Services revenues are impacted by the number of effective business days in a given period. We traditionally experience lower than average Business Cloud Services usage and customer sign-ups in the fourth quarter. Revenues associated with our Digital Media operations are subject to seasonal fluctuations, becoming most active during the fourth quarter holiday period due to increased retail activity. 

Research and Development 

The markets for our services are evolving rapidly, requiring ongoing expenditures for research and development and timely introduction of new services and service enhancements. Our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to enhance our current services, to respond effectively to technological changes, to sell additional services to our existing customer base and to introduce new services and technologies that address the increasingly sophisticated needs of our customers. 

We devote significant resources to develop new services and service enhancements. Our research, development and engineering expenditures were $34.3 million , $30.7 million &#32;and $25.5 million &#32;for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2015 , 2014 &#32;and 2013 , respectively. For more information regarding the technological risks that we face, please refer to the section entitled Risk Factors contained in Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Employees 

As of December 31, 2015, we had approximately 1,608 employees, the majority of whom are in the U.S. 

Our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to continue to attract, retain and motivate highly qualified technical, marketing and management personnel. Our employees are not represented by any collective bargaining unit or agreement. We have never experienced a work stoppage. We believe our relationship with our employees is good. 

Web Availability of Reports 

The Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to reports filed pursuant to Sections 13(a) and 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), are filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"). The Company is subject to the informational requirements of the Exchange Act and files or furnishes reports, proxy statements and other information with the SEC. Such reports and other information filed by the Company with the SEC are available free of charge on the Company's website at www.j2.com as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are available on the SEC's website. The information on our website is not part of this report. The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding our filings we file electronically with the SEC at www.sec.gov . 

