 ITEM 1. BUSINESS . We are an international biotechnology company that is focused primarily in the field of regenerative medicine. We are committed to the discovery and development of best-in-class therapies designed to extend and enhance the quality of human life. We have established a portfolio of therapeutic product development programs to address significant unmet medical needs in multiple disease areas. Our MultiStem &#174; cell therapy, a patented and proprietary allogeneic stem cell product, is our lead platform product and is currently in later-stage clinical development. Our current clinical development programs are focused on treating neurological conditions, cardiovascular disease, inflammatory and immune disorders, certain pulmonary conditions and other conditions where the current standard of care is limited or inadequate for many patients. These represent major areas of clinical need, as well as substantial commercial opportunities. 

We believe our MultiStem therapy represents a potential breakthrough in the field of regenerative medicine and stem cell therapy and could be used to treat a range of disease indications. MultiStem treatment enhances tissue repair and healing in multiple ways, including reducing inflammatory damage, protecting tissue that is at risk following acute or ischemic injury, and promoting formation of new blood vessels in regions of ischemic injury. These cells appear to be responsive to the environment in which they are administered, by homing to sites of injury and/or organs involved in injury response, and providing active disease response, while producing proteins that may provide benefit in both acute and chronic conditions. In contrast to traditional pharmaceutical products or biologics that generally act through a single biological mechanism of action, MultiStem cell therapy may enhance healing and tissue repair through multiple distinct mechanisms acting in parallel, such as by producing a range of therapeutic factors and dynamically responding to the needs of the body, resulting in a more effective therapeutic response. 

We believe the therapeutic and commercial potential for MultiStem cell therapy to be very broad, applying to many areas of significant unmet medical need, and we are pursuing opportunities in several potential multi-billion dollar markets. While traditional pharmaceuticals and biologic therapies typically may be used to treat only a single disease or a narrowly defined set of related conditions, MultiStem cell therapy appears to have far broader potential and could be developed in different formulations and with different delivery approaches to effectively treat a wide range of disease indications. 

The MultiStem product is unique among regenerative medicine approaches because it has the potential to be manufactured on a large scale, may be administered in an &#147;off-the-shelf&#148; manner with minimal processing, and can augment healing by providing biological potency and therapeutic effects that other cell therapy approaches may not be able to achieve. Additionally, MultiStem treatment has demonstrated good tolerability in both preclinical and clinical studies. Like drugs and biologics, the product is cleared from the body over time, enhancing product safety relative to other types of stem cell therapy. While the product does not permanently engraft in the patient, the therapeutic effects of treatment with MultiStem cells appear to have durability. 

We have evaluated the use of MultiStem cell therapy as a potential treatment in several disease areas. Working with an international network of leading investigators and prominent research and clinical institutions, and through our own internal efforts, we have explored the potential for MultiStem therapy to be used as a treatment of acute and chronic forms of neurological conditions, cardiovascular disease, inflammatory and immune disorders, certain pulmonary conditions and other areas of unmet medical need. At present, we have advanced six MultiStem programs into clinical trials. Each of our programs targets an area of significant medical need and represents major commercial market opportunities. 

In the neurological area, we evaluated in a completed Phase 2 trial the potential for MultiStem treatment of patients who have suffered neurological damage from an ischemic stroke. The results of this study demonstrated favorable tolerability and safety for MultiStem, consistent with prior studies. While the study did not achieve the primary and component secondary endpoints for the intent-to-treat population, the MultiStem treatment was associated with lower rates of mortality and life threatening adverse events, infections and pulmonary events, and also a reduction in hospitalization. In addition, analyses show that patients who received MultiStem treatment earlier (24 to 36 hours post-stroke) in the study&#146;s treatment window had better recovery in comparison to placebo. Analysis of biomarker data obtained from samples of study subjects indicated that MultiStem treatment reduces post-stroke inflammation compared to placebo. Furthermore, it appears that this effect is more pronounced for subjects receiving MultiStem earlier than 36 hours post-stroke. This effect is consistent with our hypothesis regarding mechanisms of action and related preclinical data, and with the clinical data suggesting faster and improved recovery for MultiStem-treated patients relative to current standard of care. 

Importantly, the one-year follow-up data demonstrated that MultiStem-treated subjects on average continued to improve through one year and had a significantly higher rate of &#147;Excellent Outcome,&#148; as defined below, compared to placebo subjects at one year when evaluating all of the intent-to-treat subjects enrolled in the study. Achievement of an Excellent Outcome is important because it means that a patient has substantially improved in each of the three clinical rating scales used to assess patient improvement and has regained the ability to live and function independently with a high quality of life. The relative improvement in Excellent Outcome was even more pronounced in the patients who received MultiStem treatment within 36 hours of the stroke. If the MultiStem therapy is proven effective in a registrational study, this would represent a substantial increase in the time window for treatment, which currently is limited to several hours. 

&#160;

Further analyses are being undertaken, and we are preparing for the next stage of clinical development of this program. In January 2016, we established a collaboration with HEALIOS K.K., or Healios, to develop and commercialize MultiStem for the treatment of ischemic stroke in Japan, and the collaboration may be expanded to two other indications, including acute respiratory distress syndrome, or ARDS. Healios will be responsible for the development and commercialization of MultiStem for ischemic stroke in Japan on an exclusive basis, and we will receive payments for product supplied to Healios. We had entered into a similar arrangement with Chugai Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd., or Chugai, in February 2015, but agreed with Chugai to terminate the license agreement in October 2015 when the parties were unable to reach an agreement on a potential modification of the financial terms of the agreement and on the development strategy in Japan, in light of the 90-day interim results from our Phase 2 clinical study. We have had several interactions with the United States Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, and Japan&#146;s Pharmaceuticals and Medical Devices Agency, or PMDA, regarding study design and the potential to accelerate the path to product approval. Further, we and our partner, Healios, intend to take advantage of the new accelerated Regenerative Medicine regulatory framework in Japan that is designed to enable rapid conditional authorization of qualified regenerative medicine therapies. We believe such initiatives could accelerate the commercialization of products like MultiStem cell therapy for ischemic stroke, if future clinical evaluation demonstrates appropriate safety and therapeutic effectiveness. 

We recently initiated a Phase 2 clinical study in the United States for the administration of MultiStem cell therapy to patients that have suffered an acute myocardial infarction, or AMI. We were awarded a grant from the National Institutes of Health for up to $2.8 million to support this clinical program. Previously we completed a Phase 1 clinical trial involving administration of MultiStem cell therapy to patients that have suffered an AMI, and the results of this trial demonstrated consistent safety and encouraging evidence of therapeutic benefit among patients with severely compromised heart function. The ongoing Phase 2 study is currently enrolling patients and we look forward to the results of this study upon completion. 

We have also initiated a clinical study for the treatment of ARDS in the United Kingdom, or UK, and in the United States. ARDS is a serious immunological and inflammatory condition characterized by widespread inflammation in the lungs. Currently, there are limited interventions and no effective drug treatments for ARDS, making it an area of high unmet clinical need with high treatment costs. In 2015, we were awarded a grant from Innovate UK of up to approximately &#163;2.0 million in support of a Phase 2a clinical study evaluating the administration of MultiStem cell therapy to ARDS patients. The study is being conducted with the assistance of the Cell Therapy Catapult, or Catapult, and is currently enrolling patients. 

Additionally, we evaluated in a completed Phase 1 clinical study the potential for MultiStem cell therapy to prevent or reduce graft-versus-host disease, or GvHD, and other complications, and to provide supportive care to patients undergoing a hematopoietic stem cell transplant to treat leukemia or related conditions. We are preparing to advance our GvHD program into the next phase of clinical development and have had several interactions with the FDA and similar international agencies regarding study design and the potential to accelerate the path to product approval. Our MultiStem therapy for GvHD has been designated an orphan drug by both the FDA and the European Medicines Agency, or EMA, which may provide market exclusivity and other substantial potential incentives and benefits. In February 2015, the MultiStem product was granted Fast Track designation by the FDA for prophylaxis therapy against GvHD following hematopoietic cell transplantation. Subsequently, our registration study design received a positive opinion from the EMA through the Protocol Assessment/Scientific Advice procedure. Furthermore, in December 2015, the proposed registration study received Special Protocol Assessment designation from the FDA, meaning that the trial is adequately designed to support a Biologic License Application, or BLA, submission for registration if it is successful. Initiation of this trial will depend on the progress in other clinical trials and the achievement of certain business development and financial objectives. We may elect to enter into a development and commercialization collaboration for this program. 

MultiStem cell therapy was also evaluated in a Phase 2 clinical study exploring administration of MultiStem to patients with ulcerative colitis, or UC, a common form of inflammatory bowel disease, or IBD, which was conducted by a collaborative partner, Pfizer Inc., or Pfizer. Overall, the study results were disappointing, even though a single administration of the cell therapy may have had some short-term beneficial effects. Taking these results into account and following an internal portfolio review, Pfizer determined that it would not invest further in this program, as would be required by the collaboration, and notified us of this decision to terminate the license agreement effective in the third quarter of 2015. In connection with the termination, all rights that Pfizer had to the program reverted to us, all documents and data were returned to us, and intellectual property generated through the collaboration is owned by us. 

Finally, a research collaborator and leading transplantation center in Europe is conducting a small, exploratory institutional-sponsored Phase 1 study to evaluate the administration of MultiStem cell therapy to patients undergoing a liver transplant. Previously published work involving preclinical models of organ transplantation demonstrated that administration of MultiStem cell therapy can help induce immune tolerance to organ allografts and eliminate the need for long-term immune suppression. 

&#160;

Our development approach has historically involved establishing collaborative relationships with leading research and clinical centers in the United States and internationally. This has enabled us to methodically advance multiple programs in areas of defined unmet medical need in a resource efficient manner. Furthermore, by emphasizing the potential application of our technologies in areas of significant clinical need, we believe we are well positioned to utilize recent regulatory initiatives that are designed to promote the rapid and cost effective development of innovative new therapies, and are actively pursuing such initiatives. These include recent programs in the United States and Europe being implemented by the FDA and EMA involving existing and potentially broadened application of accelerated review and approval pathways, as well as the new accelerated Regenerative Medicine regulatory framework in Japan that is designed to enable rapid conditional authorization of qualified regenerative medicine therapies. We believe such initiatives could accelerate the development and commercialization of products like MultiStem cell therapy, if clinical results demonstrate appropriate safety and therapeutic effectiveness, thereby increasing shareholder value. To date, Japan&#146;s new Regenerative Medicine regulatory framework that was enacted late in 2014 has resulted in the commercial approval of two cell therapy products developed by other companies, and reimbursement of those products, and we hope to be also successfully utilize this framework, such as by working with our partner Healios. 

In addition to our MultiStem programs, we have developed novel pharmaceuticals to treat obesity, related metabolic conditions such as diabetes, and certain neurological indications such as schizophrenia. Our 5HT2c agonist program for obesity works by the same mechanism as Belviq &#174; which has been approved by the FDA for the treatment of obesity. We believe our compounds have the potential to provide superior weight loss, while also achieving a superior safety and tolerability profile. In addition, we demonstrated that our compounds are complementary with other agents that have been approved by the FDA for treating obesity. We evaluated certain compounds in preclinical models of schizophrenia that exhibit an attractive selectivity profile and also observed that these compounds exhibit potent effects. We may elect to enter into a partnership to advance the development of our 5HT2c agonist program, either for the treatment of obesity, schizophrenia, or both indications, as well as for certain programs involving MultiStem. Further, small molecule compounds may be used to enhance the production or therapeutic effectiveness of MultiStem or related products. These compounds may increase biological potency for certain indications and lead to second or third generation products in the regenerative medicine area. 

We were incorporated in Delaware on October 24, 1995. On June 8, 2007, we merged with a wholly owned subsidiary of BTHC VI, Inc., a Delaware corporation, and on August 31, 2007, BTHC VI, Inc. changed its name to Athersys, Inc. 

Business Strategy 

Our principal business objective is to discover, develop and commercialize novel therapeutic products for disease indications that represent significant areas of clinical need and commercial opportunity. The key elements of our strategy are outlined below: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; Efficiently Conduct Clinical Development to Establish Clinical Proof of Concept and Biological Activity with our Lead Product Candidates. We are conducting a number of clinical studies with the intent to establish safety and efficacy proof of concept and/or evidence of biological activity in a number of important disease areas where our cell therapies would be expected to have benefit &#150; including neurological conditions, cardiovascular disease, and inflammatory and immune system dysfunctions. Our strategy is to conduct well-designed studies beginning early in the clinical development process, thus establishing a robust foundation for later-stage development, partnering activity and expansion into complementary areas. We are committed to a rigorous clinical and regulatory approach, which we believe has helped us to advance our programs efficiently, providing high quality, transparent communications and regulatory submissions. Our discussions with the FDA, the EMA and PMDA regulatory agencies have resulted in productive interactions that have helped to advance our programs efficiently. &#160;

&#160; &#149; Continue to Refine and Improve our Manufacturing and Related Processes and Deepen our Understanding of Therapeutic Mechanisms of Action. A key aspect of our MultiStem cells is their expansion capacity ex vivo relative to other cell types. This allows for large scale production of the clinical product, which enables greater consistency, specificity and cost of goods advantages over other cell therapies. We are building on this intrinsic biological advantage by advancing and optimizing our production and process development approaches, working with contract manufacturers. We have already begun to optimize new manufacturing techniques and the pharmacy-to-bedside approach to support late-stage development and commercialization of the MultiStem product (e.g., bags to vials, vials to large vials). We are in the process of developing a large-scale manufacturing process, which if successful, is expected to reduce the cost of the manufactured cells substantially. Additionally, we will continue to refine our understanding of our products&#146; activities and mechanisms of action to enable optimization of administration and dosing and to prepare the foundation for product enhancements and next generation opportunities. &#160;

&#160; &#149; Enter into Arrangements with Business Partners to Accelerate Development and Value Creation. In addition to our internal development efforts, an important part of our strategy is to work with collaborators and partners to accelerate product development, reduce our development costs, and broaden our commercial access. We have entered into licensing and collaborative arrangements with qualified commercial partners to achieve these objectives. We anticipate that this strategy will help us to develop a portfolio of high quality product development opportunities, enhance our clinical development and commercialization capabilities, and increase our ability to generate value from our proprietary technologies. To date, we entered into technology licensing arrangements with companies such as Healios, Chugai, Pfizer, Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, or Bristol-Myers Squibb, Johnson &#38; Johnson, Wyeth Pharmaceuticals, Inc., RTI Surgical, Inc., or RTI, and others. Licensing partnerships generate revenue and provide capital that allows us to advance our programs further in development. &#160;

&#160; &#149; Efficiently Explore New High Potential Therapeutic Applications, Leveraging Third-Party Research Collaborations and our Results from Related Areas. Our MultiStem product candidate has shown promise in many disease areas, including in treating neurological conditions, cardiovascular disease, inflammatory and immune disorders, and other areas. We are committed to exploring potential clinical indications where our therapies may achieve best-in-class profile, and where we believe we can effectively address significant unmet medical needs. In order to achieve this goal, we established collaborative research relationships with investigators from many leading research and clinical institutions across the United States and Europe, including the Cleveland Clinic, Case Western Reserve University, University of Minnesota, the Medical College of Georgia at Augusta University, the University of Oregon Health Sciences Center, the University of Texas Health Science Center at Houston, the University of Pittsburgh Medical Center, the Katholieke Universiteit Leuven, or KUL, University of Regensburg, and other institutions. Through this network of collaborations, we have evaluated MultiStem therapy in a range of preclinical models that reflect various types of human disease or injury. These collaborative relationships have enabled us to cost effectively explore where MultiStem cell therapy may have relevance and how it may be utilized to advance treatment over current standard of care. Additionally, we have shown that we can leverage clinical safety data and preclinical results from some programs to support accelerated clinical development efforts in other areas, saving substantial development time and resources compared to traditional drug development where each program is separately developed. &#160;

&#160; &#149; Continue to Expand our Intellectual Property Portfolio. We have a broad intellectual property estate that covers our proprietary products and technologies, as well as methods of production and methods of use. Our intellectual property is important to our business and we take significant steps to protect its value. We have ongoing research and development efforts, both through internal activities and through collaborative research activities with others, which aim to develop new intellectual property and enable us to file patent applications that cover new applications of our existing technologies or product candidates, including MultiStem cells and other opportunities. We currently have over 230 patents related to our technologies, providing protection in the United States, Europe, Japan and other areas. Our Current Programs 

By applying our proprietary MultiStem cell therapy product, we established therapeutic product development programs treating neurological conditions, cardiovascular disease, inflammatory and immune disorders, and other conditions. Our programs in the clinical development stage include the following: 

&#149; Ischemic Stroke : We recently completed our Phase 2 study of MultiStem treatment of subjects suffering a moderate to severe ischemic stroke. In April 2015, we announced the interim results from the clinical study, and in February 2016, we announced the one-year follow-up data from the study. Our double blind, placebo-controlled trial was conducted at leading stroke centers across the United States and UK. In the study, we treated patients one to two days after a stroke. Published studies suggest that approximately 90% of ischemic stroke patients reach the hospital within 24 hours. By contrast, the current standard of care, thrombolytic tPA, must be administered within 3 to 4.5 hours after a stroke, limiting the proportion of patients receiving such treatment to less than 10% of ischemic stroke patients. Patients were assessed at 90 days and one-year in accordance with three well validated and commonly utilized clinical rating scales that are used to assess recovery. These include the Modified Rankin Score, or mRS, (which is a scale from 0 to 6, with a score of 0 reflecting no patient disability and 6 indicating death) assessing overall disability; the NIH Stroke Scale, or NIHSS, which assesses neurological and motor skill deficit (a scale from 0 to 42, with a score of 0 reflecting no disability, and 42 reflecting maximum disability in every category) assessing neurological and motor skill deficits; and the Barthel Index, or BI, (a 100 point index, with a score of 100 representing the best possible score) evaluating the patient&#146;s ability to engage in activities of daily living. 

&#160;

The interim results following the 90-day patient evaluation demonstrate favorable tolerability and safety for MultiStem, consistent with prior studies. With respect to the primary and component secondary endpoints for the intent-to-treat population, the MultiStem treatment did not show a meaningful difference at 90 days compared to placebo. However, MultiStem treatment was associated with lower rates of mortality and life threatening adverse events, infections and pulmonary events, and also a reduction in hospitalization. Furthermore, a higher proportion of patients receiving MultiStem achieved an &#147;Excellent Outcome,&#148; meaning complete or nearly full recovery, which is defined clinically as the patient achieving excellent recovery in each of the three clinical rating scales, as evidenced by patients achieving a score of mRS &#163; 1, NIHSS &#163; 1 and BI &#179; 95. Achievement of an Excellent Outcome is important because it means that a patient has substantially improved in each of the three clinical rating scales used to assess patient improvement and has regained the ability to live and function independently with a high quality of life. Among all subjects who received MultiStem treatment, 15.4% of patients achieved an Excellent Outcome, compared to 6.6% of patients who received placebo (p=0.10). Importantly, by one year, there was a significant difference between the groups with 23.1% of MultiStem subjects having an Excellent Outcome compared to 8.2% of placebo subjects (p=0.02) 

In addition, analyses show that patients who received MultiStem treatment earlier (24 to 36 hours post-stroke) in the study&#146;s treatment window had better recovery in comparison to placebo. For example, at 90 days post-stroke, patients who were treated with MultiStem within 24 to 36 hours of the stroke (i.e. consistent with our original study design) had much better outcomes compared to placebo patients as measured by recovery in each of the key secondary endpoints: mRS &#163; 2, NIHSS &#068; &#179; 75% and BI &#179; 95. Specifically, 41.9% of the MultiStem-treated patients achieved good or excellent recovery in all three clinical scales, compared to only 24.6% of all patients receiving placebo, a difference of 17.3% (p = 0.08). Additionally, MultiStem subjects had a significantly lower rate of secondary infections than placebo subjects (16.1% v. 47.5%, p&#60;0.01) and of average initial hospital days (6.8 v. 9.8, p=0.02). At one year, such early-treated MultiStem patients had a significantly higher rate of Excellent Outcome than all placebo subjects (29.0% v. 8.2%, p&#60;0.01) 

Furthermore, we evaluated the recovery at 90 days of patients who received treatment with MultiStem within 24 to 36 hours post stroke versus all patients receiving placebo, excluding in both groups patients who received both tPA and mechanical reperfusion (and who were excluded in the original trial design). In this post-hoc analysis, patients in the MultiStem group were more than two times as likely as the placebo group to achieve global recovery based on the Global Test Statistic &#150; the primary endpoint (p=0.06), demonstrated substantially better performance in the three component secondary endpoints, and also exhibited accelerated improvement in comparison to patients receiving placebo. These MultiStem-treated patients were also much more likely to achieve recovery in each of the key secondary endpoints, with 44.4% of these patients achieving such recovery on all three scales, compared to just 17.3% for the placebo group, a difference of 27.1% (p &#60; 0.01). Additionally, these MultiStem patients achieved significantly higher rates of Excellent Outcome (p=0.03), and the patients in the MultiStem-treated group showed improvement on the Cochran-Mantel-Haenszel &#147;shift&#148; analysis (p=0.03), which compares performance for the patient groups across the spectrum of mRS outcomes. Hospitalization duration was significantly reduced for the MultiStem-treated patients (35% lower than the average for placebo patients) and the average intensive care unit stay was also meaningfully reduced. One-year follow-up data demonstrates that MultiStem-treated subjects, on average, continued to improve relative to placebo with significant differences in Excellent Outcome, the &#147;shift&#148; analysis and Barthel Index. 

Analysis of biomarker data obtained from samples of study subjects indicated that MultiStem treatment reduces post-stroke inflammation compared to placebo, and it appears that this effect is more pronounced for subjects receiving MultiStem earlier than 36 hours post-stroke. This effect is consistent with our hypothesis regarding mechanisms of action and related preclinical data, and with the clinical data suggesting faster recovery for MultiStem-treated patients.

If the MultiStem therapy is proven effective in a registrational study, this would represent a substantial increase in the time window for treatment for ischemic stroke victims, which currently is limited to several hours. Further analyses are being undertaken, and we are preparing for the next stage of clinical development of this program. 

&#149; Acute Myocardial Infarction : We recently initiated a Phase 2 clinical study in the United States for the administration of MultiStem cell therapy to patients that have suffered an AMI. We previously evaluated the administration of MultiStem to patients that suffered an AMI in a Phase 1 clinical study. The results of this study demonstrated a favorable safety profile and encouraging signs of improvement in heart function among patients that exhibited severely compromised heart function prior to treatment. This data was published in a leading peer reviewed scientific journal, and one-year follow-up data suggested that the benefit observed was sustained over time. We were awarded a grant for up to $2.8 million in funding to support the advancement of this clinical program, and we are currently enrolling patients in our Phase 2 clinical study, evaluating the safety and efficacy of MultiStem treatment in subjects who have a non-ST elevated myocardial infarction. The study is double-blind, sham-controlled and is being conducted at leading cardiovascular centers in the United States. 

&#160;

&#149; Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome : We have also initiated a clinical study for the treatment of ARDS in the UK and in the United States. In 2015, we were awarded a grant from Innovate UK for up to approximately &#163;2.0 million in support of a Phase 2a clinical study evaluating the administration of MultiStem cell therapy to ARDS patients. ARDS is a serious immunological and inflammatory condition characterized by widespread inflammation in the lungs. ARDS can be triggered by pneumonia, sepsis, or other trauma and represents a major cause of morbidity and mortality in the critical care setting. The medical need for a safe and effective treatment of ARDS is significant due to its high mortality rate, and it annually affects approximately 400,000 to 500,000 patients in Europe, the United States and Japan, together. The Phase 2a clinical trial is being conducted with the assistance of Catapult and is currently enrolling patients. 

&#149; Hematopoietic Stem Cell Transplant / GvHD : We completed a Phase 1 clinical study of the administration of MultiStem cell therapy to patients suffering from leukemia or certain other blood-borne cancers in which patients undergo radiation therapy and then receive a hematopoietic stem cell transplant. Such patients are at significant risk for serious complications, including GvHD, an imbalance of immune system function caused by transplanted cells that trigger an attack against various tissues and organs in the patient. Data from the study demonstrated the safety of MultiStem cell therapy in this indication and suggested that the treatment may have a beneficial effect in reducing the incidence and severity of GvHD, as well as providing other benefits. We were granted orphan drug designation by the FDA and the EMA for MultiStem treatment in the prevention of GvHD. In February 2015, the MultiStem product was granted Fast Track designation by the FDA for prophylaxis therapy against GvHD following hematopoietic cell transplantation. Subsequently, our registration study design received a positive opinion from the EMA through the Protocol Assessment/Scientific Advice procedure. Furthermore, in December 2015, the proposed registration study received Special Protocol Assessment designation from the FDA, meaning that the trial is adequately designed to support a BLA submission for registration if it is successful. Currently, we are staging this program for future registration-directed development dependent on the achievement of certain business development and financial objectives. 

&#149; Inflammatory Bowel Disease : MultiStem therapy has been evaluated in a Phase 2 clinical study involving administration of MultiStem to patients suffering from UC, the most common form of IBD, which was conducted by a collaborative partner, Pfizer. Overall, the study results released in 2014 were disappointing, in that a single administration of MultiStem to a patient population with longstanding, chronic advanced disease failed to show a meaningful clinical effect at the eight-week evaluation period. Despite not showing a significant improvement compared to placebo in the primary efficacy endpoints, the MultiStem therapy demonstrated favorable safety and tolerability in the eight weeks following treatment. Furthermore, at four weeks, patients getting MultiStem treatment had a significantly higher proportion of rectal bleeding responders than placebo patients, suggesting the possibility of a transient effect from the single MultiStem dose. Subsequent analyses suggest that MultiStem treatment has an impact on relevant biomarkers shortly after treatment compared to placebo, suggesting the possibility of improved benefit from a different treatment regime. Taking these results into account and following an internal portfolio review of its IBD programs, Pfizer determined that it would not invest further in this program as required by the collaboration and notified us of its decision to terminate the license agreement effective in the third quarter of 2015. In connection with the termination, all rights to the program reverted to us, and we are free to use preclinical and clinical data for development in this area and in other areas, including immunology and inflammatory conditions. 

We are also conducting or supporting clinical activity in other areas, such as solid organ transplant, which is an investigator-initiated study being conducted at a leading transplant center in Europe. We are also engaged in the preparation stages for translational and clinical studies in other targeted areas. 

In addition to our current and anticipated clinical development activities, we are engaged in preclinical development and evaluation of MultiStem therapy in other neurological, cardiovascular and inflammatory and immune disease areas, as well as certain other indications. We conduct such work both through our own internal research efforts and through a broad global network of collaborators. We are routinely in discussions with third parties about collaborating in the development of MultiStem therapy for various programs and may enter into one or more business partnerships to advance these programs over time. 

In January 2016, we entered into a license agreement with Healios to develop and commercialize MultiStem cell therapy for ischemic stroke in Japan, and to provide Healios with access to our proprietary multipotent adult progenitor cell technology, or MAPC &#174; , for use in Healios&#146; proprietary &#147;organ bud&#148; program, initially for transplantation to treat liver disease or dysfunction. Under the agreement, Healios also obtained a right to expand the scope of the collaboration to include the exclusive rights to develop and commercialize MultiStem for the treatment of two additional indications in Japan, which include ARDS and another indication in the orthopedic area, as well as all indications for the organ bud program. Healios will develop and commercialize the MultiStem product in Japan, and we will provide the manufactured product to Healios. 

We had entered into a similar arrangement with Chugai early in 2015 for the development and commercialization of MultiStem therapy for stroke in Japan, but we terminated the license agreement in October 2015 when the parties were unable to reach an agreement on a potential modification of the financial terms of the agreement and on the development strategy in Japan as proposed by Chugai following the initial results from our Phase 2 clinical study. 

&#160;

We also have a collaboration with RTI for the development of products for certain orthopedic applications using our stem cell technologies in the bone graft substitutes market, we have been earning royalty revenue from product sales since 2014 and may receive other payments upon the successful achievement of certain commercial milestones. 

We are also have been developing novel small molecule therapies to treat obesity and other conditions, such as schizophrenia, and believe our compounds exhibit favorable attributes, including outstanding receptor selectivity, as well as greater potency and activity than other 5HT2c agonists. We also demonstrated our compounds are complementary with other agents that have been approved by the FDA and believe these compounds could achieve best in class weight loss, along with a superior safety and tolerability profile. Furthermore, we evaluated certain compounds in preclinical models of schizophrenia that exhibit an attractive selectivity profile and also observed that these compounds exhibit potent effects. We may elect to enter into a partnership to advance the development of our 5HT2c agonist program, either for the treatment of obesity, schizophrenia, or both indications, as well as for certain programs involving MultiStem. 

Regenerative Medicine Programs 

MultiStem &#151; A Novel Therapeutic Modality 

We are developing our MultiStem therapy, a proprietary non-embryonic, allogeneic stem cell product candidate, that we believe has potential utility for treating a broad range of diseases and could have widespread application in the field of clinical regenerative medicine. Unlike traditional bone marrow transplants or other stem cell therapies, MultiStem cells may be manufactured on a large scale and may be administered without tissue matching or the need for immune suppression, analogous to type O blood. Potential applications of MultiStem therapy include the treatment of cardiovascular disease, neurological disease or injury and conditions involving the immune system, including autoimmune disease and other conditions. We believe that the MultiStem therapy represents a significant advancement in the field of stem cell therapy and could have broad clinical application. We currently have open Investigational New Drug applications, or INDs, for the study of MultiStem administration in distinct clinical indications, and several of our programs are in later-stage clinical development. 

MultiStem cell therapy is a patented biologic product that is manufactured from human stem cells obtained from adult bone marrow, although these cells may alternatively be obtained from other tissue sources. The product consists of a special class of human stem cells that have the ability to express a range of therapeutically relevant proteins and other factors, as well as form multiple cell types. Factors expressed by the cells have the potential to deliver a therapeutic benefit in several ways, such as the reduction of inflammation, regulation of immune system function, protection of damaged or injured tissue, the formation of new blood vessels in regions of ischemic injury and augmentation of tissue repair and healing in other ways. Like drugs, these cells may be stored for an extended period of time in frozen form and used off-the-shelf. Following administration, the cells have been shown to express multiple therapeutically relevant proteins, but unlike a traditional transplant, are subsequently cleared from the body over time, analogous to a drug or biologic. 

We believe that MultiStem represents a potential best-in-class stem cell therapy because it exhibits each of the following characteristics based on research and development conducted to date: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; Broad plasticity and multiple potential mechanisms of action. MultiStem cells have a demonstrated ability in animal models to form a range of cell types and also appear to be able to deliver therapeutic benefit by producing factors that protect tissues against damage and inflammation, as well as enhancing or playing a direct role in revascularization or tissue regeneration. &#160;

&#160; &#149; Large scale production. Unlike conventional stem cells, such as blood-forming or hematopoietic stem cells, mesenchymal stem cells, or other cell types, MultiStem cells may be produced on a large scale, processed, and cryogenically preserved, and then used clinically in a rapid and efficient manner. Material obtained from a single donor may be used to produce hundreds of thousands or millions of individual doses, representing a yield far greater than other stem cells have been able to achieve. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#147;Off-the-shelf&#148; utility. Unlike traditional bone marrow or hematopoietic stem cell transplants that require extensive genetic matching between donor and recipient, MultiStem administration does not require tissue matching or immune suppressive drugs. The MultiStem product is administered as a cryogenically preserved allogeneic product, meaning that these cells are not genetically matched between donor and recipient. This feature, combined with the ability to establish large MultiStem banks, could make it practical for clinicians to efficiently deliver stem cell therapy to a large number of patients. &#160;

&#160; &#149; Safety. Other stem cell types, such as undifferentiated embryonic stem cells or induced pluripotent stem cells have shown the capacity to form ectopic tissue or teratomas, which are tumor-like growths. These could pose serious safety risks to patients. In contrast, MultiStem cells have shown a consistent and favorable safety profile that has been compiled over several years of preclinical study in a range of animal models by a variety of investigators and that is supported by clinical data generated to date. &#160;

At each step of the MultiStem production process, cells are analyzed according to pre-established criteria to ensure that a consistent, well characterized product candidate is produced. Cells are harvested from a pre-qualified, healthy, consenting donor and these cells are then expanded to form a master cell bank from which we subsequently produce clinical grade material. We demonstrated the ability to harvest cells that meet our rigorous criteria from healthy donors with a high degree of consistency. Furthermore, in multiple animal models, MultiStem has been shown to be non-immunogenic, and is administered without the genetic matching that is typically required for conventional bone marrow or stem cell transplantation. 

The distinctive profile of the MultiStem product allows us to pursue multiple high value commercial opportunities from a single product platform. Based upon work that we and independent collaborators have conducted over the past several years, we believe that MultiStem cells have the potential to treat a range of distinct disease indications, including ischemic injury and cardiovascular disease, certain types of neurological conditions or injury, autoimmune disease, transplant support (including in oncology patients and solid organ transplant areas), and a range of orphan disease indications. As a result, we believe we will be able to leverage our foundation of safety and efficacy data to add clinical indications efficiently, enabling us to reduce development costs and timelines substantially. 

MultiStem for Treating Neurological Conditions, Cardiovascular Disease, and Inflammatory and Immune Disorders 

Healthcare represents a significant part of the global economy. In the United States, it represented approximately 17.4% of all economic activity in 2013, or about $2.9 trillion dollars, annually. However, the United States, along with many other nations, is experiencing an unprecedented demographic shift that is resulting in a significantly expanded population of older individuals. According to United States Census data, in the next few years there will be a dramatic increase in the number of individuals over the age of 65, as this segment of the population increases from 40.2 million individuals in 2010 to more than 72 million people in 2030, representing an increase of approximately 80%. The aging of the population will create enormous financial pressure on the healthcare system in the United States and other countries around the world, resulting in significant clinical challenges, but also resulting in substantial commercial opportunities. 

Data from the National Center for Health Statistics shows that as people get older, they are more susceptible to a variety of age related conditions, including heart disease, stroke, certain forms of cancer, diabetes, progressive neurological disorders, various chronic inflammatory and immune conditions, renal disease and a range of others. As a consequence, as people get older they spend far more on healthcare. On average, they spend four to ten times more on healthcare annually at age 65 or beyond than when they were younger and more healthy. According to the Alliance for Aging Research, 83% of healthcare spending is associated with chronic conditions, and other research shows that 62% of healthcare spending is associated with multiple chronic conditions. Traditional medical approaches have failed to adequately address this problem. 

We have worked with independent investigators at a number of leading institutions, such as the Cleveland Clinic, Case Western Reserve University, University of Minnesota, the National Institutes of Health, the Medical College of Georgia at Augusta University, the University of Oregon Health Sciences Center, the University of Texas Health Science Center at Houston, KUL, the University of Pittsburgh Medical Center, University of Regensburg and other institutions. Through this network of collaborations, we studied the impact of MultiStem cell therapy in a range of preclinical models that reflect various types of human disease or injury in the neurological, cardiovascular, and immunological areas. To date, we and our collaborators have published research results illustrating the potential benefits of MultiStem cell therapy in a range of indications including ischemic stroke, traumatic brain injury, or TBI, brain damage due to restricted blood flow in newborns, spinal cord injury, myocardial infarction, vascular disease, acute pulmonary distress, and bone marrow transplant support/GvHD. In addition, we have explored and intend to further explore MultiStem administration in the treatment of a range of other conditions, including other forms of cardiovascular disease, neurological conditions, and immune related disorders. 

Based on preclinical results, we have advanced MultiStem therapy to clinical development stage in several clinical indications or disease areas: treatment for stroke caused by a blockage of blood flow in the brain; treatment of damage caused by myocardial infarction; treatment for ARDS; support in the hematologic malignancy setting to reduce certain complications associated with traditional bone marrow or hematopoietic stem cell, or HSC, transplantation; and treatment of IBD, initially focused on UC. Additionally, in collaboration with a leading transplant center in Europe, we advanced a program in the solid organ transplant area into clinical development. 

We may expand to other clinical indication areas as results warrant and resources permit. 

&#160;

Neurological Injury and Disease &#151; MultiStem for Ischemic Stroke 

Another focus of our regenerative medicine program is MultiStem administration for the treatment of neurological injury as a result of acute or chronic conditions. Neurological injury and disease represents an area of significant unmet medical need, a major burden on the healthcare system, and also represents a huge commercial opportunity. 

Many neurological conditions require extensive long-term therapy, and many require extended hospitalization and/or institutional care, creating an enormous cost burden. Stroke represents an area where the clinical need is particularly significant, since it represents a leading cause of death and significant long term disability. We have published research with independent collaborating investigators that demonstrates that MultiStem administration conveys biological benefits in preclinical models of ischemic stroke, as well as other models of neurological damage and injury, including TBI, neonatal hypoxic ischemia (a cause of neurological damage in infants), and spinal cord injury. We also conducted preclinical work in other neurological areas, and have been awarded grants to support work in areas such as the indications described above and for evaluating the potential of MultiStem cells to address chronic conditions such as Multiple Sclerosis, or MS, or Parkinson&#146;s disease. Our research has shown that MultiStem cells convey benefits through distinct mechanisms, including reducing inflammatory damage, protecting at risk tissue at the site of injury, and through direct neurotrophic effects that stimulate the recovery of damaged neurons. As a result, we believe that MultiStem therapy may have relevance to multiple forms of neurological injury and disease. 

Our initial clinical focus in the neurological area involves evaluating MultiStem administration to treat ischemic stroke. Currently, there are approximately 800,000 individuals in the United States that suffer a stroke each year, more than two million stroke victims in the United States, Europe and Japan combined and more than 15 million people that suffer a stroke each year globally. The vast majority of these (approximately 85% to 90%) are ischemic strokes, that are caused by a blockage of blood flow in the brain, that cuts off the supply of oxygen and nutrients, and can result in tissue loss and neurological damage, as well as long term or permanent disability. The remaining 10% to 15% are hemorrhagic strokes, which occur when a blood vessel bursts and bleeding into the brain ensues. 

Despite the fact that ischemic stroke is one of the leading causes of death and disability in the United States, there has been limited progress toward the development of treatments that improve the prognosis for stroke victims. The only FDA-approved drug currently available for ischemic stroke is the anti-clotting factor, tPA. According to current clinical guidelines, tPA must be administered to stroke patients within several hours after the occurrence of the ischemic stroke to remove the clot while minimizing potential risks, such as bleeding into the brain. Administration of tPA after three to four hours is not recommended, since it can cause cerebral bleeding or even death. Recent advancements in the development of clot extraction devices may help additional patients, but such treatments are limited to certain types of strokes and to an early time window. As a consequence of this limited time window, only a small percentage of stroke victims are treated with the currently available therapy&#151;most simply receive supportive or &#147;palliative&#148; care. The long-term costs of stroke are substantial, with many patients requiring extended hospitalization, extended physical therapy or rehabilitation (for those patients that are capable of entering such programs), and many require long-term institutional or family care. 

In preclinical studies conducted by investigators, including at the University of Minnesota, the Medical College of Georgia at Augusta University, and the University of Texas Health Science Center at Houston, significant functional improvements have been observed in rodents that have undergone an experimentally induced stroke, or that have incurred significant neurological damage due to similar types of ischemic events, such as a result of neonatal hypoxic ischemia or TBI, and then received MultiStem treatment. Published research has demonstrated that MultiStem administration even one week after a surgically induced stroke results in substantial long-term therapeutic benefit, as evidenced by the improvement of treated animals compared with controls in a battery of tests examining mobility, strength, fine motor skills, and other aspects of neurological functional improvement. We believe MultiStem treatment conveys significant benefits through several mechanisms, including reduction of inflammation and immune system modulation in the ischemic area, and the protection and rescue of damaged or injured cells, including neuronal tissue. Research results presented at the American Heart Association International Stroke Conference demonstrated that MultiStem administration 24 hours following a stroke reduced inflammatory damage in the brain and resulted in significant functional improvement, and that some of these results were achieved by reducing the inflammatory response emanating from the spleen in animal models. These results confirmed that MultiStem treatment is well tolerated, does not require immunosuppression and results in a robust and durable therapeutic benefit, and are consistent with prior results that show MultiStem can provide significant benefits even when administered up to one week after the initial stroke event. 

We recently completed our first clinical study in stroke, which was a double-blind, placebo-controlled Phase 2 clinical trial exploring the administration of MultiStem to patients that have suffered an ischemic stroke in the United States and Europe. The results of this study demonstrated favorable safety and tolerability for MultiStem, consistent with prior clinical studies in other indications. While the study did not achieve the primary and component secondary endpoints for the intent-to-treat population, the MultiStem treatment was associated with lower rates of mortality and life threatening adverse events, infections and pulmonary events, and also a reduction in hospitalization. In addition, analyses show that patients who received MultiStem treatment earlier (24 to 36 hours post-stroke) in the study&#146;s treatment window had better recovery in comparison to placebo, and this treatment effect appeared to be more pronounced the earlier the MultiStem administration within this timeframe. Analysis of biomarker data obtained from samples of study subjects indicated that MultiStem treatment reduces post-stroke inflammation compared to placebo. Furthermore, it appears that this effect is more pronounced for subjects receiving MultiStem earlier than 36 hours post-stroke. This effect is consistent with our hypothesis regarding mechanisms of action and related preclinical data, and with the clinical data suggesting faster recovery for MultiStem-treated patients. Further analyses are being undertaken, and we are preparing for the next stage of clinical development of this program. If effective, this would represent a substantial increase in the time window for treatment, which currently is limited to several hours. 

&#160;

We are also interested in the application of MultiStem for other neurological indications that represent areas of significant unmet medical need, such as TBI, which represents the leading cause of disability among children and young adults, and a leading cause of death. Approximately 1.7 million cases of TBI are seen in the United States each year, nearly half a million cases of which are children age 0 to 14 years old. The United States Center for Disease Control and Prevention, or CDC, estimates that more than 5.3 million individuals are living with a disability and have a long-term or lifelong need for help to perform activities of daily living as a result of a TBI. The annual direct and indirect costs for TBI are approximately $60 billion a year, according to the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke, which is part of the National Institutes of Health, or NIH. In preclinical studies of TBI, administration of MultiStem dramatically reduced the extent of damage caused by a TBI, and promoted accelerated healing of the blood-brain barrier. In 2012, we announced grant funding of up to $3.6 million to further advance our MultiStem programs and cell therapy platform, including further development of MultiStem therapy for the treatment of TBI and further development of our cell therapy formulations and manufacturing capabilities. We received authorization to advance our TBI program into the second phase of the two-stage federal grant award and expect to complete this research in 2016. Upon completion of this research, we expect to be in a position to file an IND for clinical development of MultiStem for treating TBI if we elect to move the program forward into the clinic. 

We are also conducting preclinical work exploring the application of MultiStem treatment in other neurological indications. We and collaborators at the Center for Stem Cell and Regenerative Medicine and Case Western Reserve University were awarded $1.0 million in 2010 through the Ohio Third Frontier Biomedical Program to support preclinical and translational research into the MultiStem treatment of spinal cord injury, or SCI. In 2012, we presented data at the Annual Society for Neuroscience meeting that demonstrated that intravenous MultiStem administration one day after SCI results in statistically significant and sustained improvements in gross locomotor function, fine locomotor function and bladder control compared to control treated animals. In 2015, we published in a peer-reviewed article in Nature&#146;s Scientific Reports new findings that showed that MultiStem cell therapy was effective in improving the health of animals after acute rodent spinal cord injury. Intravenous administration of our cells one day after injury prevented loss of spinal cord tissue, resulting in significant improvement of walking function and urinary control. Further, in 2015 we published of an article in the peer-reviewed Journal of Neuroinflammation that provides further evidence that the MAPC cells have the potential to provide benefit following hypoxic ischemia, an injury caused by oxygen deprivation to the brain before or during birth and a leading cause of cerebral palsy. The article also describes the biological mechanisms through which this cell therapy delivers benefit. These findings are consistent with previous findings in related areas, such as ischemic stroke, and add to the scientific foundation supporting MultiStem cell therapy for the treatment of acute neurological injuries. 

Over the past several years, we have been utilizing grant funding to investigate the potential for MultiStem treatment for chronic progressive MS based on initial results in preclinical models. In 2012, in collaboration with scientists from Case Western Reserve University, and with the support of Fast Forward and the National Multiple Sclerosis Society, we reported research results that demonstrate the potential benefits of MultiStem therapy for treating MS. In standard preclinical models of MS, researchers observed that MultiStem administration results in sustained behavioral improvements, arrests the demyelination process that is central to the pathology of MS, and supports remyelination of affected axons. We have completed several preclinical studies and intend to continue to advance our MS program with support from Fast Forward. 

Cardiovascular Disease &#151; Evaluating MultiStem for Treating Damage from a Heart Attack 

Cardiovascular disease is an area of significant clinical need and its prevalence is expected to grow in the years ahead. Despite treatment advances in recent years, cardiovascular disease remains the leading cause of death, and represents one of the leading causes of disability around the world. In the United States, approximately 915,000 people suffer a heart attack each year, and approximately 5.7 million individuals in the United States were suffering from heart failure in 2011, according to the American Heart Association 2015 Statistical Update. Another 8.5 million people suffer from peripheral arterial disease, which is associated with significant morbidity and mortality. In addition, there were approximately 786,600 deaths that occurred from all forms of cardiovascular disease, including 433,600 individuals that died as a result of coronary heart disease or heart failure. According to projections published recently by the American Heart Association in 2011 in the journal Circulation , aggregate costs for treating heart disease in the United States are expected to soar in the coming years. In 2010, annual direct costs for treating cardiovascular disease were $273 billion, but by 2030 these are expected to nearly triple, to a projected $818 billion per year. This increase will occur primarily as a result of the aging population, and may not fully reflect the impact of the dramatic escalation in obesity rates that has occurred for both adults and children in recent years, which could further exacerbate the long-term challenges and increase costs associated with cardiovascular disease and other conditions. 

&#160;

In a Phase 1 clinical trial, we explored MultiStem treatment for damage caused by AMI. Myocardial infarction is one of the leading causes of death and disability in the United States and is caused by the blockage of one or more arteries that supply blood to the heart. Such blockages can be caused, for example, by the rupture of an atherosclerotic plaque deposit. A variety of risk factors are associated with an elevated risk of myocardial infarction or atherosclerosis, including age, high blood pressure, smoking, sedentary lifestyle and genetics. While advances in the diagnosis, prevention and treatment of heart disease have had a positive impact, there is clearly room for improvement&#151;myocardial infarction remains a leading cause of death and disability in the United States and the rest of the world. 

MultiStem treatment has been studied in validated animal models of AMI, including at both the Cleveland Clinic and the University of Minnesota. Investigators demonstrated that the administration of allogeneic MultiStem cells into the hearts of animals damaged by experimentally induced heart attacks resulted in significant functional improvement in cardiac output and other functional parameters compared with animals that received placebo or no treatment. Furthermore, the administration of immunosuppressive drug was not required and provided no additional benefit in this study, and supports the concept of using MultiStem cells as an allogeneic product. We completed additional preclinical studies in established pig models of AMI using catheter delivery and examining various factors such as the route and method of MultiStem administration, dose ranging, and timing of treatment. 

We conducted a multicenter, open-label Phase 1 clinical trial in this indication and the results showed that MultiStem treatment was well tolerated at all dose levels, exhibited a favorable safety profile, and that patients who received MultiStem treatment exhibited meaningful improvements in cardiovascular function, including left ventricular ejection fraction, wall motion scores, and other parameters. These results were published by Circulation Research in 2012. 

We recently initiated a Phase 2 clinical study for the administration of MultiStem cell therapy to patients that have suffered an AMI. We were awarded a grant for up to $2.8 million in funding from the NIH to support the advancement of this clinical program, and we are currently enrolling patients in our Phase 2 study evaluating the safety and efficacy of MultiStem treatment in subjects who have a non-ST elevated myocardial infarction. The study is double-blind, sham-controlled and is being conducted at leading cardiovascular centers in the United States. 

Immunological Disorders &#151; MultiStem for Acute Pulmonary Distress, IBD and HSC Transplant Support 

Inflammatory and immune disorders represent a significant burden to society. There are over 80 recognized autoimmune disorders, which are conditions caused by an acute or chronic imbalance in the immune system. In these conditions, cells of the immune system begin to attack certain tissues or organs in the body, resulting in tissue damage and loss of function. Some inflammatory and immune conditions are associated with age-related conditions (e.g., rheumatoid arthritis), but some are due to other causes that may be genetic, environmental or a combination of both (e.g., Type 1 diabetes, IBD). Still other conditions may reflect complications associated with the treatment of other conditions (e.g., GvHD, a frequent complication associated with transplant procedures used to treat leukemia or related blood-borne cancers). Each of these conditions shares certain biological characteristics, in that the immune system imbalance results from the inappropriate activation of certain populations of immune cells that subsequently results in significant tissue damage and destruction. This immune imbalance may result in a complex cascade of inflammation that can result in pain, progressive tissue deterioration and loss of function. While currently available immunomodulatory drugs have proven to be effective for some patients, they have failed to adequately address the needs of many other patients that suffer from inflammatory and immune disorders. 

In both preclinical and clinical studies, MultiStem cells have shown potent immunomodulatory properties, including the ability to reduce active inflammation through various modes of action, stimulate tissue repair and restore immune system balance. Accordingly, we believe that MultiStem therapy could have broad application in the area of treating immune system disorders, including certain acute inflammatory conditions, autoimmune diseases and other conditions. 

In animal models, MultiStem cells have demonstrated an ability to reduce the severity of pulmonary distress, reduce alveolar edema and return lung endothelial permeability to normal. Intravenous MultiStem treatment early following the onset of the condition may ameliorate the initial hyper-inflammation and reduce the fibrotic activity that follows, thereby speeding the return to and improving the likelihood of more normal lung function, and helping patient recovery.

ARDS is a serious immunological and inflammatory condition characterized by widespread inflammation in the lungs. ARDS can be triggered by pneumonia, sepsis, or other trauma and represents a major cause of morbidity and mortality in the critical care setting. It has significant implications, as it prolongs intensive care unit, or ICU, and hospital stays, and requires convalescence in the hospital and rehabilitation. There are limited interventions and no effective drug treatments for ARDS, making it an area of high unmet clinical need with high treatment costs. Given ARDS high treatment costs, a successful cell therapy could be expected to generate significant savings for the healthcare system by reducing days on a ventilator, days in the intensive care unit and total days in the hospital, and importantly, could reduce mortality and improve quality of life for those suffering from the condition. The medical need for a safe and effective treatment of ARDS is significant due to its high mortality rate, and it affects annually approximately 33,000 patients in the UK and 400,000 to 500,000 patients in Europe, the United States and Japan, alone.

&#160;

In January 2015, we announced that our subsidiary, Athersys Limited, received a grant award of up to approximately &#163;2.0 million from Innovate UK to support a Phase 2a clinical study evaluating the administration of MultiStem cell therapy to ARDS patients. We initiated this study in 2016 in both the UK and the United States and it is currently enrolling patients. 

Another area of focus is the use of MultiStem cells as adjunctive treatment for HSC/bone marrow transplant used as therapy in hematologic malignancy. For many types of cancer, such as leukemia or other blood-borne cancers, treatment typically involves radiation therapy or chemotherapy, alone or in combination. Such treatment can substantially deplete the cells of the blood and immune system, by reducing the number of stem cells in the bone marrow from which they arise. The more intense the radiation treatment or chemotherapy, the more severe the resulting depletion is of the bone marrow, blood, and immune system. Other tissues may also be affected, such as cells in the digestive tract and in the pulmonary system. The result may be severe anemia, immunodeficiency, substantial reduction in digestive capacity, and other problems that may result in significant disability or death. 

One strategy for treating the depletion of bone marrow is to perform a peripheral blood stem cell transplant or a bone marrow transplant. This approach may augment the patient&#146;s ability to form new blood and immune cells and provide a significant survival advantage. However, finding a closely matched donor is frequently difficult or even impossible. Even when such a donor is found, in many cases there are immunological complications, such as GvHD, which may result in serious disability or death. 

Working with leading experts in the stem cell and bone marrow transplantation field, we studied MultiStem in animal models of radiation therapy and GvHD. In multiple animal models, MultiStem cells have been shown to be non-immunogenic, even when administered without the genetic matching that is typically required for conventional bone marrow or stem cell transplantation. Furthermore, in animal model systems testing immune reactivity of T-cells against unrelated donor tissue, MultiStem has been shown to suppress the T-cell-mediated immune responses that are an important factor in causing GvHD. MultiStem-treated animals also displayed a significant increase in survival relative to controls. As a result, we believe that MultiStem administration in conjunction with or following standard HSC transplantation may have the potential to reduce the incidence or severity of complications and may enhance gastrointestinal function, which is frequently compromised as a result of radiation treatment or chemotherapy. 

We completed a Phase 1 clinical trial examining the safety and tolerability of a single dose or repeat dosing of MultiStem cells administered intravenously to patients receiving a bone marrow or hematopoietic stem cell transplant as part of their treatment of leukemia or other hematological condition. The trial was an open label, multicenter trial that involved leading experts in the field of bone marrow transplantation. In 2012, we announced the top-line results from the trial. We observed a consistent safety profile in both the single and multiple dose arms of the study, and at all dose levels tested. Although the trial was not specifically designed to demonstrate efficacy, we also observed clinically meaningful improvement in medically important parameters relative to historical clinical experience, including reduced incidence and severity of acute GvHD, improved relapse free survival, no graft failures, and enhanced engraftment rates relative to other forms of treatment. 

We were granted orphan drug designation by the FDA and the EMA for MultiStem treatment in the prevention of GvHD. In February 2015, the MultiStem product was granted Fast Track designation by the FDA for prophylaxis therapy against GvHD following hematopoietic cell transplantation. Subsequently, our registration study design received a positive opinion from the EMA through the Protocol Assessment/Scientific Advice procedure. Furthermore, in December 2015, the proposed registration study received Special Protocol Assessment designation from the FDA, meaning that the trial is adequately designed to support a BLA submission for registration if it is successful. 

In 2009, we entered into a collaboration agreement with Pfizer to develop and commercialize MultiStem therapy for the treatment of IBD globally. IBD is a group of inflammatory and autoimmune conditions that affect the colon and small intestine, typically resulting in severe abdominal pain, weight loss, vomiting and diarrhea, and the most common forms of the disease include UC and Crohn&#146;s disease. Pfizer conducted a double-blind, placebo-controlled Phase 2 clinical study evaluating MultiStem administration to patients suffering from UC, and enrollment was completed in 2013. In 2014, we and Pfizer reported the initial interim results of the trial. The interim results obtained from the trial showed that a single administration of MultiStem to a patient population with longstanding, chronic advanced disease failed to show a meaningful clinical effect at the eight-week evaluation period. Despite not showing a significant improvement compared to placebo in the primary efficacy endpoints, the MultiStem therapy demonstrated favorable safety and tolerability in the eight weeks following treatment. Furthermore, at four weeks, patients getting MultiStem treatment had a significantly higher proportion of rectal bleeding responders than placebo patients, suggesting the possibility of a transient effect from the single MultiStem dose. However, given the limited evidence of benefit in this study, it remains possible that MultiStem is not beneficial or well suited to this indication, or that a different dosing strategy would need to be employed to achieve a meaningful and durable benefit. Taking these results into account, following an internal portfolio review, Pfizer determined that it would not invest further in this program, as would be required by the collaboration, and notified us of this decision to terminate the license agreement effective in the third quarter of 2015. In connection with the termination, all rights that Pfizer had to the program reverted to us, and intellectual property generated through the collaboration is owned by us. 

&#160;

Pharmaceutical Programs 

Novel 5HT2c agonists for the treatment of obesity and other conditions 

Obesity is a substantial contributing factor to a range of diseases that represent the major causes of death and disability in the developed world today. Individuals that are clinically obese have elevated rates of cardiovascular disease, stroke, certain types of cancer and diabetes. According to the CDC, the incidence of obesity in the United States has increased at an epidemic rate during the past 20 years. CDC now estimates that almost 70% of all Americans are overweight, including more than one-third that are considered clinically obese. 

We have developed novel pharmaceutical treatments for obesity, which are compounds designed to act by stimulating a key receptor in the brain that regulates appetite and food intake&#151;the 5HT2c receptor. The role of this receptor in regulating food intake is well understood in both animal models and humans. Several groups have published research and clinical data that suggest that highly selective compounds that stimulate the 5HT2c receptor, but that do not appreciably stimulate the 5HT2b receptor, which is linked to cardiovascular problems, could be developed that maintain the desired appetite suppressive effects without the cardiovascular toxicity. Clinical data supports this hypothesis and also suggests that the 5HT2c agonists may also cause a statistically significant reduction in the amount of sugar in the blood, as measured by fasting blood glucose and HbA1c levels, which are both clinically relevant measures for patients suffering from diabetes. 

In 2012, the FDA approved Belviq (Lorcaserin), a 5HT2c agonist, for the treatment of obesity. We believe this represents a significant event for our program because it illustrates that the FDA recognizes and agrees with the concept that 5HT2c agonists that display appropriate selectivity, biological activity and clinical safety are approvable for indications such as obesity. 

Our clinical candidates were developed as potent and selective orally administered compounds that stimulate the 5HT2c receptor, but that avoid the 5HT2b receptor and other receptors, such as 5HT2a, or other receptors that could cause adverse side effects, and our compounds have been tested in extensive preclinical studies. We believe that clinical trials will demonstrate that this achievement represents a significant advance in the field, and that the potency and selectivity profile displayed by our compounds will result in substantially better efficacy and a cleaner safety and tolerability profile, as well as a more convenient dosing schedule than other 5HT2c agonist programs, including Lorcaserin. We also evaluated certain of our compounds when administered as a monotherapy or in conjunction with other weight loss agents, and have observed effectiveness with both approaches. Further, certain potent and highly selective compounds that we developed display a profile that we believe may have utility in treating schizophrenia. We evaluated some of these compounds in preclinical models of schizophrenia and have observed that they exhibit efficacy in these models. 

We may elect to enter into a partnership to advance the development of our 5HT2c agonist program, either for the treatment of obesity, schizophrenia, or both indications, as well as for certain programs involving MultiStem.

Collaborations and Partnerships 

Healios 

On January 8, 2016, we entered into a license agreement with Healios to develop and commercialize MultiStem cell therapy for ischemic stroke in Japan, and to provide Healios with access to Athersys&#146; proprietary MAPC technology for use in Healios&#146; &#147;organ bud&#148; program, initially for transplantation to treat liver disease or dysfunction. Under the agreement, Healios also obtained a right to expand the scope of the collaboration to include the exclusive rights to develop and commercialize MultiStem for the treatment of two additional indications in Japan, which include ARDS and another indication in the orthopedic area, and to include all indications for the &#147;organ bud&#148; program. Healios will develop and commercialize the MultiStem product in Japan, and we will provide the manufactured product to Healios. 

Under the terms of the agreement, we received an up-front cash payment of $15 million from Healios, and the collaboration can be expanded at Healios&#146; election. If Healios expands the collaboration, we will be entitled to receive a cash payment of $10 million. Healios may exercise its option to expand the collaboration by the date that is the later of (i) December 31, 2016 and (ii) the receipt of the initial results from Athersys&#146; ongoing ARDS clinical trial. 

For the ischemic stroke indication, we may also receive additional success-based development and regulatory approval milestones aggregating up to $30 million, as well as potential sales milestones of up to $185 million. We will also receive tiered royalties on product sales, starting in the low double digits and increasing incrementally into the high teens depending on net sales levels. Following the expiration or termination of the Agreement, Healios shall pay reduced royalties for continued use of our trademarks. Additionally, we will receive payments for product supplied to Healios under a manufacturing supply agreement.

&#160;

If Healios exercises the option to expand to collaboration, we would be entitled to receive royalties from product sales and success-based development, regulatory approval and sales milestones, as well as payments for product supply related to the additional indications covered by the option. 

For the &#147;organ bud&#148; product, we are entitled to receive a fractional royalty percentage on net sales of the &#147;organ bud&#148; products and will receive payments for manufactured product supplied to Healios under a manufacturing supply agreement. Additionally, we have a right of first negotiation for commercialization of an &#147;organ bud&#148; product in North America, with such right expiring on the later of (i) the date five years from the effective date of the Agreement and (ii) 30 days after authorization to initiate clinical studies on an &#147;organ bud&#148; product under the first investigational new drug application or equivalent in Japan, North America or the European Union. 

The agreement will expire automatically when there are no remaining intellectual property rights subject to the license. Additionally, Healios may terminate the agreement under certain circumstances, including for material breach and without cause upon advance written notice. We may terminate the agreement if there is an uncured material breach of the agreement by Healios.

Following termination of the agreement, the licenses granted to Healios to develop and commercialize MultiStem in Japan for ischemic stroke, and if the option to expand is exercised, for ARDS and the other orthopedic indication, will terminate and ownership of regulatory documents and clinical data will revert to us. Further, the nonexclusive license to intellectual property developed by Healios during the collaboration shall be expanded to include Japan and shall survive termination. 

Chugai 

In February 2015, we entered into a license agreement with Chugai to develop and commercialize MultiStem cell therapy for ischemic stroke in Japan on an exclusive basis. Under the agreement, Chugai was responsible for the development and commercialization of MultiStem for ischemic stroke in Japan. Under the terms of the agreement, we received an up-front cash payment of $10 million from Chugai and were entitled to receive a near-term payment of $7 million tied to the results of our ongoing Phase 2 clinical trial in ischemic stroke, which was not paid by Chugai, thus triggering our right to terminate the agreement. We agreed with Chugai to terminate the agreement in October 2015 when the parties were unable to reach an agreement on a potential modification of the financial terms of the agreement and on development strategy in Japan, in light of the 90-day interim results from our Phase 2 clinical study. In connection with the termination, all rights that Chugai had to the program reverted to us, and intellectual property generated through the collaboration is owned by us.

Pfizer 

In 2009, we entered into a collaboration agreement with Pfizer to develop and commercialize MultiStem therapy for the treatment of IBD for the worldwide market on an exclusive basis. Under the terms of the agreement, we received a non-refundable up-front cash payment of $6.0 million from Pfizer and research funding during the initial phase of the collaboration that ended in 2012. MultiStem cell therapy was evaluated by Pfizer in a Phase 2 clinical study exploring administration to patients with UC, a common form of IBD. Overall, the study results were disappointing, even though a single administration of the cell therapy may have had some short-term beneficial effects. Taking these results into account, following an internal portfolio review, Pfizer determined that it would not invest further in this program, as would be required by the collaboration, and notified us of this decision to terminate the license agreement effective in the third quarter of 2015. In connection with the termination, all rights that Pfizer had to the program reverted to us, and intellectual property generated through the collaboration is owned by us. 

University of Minnesota 

In 2003, we acquired the exclusive rights to the MAPC technology originally developed at the University of Minnesota pursuant to a license agreement with the University. Over the convening years, we further developed this technology, including the manufacturing of the cells for use in ongoing clinical trials and ultimately, commercialization. We refer to this lead product as the MultiStem cell therapy platform. We are obligated to pay the University of Minnesota a royalty based on worldwide commercial sales of licensed products if covered by a valid licensed patent, as well as sublicensing fees and fees related to manufactured product proceeds, as defined. The low single-digit royalty and sublicense fee rate may be reduced if third-party payments for intellectual property rights are necessary or commercially desirable to permit the manufacture or sale of the product. The royalty payment obligation and the term of the license agreement expire upon the last to expire licensed patent. Based on our current patent portfolio, and absent any continuations, renewals or extensions of existing patents, the last licensed patent to expire under the license agreement is currently expected to expire in 2029. The license agreement does not have a specific termination date, but the University of Minnesota can terminate the license agreement for an uncured event of default, as defined, or upon our bankruptcy and we can terminate the license agreement at any time. 

&#160;

RTI 

In 2010, we entered into an agreement with RTI to develop and commercialize MAPC technology-based biologic implants for certain orthopedic applications in the bone graft substitutes market on an exclusive basis. Under the terms of our RTI agreement, we received $5.0 million of license fees in installments during 2010-2012. In accordance with the agreement, we are also eligible to receive an additional $35.5 million in cash payments upon the successful achievement of certain commercial milestones, though there can be no assurance that such milestones will be achieved, and no significant milestone payments were received as of December 31, 2015. In addition, we receive tiered royalties on worldwide commercial sales of implants using our technologies based on a royalty rate starting in the mid-single digits and increasing into the mid-teens. We began receiving royalties from RTI in 2014. Royalties may be subject to a reduction if third-party payments for intellectual property rights are necessary or commercially desirable to permit the manufacture or sale of the product.

The term of the agreement is the longer of (i) five years from the effective date in 2010, (ii) two years after the last sale of a licensed product, (iii) the last to expire of any past, present or future licensed patent, and (iv) the life of trade secrets applicable to the licensed product. Either party can terminate the agreement upon the other party&#146;s bankruptcy or for an uncured material breach. RTI can terminate the agreement if our rights to our technology expire such that there is a material effect on the development and commercialization of the licensed products. We can terminate the agreement if RTI has not reached a specified target of sales of the licensed product within five years of the effective date or a specified target of annual sales each year thereafter. 

Bristol-Myers Squibb 

In 2000, we entered into a collaboration with Bristol-Myers Squibb to provide cell lines expressing well validated drug targets produced using our RAGE technology for compound screening and development. This initial collaboration was expanded in 2002 and again in 2006, and was in its final phase as amended in 2009. Bristol-Myers Squibb uses the cell lines in its internal drug development programs and, in exchange, we receive license fee and milestone payments and would be entitled to receive royalties on the sale of any approved products. Depending on the use of a cell line by Bristol-Myers Squibb and the progress of drug development programs benefiting from the use of such a cell line, we could receive as much as approximately $5.5 million per cell line in additional license fees and milestone payments, though we cannot assure you that any further milestones will be achieved or that we will receive any additional milestone payments. As of December 31, 2015, we received an aggregate amount of $2.1 million in milestone payments and $9.8 million in license fees since the inception of our collaboration with Bristol-Myers Squibb. While Bristol-Myers Squibb still has a few active programs using our cell lines, we expect this collaboration and the associated revenues to phase out over time. 

The Bristol-Myers Squibb collaboration does not have a specific termination date, but will terminate when Bristol-Myers Squibb no longer has an obligation to pay us royalties, which obligation generally continues until the later of the expiration of the Bristol-Myers Squibb patent covering an approved product and ten years after commercial sales of that product began. If either party breaches its material obligations and fails to cure that breach within 60 days after notice from the non-breaching party, the non-breaching party may terminate the collaboration. 

Competition 

We face significant competition with respect to the various dimensions of our business. With regard to our efforts to develop MultiStem as a novel stem cell therapy, currently, there are a number of companies that are actively developing stem cell products, which encompass a range of different cell types, including embryonic stem cells, umbilical cord stem cells, adult-derived stem cells and processed bone marrow derived cells. 

Mesoblast Limited, or Mesoblast, is currently engaged in clinical trials evaluating the safety and efficacy of Revascor, an allogeneic stem cell product based on mesenchymal stem cell precursors that are obtained from healthy consenting donors. These cells also appear to display limited expansion potential and biological plasticity. Additionally, Mesoblast is developing Prochymal, a mesenchymal stem cell product candidate that it acquired from Osiris Therapeutics, Inc., and Mesoblast has a partnership with Cephalon, Inc., or Cephalon, now owned by Teva Pharmaceuticals, Inc., for treating conditions including congestive heart failure, AMI, Parkinson&#146;s disease and Alzheimer&#146;s disease. 

&#160;

Other public companies are developing stem-related therapies, including Aastrom Biosciences, Inc., or Aastrom, Stem Cells Inc., Johnson &#38; Johnson, Celgene Corporation, or Celgene, Advanced Cell Technology, Inc., CRYO-CELL International, Inc., Pluristem Therapeutics, Inc., or Pluristem, and Cytori Therapeutics, Inc., or Cytori. In addition, private companies, such as Gamida Cell Ltd., Plureon Corporation, Tigenix NV and others, are also developing cell therapy related products or capabilities. Given the magnitude of the potential opportunity for stem cell therapy, we expect competition in this area to intensify in the coming years. 

We also face competition in our efforts to develop compounds for the treatment of obesity. In 2012, two new treatments were approved by the FDA for the treatment of obesity, Belviq (Lorcaserin), which was developed by Arena Pharmaceuticals, Inc., or Arena, and Qsymia (a proprietary combination of phentermine and topiramate), which was developed by Vivus, Inc., or Vivus. In 2014, another new drug combination was approved, Contrave (a proprietary combination of naltrexone and bupropion), which was developed by Orexigen. Prior to these recent approvals, there was one approved therapeutic product on the market for obesity, Xenical (also known as Alli), which is marketed by F. Hoffman - LaRoche Ltd., or Roche. Potential side effects associated with taking Xenical / Alli include cramping, intestinal discomfort, flatulence, diarrhea, and leakage of oily stool. Another obesity drug, Meridia, was approved for clinical use and marketed by Abbott Pharmaceuticals, but was withdrawn from the market due to concerns regarding increased risk of cardiovascular disease and stroke among patients taking the drug. 

There are many other companies that have previously attempted or are attempting to develop novel treatments for obesity, and a wide range of approaches are being taken. Some of these companies include large, multinational pharmaceutical companies such as Bristol-Myers Squibb, Merck &#38; Co., Inc., Roche, Sanofi, GlaxoSmithKline plc, or GlaxoSmithKline, Eli Lilly and Company and others. There are also a variety of biotechnology companies developing treatments for obesity, including Neurosearch, Amgen Inc., or Amgen, Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Nastech Pharmaceutical Company, Alizyme plc, Amylin Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Neurocrine Biosciences, Inc., Shionogi &#38; Co., Ltd., Metabolic Pharmaceuticals Limited, Kyorin Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd., and others. It is likely that, given the magnitude of the market opportunity, many companies will continue to focus on the obesity area, and that competition will remain high. If we are successful at developing a 5HT2c agonist as a safe and effective treatment for obesity, it is likely that other companies will attempt to develop safer and more effective compounds in the same class, or will attempt to combine therapies in an effort to establish a safer and more effective therapeutic product. 

We believe our most significant competitors are fully integrated pharmaceutical companies and biotechnology companies that have substantially greater financial, technical, sales, marketing, and human resources than we do. These companies may succeed in obtaining regulatory approval for competitive products more rapidly than we can for our products. In addition, our competitors may develop technologies and products that are cheaper, safer or more effective than those being developed by us or that would render our technology obsolete. Furthermore, some of these companies may feel threatened by our activities and attempt to delay or impede our efforts to develop our products or apply our technologies. 

Intellectual Property 

We rely on a combination of patent applications, patents, trademarks, and contractual provisions to protect our proprietary rights. We believe that to have a competitive advantage, we must develop and maintain the proprietary aspects of our technologies. Currently, we require our officers, employees, consultants, contractors, manufacturers, outside scientific collaborators and sponsored researchers, and other advisors to execute confidentiality agreements in connection with their employment, consulting, or advisory relationships with us, where appropriate. We also require our employees, consultants, and advisors that we expect to work on our products to agree to disclose and assign to us all inventions conceived during the work day, developed using our property, or which relate to our business. We currently have over 230 patents for our technologies. 

We have a broad patent estate with claims directed to compositions, methods of production, and methods of use of certain non-embryonic stem cells and related technologies. We developed, acquired and exclusively licensed intellectual property covering our cell therapy product candidates and other applications in the field. Our broad intellectual property portfolio consists of approximately 175 issued patents (of which seventeen are United States patents) and more than 185 global patent applications around our stem cell technology and MultiStem product platform. This includes sixteen United States patents and more than 120 international patents that apply to MAPC and related products, such as MultiStem. The current intellectual property estate, which incorporates additional filings and may broaden over time, could provide coverage for our stem cell product candidates, manufacturing processes and methods of use through 2032 and beyond. Furthermore, an extended period of market exclusivity may apply for certain products (e.g., exclusivity periods for orphan drug designation or biologics). 

We have been active in the development, improvement and protection of our intellectual property portfolio through our prosecution efforts, collaborative research efforts, and in-licensing, among other things. From time-to-time, we will also engage in adversarial processes, such as interference or litigation, to protect or advance certain patents or applications. These activities represent an important cost of doing business, and can result in successes and setbacks due to the nature of the processes. For example, over the past several years, we have been involved in several proceedings in the United States with a third party focused on a technology developed after the MAPC technology. In an earlier proceeding, our success resulted in the issuance of a patent. However, in a more recent proceeding, an interference board ruled that this patent and another application of ours should be cancelled, but such ruling may be advanced into an appeal process. Over time, we expect to be involved in similar proceedings with the objective of developing the portfolio to support and protect development and commercialization of our or our licensees&#146; cell therapy products. 

&#160;

We also have established a broad intellectual property portfolio related to our small molecule product candidates and functional genomics technologies. We have a broad patent estate with claims directed to compositions, methods of making, and methods of using our small molecule drug candidates. We have six United States patents and three patent applications with broad claims directed to selective 5HT2c agonists discovered at Athersys that currently provide patent coverage through as late as 2029. From our Histamine H3 program, we have six United States patents with broad claims directed to compounds discovered at Athersys from two distinct chemical series that currently provide patent coverage through as late as 2028. In addition, we currently have 37 issued patents (16 United States patents and 21 international patents) relating to compositions and methods for the RAGE technology that currently provide patent coverage through as late as 2020, and five United States patents and eight international patents relating to human proteins and candidate drug targets that we identified through the application of RAGE and to our other technologies that currently provide patent coverage through as late as 2022. The RAGE technology was developed by Dr. John Harrington and other Athersys scientists internally in the mid-1990s. 

We believe that we have broad freedom to use and commercially develop our technologies and product candidates. However, in the event that we or our collaborators are developing, manufacturing, or selling potential products that are claimed to infringe a third party&#146;s intellectual property, a loss in litigation may prevent us from commercializing our products, unless that party grants us rights to use its intellectual property. Further, we may not be able to obtain any licenses required under any patents or proprietary rights of third parties on acceptable terms, or at all. Even if we were able to obtain rights to the third party&#146;s intellectual property, these rights may be non-exclusive, thereby giving our competitors access to the same intellectual property. Ultimately, we may be unable to commercialize some of our potential products or may have to cease some of our business operations as a result of patent infringement claims, which could severely harm our business. 

Research and Development 

Our research and development costs, which consist primarily of costs associated with external clinical trial costs, preclinical study fees, manufacturing costs, salaries and related personnel costs, legal expenses resulting from intellectual property application processes, and laboratory supply and reagent costs, were $21.3 million in 2015, $23.4 million in 2014 and $20.5 million in 2013. 

Government Regulation 

Any products we may develop and our research and development activities are subject to stringent government regulation in the United States by the FDA and, in many instances, by corresponding foreign and state regulatory agencies. The European Union, or EU, has vested centralized authority in the EMA and Committee on Proprietary Medicinal Products, or CPMP, to standardize review and approval across EU member nations. In Japan, PDMA, a division of the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare, or MHLW, regulates the development and commercialization of medical therapies. Recently, Japan&#146;s parliament enacted new legislation to promote the safe and accelerated development of treatments using stem cells. The new regenerative medicine law and revised pharmaceutical affairs law define products containing stem cells as regenerative medicine products and allow for the conditional approval of such products if safety has been confirmed in clinical trials, even if their efficacy has not been fully demonstrated. The legislation creates a new, faster pathway for cell therapy product approval, and offers the potential to enable more rapid entry in the Japanese market. The MHLW has been directed to develop and adopt new rules and procedures to implement this legislation. 

These regulatory agencies enforce comprehensive statutes, regulations and guidelines governing the drug development process. This process involves several steps. Initially, a company must generate preclinical data to show safety before human testing may be initiated. In the United States, a drug company must submit an IND to the FDA prior to securing authorization for human testing. The IND must contain adequate data on product candidate chemistry, toxicology and metabolism and, where appropriate, animal research testing to support initial safety. 

A Clinical Trial Authorization, or CTA, is the European equivalent of the IND. CTA requirements are issued by each competent authority within the European Union and are enacted by local laws and Directives. 

Any of our product candidates will require regulatory approval and compliance with regulations made by United States and foreign government agencies prior to commercialization in such countries. The process of obtaining FDA or foreign regulatory agency approval has historically been extremely costly and time consuming. The FDA and equivalent foreign regulatory authorities (such as the EMA or PMDA) regulate, among other things, the development, testing, manufacture, safety, efficacy, record keeping, labeling, storage, approval, advertising, promotion, sale, and distribution of biologics and new drugs. 

&#160;

The standard process required by the FDA before a pharmaceutical agent may be marketed in the United States includes: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; preclinical tests in animals that demonstrate a reasonable likelihood of safety and effectiveness (if possible) in human patients; &#160;

&#160; &#149; submission to the FDA of an IND, which must become effective before clinical trials in humans can commence. If Phase 1 clinical trials are to be conducted initially outside the United States, a different regulatory filing is required, depending on the location of the trial; &#160;

&#160; &#149; adequate and well controlled human clinical trials to establish the safety and efficacy of the drug or biologic product for the intended disease indication; &#160;

&#160; &#149; for drugs, submission of a New Drug Application, or NDA, or a BLA with the FDA; and &#160;

&#160; &#149; FDA approval of the NDA or BLA before any commercial sale or shipment of the drug. Preclinical studies can take several years to complete, and there is no guarantee that an IND based on those studies will become effective to permit clinical trials to begin. The clinical development phase generally takes ten to fifteen years, or longer, to complete (i.e., from the initiation of Phase 1 through completion of Phase 3 studies), and such sequential studies may overlap or be combined. After successful completion of clinical trials for a new drug or biologic product, FDA approval of the NDA or BLA must be obtained. This process requires substantial time and effort and there is no assurance that the FDA will accept the NDA or BLA for filing and, even if filed, that the FDA will grant approval. In the past, the FDA&#146;s approval of an NDA or BLA has taken, on average, one to two years, but in some instances may take substantially longer. If questions regarding safety or efficacy arise, additional studies may be required, followed by a resubmission of the NDA or BLA. Review and approval of an NDA or BLA can take up to several years. The FDA and other Regulatory agencies such as EMA and PMDA have regulations that allow for faster approval paths and review cycles that may reduce clinical development phase completion to between five and seven years to commercialization. Such regulations include but are not limited to accelerated/conditional approval paths and review cycles of between six to ten months (priority/accelerated review cycles). However, there are specific criteria that must be met to qualify for these paths, such as high unmet medical need, orphan designation, fast track, exceptional circumstances and breakthrough designation. 

In addition to obtaining FDA approval for each product, each drug manufacturing facility must be inspected and approved by the FDA. All manufacturing establishments are subject to inspections by the FDA and by other federal, state, and local agencies, and must comply with good manufacturing practices, or GMP, requirements. We do not currently have any GMP manufacturing capabilities, and will rely on contract manufacturers to produce material for any clinical trials that we may conduct. 

We must also obtain regulatory approval in other countries in which we intend to market any drug. The requirements governing conduct of clinical trials, product licensing, pricing, and reimbursement vary widely from country to country. FDA approval does not ensure regulatory approval in other countries. The current approval process varies from country to country, and the time spent in gaining approval varies from that required for FDA approval. In some countries, the sale price of the drug must also be approved. The pricing review period often begins after market approval is granted. Even if a foreign regulatory authority approves a drug product, it may not approve satisfactory prices for the product. 

In addition to regulations enforced by the FDA and international regulatory agencies, we are also subject to regulation under the Occupational Safety and Health Act, the Environmental Protection Act, the Toxic Substances Control Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, and other present and potential future federal, state, or local regulations. Our research and development involves the controlled use of hazardous materials, chemicals, biological materials, and various radioactive compounds. Although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of such materials currently comply in all material respects with the standards prescribed by state and federal regulations, the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials cannot be completely eliminated. In the event of such an accident, we could be held liable for any damages that result and any such liability could exceed our available resources. 

Employees 

We believe that our success will be based on, among other things, the quality of our clinical programs, our ability to invent and develop superior and innovative technologies and products, and our ability to attract and retain capable management and other personnel. We have assembled a high quality team of scientists, clinical development managers, and executives with significant experience in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries. 

As of December 31, 2015, we employed 60 full-time employees, including 17 with Ph.D. degrees. In addition to our employees, we also use the service and support of outside consultants and advisors. None of our employees is represented by a union, and we believe relationships with our employees are good. 

&#160;

Available Information 

We use the Investors section of our web site, www.athersys.com, as a channel for routine distribution of important information, including news releases, analyst presentations and financial information. We post filings as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC, including our annual, quarterly, and current reports on Forms 10-K, 10-Q, and 8-K; our proxy statements; and any amendments to those reports or statements. All such postings and filings are available on the Investors section of our web site free of charge. In addition, this web site allows investors and other interested persons to sign up to automatically receive e-mail alerts when we post news releases and financial information on our web site. The SEC also maintains a web site, www.sec.gov, that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. The content on any web site referred to in this annual report on Form 10-K is not incorporated by reference into this annual report unless expressly noted. 

&#160;

