 ITEM 1. BUSINESS.

In this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015 (the &#8220;Annual Report&#8221;) we refer to Venaxis, Inc., a Colorado corporation, as &#8220;Venaxis,&#8221; the &#8220;Company,&#8221; &#8220;we,&#8221; &#8220;us&#8221; and &#8220;our.&#8221;

Overview

Prior to early 2016, Venaxis&#174; was an in vitro diagnostic company that was focused on obtaining clearance from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (&#8220;FDA&#8221;) for and commercializing its blood-based test to serve as an adjunctive test in the diagnosis and treatment of acute appendicitis in children, adolescent, and young adults. Our current test, the APPY 1 Test, is a CE marked rapid blood test panel for aiding in identifying patients in the emergency department who are at low risk for acute appendicitis. We are not aware of any blood test that is cleared by the FDA to aid in ruling out appendicitis and are not aware of any competitors in this area. The APPY 1 Test has not been cleared by the FDA despite our performance of clinical trials, including our pivotal clinical trial for the APPY 1 Test, which was completed in early 2014. The data demonstrated high sensitivity and high negative predictive value (&#8220;NPV&#8221;), similar to other adjunctive tests for other conditions currently in use by physicians. In March 2014, we submitted a de novo request to the FDA for the APPY 1 System. In June 2014, the FDA sent us an Additional Information (&#8220;AI&#8221;) request, which is typical of this type of submission. We were in communication with the FDA several times while gathering the responsive information. In December 2014, we filed a response as a submission amendment. On January 27, 2015, the FDA notified us that it had determined that the APPY 1 Test does not meet the criteria for market clearance as a class II device based upon data and information in our de novo submission and subsequent amendment. We engaged in a number of conversations with the FDA between January and October of 2015, and determined that we did not have the financial resources to advance development of the APPY 1 Test to FDA clearance. By that time, we were well advanced in our pursuit of strategic alternatives for the Company, as further described below, and determined that it was prudent for us to attempt to monetize our appendicitis-related assets or partner with another company to further develop such assets.

Following the receipt of the FDA letter, Venaxis began to explore its strategic alternatives, which included continued pursuit of regulatory approval for the APPY1 Test, focusing its resources on the research and development of its APPY 2 product candidate and seeking other technologies and opportunities. During February and March 2015, Venaxis concentrated its efforts on working with the FDA and preparing additional information with respect to its APPY 1 and APPY 2 products, but also began to seek diversification alternatives. As further described below, in October 2015 Venaxis entered into a non-binding letter of intent with Strand Life Sciences Private Limited (&#8220;Strand&#8221;) and, from October 2015 through January 2016 negotiated definitive agreements with Strand. Venaxis entered into a series of definitive agreements with Strand, its U.S. subsidiary, Strand Genomics, Inc. (&#8220;SGI&#8221;) and the shareholders of Strand on January 26, 2016. However, on March 11, 2016, Venaxis, Strand and SGI entered into a Mutual Termination Agreement to terminate such definitive agreements. The parties determined that the transactions contemplated by definitive agreements were not able to be completed timely, despite the parties&#8217; respective best efforts, and the continued uncertainty was negatively impacting the efforts of the parties to advance their respective businesses.

Following the recent termination of the Strand transaction, the Company has begun evaluating potential strategic alternatives. The Company expects, in the near term, to establish the primary criteria it will consider as it evaluates its next steps and strategic path forward with the goal of maximizing value for its shareholders. As a result of the current market trends and uncertainties, and the impact on many companies, management believes that there may currently be attractive opportunities available to the Company. 

&#160;

&#160;

Recent Developments

As noted above, on January 26, 2016, Venaxis entered into a Master Agreement with Strand and SGI, and into a series of share sale and investment agreements with the holders of more than 90% of the Strand shares, and a subsidiary of Venaxis entered into an Asset Purchase Agreement with SGI. On March 11, 2016, Venaxis, Strand and SGI entered into a Mutual Termination Agreement to terminate these definitive agreements. Pursuant to the Mutual Termination Agreement, each of the parties was relieved of any obligations or responsibilities under the Master Agreement and other transaction agreements. Each of the parties remains responsible for its respective transaction-related costs.

On February 25, 2016, we completed the sale of our corporate headquarters, land and building, to a third party at a purchase price of $4,053,000. The sale generated approximately $1.7 million in net cash after expenses and mortgage payoffs. In addition to agreeing to the sale, we will lease back space in the building under short-term lease agreements that provide office and storage space required for our current level of operations.

Following our decision to monetize our appendicitis-related assets, coupled with declining sales levels of the APPY 1 products in the European Union (&#8220;EU&#8221;) well below break-even, and in order then to advance in the Strand transaction, we decided in early 2016 to begin winding down the APPY 1 commercial activities in the EU. We have informed our distributors of our decision to exit the appendicitis business and provided termination notices under our distribution agreements.

Pursuit of Strategic Alternatives

The strategic alternatives that we began to explore in early 2015 included continued pursuit of regulatory approval for the APPY1 Test, focusing our resources on the research and development of our APPY 2 product candidate and seeking other technologies and opportunities. During February and March 2015, we concentrated our efforts on working with the FDA and preparing additional information with respect to our APPY 1 and APPY 2 products, but also began to seek diversification alternatives.

During the first quarter of 2015, management conducted an early assessment of companies with point of care (&#8220;POC&#8221;), diagnostic or CLIA &#8211;based platforms and/or product offerings in development or early commercialization that could present potential strategic combination, licensure or joint venture opportunities for Venaxis. Some considerations included the regulatory approval status, potential menu expansion with APPY 2 and industry-based considerations. The board of directors authorized Venaxis&#8217; management, along with its advisors, to initiate more extensive strategic opportunity evaluations. Venaxis engaged a strategic advisor to assist the company in its search for suitable diagnostic companies to create value opportunities for shareholders. Management had developed a screening process focused on companies with commercial or near commercial launch status, capital efficiency, ability to complete a transaction, and product offerings in an industry where a significant market opportunity existed, followed by secondary screening criteria focused on addressable market and product or technology attributes, management and commercial capabilities and financial status. Venaxis and its advisors evaluated over 150 companies and approximately 28 companies were classified as high-interest based on the developed screening criteria.

By the end of July 2015, Venaxis had narrowed its list to four potential targets, including Strand, and simultaneously continued due diligence while also discussing preliminary deal terms. By early September 2015, Venaxis had performed diligence on all four targets and exchanged non-binding term sheets with three of them. In September 2015, the Venaxis board of directors authorized management to focus on the transaction with Strand.

Strand is a privately-held, global genomics and bioinformatics company. It operates clinical reference labs in the U.S. through its wholly owned subsidiary SGI, and provides testing and lab services in India and other world-wide markets. Strand is commercializing a next generation sequencing (NGS) based, targeted, multi-gene, pan-cancer diagnostic panel in select international markets and has engaged in initial commercialization activities in the United States.

&#160;

Over the summer of 2015, indications of interest were shared among the parties and initial transaction structures explored. Venaxis management met Strand management. A non-disclosure agreement was signed in early July 2015 and initial due diligence commenced.

A non-binding term sheet was executed in October 2015. From October 2015 through mid-January 2016, the parties engaged in due diligence and negotiation of definitive agreements. Following receipt of approval from the holders of more than 90% of the Strand shares, plus the boards of Venaxis, Strand and SGI, the parties entered into a Master Agreement on January 26, 2016, Venaxis entered into a series of share sale and investment agreements with the Strand shareholders holding more than 90% of the Strand shares, and a subsidiary of Venaxis and SGI entered into an Asset Purchase Agreement.

Both Venaxis and Strand believed that, following consummation of the transactions, the combined company would:

&#183; have resources and management experience to support a more rapid commercialization launch for the Strand products in the U.S. and development of its pipeline of product candidates; 

&#183; provide access to the public U.S. markets to provide financing alternatives to Strand; 

&#183; provide additional public company experience and diagnostic experience to Strand from the Venaxis management team and board of directors; 

&#183; increase potential to provide shareholder value to the legacy Venaxis and Strand shareholders; 

&#183; following the first closing contemplated by the definitive agreements, increase the combined company's visibility among both institutional and retail investors; and 

&#183; potentially provide for other growth opportunities for the combined company with a public currency. 

On February 5, 2016, Venaxis filed a preliminary proxy statement with the SEC in connection with the Strand transaction. The SEC staff informed us that the preliminary proxy statement had been selected for a full review. The parties continued to work towards consummating the transactions while such review was going on, however, Venaxis, Strand and SGI determined that the transactions contemplated by the Master Agreement and other transaction agreements were not able to be completed timely, despite the parties&#8217; respective best efforts, and the continued uncertainty was negatively impacting the efforts of the parties to advance their respective business plans. Therefore, on March 11, 2016, they entered into the Mutual Termination Agreement. On March 14, 2016, the SEC was notified that the Strand transactions had been terminated.

Public Company Status

Venaxis&#8217; common stock is registered under Section 12(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the &#8220;Exchange Act&#8221;). The Company files periodic and current reports in accordance the rules and regulations of the SEC. The Company&#8217;s common stock is listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market. On March 13, 2015, the Company received a letter from The NASDAQ Stock Market LLC ("NASDAQ") advising that for the previous 30 consecutive business days, the bid price of the Company's common stock had closed below the minimum $1.00 per share requirement for continued inclusion on the NASDAQ Capital Market pursuant to NASDAQ Marketplace Rule 5550(a)(2). NASDAQ stated in its letter that in accordance with NASDAQ Marketplace Rule 5810(c)(3)(A), the Company would be provided 180 calendar days, or until September 9, 2015, to regain compliance with the minimum bid price requirement. That compliance period was extended by NASDAQ for an additional 180 day period in September 2015. The Company did not regain compliance with the minimum bid price rule by March 8, 2016. On March 9, 2016, the Company received a letter from NASDAQ notifying the Company that the Company failed to comply with the NASDAQ Listing Rule 5810(b) and that the Company&#8217;s common stock was scheduled for delisting from the NASDAQ Capital Market at the opening of business on March 18, 2016, as a result of noncompliance with such Listing Rule and the Minimum Bid Price Rule during the prior 180-day period, unless the Company requested an appeal of such determination on or before March 16, 2016. The Company requested such appeal on March 12, 2016 and has a hearing with the NASDAQ Hearings Panel on April 21, 2016. The hearing request automatically stayed delisting of the Company&#8217;s common stock pending the Panel&#8217;s decision. There can be no assurance that the Company&#8217;s appeal will be successful. If the Company&#8217;s common stock is delisted, it may be eligible to continue to be quoted on an OTC Bulletin Board or in the &#8220;Pink Sheets.&#8221;

&#160;

&#160;

On February 29, 2016, the Company mailed a definitive proxy statement to its shareholders seeking approval, at a Special Meeting, of a reverse stock split proposal. In such proxy statement, the board of directors seeks approval of a proposal to authorize the board of directors to effect, in its discretion (if the board of directors determines that a reverse stock split is in the best interests of the Company to maintain NASDAQ Capital Market listing), a reverse stock split of the outstanding shares of common stock in a ratio of at least one-for-four and of up to one-for-ten, to be determined by the board of directors, and, in connection with such reverse stock split, approve a corresponding amendment and restatement of the Company&#8217;s Articles of Incorporation, as amended, subject to the authority of the board of directors to abandon such amendment and restatement.

The Special Meeting of Shareholders is scheduled for March 24, 2016, beginning at 3:00 p.m. local time, at the offices of the Company&#8217;s counsel, Ballard Spahr, LLP, in Denver Colorado. The Company believes that if the reverse stock split is approved and effectuated by the board of directors, and if the common stock closing price then closes above the $1.00 per share minimum bid price for 10 consecutive trading days prior to the NASDAQ hearing, the Company will be able to regain compliance with the applicable NASDAQ requirements.

APPY 1 System

We began product development of our blood-based appendicitis test in 2003, and conducted a number of clinical trials and other studies, which results have been described in our filings with the SEC. Following receipt of the FDA&#8217;s letter in January 2015, we had a number of conversations with FDA to discuss potential paths forward for our APPY 1 Test. Venaxis management and advisors met with the FDA in June 2015 to discuss potential modifications to the APPY 1 product labeling as well as the possible gathering of additional clinical data which might support revised indications for use. Subsequent to that meeting, Venaxis, in conjunction with its advisors, developed revised indications for use for APPY 1, as well as a proposed plan for gathering additional clinical data to support the modified claims. The proposal included combining the results of the already completed clinical study, with additional new prospective patient samples from subjects to be enrolled under the new indications for use. The proposal also included a formal request for a meeting with the FDA. Venaxis submitted its revised proposed plan to the FDA on July 27, 2015, and a pre-submission meeting was scheduled for October 2015.

On October 1, 2015, we received comments from the FDA addressing our proposed plan and the revised indications for use for APPY 1. While the FDA was generally favorable to the revised indications for use that we had proposed, they did not agree that the retrospective samples (samples collected in our CP12 clinical trial conducted in 2013-2014) could be included in a revised study intended to validate the revised indications for use. Instead, the FDA indicated that we would be required to conduct a completely new prospective clinical study.

Based upon this advance written feedback from the FDA, and in light of management&#8217;s estimation of the significant time and resources necessary to complete such a study, we determined that the best use of the already scheduled meeting time with the FDA was to shift the focus of the meeting to the potential regulatory paths we could consider for the APPY 2 assay. The meeting with the FDA to discuss APPY 2 was open and collaborative. The FDA framed their concerns around the APPY 1 performance and related claims and we discussed how we might provide indications for use on APPY 2, assuming the performance results of APPY 2 in a future clinical trial would be similar to the performance results seen to-date. The FDA did indicate their commitment to a collaborative process going forward, including their commitment to assist us in the process of both the review of APPY 2&#8217;s prospective study data, and with the appropriate labeling thereafter. However, before we could begin a new clinical trial, we would have needed to complete a full validation of the APPY 2 assay on a new instrument platform. Such work on developing a new platform with new assays was estimated to be very extensive in terms of time and resources. Therefore, we believed it was not prudent for Venaxis to advance with the appendicitis program as our primary business focus going forward, and have looked to monetize our appendicitis-related assets.

We believe our appendicitis-related assets, including our samples, intellectual property and development assets described below, have value and can be used by a prospective purchaser, partner or licensor to complete the necessary development work to seek FDA clearance. We believe the main benefit of the APPY 1 or APPY 2 products, if FDA-clearance can be secured, will be to provide the physician with objective information that will aid in the identification of patients at low risk for appendicitis and, thereby, potentially reduce the exposure to radiation from, and the expense associated with, the use of computed tomography (&#8220;CT&#8221;) scans that are currently performed on these patients. In addition, we believe the test can potentially save significant costs through improved patient throughput in emergency departments. To date, we have not identified a purchaser for our appendicitis-related assets.

&#160;

&#160;

The following is a description of our appendicitis-related assets, including a description of our 2014 pivotal clinical trial that led to our 510(k) clearance application submission.

Product Description and Development

The APPY 1 System consists of a small fluorometer ( APPY Reader&#174; Instrument) and consumable test products ( APPY Reader QC Cassette, APPY 1 Controls and APPY 1 Test). The APPY Reader&#174; Instrument measures fluorescence from the APPY 1 Test cassette and the APPY Reader QC Cassette, the APPY Reader QC Cassette ensures proper functioning of the APPY Reader&#174; Instrument and the APPY 1 Controls ensure proper functioning of the APPY 1 Test components. The APPY 1 Test is explained in detail below.

The APPY 1 &#160; Test is a rapid blood test panel that combines the concentrations of three analytes, WBC, CRP and Venaxis&#8217; patented myeloid-related protein 8/14 (MRP 8/14, also known as S100A8/A9 or calprotectin) using a proprietary algorithm to provide a qualitative result to the physician to aid in the identification of patients at low risk for acute appendicitis. Plasma concentrations of MRP 8/14 and CRP are determined by an immunoassay and measured by the APPY Reader&#174; Instrument, and the WBC value is obtained from the hospital&#8217;s hematology analyzer and entered by the user into the APPY Reader&#174; Instrument. The proprietary algorithm uses the concentrations of MRP 8/14 and CRP as well as the WBC value to calculate an APPY 1 Test result. These results are displayed on the display screen and are also included on a patient printout from the APPY Reader&#174; Instrument. The test is designed to be run in approximately 20 minutes by trained laboratory personnel.

A negative APPY 1 Test result used in conjunction with other clinical information has the potential to aid the physician in patient evaluation and the identification of those who are at low risk for acute appendicitis, and subsequently, provide an opportunity to avoid radiation exposure. Additional potential benefits include helping physicians consider more conservative management with respect to acute appendicitis, facilitating more rapid disposition in a portion of pediatric patients that present with lower right quadrant abdominal pain consistent with acute appendicitis and reducing the duration of emergency department length of stay, a leading cause for emergency department overcrowding. Children, adolescents and young adults are of particular concern as they have the highest incidence of acute appendicitis and a heightened risk from radiation-induced cancer due to their young ages. The primary focus of our recent efforts has been directed toward obtaining U.S. regulatory clearance for the APPY 1 Test for children, adolescents and young adults.

In January 2014, we completed enrollment of the pivotal clinical study, enrolling 1,887 evaluable patients. In this population, the performance of the APPY 1 Test demonstrated a negative predictive value of 97.3%, sensitivity of 96.9% and specificity of 37.8%. Prevalence of the disease in the pilot study was 25.3%. The de novo request for the APPY 1 Test was submitted to the FDA in March 2014. The following APPY 1 Test data summarize the results of the pivotal clinical study:

APPY 1 Test Multi-Marker Study Result

&#160; 95% Confidence Interval

Sensitivity

&#160; 96.9%

&#160; (94.9 &#8211; 98.1)

Specificity

&#160; 37.8%

&#160; (35.3 &#8211; 40.4)

NPV

&#160; 97.3%

&#160; (95.5 &#8211; 98.3)

The clinical study data demonstrated high sensitivity and high negative predictive value similar to other adjunctive tests for other conditions currently in use by physicians. These performance attributes should provide the physician with incremental diagnostic information that we believe will enhance their decision-making process. The potential value of the APPY 1 Test is its ability to aid a physician in his or her evaluation, allowing a more conservative evaluation and treatment path. Clinicians interviewed have indicated that this performance would be helpful to them in managing patients suspected for appendicitis. Based on such interviews, the physicians expressed that use of the APPY 1 Test would assist in the evaluation of potential appendicitis and decrease their overall use of CT scans. Although CT scans are a widely used diagnostic tool in the U.S., the results are subject to interpretation and can be inconclusive. In addition, use of CT scans increases the risk to the patients by subjecting them to large doses of radiation. Over the past decade there has been increasing concern identified in many published studies regarding the radiation exposure caused by radiologic tests.

&#160;

&#160;

Product Development Activities

We refer to our next generation product development efforts as APPY 2. Our goal was to develop APPY 2 with the high sensitivity shown by the APPY 1 Test, but with increased specificity, which would allow us to potentially enhance our clinical claims. Additionally, we believe expanding the indication for APPY 2 to include adults in addition to pediatric and adolescent patients, could expand the market potential of the product. The primary reasons why we believe APPY 2 can be successfully developed are:

&#183; First, we have collected more than 2,500 plasma samples from patients who presented at hospitals with abdominal pain with suspected appendicitis. In addition to the samples, we have extensive clinical information on these patients. We believe we possess the largest sample bank of its kind in the world. These samples are critical for biomarker discovery. 

&#183; Second, we have engaged a leading protein biomarker discovery company, SomaLogic, Inc., to perform extensive screening on target protein markers, which would form the basis of the APPY 2 assay. The early work has yielded some very promising results, and we look forward to advancing this work and honing in on a panel of biomarkers for the APPY 2 assay. 

APPY1 Commercialization and Marketing

In January 2013, following completion of the steps required for a conformity mark under the European Economic Area (CE marking), we obtained CE marking in Europe for the APPY 1 System. We began advancing on commercialization and marketing activities of the APPY 1 Test in the European Union, employing the clinical data gathered to date. During the initial launch phase, key market development activities included working to identify and sign collaboration agreements with key opinion leader hospitals for the purpose of completing well-defined outcome studies. The studies were designed to further demonstrate the clinical utility and economic value of the APPY 1 Test in Europe. Based upon the positive results of the initial launch phase efforts during 2013, we moved into the second phase of the EU launch, a full-scale distribution and sales effort for the APPY 1 Test. 

In early 2014, we signed long-term distribution agreements with EMELCA Bioscience covering the Benelux Territories and with Laboratories Rubio covering Spain. In early 2015, we replaced EMELCA Bioscience with a long-term distribution agreement with The Surgical Company BV covering the Benelux Territories. In March 2015, we signed a long-term distribution agreement with SEBAC, (associated with The Surgical Company), covering France. In June 2015 Cremascoli &#38; Iris S.r.l. signed a long-term distribution agreement with Venaxis covering Italy. These agreements contain minimum annual revenue thresholds as well as product pricing terms that meet our targeted levels. During 2015 we continued to advance market development activities and having discussions with prospective distributors in other major EU markets. To support these efforts, we had engaged an EU based managing director to assist in the sales and marketing efforts outside of the U.S. Given our decision to monetize our appendicitis-related assets, in early 2016 we notified our distributors that we were not pursing the APPY 1 product offerings, and we provided notices to terminate the distribution agreements.

In February 2015, we filed to expand our current CE mark for the APPY 1 Test to include adult patients in addition to children and adolescents. We were able to achieve this expanded certification based on an evaluation of the performance of the APPY 1 Test in several hundred adult subject samples, which were collected and analyzed in late 2014. The APPY 1 Test assay demonstrated sensitivity of 97.5%, negative predictive value of 98.4%, and specificity of 36.5% in these adult patients, which was very comparable to the results in children and adolescents. By adding the adult claim in the export market, we increased the market potential for the APPY 1 Test in the EU. We estimate that by adding the adult indication the total market potential for APPY 1 testing could increase by as much as three times in the EU.

Following our decision to monetize our appendicitis-related assets, coupled with declining sales levels of the APPY 1 products in the EU well below break-even, and in order to advance in the Strand transaction, we decided in early 2016 to begin winding down the APPY 1 commercial activities in the EU. We have informed our distributors and the EU managing director of our decision to exit the appendicitis business and provided termination notices under our corresponding agreements.

&#160;

&#160;

Acute Appendicitis

Acute appendicitis is a rapidly progressing condition which typically causes lower abdominal pain to increase over a period of 12 to 48 hours from onset of symptoms to perforation. This progressive pain period is variable, however, and can be sustained for 48 hours or more. Failure to accurately diagnose and treat acute appendicitis before perforation can lead to serious complications and, in some cases, death. The current diagnostic and treatment paradigm for acute appendicitis includes many factors, such as a review of the patient&#8217;s clinical presentation including signs and symptoms, health history, blood chemistry, temperature and white blood cell count. In the United States, patients who are considered to be at risk for acute appendicitis are frequently sent for CT or ultrasound imaging for further diagnosis and then surgery, if indicated. Misdiagnosis of acute appendicitis can lead not only to unnecessary surgery but also to the delay of proper therapy for the actual underlying condition. Physicians also face the dilemma of minimizing the negative appendectomy surgery rate without increasing the incidence of a life threatening perforation among patients presenting with symptoms of suspected acute appendicitis. Unfortunately, imaging-based methods and interpretations can be inconclusive or lead to an inaccurate or inconclusive diagnoses. To date, there appears to be no individual sign, symptom, test, or procedure capable of providing either a conclusive rule-in or rule-out diagnosis of acute appendicitis. Although CT scans are a widely used diagnostic tool in the United States, their results are subject to interpretation and can be inconclusive in addition to subjecting patients to potentially harmful radiation. Over the past decade there has been increasing concern over radiation exposure caused by imaging. In 2010, the FDA released a report titled &#8220;Initiative to Reduce Unnecessary Radiation Exposure from Medical Imaging.&#8221; We believe that the risks highlighted in reports such as this FDA Report could have positive implications for a test like the APPY 1 Test which, if cleared, could be used to help physicians determine which patients are at low risk for the disease and potentially avoid CT scanning. We expect the APPY 1 Test will provide an additional objective tool to assist physicians in their initial clinical evaluation of patients with acute abdominal pain indicative of acute appendicitis.

It is estimated that approximately 5-7% of the population will be diagnosed with appendicitis in their lifetime, with the peak age range for the disease being the early teens. Published data from several sources indicate that in the United States, 3-15% of appendectomies remove a normal appendix due primarily to incorrect diagnosis prior to surgery. In addition to health risks, hospital charges for unnecessary (negative) appendectomies are estimated to cost approximately $740 million annually in the United States alone. Acute appendicitis is one of the leading causes of medical malpractice claims in the United States due to many factors, including high diagnostic error rates, negative appendectomies and increased cost and complications in cases where the appendix perforates. Diagnosing patients presenting with abdominal pain remains one of the most common and challenging conditions in emergency medicine. Based on the EU Market Study that we conducted in 2012, results indicated that 10% of the over 217 million patients that visited European and U.S. hospital emergency departments in 2010 had the primary complaint of abdominal pain. The study also showed that appendicitis had the highest incidence in patients 10-19 years of age.

The rate of negative appendectomy is thought to be impacted by the use of CT scans in that such rates are considerably higher in places that do not use CT scans. In the U.S. alone, according to National Hospital Ambulatory Medical Care Survey data from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), in 2009 there were approximately 9.6 million patients who entered emergency departments complaining of abdominal pain. Out of this total, 6.6 million had CBC work-ups, which includes WBC count, 3.2 million underwent CT imaging studies and 1.2 million underwent ultrasound procedures. Approximately 280,000 of these total patients were diagnosed as having acute appendicitis and underwent appendectomies. Included in these totals were 2.1 million patients (approximately 21%) who were children, adolescents and young adults aged 2 to 20. Out of this sub-population, 1.1 million had CBC work-ups performed, 417,000 underwent CT imaging and 259,000 underwent ultrasound procedures. Approximately 100,000 of this group of patients were diagnosed as having acute appendicitis and underwent appendectomies.

Acute appendicitis most frequently occurs in patients aged 10 to 30, but can affect all ages. Using a CT scan to rule out acute appendicitis can be particularly difficult in children and young adults because many patients in these age groups have low body fat resulting in poor tissue differentiation or contrast on the CT scan. The APPY 1 Test has the potential to enhance overall safety by reducing the amount of radiation exposure from unnecessary CT scans for those patients at low risk for having acute appendicitis.

Results from our development efforts, clinical trials and pilot trials performed to date indicate that the greatest benefit of the APPY 1 Test would be in aiding the physician in the evaluation of those patients at low risk for having acute appendicitis. We believe that the APPY 1 Test has the potential to enhance the effectiveness and speed of patient evaluation and improve the standard of care for low-risk patients. We anticipate that if the APPY 1 Test is cleared by the FDA, it will be incorporated in routine testing as a patient&#8217;s blood sample is taken in the ordinary course of an initial assessment of the patient entering the emergency department setting when the physician suspects appendicitis but considers the patient at low risk for the disease. The APPY 1 Test is intended to cost-effectively help the physician determine if a patient is at a low risk for acute appendicitis.

APPY1 System Raw Materials and Suppliers

Our APPY 1 System products include a reader instrument ( APPY Reader) and the consumable test products consisting of test cassettes, controls and packaging. The APPY Reader has been manufactured for us by a well-established vendor based in Germany. All of our readers were shipped to our facility for final testing and release prior to shipment to customers and clinical trial sites. Consumable test product components have been manufactured at the Venaxis facility. Raw materials and certain sub-components are acquired from a number of suppliers. All significant vendors are qualified based upon a quality review, which may also include on-site quality audits.

&#160;

&#160;

Animal Healthcare

Effective May 1, 2004, we entered into an exclusive license agreement (WU License Agreement) with Washington University in St. Louis (WU), which granted us an exclusive license and right to sublicense WU&#8217;s technology (as defined under the WU License Agreement) for veterinary products worldwide, except where such products are prohibited under U.S. laws for export. The term of the WU License Agreement continues until the expiration of the last of WU&#8217;s patents (as defined in the WU License Agreement). We have agreed to pay minimum annual royalties of $20,000 during the term of the WU License Agreement and such amounts are creditable against future royalties and other payments. Royalties payable to WU under the WU License Agreement for covered product sales by us, directly or indirectly, carry a mid-single-digit royalty rate and for sublicense fees received by us carry a low double-digit royalty rate. The WU License Agreement contains customary terms for confidentiality, prosecution and infringement provisions for licensed patents, publication rights, indemnification and insurance coverage. The WU License Agreement is cancelable by us with ninety days advance notice at any time and by WU with sixty days advance notice if we materially breach the WU License Agreement and fail to cure such breach in a designated period.

In July 2012, we entered into an exclusive license agreement (License Agreement) with Ceva Sant&#233; Animale S.A. (Licensee), under which we granted the Licensee an exclusive royalty-bearing license to our intellectual property and other assets, including patent rights and know-how, relating to recombinant single chain reproductive hormone technology for use in non-human mammals (Animal Health Assets). The License Agreement includes a sublicense of the technology licensed to us by WU and a license to the assets acquired from Novartis under the Termination Agreement described below. Under the terms of the WU License Agreement, a portion of the license fees and royalties we receive from sublicensing agreements will be paid to WU. Under the License Agreement, the Licensee obtained a worldwide exclusive license to develop, seek regulatory approval for and offer to sell, market, distribute, import and export luteinizing hormone (LH) and/or follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) products for bovine (cattle), equine and swine in the field of the assistance and facilitation of reproduction in bovine, equine and swine animals. We also granted the Licensee an option and right of first refusal to develop additional animal health products outside of the licensed field of use or any diagnostic pregnancy detection tests for non-human mammals.

Intellectual Property

Further enhancement and expansion of our proprietary patent position is ongoing with respect to the scope of protection for Venaxis&#8217; first generation and future generation versions of tests. Strong scientific and technical progress remains the basis for these innovative efforts.

APPY1 Intellectual Property

Beginning in 2004, we initiated the establishment of an intellectual property portfolio for the acute appendicitis testing technology and products that have been used in the development of the APPY 1 Test. We have filed for and are pursuing extensive patent coverage related to several aspects of the initial discovery and various test applications. Further enhancement and expansion of our proprietary patent position is ongoing with respect to the scope of protection for our first generation and future generation versions of the test. Scientific and technical progress remains the basis for these efforts. In March 2009, the United States Patent and Trademark Office issued our patent directed to methods relating to our appendicitis diagnostic technology. This patent, No. 7,501,256 (expires February 7, 2026), is entitled &#8220;Methods and Devices for Diagnosis of Appendicitis.&#8221; Additional U.S. patents, No. 7,659,087 and No. 7,670,769, were issued on February 9, 2010 and March 2, 2010, respectively (both expiring July 25, 2025). At this time, patents have been issued in the following foreign countries: Australia, Hong Kong, Israel, Japan, New Zealand, Singapore and South Africa. A patent was also granted by the European Patent Office and subsequently validated in the following European countries: Belgium, Switzerland, Germany, Spain, France, the United Kingdom, Ireland, Italy, the Netherlands and Sweden. In late 2014, we were notified that the Canadian patent applications have been allowed and the patent will grant in 2015. On March 24, 2015 Canadian patent 2,574,991 was granted.

In late 2012, additional U.S. utility and patent cooperation treaty (PCT) patent applications were filed for the appendicitis testing technology and products. The patent filings focus on the newly developed multiple-marker technology, providing patent coverage for using the MRP 8/14 levels in a given sample in conjunction with CRP levels and WBC count among a number of other evaluated marker combinations in order to provide an increasingly robust test to aid in the management of low risk patients suspicious for appendicitis. Additionally, the patent filings claim a method for ruling out appendicitis based on multiple markers, a device or system for assessing a subject based on a plurality of markers, and a kit or device to determine the value of a biomarker in a given sample. Currently, these filings are in application phase and not yet granted in any specific countries.

In May 2003, we entered into an Assignment and Consultation Agreement (the Bealer Agreement) with Dr. John Bealer. The Bealer Agreement transferred to us ownership rights from Dr. Bealer for inventions and related improvements to technology associated with human appendicitis diagnostics involving protein antigens. The consideration for the Bealer Agreement was the payment of a future royalty to Dr. Bealer based upon a low double digit rate applied to revenues, all as defined under the Bealer Agreement. The Bealer Agreement contained confidentiality provisions, provided for the assignment of all patent rights to us (which has occurred) and restrictions on the assignability of the agreement. The Bealer Agreement continued for the longer of twenty years or the expiration of the last of our applicable patents to expire. We had the right to terminate the Bealer Agreement if we, in our reasonable judgment, decide we have no interest in pursuing the opportunity as defined under the agreement. On January 7, 2015, Venaxis received a complaint, captioned Dr. John F. Bealer, a resident of Arapahoe County, individually v. Venaxis, Inc., a Colorado corporation, Case No. 2015CV30022. This action was filed in the Arapahoe County District Court and subsequently transferred to Douglas County District Court. The complaint included allegations of breach of contract pertaining to the financial provisions of the Bealer Agreement. In December 2015, the parties to the litigation settled the litigation, without any admission of liability, with payment of an undisclosed sum to Dr. Bealer. In connection with the settlement the Bealer Agreement was terminated.

&#160;

&#160;

Animal Health

Our animal health patent portfolio originated under the exclusive license agreement with WU, under which we obtained intellectual property rights to WU&#8217;s patent estate. This extensive portfolio consists of both patents and pending patent applications (approximately 25 patents and numerous patent applications) related to our animal health products under development. The term of the WU License Agreement ends upon the expiration of the last patent to expire. Patents in the estate have expiration dates ranging from 2010 to 2019. WU has filed, and continues to file, patent applications to expand and extend the patent coverage of the WU technology. We reimburse WU for the costs of such patent filings, namely prosecution and maintenance fees. Additional patents in the animal health portfolio have been filed by us outside of the WU License Agreement.

A patent filing for the recombinant luteinizing hormone technology was submitted in 2004, entitled &#8220;Methods and Kits for Maintaining Pregnancy, Treating Follicular Cysts, and Synchronizing Ovulation Using Luteinizing Hormone.&#8221; This patent family claims methods of administering rLH, the timing of administration, and dosage given in order to increase formation of accessory corpora lutea and maintain pregnancies in treated animals. To date, four foreign patents have been granted for &#8220;Methods and Kits for Maintaining Pregnancy, Treating Follicular Cysts, and Synchronizing Ovulation Using Luteinizing Hormone,&#8221; New Zealand patent 542549 was granted March 12, 2009 (expiring March 2024), Australia 2004218365 was granted May 27, 2010 (expiring March 2024), European patent 1610803 was granted December 15, 2010 (expiring March 2024) and Canadian patent 2518268 was granted December 10, 2013 (expiring March 2024). The patent granted by the European Patent Office and has been validated in the following countries: Belgium, France, Germany, Ireland, Italy, the Netherlands, Spain, Switzerland and the United Kingdom. Currently, there are additional foreign patent applications that are in prosecution.

A patent filing for the recombinant bovine follicle stimulating hormone technology was submitted in 2008, entitled &#8220;Compositions and Methods Including Expression and Bioactivity of Bovine Follicle Stimulating Hormone.&#8221; This patent family claims the rbFSH single-chains itself, as well as methods of administering rbFSH, the timing of administration, and dosage given in order to increase reproduction, induce superovulation or increase embryo production in ungulates. The patent family includes filings in the following countries: Argentina, Australia, Canada, New Zealand, Thailand and the United States. The patent has also been filed with the European Patent Office. In October of 2011, the first patent in this family was granted by the European Patent Office (2134165), expiring October 12, 2028. The patent has also been granted in New Zealand (579740), expiring October 1, 2028. Following the grant of the patent in 2011 by the European Patent Office, the patent was validated in the following countries: France, Germany, Italy and the Netherlands. In August 2013, the patent was granted in the United States (8518881 B2) expiring February 8, 2028, followed in November 2013 by the grant in Australia (2008213567) expiring February 8, 2028.

A patent filing for the equine follicle stimulating hormone technology was filed in 2008, entitled &#8220;Activity of Recombinant Equine Follicle Stimulating Hormone.&#8221; This patent family provides coverage for the single chain eFSH itself, methods of administering reFSH, the timing of administration, and dosage given in order to increase reproductive activity in treated animals. The first patent in the patent family was granted in China in April 2013 (200880123523.8) expiring November 28, 2028. The U.S. Patent for this family was granted in September 2014 (8,835,386) expiring November 28, 2028. The patent was granted for Canada (2,685,437) on June 2, 2015 and will expire February 8, 2028. Currently, there are additional foreign patent applications that are in prosecution.

Two separate patent applications relating to cattle pregnancy have been filed by us. A patent filing for the Bovine Pregnancy test technology was filed in 2007, entitled &#8220;Bovine Pregnancy Test.&#8221; This patent family provides coverage for an assay device designed to detect pregnancy, the specific specifications of the device, for the antibodies used in the assay, as well as the type of sample used and the species for which the test is effective in detecting pregnancy. The parent application was granted in the United States in 2008 (No. 7,393,696 expiring May 30, 2025), with the divisional application granted in 2010 (No. 7,687,281 expiring May 6, 2023). Additionally, a patent filing for pregnancy detection was filed in 2003, entitled &#8220;Pregnancy Detection.&#8221; This patent family provides coverage for an immunoassay test device, the specific specifications of the device, and for the antibodies used in the assay as well as the type of sample used. The patent has been issued in the following counties: Australia (No. 2003243199), New Zealand (No. 536229 &#38; 572488), and the United States (No. 7,842,513), each of which expires on May 2, 2023.

General Operations

Backlog and Inventory &#8212; We do not expect that the APPY 1 System products business will be seasonal in nature. We have developed and identified reliable sources of raw material and components for the APPY 1 System products and currently do not expend large amounts of capital to maintain inventories of APPY 1 System products. Currently there is no back-log of orders. 

&#160;

&#160;

Payment Terms &#8212; For the APPY 1 Test, we did not provide extended payment terms, other than to support certain new product introductions, and then with terms of no more than 45-60 days.

Revenues &#8212; During the year ended December 31, 2015, three European-based customers accounted for total net sales, each representing 52%, 26% and 22%, respectively. During the year ended December 31, 2014, two European-based customers accounted for total net sales, each representing 89% and 11%, respectively. At December 31, 2015 and 2014, Venaxis did not have any accounts receivable. 

Research and Development

We expended approximately $2,159,000 on total research and development in 2015, and $4,035,000 in 2014. In 2015, we completed all development work we intend to pursue related to APPY 1 and APPY 2. The Licensee conducts all research and development activities with respect to the animal health assets.

Regulatory Matters

FDA

The FDA has regulatory marketing authority in the United States over our APPY 1 System. Venaxis operated under 21 CFR Part 820 regulations (U.S.) and ISO13485 standards (EU) for cGMP manufacturing of medical devices.

The FDA&#8217;s Center for Devices and Radiological Health (CDRH) is responsible for regulating firms who manufacture, repackage, re-label and/or import medical devices sold in the United States. Medical devices are classified into Class I, II and III. In-vitro diagnostic medical devices are regulated by the CDRH Office of In-vitro Diagnostic Devices and Radiological Health (OIR). Our APPY 1 Test was anticipated to be classified as a non-invasive Class II medical device by the FDA, requiring a de novo submission. Generally, FDA product clearance for diagnostic products is granted after specific clinical trials, analytical testing and demonstrated compliance to performance standards has been achieved to the agency&#8217;s satisfaction. There is no assurance that FDA clearance will be obtained to market the acute appendicitis test.

Any product clearances (or approvals) that are granted remain subject to continual FDA review, and newly discovered or developed safety or efficacy data may result in withdrawal of products from the market. Moreover, if and when such clearance is obtained, the manufacture and marketing of such products remain subject to extensive regulatory requirements administered by the FDA and other regulatory bodies, including compliance with current GMP, adverse event reporting requirements and the FDA&#8217;s general prohibitions against promoting products for unapproved or &#8220;off-label&#8221; uses. Manufacturers are subject to inspection and post-market surveillance by the FDA for compliance with these regulatory requirements. Failure to comply with the requirements can, among other things, result in warning letters, product seizures, recalls, fines, injunctions, suspensions or withdrawals of regulatory approvals, operating restrictions and civil or criminal prosecutions. Any such enforcement action could have a material adverse effect on our business. Unanticipated changes in existing regulatory requirements or the adoption of new requirements could also have a material adverse effect on our business. 

European Regulations

In the European Union, in-vitro diagnostic (IVD) medical devices are regulated under EU-Directive 98/79/EC (IVD Directive), and related provisions. The IVD Directive requirements include provisions for the design, manufacture, distribution and post-market surveillance of IVDs to assure the safety and efficacy of the devices. According to the IVD Directive, manufacturers must attest to compliance with certain essential requirements with respect to devices which are in conformity with relevant national standards and harmonized standards which have been published in the Official Journal of the European Communities. These harmonized standards include ISO 14971, risk management and ISO 13485, the quality standard for medical device manufacturers.

IVD medical devices must bear the CE marking of conformity when they are placed on the market. The CE mark is a declaration by the manufacturer that the product meets all the appropriate provisions and essential requirements outlined in the European IVD Directive. As a general rule, the manufacturer must follow the procedure of the EC Declaration of conformity to obtain this CE marking. Each European country must adopt its own laws, regulations and administrative provisions necessary to comply with the IVD Directive. In January 2013, we obtained CE marking for the APPY 1 System.

Environmental Protection

We are subject to various environmental laws pertaining to the disposal of hazardous medical waste. We contract for disposal of our hazardous waste with a licensed disposal facility. We do not expect to incur liabilities related to compliance with environmental laws; however, we cannot make a definitive prediction. The costs we incur in disposal of hazardous waste have not been significant.

&#160;

&#160;

Properties

We maintain our administrative office, laboratory and production operations in a 40,000 square foot building in Castle Rock, Colorado, which was constructed for us in 2003. In February 2016 we completed the sale of our corporate headquarters land and building to a third party, as further disclosed below. The Company believes that its facilities are adequate for its near-term needs.

On February 25, 2016, we completed the sale of our corporate headquarters land and building to a third party at a purchase price of $4,053,000. The sale generated approximately $1.7 million in net cash after expenses and mortgage payoffs. In addition to agreeing to the sale, we will lease back space in the building under short term lease agreements that provide office and storage space required for our current level of operations.

Other Laws

We are also subject to other federal, state and local laws, pertaining to matters such as safe working conditions and fire hazard control.

Glossary of Terms

Algorithm &#8212; a set of rules that precisely defines a sequence of operations, and, in the case of APPY1, such a set of rules using mathematical computation in a software program. 

Biomarker tests &#8212; tests that identify and quantify markers associated with disease or medical conditions. 

Complete Blood Count (CBC) &#8212; a blood test used to evaluate overall health and detect a wide range of disorders, including anemia, infection and leukemia. 

CRP &#8212; C-reactive protein, a protein produced in the liver and found in the blood, the levels of which rise in response to inflammation. 

De Novo Classification &#8211; a mechanism defined by the FDA Modernization Act (Section 513(f)) for classifying new medical devices for which there is no predicate, providing the product with a risk-based Class II classification allowing clearance as a 510(k). 

ELISA (Enzyme Linked Immunosorbant Assay) &#8212; immunological method used to test a sample for a protein marker. 

cGMP &#8212; FDA current Good Manufacturing Practice. 

Immunoassay-based &#8212; test that uses antibody-antigen interaction as method of measure. 

Multi-marker test &#8212; a diagnostic or other test that uses multiple protein biomarkers as part of a diagnostic test panel. 

Recombinant &#8212; Novel DNA made by genetic engineering. 

WBC &#8212; White blood cell count. The white blood cells are analyzed from a blood sample collected as part of a standard protocol for patients suspected of having infections who have entered the emergency department of a hospital. 

&#160;

&#160;

Corporate Information

We are located at 1585 S. Perry Street, Castle Rock, CO 80104. Our phone number is (303) 794-2000 and our facsimile number is (303) 798-8332. We currently employ five full-time employees. We believe our relationships with our employees are good. We also regularly use part-time interns and additional temporary and contract personnel depending upon our research and development needs at any given time. We maintain a website at www.venaxis.com. 

Available Information

You can access, free of charge, our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to these reports as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. These documents may also be accessed on our website: www.venaxis.com . These documents are placed on our website as soon as is reasonably practicable after their filing with the SEC. The information contained in, or that can be accessed through, the website is not part of this Annual Report. These documents may also be found at the SEC&#8217;s website at www.sec.gov . 

&#160;

&#160;

&#160;

