 Item 1. Business. 

Our Company 

We are a Maryland corporation primarily focused on investing in, financing and managing residential and commercial mortgage-backed securities ("MBS") and mortgage loans. Our objective is to provide attractive risk-adjusted returns to our investors, primarily through dividends and secondarily through capital appreciation. To achieve this objective, we primarily invest in the following: 

&#8226; 

Residential mortgage-backed securities (&#8220;RMBS&#8221;) that are guaranteed by a U.S. government agency such as the Government National Mortgage Association ("Ginnie Mae") or a federally chartered corporation such as the Federal National Mortgage Association (&#8220;Fannie Mae&#8221;) or the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation (&#8220;Freddie Mac&#8221;) (collectively "Agency RMBS"); 

&#8226; 

RMBS that are not guaranteed by a U.S. government agency ("non-Agency RMBS"); 

&#8226; 

Credit risk transfer securities that are unsecured obligations issued by government-sponsored enterprises ("GSE CRT"); 

&#8226; 

Commercial mortgage-backed securities (&#8220;CMBS&#8221;); 

&#8226; 

Residential and commercial mortgage loans; and 

&#8226; 

Other real estate-related financing arrangements. 

We are externally managed and advised by Invesco Advisers, Inc., our Manager, which is an indirect, wholly-owned subsidiary of Invesco Ltd. ("Invesco"). We elected to be taxed as a real estate investment trust (&#8220;REIT&#8221;) for U.S. federal income tax purposes under the provisions of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (&#8220;Code&#8221;), commencing with our taxable year ended December 31, 2009. To maintain our REIT qualification, we are generally required to distribute at least 90% of our REIT taxable income to our stockholders annually. We operate our business in a manner that permits our exclusion from the definition of &#8220;Investment Company&#8221; under the 1940 Act, as amended. 

We generally finance our investments through short- and long-term borrowings structured as repurchase agreements and secured loans. We have historically financed our residential loans held-for-investment through asset-backed securities ("ABS") issued by consolidated securitization trusts. We have also financed investments through the issuances of debt and equity and may utilize other forms of financing in the future. 

Capital Activities 

During the three months ended December 31, 2015 , we repurchased 5,843,883 &#32;shares of our common stock at an average repurchase price of $12.94 &#32;per share for a net cost of $75.6 million , including acquisition expenses. During the year ended December 31, 2015 , we repurchased 9,539,251 &#32;shares of our common stock at an average repurchase price of $13.17 &#32;per share for a net cost of $125.6 million , including acquisition expenses. As of December 31, 2015 , we had authority to purchase 5,302,533 &#32;shares of our common stock through our share repurchase program. 

Our Manager 

We are externally managed and advised by Invesco Advisers, Inc. Our Manager provides us with our management team, including our officers, and appropriate support personnel. Each of our officers is an employee of our Manager or one of its affiliates. We do not have any employees. Our Manager is not obligated to dedicate any of its employees exclusively to us, and our Manager and its employees are not obligated to dedicate any specific portion of time to our business. Our Manager is at all times subject to the supervision and oversight of our Board of Directors and has only such functions and authority as we delegate to it. 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Our Competitive Advantages 

We believe that our competitive advantages include the following: 

Significant Experience of Our Manager and Our Senior Management 

Our senior management and structured investments team has a long track record and broad experience in managing residential and commercial mortgage-related assets through a variety of credit and interest rate environments and has demonstrated the ability to generate attractive risk-adjusted returns under different market conditions and cycles. In addition, through our Manager, we benefit from the insight and capabilities of Invesco&#8217;s real estate team, through which we have access to broad and deep teams of experienced investment professionals in real estate and distressed investing. Through these teams, we have real time access to research and data on the mortgage and real estate industries. We believe having in-house access to these resources and expertise provides us with a competitive advantage over other companies investing in our target assets who have less internal resources and expertise. 

Extensive Strategic Relationships and Experience of our Manager and its Affiliates 

Our Manager maintains extensive long-term relationships with other financial intermediaries, including primary dealers, leading investment banks, brokerage firms, leading mortgage originators and commercial banks. We believe these relationships enhance our ability to source, finance and hedge investment opportunities and, thus, will enable us to grow in various credit and interest rate environments. 

Disciplined Investment Approach 

We seek to maximize our risk-adjusted returns through our disciplined investment approach, which relies on rigorous quantitative and qualitative analysis. Our Manager monitors our overall portfolio risk and evaluates the characteristics of our investments in our target assets including, but not limited to, asset type, interest rate, interest rate type, loan balance distribution, geographic concentration, property type, occupancy, loan-to-value ratio and credit score. In addition, with respect to any particular target asset, our Manager&#8217;s investment team evaluates, among other things, relative valuation, supply and demand trends, shape of yield curves, prepayment rates, loan delinquencies, default rates and loss severity rates. We believe this strategy and our commitment to capital preservation provide us with a competitive advantage when operating in a variety of market conditions. 

Access to Our Manager&#8217;s Sophisticated Analytical Tools, Infrastructure and Expertise 

Our Manager has created and maintains analytical and portfolio management capabilities to aid in asset selection and risk management. We capitalize on the market knowledge and ready access to data across our target markets that our Manager and its affiliates obtain through their established platform. We focus on in-depth analysis of the numerous factors that influence our target assets, including: (1) fundamental market and sector review; (2) rigorous cash flow analysis; (3) disciplined asset selection; (4) controlled risk exposure; and (5) prudent balance sheet management. Through the use of these tools, we analyze factors that affect the rate at which mortgage prepayments occur, including changes in the level of interest rates, trends in residential and commercial real estate prices, general economic conditions, the locations of the properties securing the mortgage loans and other social and demographic conditions in order to acquire our target assets. 

We also benefit from our Manager&#8217;s and its affiliates&#8217; comprehensive financial and administrative infrastructure, including its risk management, financial reporting, business development, legal and compliance teams. 

Investment Strategy 

We invest in a diversified pool of mortgage assets that generate attractive risk-adjusted returns. Our target assets generally include Agency RMBS, non-Agency RMBS, GSE CRT, CMBS, residential and commercial mortgage loans and other real estate-related financing arrangements. In addition to direct purchases of our target assets, we also invest in ventures managed by an affiliate of our Manager, which, in turn, invest in our target assets. 

Agency RMBS 

Agency RMBS are residential mortgage-backed securities issued by a U.S. government agency such as Ginnie Mae, or a federally chartered corporation such as Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac that are secured by a collection of mortgages. Payments of principal and interest on Agency RMBS, not the market value of the securities themselves, are guaranteed by the issuer. Agency RMBS differ from other forms of traditional debt securities, which normally provide for periodic payments of interest in fixed amounts with principal payments at maturity or on specified call dates. Instead, Agency RMBS provide for monthly payments of both principal and interest. In effect, these payments are a &#8220;pass-through&#8221; of scheduled and unscheduled principal payments 

&#160; 

&#160; 

and the monthly interest payments made by the individual borrowers on the mortgage loans, net of any fees paid to the servicers, guarantors or other related parties of the securities. 

The principal may be prepaid at any time due to prepayments or defaults on the underlying mortgage loans. These differences can result in significantly greater price and yield volatility than is the case with other fixed-income securities. 

Various factors affect the rate at which mortgage prepayments occur, including changes in the level and directional trends in housing prices, interest rates, general economic conditions, the age of the mortgage loan, the location of the property, social and demographic conditions, government initiated refinance programs, legislative regulations, and industry capacity. Generally, prepayments on Agency RMBS increase during periods of falling mortgage interest rates and decrease during periods of rising mortgage interest rates. However, this may not always be the case. We may reinvest principal repayments at a yield that is higher or lower than the yield on the repaid investment, thus affecting our net interest income by altering the average yield on our assets. 

In addition, when interest rates are declining, the value of Agency RMBS with prepayment options may not increase as much as other fixed income securities. The rate of prepayments on underlying mortgages will affect the price and volatility of Agency RMBS and may have the effect of shortening or extending the duration of the security beyond what was anticipated at the time of purchase. When interest rates rise, our holdings of Agency RMBS may experience reduced returns if the owners of the underlying mortgages pay off their mortgages slower than previously anticipated. This is generally referred to as extension risk. 

Mortgage pass-through certificates, collateralized mortgage obligations ("CMOs"), Freddie Mac Gold Certificates, Fannie Mae Certificates and Ginnie Mae Certificates are types of Agency RMBS that are collateralized by either fixed-rate mortgage loans (&#8220;FRMs&#8221;), adjustable-rate mortgage loans (&#8220;ARMs&#8221;), or hybrid ARMs. FRMs have an interest rate that is fixed for the term of the loan and do not adjust. The interest rates on ARMs generally adjust annually (although some may adjust more frequently) to an increment over a specified interest rate index. Hybrid ARMs have interest rates that are fixed for a specified period of time (typically three, five, seven or ten years) and, thereafter, adjust to an increment over a specified interest rate index. ARMs and hybrid ARMs generally have periodic and lifetime constraints on how much the loan interest rate can change on any predetermined interest rate reset date. Our allocation of our Agency RMBS collateralized by FRMs, ARMs or hybrid ARMs will depend on various factors including, but not limited to, relative value, expected future prepayment trends, supply and demand, costs of hedging, costs of financing, expected future interest rate volatility and the overall shape of the U.S. Treasury and interest rate swap yield curves. We take these factors into account when we make investments. 

Non-Agency RMBS 

Non-Agency RMBS are residential mortgage-backed securities that are not issued or guaranteed by a U.S. government agency. Like Agency RMBS, non-Agency RMBS represent interests in &#8220;pools&#8221; of mortgage loans secured by residential real property. The mortgage loan collateral for non-Agency RMBS generally consists of residential mortgage loans that do not conform to the U.S. government agency underwriting guidelines due to certain factors including mortgage balance in excess of such guidelines, borrower characteristics, loan characteristics and level of documentation. 

We also invest in non-Agency RMBS structured as re-securitizations of a real estate mortgage investment conduit (&#8220;Re-REMIC&#8221;). A Re-REMIC is a transaction in which an existing security or securities is transferred to a special purpose entity that has formed a securitization vehicle that has issued multiple classes of securities secured by and payable from cash flows on the underlying securities. 

Government-Sponsored Enterprises Credit Risk Transfer Securities 

GSE CRTs are unsecured general obligations of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac that are structured to provide credit protection to the issuer with respect to defaults and other credit events within pools of residential mortgage loans that collateralize MBS issued and guaranteed by the GSEs. This credit protection is achieved by allowing the GSEs to reduce the outstanding class principal balance of the securities as designated credit events on the loans arise. The GSEs make monthly payments of accrued interest and periodic payments of principal to the holders of the securities. To date, all GSE CRTs have paid a floating interest rate benchmarked to one-month LIBOR. 

&#160; 

&#160; 

CMBS 

CMBS are securities backed by obligations (including certificates of participation in obligations) that are principally secured by commercial mortgages on real property or interests therein having a multifamily or commercial use, such as regional malls, retail space, office buildings, industrial or warehouse properties, hotels, apartments, nursing homes and senior living facilities. 

CMBS are typically issued in multiple tranches whereby the more senior classes are entitled to priority distributions to make specified interest and principal payments on such tranches. Losses and other shortfalls from expected amounts to be received on the mortgage pool are borne by the most subordinate classes, which receive payments only after the more senior classes have received all principal and/or interest to which they are entitled. The credit quality of CMBS depends on the credit quality of the underlying mortgage loans, which is a function of factors such as the principal amount of loans relative to the value of the related properties, the mortgage loan terms, such as amortization, market assessment and geographic location, construction quality of the property, and the creditworthiness of the borrowers. 

Residential Mortgage Loans 

Residential mortgage loans are loans secured by residential real properties. We generally focus our residential mortgage loan acquisition efforts on the purchase of loan portfolios that are first lien, single-family FRMs, ARMs and Hybrid ARMs with original terms to maturity of not more than 30 years and that are either fully amortizing or are interest-only for up to ten years, and fully amortizing thereafter. 

Prime and Jumbo Prime Mortgage Loans 

Prime mortgage loans are mortgage loans that generally require borrower credit histories, debt-to-income ratios and loan-to-value ratios similar to those dictated by GSE underwriting guidelines, though in certain cases they may not meet the same income documentation or other requirements. Jumbo prime mortgage loans are mortgage loans with requirements similar to prime mortgage loans except that the mortgage balance exceeds the maximum amount permitted by GSE underwriting guidelines. 

Alt-A Mortgage Loans 

Alt-A mortgage loans are mortgage loans made to borrowers whose qualifying mortgage characteristics do not conform to GSE underwriting guidelines, but whose borrower characteristics may. Generally, Alt-A mortgage loans allow homeowners to qualify for a mortgage loan with reduced or alternative forms of documentation. The credit quality of Alt-A borrowers generally exceeds the credit quality of subprime borrowers. 

Subprime Mortgage Loans 

Subprime mortgage loans are loans that do not conform to GSE underwriting guidelines. Subprime borrowers generally have imperfect or impaired credit histories and low credit scores. 

Reperforming Mortgage Loans 

Reperforming mortgage loans are residential mortgage loans that have a history of delinquency and generally have been restructured since origination. Reperforming mortgage loans may or may not have originally conformed to GSE underwriting guidelines. Due to past delinquencies, borrowers generally have impaired credit histories and low credit scores, and may have a greater than normal risk of future delinquencies and defaults. 

Commercial Mortgage Loans 

Commercial mortgage loans are mortgage loans secured by first or second liens on commercial properties such as regional malls, retail space, office buildings, industrial or warehouse properties, hotels, apartments, nursing homes and senior living facilities. These loans, which tend to range in term from two to ten years, can carry either fixed or floating interest rates. They generally permit pre-payments before final maturity but may require the payment to the lender of yield maintenance pre-payment penalties. First lien loans represent the senior lien on a property while second lien loans or second mortgages represent a subordinate or second lien on a property. 

Mezzanine Loans 

Mezzanine loans are generally structured to represent a senior position in the borrower&#8217;s equity in, and subordinate to a first mortgage loan, on a property. These loans are generally secured by pledges of ownership interests, in whole or in part, in entities that directly or indirectly own the real property. At times, mezzanine loans may be secured by additional collateral, 

&#160; 

&#160; 

including letters of credit, personal guarantees, or collateral unrelated to the property. Mezzanine loans may be structured to carry either fixed or floating interest rates as well as carry a right to participate in a percentage of gross revenues and a percentage of the increase in the fair market value of the property securing the loan. Mezzanine loans may also contain prepayment lockouts, penalties, minimum profit hurdles and other mechanisms to protect and enhance returns to the lender. Mezzanine loans usually have maturities that match the maturity of the related mortgage loan but may have shorter or longer terms. 

Unconsolidated Ventures 

The Company has investments in unconsolidated ventures. In circumstances where the Company has a non-controlling interest but is deemed to be able to exert significant influence over the affairs of the enterprise, the Company utilizes the equity method of accounting. Under the equity method of accounting, the initial investment is increased each period for additional capital contributions and a proportionate share of the entity&#8217;s earnings and decreased for cash distributions and a proportionate share of the entity&#8217;s losses. 

Financing Strategy 

We generally finance our investments through short- and long-term borrowings structured as repurchase agreements and secured loans. We have historically financed our residential loans held-for-investment through asset-backed securities issued by consolidated securitization trusts. We have also financed investments through the issuances of debt and equity. 

Repurchase Agreements 

Repurchase agreements are financings pursuant to which we sell our target assets to the repurchase agreement counterparty, the buyer, for an agreed upon price with the obligation to repurchase these assets from the buyer at a future date and at a price higher than the original purchase price. The amount of financing we receive under a repurchase agreement is limited to a specified percentage of the estimated market value of the assets we sell to the buyer. The difference between the sale price and repurchase price is the cost, or interest expense, of financing under a repurchase agreement. Under repurchase agreement financing arrangements, certain buyers require us to provide additional cash collateral in the event the market value of the asset declines to maintain the ratio of value of the collateral to the amount of borrowing. 

Secured Loans 

Our wholly-owned subsidiary, IAS Services LLC, is a member of the Federal Home Loan Bank of Indianapolis ("FHLBI"). As a member of the FHLBI, IAS Services LLC may borrow funds from the FHLBI in the form of secured advances. FHLBI advances are treated as secured financing transactions and are carried at their contractual amounts. 

Leverage 

We use leverage on our target assets to achieve our return objectives, which are adjusted as our investment and financing opportunities change. The amount of leverage we apply to a given asset depends primarily on the expected price volatility and liquidity of the asset we use as collateral, the type of financing, the advance rate against our collateral, and the cost of financing. Shorter duration and higher quality liquid assets generally merit higher leverage due to lower price volatility, higher advance rates, and more attractive financing rates. Assets that are less liquid or exhibit higher price volatility tend to be held unlevered or with lower leverage applied. 

We include a table that shows the allocation of our equity to our target assets and our repurchase agreement debt-to-equity ratio, a non-GAAP financial measure of leverage in Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Operations" of this Report. 

Risk Management Strategy 

Market Risk Management 

Risk management is an integral component of our strategy to deliver returns to our stockholders. Because we invest in MBS, investment losses from prepayment, interest rate volatility or other risks can meaningfully impact our earnings and our distributions to stockholders. In addition, because we employ financial leverage in funding our investment portfolio, mismatches in the maturities of our assets and liabilities can create the need to continually renew or otherwise refinance our liabilities. Our results are dependent upon a positive spread between the returns on our asset portfolio and our overall cost of funding. To minimize the risks to our portfolio, we actively employ portfolio-wide and security-specific risk measurement and management processes in our daily operations. Our Manager&#8217;s risk management tools include software and services licensed or purchased from third parties, in addition to proprietary software and analytical methods developed by Invesco. 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Interest Rate Risk 

We engage in a variety of interest rate management techniques that seek to mitigate the influence of interest rate changes on the costs of liabilities and help us achieve our risk management objective. Specifically, we seek to hedge our exposure to potential interest rate mismatches between the interest we earn on our investments and our borrowing costs caused by fluctuations in short-term interest rates. In utilizing leverage and interest rate hedges, we seek to improve risk-adjusted returns and, where possible, to lock in, on a long-term basis, a favorable spread between the yield on our assets and the cost of our financing. We may utilize various derivative financial instruments including puts and calls on securities or indices of securities, futures, interest rate swaps and swaptions, interest rate caps, exchange-traded derivatives, U.S. Treasury securities and options on U.S. Treasury securities and interest rate floors to hedge all or a portion of the interest rate risk associated with the financing of our investment portfolio. 

Credit Risk 

We believe that our investment strategy will generally keep our credit losses and financing costs low. However, we retain the risk of potential credit losses on all of our residential and commercial mortgage investments. We seek to manage this risk in part through our pre-acquisition due diligence process. In addition, we re-evaluate the credit risk inherent in our investments on a regular basis pursuant to fundamental considerations such as gross domestic product ("GDP"), unemployment, interest rates, retail sales, store closings/openings, corporate earnings, housing inventory, affordability and regional home price trends. We also review key loan credit metrics including, but not limited to, payment status, current loan-to-value ratios, current borrower credit scores and debt yields. These characteristics assist in determining the likelihood and severity of loan loss as well as prepayment and extension expectations. We then perform structural analysis under multiple scenarios to establish likely cash flow profiles and credit enhancement levels relative to collateral performance projections. This analysis allows us to quantify our opinions of credit quality and fundamental value, which are key drivers of portfolio management decisions. 

Foreign Exchange Rate Risk 

We have an investment in a commercial loan denominated in foreign currency and an investment in an unconsolidated joint venture whose net assets and results of operations are exposed to foreign currency translation risk when translated in U.S. dollars upon consolidation. We seek to hedge our foreign currency exposures by purchasing currency forward contracts. 

Investment Guidelines 

Our board of directors has adopted the following investment guidelines: 

&#8226; 

no investment shall be made that would cause us to fail to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes; 

&#8226; 

no investment shall be made that would cause us to be regulated as an investment company under the 1940 Act; 

&#8226; 

our assets will be invested within our target assets; and 

&#8226; 

until appropriate investments can be identified, our Manager may pay off short-term debt, or invest the proceeds of any offering in interest-bearing, short-term investments, including funds that are consistent with maintaining our REIT qualification. 

These investment guidelines may be changed from time to time by our board of directors without the approval of our stockholders. 

Investment Committee 

Our investment committee is comprised of certain of our officers and certain of our Manager&#8217;s investment professionals. The investment committee periodically reviews our investment portfolio for risk characteristics, investment performance, liquidity, portfolio composition, leverage and other applicable items. It also reviews its compliance with our investment policies and procedures, including our investment guidelines, and our Manager provides our board of directors an investment report at the end of each quarter in conjunction with its review of our quarterly results. 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Investment Process 

Our Manager&#8217;s investment team has a strong focus on asset selection and on the relative value of various sectors within the mortgage market. Our Manager utilizes this expertise to build a diversified portfolio. Our Manager incorporates its views on the economic environment and the outlook for the mortgage market, including relative valuation, supply and demand trends, the level of interest rates, the shape of the yield curve, prepayment rates, financing and liquidity, housing prices, delinquencies, default rates and loss severity rates of various collateral types. 

Our investment process includes sourcing and screening investment opportunities, assessing investment suitability, conducting interest rate and prepayment analysis, evaluating cash flow and collateral performance, reviewing legal structure and servicer and originator information and investment structuring, as appropriate, to ensure an attractive return commensurate with the risk we are bearing. Upon identification of an investment opportunity, the investment will be screened and monitored by our Manager to determine its impact on maintaining our REIT qualification and our exemption from registration under the 1940 Act. We make investments in sectors where our Manager has strong core competencies and where we believe market risk and expected performance can be reasonably quantified. 

Our Manager evaluates each of our investment opportunities based on its expected risk-adjusted return relative to the returns available from other, comparable investments. In addition, we evaluate new opportunities based on their relative expected returns compared to assets held in our portfolio. The terms of any leverage available to us for use in funding an investment purchase are also taken into consideration, as are any risks posed by illiquidity or correlations with other assets in the portfolio. Our Manager also develops a macro outlook with respect to each target asset class by examining factors in the broader economy such as gross domestic product, interest rates, unemployment rates and availability of credit, among other factors. Our Manager analyzes fundamental trends in the relevant target asset class sector to adjust or maintain its outlook for that particular target asset class. These macro decisions guide our Manager&#8217;s assumptions regarding model inputs and portfolio allocations among target assets. Additionally, our Manager conducts extensive diligence with respect to each target asset class by, among other things, examining and monitoring the capabilities and financial wherewithal of the parties responsible for the origination, administration and servicing of relevant target assets. 

Competition 

Our net income depends, in large part, on our ability to acquire assets at favorable spreads over our borrowing costs. In acquiring our investments, we compete with other REITs, specialty finance companies, mortgage bankers, insurance companies, mutual funds, institutional investors, investment banking firms, financial institutions, governmental bodies and other entities. Refer to &#8220;Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations &#8212; Market Conditions.&#8221; In addition, there are numerous REITs with similar asset acquisition objectives. These other REITs increase competition for the available supply of mortgage assets suitable for purchase. Many of our competitors are significantly larger than we are, have access to greater capital and other resources and may have other advantages over us. In addition, some of our competitors may have higher risk tolerances or different risk assessments, which could allow them to consider a wider variety of investments and establish more relationships than we can. Market conditions may attract more competitors, which may increase the competition for sources of financing. An increase in the competition for sources of financing could adversely affect the availability and cost of financing. 

We have access to our Manager&#8217;s professionals and their industry expertise, which we believe provides us with a competitive advantage. These professionals help us assess investment risks and determine appropriate pricing for certain potential investments. These relationships enable us to compete more effectively for attractive investment opportunities. Despite certain competitive advantages, we may not be able to achieve our business goals or expectations due to the competitive risks that we face. For additional information concerning these competitive risks, refer to &#8220;Risk Factors &#8212; Risks Related to Our Investments &#8212; We operate in a highly competitive market for investment opportunities and competition may limit our ability to acquire desirable investments in our target assets and could also affect the pricing of these securities.&#8221; 

Staffing 

We are externally managed and advised by Invesco Advisers, Inc. Our Manager provides us with our management team, including our officers, and appropriate support personnel. Each of our officers is an employee of our Manager or one of its affiliates. We do not have any employees. Refer to &#8220;Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence&#8221; for a discussion of our management fee and our relationship with our Manager. 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Our Corporate Information 

Our principal executive offices are located at 1555 Peachtree Street, N.E., Suite 1800, Atlanta, Georgia 30309. Our telephone number is (404) 892-0896. Our website is www.invescomortgagecapital.com. We make available free of charge, through our corporate website, our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. The information on our website is not intended to form a part of or be incorporated by reference into this Report. 

