 Item 1. Business 

Overview 

Atlas Financial Holdings, Inc. ("Atlas" or "We" or "the Company") is a financial services holding company whose subsidiaries specialize in the underwriting of commercial automobile insurance policies, focusing on the &#8220;light&#8221; commercial automobile sector. This sector includes taxi cabs, non-emergency para-transit, limousine, livery and business auto. With roots dating back to 1925 selling insurance for taxi cabs, we are one of the oldest insurers of taxi and livery businesses in the United States. This experience serves as the foundation of our hyper-focused specialty insurance business that embraces continuous improvement, analytics and technology. Our goal is to be the preferred specialty commercial transportation insurer in any geographic area where our value proposition delivers benefit to all stakeholders. 

&#160; 

We were originally formed as JJR VI, a Canadian capital pool company, on December 21, 2009 under the laws of Ontario, Canada. On December 31, 2010, we completed a reverse merger wherein American Service Insurance Company, Inc. ("American Service") and American Country Insurance Company ("American Country"), in exchange for the consideration set out below, were transferred to us by Kingsway America Inc. ("KAI"), a wholly owned subsidiary of Kingsway Financial Services Inc. ("KFSI"), a Canadian public company whose shares are traded on the Toronto and New York Stock Exchanges. Prior to the transaction, American Service and American Country were wholly owned subsidiaries of KAI. American Country commenced operations in 1979. In 1983, American Service began as a non-standard personal and commercial auto insurer writing business in the Chicago, Illinois area. 

On December 31, 2010, following the reverse merger transaction described immediately hereafter, we filed a Certificate of Registration by Way of Continuation in the Cayman Islands to re-domesticate as a Cayman Islands company. In addition, on December 30, 2010 we filed a Certificate of Incorporation on Change of Name to change our name to Atlas Financial Holdings, Inc. Our current organization is a result of a reverse merger transaction involving the following companies: 

(a) 

JJR VI, sponsored by JJR Capital, a Toronto based merchant bank; 

(b) 

American Insurance Acquisition Inc., ("American Acquisition"), a corporation formed under the laws of Delaware as a wholly owned subsidiary of KAI; and 

(c) 

Atlas Acquisition Corp., a Delaware corporation wholly-owned by JJR VI and formed for the purpose of merging with and into American Acquisition. 

In connection with the reverse merger transaction, KAI transferred 100% of the capital stock of each of American Service and American Country to American Acquisition (another wholly owned subsidiary of KAI) in exchange for C$35.1 million of common shares and $18.0 million of preferred shares of American Acquisition and promissory notes worth C$7.7 million, aggregating C$60.8 million. In addition, American Acquisition raised C$8.0 million through a private placement offering of subscription receipts to qualified investors in both the United States and Canada at a price of C$6.00 per subscription receipt. 

KAI received 4,601,621 restricted voting common shares of our company, which we refer to as &#8220;restricted voting shares&#8221;, then valued at $27.8 million, along with 18,000,000 non-voting preferred shares of our company, then valued at $18.0 million, and C$8.0 million cash for total consideration of C$60.8 million in exchange for 100% of the outstanding shares of American Acquisition and full payment of certain promissory notes. Investors in the American Acquisition private placement offering of subscription receipts received 1,327,834 of our ordinary common shares, which we refer to as &#8220;ordinary shares&#8221;, plus warrants to purchase one ordinary share of our company for each subscription receipt at C$6.00 at any time until December 31, 2013. Every 10 common shares of JJR VI held by the shareholders of JJR VI immediately prior to the reverse merger were, upon consummation of the merger, consolidated into one ordinary share of JJR VI. Upon re-domestication in the Cayman Islands, these consolidated shares were then exchanged on a one-for-one basis for our ordinary shares. 

In connection with the acquisition of American Service and American Country, we streamlined the operations of the insurance subsidiaries to focus on the &#8220;light&#8221; commercial automobile lines of business we believe will produce favorable underwriting results. During 2011 and 2012, we disposed of non-core assets and placed into run-off certain non-core lines of business previously written by the insurance subsidiaries. Since disposing of these non-core assets and lines of business, our sole focus has been the underwriting of specialty commercial insurance for users of "light" vehicles in the United States. 

On December 7, 2012, a shareholder meeting was held where a one-for-three reverse stock split was unanimously approved. When the reverse stock split took effect on January 29, 2013, it decreased the authorized and outstanding ordinary shares and restricted voting shares at a ratio of one-for-three. The primary objective of the reverse stock split was to increase the per share price of Atlas' ordinary shares to meet certain listing requirements of the NASDAQ Capital Market. Unless otherwise noted, all historical share and per share values in this Annual Report on Form 10-K reflect the one-for-three reverse stock split. 

On January 2, 2013 we acquired Camelot Services, Inc. ("Camelot Services"), a privately owned insurance holding company, and its sole subsidiary, Gateway Insurance Company ("Gateway"), from an unaffiliated third party. This transaction was contractually deemed effective as of January 1, 2013. Gateway provides specialized commercial insurance products, including commercial automobile insurance to niche markets such as taxi, black car and sedan service owners and operators. 

Gateway is a St. Louis, Missouri-based insurance company that was writing approximately $10.0 million of annual taxi and limousine net written premium in states deemed favorable to Atlas at the time of our acquisition. Gateway is an admitted carrier in 46 states plus the District of Columbia. 

Under the terms of the stock purchase agreement, the purchase price equaled the adjusted book value of Camelot Services at December 31, 2012, subject to certain pre and post-closing adjustments, including, among others, claim development between the signing of the stock purchase agreement and December 31, 2012. Additional consideration, principally in the form of preferred shares, may be paid to the seller, or returned to us by the seller, depending upon, among other things, the future development of Gateway&#8217;s actual loss reserves for certain lines of business and the utilization of certain deferred tax assets over time. Gateway also wrote contractor's workers&#8217; compensation insurance, which we ceased writing as part of the transaction. An indemnity reinsurance agreement was entered into pursuant to which 100% of Gateway&#8217;s workers&#8217; compensation business was ceded to a third party captive reinsurer funded by the seller as part of the transaction. 

The total purchase price for all of Camelot Services&#8217; outstanding shares was $14.3 million, consisting of a combination of cash and Atlas preferred shares. Consideration consisted of a $6.0 million dividend paid by Gateway immediately prior to the closing, $2.0 million of Atlas preferred shares (consisting of a total of 2,000,000 preferred shares) and $6.3 million in cash. We have contractual protections to offset up to $2.0 million of future adverse reserve development. We have also agreed to provide the sellers up to $2.0 million in additional consideration in the event of favorable reserve development. During the first quarter of 2015, the Company issued an additional 940,500 preferred shares pursuant to the Gateway stock purchase agreement due to the favorable development of Gateway&#8217;s actual loss reserves for certain lines of business. 

On February 11, 2013, an aggregate of 4,125,000 Atlas ordinary shares were offered in Atlas' initial public offering in the United States. 1,500,000 ordinary shares were offered by Atlas and 2,625,000 ordinary shares were sold by KAI at a price of $5.85 per share. Atlas also granted the underwriters an option to purchase up to an aggregate of 618,750 additional shares at the public offering price of $5.85 per share to cover over-allotments, if any. On March 11, 2013, the underwriters exercised this option and purchased an additional 451,500 shares. After underwriting and other expenses, total proceeds of $9.8 million were realized on the issuance of the shares. Since that time, Atlas' shares have traded on the NASDAQ under the symbol "AFH." The principal purposes of the initial offering in the United States were to create a public market in the United States for Atlas' ordinary shares and thereby enable future access to the public equity markets in the United States by Atlas and its shareholders, and to obtain additional capital. 

On June 5, 2013, Atlas delisted from the Toronto Stock Exchange. 

On August 1, 2013, Atlas used the net proceeds from the U.S. initial public offering to partially fund the repurchase of 18,000,000 of its outstanding preferred shares owned by KAI for $16.2 million. These preferred shares had accrued dividends on a cumulative basis at a rate of $0.045 per share per year (4.5%) and were convertible into 2,286,000 common shares at the option of the holder after December 31, 2015. 

On May 13, 2014, an aggregate of 2,000,000 Atlas ordinary shares were offered in a subsequent public offering in the United States at a price of $12.50 per share. Atlas also granted the underwriters an option to purchase up to an aggregate of 300,000 additional shares at the public offering price of $12.50 per share to cover over-allotments, if any. On May 27, 2014, the underwriters exercised this option and purchased an additional 161,000 shares. After underwriting and other expenses, total proceeds of $25.0 million were realized on the issuance of the shares. A portion of the net proceeds from the offering was used to support the acquisition of Anchor Holdings Group, Inc. and its affiliated entities as described further below. 

During the fourth quarter of 2014, Camelot Services was merged into American Acquisition. 

On March 11, 2015, we acquired Anchor Holdings Group, Inc. ("Anchor Holdings"), a privately owned insurance holding company, and its wholly owned subsidiary, Global Liberty Insurance Company of New York ("Global Liberty"), along with its affiliated entities, Anchor Group Management ("Anchor Management"), Plainview Premium Finance Company, Inc. ("Plainview Delaware") and Plainview Delaware's wholly owned subsidiary, Plainview Premium Finance Company of California, Inc. ("Plainview California"), and together with Anchor Holdings, Global Liberty, Anchor Management, and Plainview Delaware, "Anchor," from an unaffiliated third party for a total purchase price of $23.2 million , consisting of a combination of cash and Atlas preferred shares, and is estimated at approximately 1.3 &#32;times combined U.S. GAAP book value. Consideration consisted of approximately $19.2 million &#32;in cash and $4.0 million &#32;of Atlas preferred shares (consisting of a total of 4,000,000 &#32;preferred shares at $1.00 &#32;per preferred share). Anchor provides specialized commercial insurance products, including commercial automobile insurance to niche markets such as taxi, black car and sedan service owners and operators primarily in the New York market. Global Liberty was writing approximately $40.0 million of annual taxi and limousine net written premium in markets deemed favorable to Atlas at the time of our acquisition. 

Our core business is the underwriting of commercial auto mobile insurance policies, focusing on the "light" commercial automobile sector, which is carried out through American Country, American Service, Gateway and Global Liberty (collectively, our "insurance subsidiaries.") 

Competitive Strengths 

Our value proposition is driven by our competitive strengths, which include the following: 

Focus on niche commercial insurance business. &#32;We target niche markets that support adequate pricing. We believe that we are able to adapt to changing market needs well in advance of our competitors through our strategic commitment and operating scale. We develop and deliver superior specialty commercial automobile insurance products priced to meet our customers&#8217; needs and strive to generate consistent underwriting profit for our insurance subsidiaries. We have experienced a favorable trend in loss ratios attributable to the increased composition of commercial automobile written premium as a percentage of our insurance subsidiaries' total written premium coupled with our ability to increase pricing and manage claims effectively. 

There are a limited number of competitors specializing in these lines of business. Management believes a strong value proposition is very important to attract new business and can result in desirable retention levels as policies renew on an annual basis. 

Strong market presence with recognized brands and long-standing distribution relationships. &#32;Our insurance subsidiaries have a long heritage as insurers of taxi, livery and para-transit businesses. All of our insurance subsidiaries have strong brand recognition and long-standing distribution relationships in target markets. Through regular interaction with our independent retail agents, we strive to thoroughly understand each of the markets we serve in order to deliver strategically priced products to attractive market share at the right time. Our insurance subsidiaries are currently licensed in more states than those in which we have currently elected to do business, and we routinely re-evaluate all markets to assess future potential opportunities and risks. There are also a relatively limited number of agents who specialize in these lines of business. As a result, strategic relationships with independent retail agents are important to ensure efficient distribution. 

Sophisticated underwriting and claims handling expertise. Atlas has extensive experience and expertise with respect to underwriting and claims management in our specialty area of insurance. Our well-developed underwriting and claims infrastructure includes an extensive data repository, proprietary technologies, deep market knowledge and established market relationships. Analysis of the substantial data available through our operating companies drives our product and pricing decisions. We believe our underwriting and claims handling expertise provides enhanced risk selection, high quality service to our customers and greater control over claims expenses. We are committed to maintaining this underwriting and claims handling expertise as a core competency as our volume of business increases. 

Scalable operations positioned for growth. &#32;Significant progress has been made in aligning our organization's infrastructure cost base to our expected revenue going forward. The core functions of our insurance subsidiaries were integrated into a common operating platform. We believe that our insurance subsidiaries are well-positioned to continue approaching proportionate market share of approximately 20% in all of the markets in which we operate with better than industry level profitability from the efficient operating infrastructure established subsequent to Atlas' acquisition of the companies. We are committed to evaluating, and where beneficial, deploy new technologies and analytics to maximize efficiency and scalability. 

Experienced management team. &#32;We have a talented and experienced management team who have decades of experience in the property and casualty insurance industry. Our senior management team has worked in the property and casualty industry for an average of more than 25 years and with the insurance subsidiaries, directly or indirectly, for an average of 15 years. 

Strategic Focus 

Vision 

Our goal is to be the preferred specialty commercial transportation insurer in any geographic area where our value proposition delivers benefit to all stakeholders. 

Mission 

We develop and deliver superior specialty insurance products priced to meet our customers&#8217; needs and generate consistent underwriting profit for our insurance subsidiaries. These products are distributed to the insured through independent retail agents utilizing our company&#8217;s operating platform. 

We seek to achieve our vision and mission through the design, sophisticated pricing and efficient delivery of specialty transportation insurance and risk management products. Through constant interaction with our retail producers, we strive to thoroughly understand each of the markets we serve in order to deliver strategically priced products to attractive markets at the right time. Analysis of the substantial data available through our operating companies drives our product and pricing decisions. We focus on our key strengths and seek to expand our geographic footprint and products only to the extent these activities support our vision and mission. We target niche markets that support adequate pricing and believe we are able to adapt to changing market needs ahead of our competitors through our strategic commitment and increasing scale. 

Outlook 

Over the past five years, through infrastructure re-organization, dispositions and by placing certain lines of business into run-off, our insurance subsidiaries have streamlined operations to focus on the lines of business we believe will leverage our core competencies and produce favorable underwriting results. Significant progress has been made in aligning the organization's infrastructure cost base to our expected revenue stream going forward. The core functions of the insurance subsidiaries were integrated into a common, best practice based, operating platform. Management believes that our insurance subsidiaries are well-positioned to return to the volume of premium they wrote in the recent past and continue to grow to proportionate market share of approximately 20% in all of the markets in which we operate with better than industry level profitability. Our insurance subsidiaries have a long heritage with respect to their continuing lines of business and will benefit from the efficient operating infrastructure currently in place. Through its insurance subsidiaries, Atlas actively wrote business in 41 states and the District of Columbia during 2015 utilizing our well developed underwriting and claim methodology. 

We believe that the most significant opportunities going forward are: (i) continually re-energizing our distribution channels with the objective of recapturing business generated prior to 2009, (ii) building business in previously untapped geographic markets to the extent that they meet our specific criteria where our insurance subsidiaries are licensed, but not active prior to Atlas' acquisition of these subsidiaries, and (iii) opportunistically acquiring books of business or similar insurance companies, provided market conditions support this activity. Primary potential risks related to these activities include: (i) insurance market conditions becoming or remaining &#8220;soft&#8221; for a sustained period of time, (ii) not being able to achieve the expected support from distribution partners, and (iii) the insurance subsidiaries not successfully maintaining appropriate ratings from A.M. Best. 

We seek to deploy our capital to maximize the return for our shareholders, either by investing in growing our operations or by pursuing other capital initiatives, depending upon insurance and capital market conditions. We focus on our key strengths and seek to expand our geographic footprint and products only to the extent these activities support our vision and mission. We will identify and prioritize market expansion opportunities based on the comparative strength of our value proposition relative to competitors, the market opportunity and the legal and regulatory environment. 

We intend to continue to grow profitably by undertaking the following: 

Re-establish legacy distribution relationships. &#32; We continue to build upon relationships with independent retail agents that have been our insurance subsidiaries&#8217; distribution partners in the past. We seek to develop and maintain strategic distribution relationships with a relatively small number of independent retail agents with substantial market presence in each state in which we currently operate. We expect to continue to increase the distribution of our core products in the states where we are actively writing insurance and re-capture insurance premium historically written by the insurance subsidiaries. 

Expand our market presence. &#32; We are committed to continuing to diversify by leveraging our experience, historical data and market research to expand our business in previously untapped markets to the extent incremental markets meet our criteria. Utilizing our established brands and market relationships, we have made significant inroads in new states where we had no active business in recent years. We will continue to expand into additional states or product lines where we are licensed, but not currently active, to the extent that our market expansion criteria is met in a given state. 

Acquire complementary books of business and insurance companies. &#32; We plan to opportunistically pursue acquisitions of complementary books of business and insurance companies provided market conditions support this activity. We will evaluate each acquisition opportunity based on its expected economic contribution to our results and support of our market expansion initiatives. Our more recent acquisitions of Gateway and Anchor are consistent with this aspect of our strategy. 

Market 

The &#8220;light&#8221; commercial automobile policies we underwrite provide coverage for light weight commercial vehicles typically with the minimum limits prescribed by statute, municipal or other regulatory requirements. The majority of our policyholders are individual owners or small fleet operators. 

Gross premium written from commercial automobile was $207.8 million , $119.5 million , and $88.6 million &#32;for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014, and 2013 , respectively. As a percentage of the insurance subsidiaries&#8217; overall book of business, commercial auto gross premium written represented 99.3% , 97.6% , and 95.2% &#32;of gross premium written in the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014, and 2013 , respectively. 

The &#8220;light&#8221; commercial automobile sector is a subset of the historically profitable commercial automobile insurance industry segment. In more recent years the commercial automobile insurance industry has seen profitability pressure within certain segments, however, it has outperformed the overall property and casualty ("P&#38;C") industry generally over the past fifteen years based on data compiled by A.M. Best Aggregates &#38; Averages. Data compiled by SNL Financial also indicates that for 2014 the total market for commercial automobile liability insurance was approximately $29.3 billion. The size of the commercial automobile insurance market can be affected significantly by many factors, such as the total number of vehicles insured, the underwriting capacity and underwriting criteria of automobile insurance carriers and general economic conditions. Historically, the commercial automobile insurance market has been characterized by periods of excess capacity and price competition followed by periods of reduced underwriting capacity and higher premium rates. 

We believe that there is a positive correlation between the economy and commercial automobile insurance in general. However, operators of &#8220;light&#8221; commercial automobiles may be less likely than other business segments within the commercial automobile insurance market to take vehicles out of service as their businesses and business reputations rely heavily on availability. With respect to certain business lines such as the taxi line, there are also other factors such as the cost and limited supply of medallions which may discourage a policyholder from taking vehicles out of service in the face of reduced demand for the use of the vehicle. 

Currently, we distribute our products only in the United States. Through our insurance subsidiaries, we are licensed to write P&#38;C insurance in 49 states plus the District of Columbia in the United States. The following table reflects, in percentages, the principal geographic distribution of gross premiums written for the year ended December 31, 2015 . No other jurisdiction accounted for more than 5%. 

Distribution of Gross Premium Written by Jurisdiction 

New York 

29.3% 

California 

11.8% 

Michigan 

5.8% 

Louisiana 

5.7% 

Illinois 

5.6% 

Minnesota 

5.3% 

The diagram below outlines the states where we are focused on actively writing new insurance policies and where we believe the comparative strength of our value proposition, the market opportunity, and the legal and regulatory environment are favorable (states darkened in the below diagram). Although we are writing business in Connecticut, Delaware and Florida through Global Liberty, the blue states are those where we believe the comparative strength of our value proposition, the market opportunity, and the legal and regulatory environment are favorable to our insurance subsidiaries. 

Agency Relationships 

Independent retail agents are recruited by us directly utilizing marketing efforts targeting the specialty niche upon which we focus. Interested agents are evaluated based on their experience, expertise and ethical dealing. Typically, our Company enters into distribution relationships with approximately one out of every ten agents seeking an agency contract. We do not provide exclusive territories to our independent retail agents, nor do we expect to be their only insurance market. We are generally interested in acting as one of a relatively small number of insurance partners with whom our independent retail agents place business and are also careful not to oversaturate the distribution channel in any given geographic market. This helps to ensure that we are able to receive the maximum number of submissions for underwriting evaluation without unnecessary downstream pressure from agents to write business that does not fit our underwriting model. 

Agents receive commission as a percentage of premiums (generally 10%) as their primary compensation from us. Larger agents may also be eligible for profit sharing based on the growth and underwriting profitability related to their book of business with us. The quality of business presented and written by each independent retail agent is evaluated regularly by our underwriters and is also reviewed quarterly by senior management. Key metrics for evaluation include overall accuracy and adequacy of underwriting information, performance relative to agreed commitments, support with respect to claims presented by their customers (as applicable) and overall underwriting profitability of the agent&#8217;s book of business. While we rely on our independent retail agents for distribution and customer support, underwriting and claim handling responsibilities are retained by us. Many of our agents have had direct relationships with our insurance subsidiaries for a number of years. 

Seasonality 

Our P&#38;C insurance business is seasonal in nature. Our ability to generate written premium is also impacted by the timing of policy effective periods in the states in which we operate while our net premiums earned generally follow a relatively smooth trend from quarter to quarter. Also, our gross premiums written are impacted by certain common renewal dates in larger metropolitan markets for the light commercial risks that represent our core lines of business. For example, January 1 st &#32;and March 1 st &#32;are common taxi cab renewal dates in Illinois and New York, respectively. Additionally, we implemented our New York &#8220;excess taxi program&#8221; in the third quarter of 2012, which has an annual renewal date in the third quarter. Net underwriting income is driven mainly by the timing and nature of claims, which can vary widely. 

Competition 

The insurance industry is price competitive in all markets in which the insurance subsidiaries operate. Our Company strives to employ disciplined underwriting practices with the objective of rejecting underpriced risks. 

Our Company competes on a number of factors such as brand and distribution strength, pricing, agency relationships, policy support, claim service, and market reputation. In our core commercial automobile lines, the primary offerings are policies at the minimum prescribed limits in each state, as established by statutory, municipal and other regulations. We believe our Company differentiates itself from many larger companies competing for this specialty business by exclusively focusing on these lines of insurance. We believe our exclusive focus results in the deployment of underwriting and claims professionals who are more familiar with issues common in specialty commercial automobile lines, and provides the customer better service. 

Our competitors generally fall into two categories. The first is made up of large generalist insurers who often sell their products to our niche through intermediaries such as managing general agents or wholesalers. The second consists primarily of smaller local insurance companies. These smaller companies may focus primarily on one or more of our niche markets. Or, as is typical in the majority of geographic areas where we compete, they have a broader focus, often writing a significant amount of non-standard lines of business. 

To compete successfully in the specialty commercial insurance industry, we rely on our ability to: identify markets that are most likely to produce an underwriting profit; operate with a disciplined underwriting approach; offer diversified products and geographic platforms; practice effective claims management; reserve appropriately for unpaid claims; strive for cost containment through economies of scale where deemed appropriate; and, provide services and competitive commissions to our independent agents. 

Regulation 

We are subject to extensive regulation, particularly at the state level. The method, extent and substance of such regulation varies by state, but generally has its source in statutes and regulations which establish standards and requirements for conducting the business of insurance and that delegate regulatory authority to state insurance regulatory agencies. Insurance companies can also be subject to so-called &#8220;desk drawer rules&#8221; of state insurance regulators, which are regulatory rules or best practices that have not been codified or formally adopted through regulatory proceedings. In general, such regulation is intended for the protection of those who purchase or use insurance products issued by our insurance subsidiaries, not the holders of securities issued by us. These laws and regulations have a significant impact on our business and relate to a wide variety of matters including accounting methods, agent and company licensure, claims procedures, corporate governance, examinations, investing practices, policy forms, pricing, trade practices, reserve adequacy and underwriting standards. 

In recent years, the state insurance regulatory framework has come under increased federal scrutiny. Most recently, pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Regulatory Reform Act of 2010, the Federal Insurance Office was formed for the purpose of, among other things, examining and evaluating the effectiveness of the current insurance and reinsurance regulatory framework. In addition, state legislators and insurance regulators continue to examine the appropriate nature and scope of state insurance regulation. 

Many state laws require insurers to file insurance policy forms and/or insurance premium rates and underwriting rules with state insurance regulators. In some states, such rates, forms and/or rules must be approved prior to use. While these requirements vary from state to state, generally speaking, regulators review premium rates to ensure they are not excessive, inadequate or unfairly discriminatory. 

As a result, the speed with which an insurer can change prices in response to competition or increased costs depends, in part, on whether the premium rate laws and regulations (i) require prior approval of the premium rates to be charged, (ii) permit the insurer to file and use the forms, rates and rules immediately, subject to further review, or (iii) permit the insurer to immediately use the 

forms, rates and/or rules and to subsequently file them with the regulator. When state laws and regulations significantly restrict both underwriting and pricing, it can become more difficult for an insurer to make adjustments quickly in response to changes which could affect profitability. 

Insurance companies are required to report their financial condition and results of operations in accordance with statutory accounting principles prescribed or permitted by state insurance laws and regulations and the National Association of Insurance Commissioners (the &#8220;NAIC&#8221;). As a result, industry data is available that enables comparisons between insurance companies, including competitors who are not subject to the requirement to prepare financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("U.S. GAAP"). We frequently use industry publications containing statutory financial information to assess our competitive position. State insurance laws and regulations also prescribe the form and content of statutory financial statements, require the performance of periodic financial examinations of insurers, establish standards for the types and amounts of investments insurers may hold and require minimum capital and surplus levels. Additional requirements include risk-based capital (&#8220;RBC&#8221;) rules, thresholds intended to enable state insurance regulators to assess the level of risk inherent in an insurance company&#8217;s business and consider items such as asset risk, credit risk, underwriting risk and other business risks relevant to its operations. In accordance with RBC formulas, a company&#8217;s RBC requirements are calculated and compared to its total adjusted capital to determine whether regulatory intervention is warranted. At December 31, 2015 , the total adjusted capital of each of our insurance subsidiaries exceeded the minimum levels required under RBC requirements. 

It is difficult to predict what specific measures at the state or federal level will be adopted or what effect any such measures would have on us or our insurance subsidiaries. 

Employees 

As of December 31, 2015 , we had 214 full-time employees, 130 of whom work at the corporate headquarters in Elk Grove Village, Illinois, 13 of whom work in St. Louis, 66 of whom work in New York and 5 of whom work remotely. The Corporate and Other category includes executive, information technology, data integrity, finance and human resources. The Claims category includes in-house legal. 

Available Information about Atlas 

The address of our registered office is Cricket Square, Hutchins Drive, PO Box 2681, Grand Cayman, KY1-1111, Cayman Islands. Our operating headquarters are located at 150 Northwest Point Boulevard, Elk Grove Village, Illinois 60007, USA. We maintain a website at http://www.atlas-fin.com. Information on our website or any other website does not constitute a part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Atlas files with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") and makes available free of charge on its website the Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78m(a) or 78o(d)) as soon as reasonably practicable after those reports are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. To access these filings, go to the company website, using the "Investor Relations" heading. These reports are also available on the SEC's website at http://www.sec.gov. 

