 ITEM 1. 

BUSINESS 

Overview 

We are the leading global provider of advanced delivery technologies and development solutions for drugs, biologics and consumer and animal health products. Our oral, injectable, and respiratory delivery technologies address the full diversity of the pharmaceutical industry, including small molecules, large molecule biologics and consumer and animal health products. Through our extensive capabilities and deep expertise in product development, we help our customers take products to market faster, including nearly half of new drug products approved by the Food and Drug Administration (the "FDA") in the last decade. Our advanced delivery technology platforms, including those in our Softgel Technologies and Drug Delivery Solutions segments, our proven formulation, manufacturing and regulatory expertise, and our broad and deep intellectual property enable our customers to develop more products and better treatments for patients and consumers. Across both development and delivery, our commitment to reliably supply our customers&#8217; and their patients' needs is the foundation for the value we provide; annually, we produce more than 70 billion &#32;doses for nearly 7,000 &#32;customer products, or approximately 1 in every 20 doses of such products taken each year by patients and consumers around the world. We believe that through our investments in growth-enabling capacity and capabilities, our ongoing focus on operational and quality excellence, the sales of existing customer products, the introduction of new customer products, our innovation activities and patents, and our entry into new markets, we will continue to benefit from attractive and differentiated margins, and realize the growth potential from these areas. 

We continue to make investments to expand our sales and marketing activities, leading to growth in the number of active development programs for our customers in both of our two main strategic areas. This has further enhanced our extensive, long-duration relationships and long-term contracts with a broad and diverse range of industry-leading customers. In the fiscal year ended June 30, 2016 , we did business with 87 of the top 100 branded drug marketers, 22 of the top 25 generics marketers, 24 of the top 25 biologics marketers, and 21 of the top 25 consumer health marketers globally . Selected key customers include Pfizer, Johnson &#38; Johnson, GlaxoSmithKline, Novartis, Roche and Teva. We have many long-standing relationships with our customers, particularly in advanced delivery technologies, where we tend to follow a prescription molecule through all phases of its lifecycle, from the development and launch of the original brand prescription, to generics or over-the-counter switch. A prescription pharmaceutical product relationship with an innovator will often last many years, in several cases nearly two decades or more, extending from pre-clinical development through the end of the product&#8217;s life cycle. We serve customers who require innovative product development, superior quality, advanced manufacturing and skilled technical services to support their development and marketed product needs. Our broad and diverse range of technologies closely integrates with our customers&#8217; molecules to yield final dose forms, and this generally results in the inclusion of Catalent in our customers&#8217; prescription product regulatory filings. Both of these factors translate to long-duration supply relationships at an individual product level. 

We believe our customers value us because our depth of development solutions and advanced delivery technologies, intellectual property, consistent and reliable supply, geographic reach, and substantial expertise enable us to create a broad range of business and product solutions that can be customized to fit their individual needs. Today we employ approximately 1,400 scientists and technicians &#32;and hold approximately 1,100 &#32;patents and patent applications in advanced delivery, drug and biologics formulation and manufacturing. The aim of our offerings is to allow our customers to bring more products to market faster, and develop and market differentiated new products that improve patient outcomes. We believe our leading market position, significant global scale, and diversity of customers, offerings, regulatory categories, products, and geographies reduce our exposure to potential strategic and product shifts within the industry. 

We provide a number of proprietary, differentiated technologies, products and service offerings to our customers across our advanced delivery technologies and development solutions platforms. The core technologies within our advanced delivery technologies platform include softgel capsules, our Zydis oral dissolving tablets, blow-fill-seal unit dose liquids and a range of other oral, injectable and respiratory technologies. The technologies and service offerings within our development solutions platform span the drug development process, ranging from our OptiForm Solutions Suite for bioavailability enhancement of early-stage molecules, and GPEx and SMARTag platforms for development of biologics and antibody-drug conjugates (ADCs), to formulation, analytical services, early stage clinical development, and clinical trials supply, including our unique FastChain demand-led clinical supply solution. Our offerings serve a critical need in the development and manufacturing of difficult-to-formulate products across a number of product types. 

We have advanced our technologies and grown our service offerings over more than 80 years through internal development, strategic alliances, in-licensing and acquisitions. We initially introduced our softgel capsule technology in the 1930s and have continued to expand our range of new, technologically enhanced offerings. Since fiscal 2013, we have launched OptiShell, OptiMelt, Zydis Nano and Zydis Bio and OptiPact. In fiscal 2016, we launched OptiForm Solutions Suite and our FastChain demand-led clinical supply solution. Also in 2016, our customers received regulatory approval for first-to-market 

&#160; 

products using the OptiShell and ADVASEPT technologies. To extend the reach of our technologies and services, we have also formed several active partnerships, including partnerships with BASF (Germany), CEVEC (Germany), and CTC Bio (South Korea), and have active relationships with research universities around the world. We have also augmented our portfolio through nine &#32;acquisitions since fiscal 2012, including significantly expanding our scale through the acquisition of the Aptuit CTS business in February 2012, adding an ADC business through the completion of our acquisition of the Redwood Bioscience business in October 2014, and extending our particle engineering capabilities via our November 2014 acquisition of Micron Technologies, a leader in the category. We believe our own internal innovation, supplemented by current and future external partnerships and acquisitions, will continue to strengthen and extend our leadership positions in the delivery and development of drugs, biologics and consumer and animal health products. 

&#160; 

History 

Catalent was formed in April 2007, when affiliates of Blackstone acquired the core of the Pharmaceutical Technologies and Services (&#8220;PTS&#8221;) segment of Cardinal Health, Inc. (&#8220;Cardinal&#8221;). Cardinal had created PTS through a series of acquisitions beginning with R.P. Scherer Corporation in 1998, with the intent of creating the world&#8217;s leading outsourcing provider of specialized, market-leading solutions to the global pharmaceutical and biotechnology industry. We are a holding company that indirectly owns Catalent Pharma Solutions, Inc. (the "Operating Company"), which owns, directly or indirectly, all of our operating subsidiaries. Since our 2007 acquisition, we have regularly reviewed our portfolio of offerings and operations in the context of our strategic growth plan, and, as a result, we have sold five businesses and consolidated operations at five facilities, integrating them into the remaining facility network. We have also actively acquired new businesses and facilities, completing nine &#32;transactions since fiscal 2012. In July 2014, we completed the initial public offering of our common stock (the "IPO"), which is now listed on the New York Stock Exchange (the &#8220;NYSE&#8221;) under the symbol &#8220;CTLT.&#8221; 

Our Competitive Strengths 

Leading Provider of Advanced Delivery Technologies and Development Solutions 

We are the leading global provider of advanced delivery technologies and development solutions for drugs, biologics and consumer and animal health products. In the last decade, we have earned revenue with respect to nearly half of the drugs based on new molecular entities (&#8220;NMEs&#8221;) approved by the FDA, and over the past three years with respect to nearly 80% of the top 200 largest-selling compounds globally. With approximately 1,400 scientists and technicians &#32;worldwide and approximately 1,100 &#32;patents and patent applications, our expertise is in providing differentiated technologies and solutions that help our customers bring more products and better treatments to market faster. For example, in the high-value area of NCEs, approximately 90% of NCE softgel approvals by the FDA over the last 25 years have been developed and supplied by us . 

Diversified Operating Platform 

We are diversified by virtue of our geographic scope, our large customer base, the extensive range of products we produce, our broad service offerings, and our ability to provide solutions at nearly every stage of a product &#8217; s lifecycle. We produce nearly 7,000 &#32;distinct items across multiple categories, including brand and generic prescription drugs and biologics, over-the-counter, consumer health and veterinary products, medical devices and diagnostics. In fiscal 2016 , our top 20 products represented approximately 25% of total revenue, with no single customer accounting for greater than 10% of revenue and with no individual product greater than 3%. We serve more than 1,000 &#32;customers in approximately 80 countries, with a majority of our fiscal 2016 &#32;revenues coming from outside the United States. This diversity, combined with long product lifecycles and close customer relationships, has contributed to the stability of our business. It has also allowed us to reduce our exposure to potential strategic, customer and product shifts as well as to payer-driven pricing pressures experienced by our branded drug and biologic customers. 

Longstanding, Extensive Relationships with Blue Chip Customers 

We have longstanding, extensive relationships with leading pharmaceutical and biotechnology customers. In fiscal 2016 , we did business with 87 of the top 100 branded drug marketers, 22 of the top 25 generics marketers, 24 of the top 25 biologics marketers, and 21 of the top 25 consumer health marketers globally , as well as with more than 1,000 &#32;other customers, including emerging and specialty companies, which are often more reliant on outside partners as a result of their more virtual business models. Regardless of size, our customers seek innovative product development, superior quality, advanced manufacturing and skilled technical services to support their development and marketed product needs. 

&#160; 

We believe our customers value us because our depth of development solutions and advanced delivery technologies, consistent and reliable supply, geographic reach and substantial expertise enable us to create a broad range of tailored solutions, many of which are unavailable from other individual providers. &#160; 

Deep, Broad and Growing Technology Foundation 

Our breadth of proprietary and patented technologies and long track record of innovation substantially differentiate us from other industry participants. Our leading softgel platforms, including Liqui-Gels, OptiShell and Vegicaps capsules, and our modified release technologies, including the Zydis family, OptiPact and OptiMelt technologies, provide formulation expertise to solve complex delivery challenges for our customers. We offer advanced technologies for delivery of small molecules and biologics via respiratory, ophthalmic and injectable routes, including the blow-fill-seal unit dose technology, ADVASEPT glass-free vials, and prefilled syringes. We also provide advanced biologics formulation options, including Gene Product Expression (&#8220;GPEx&#8221;) cell-line and SMARTag antibody-drug conjugate technologies. We have a market leadership position within respiratory delivery, including metered dose and dry powder inhalers, and intra-nasal forms. We have reinforced our leadership position in advanced delivery technologies over the last four years, as we have launched more than a dozen new technology platforms and applications, including in fiscal 2016 the launch of our Optiform Solutions Suite, a dose form-agnostic bioavailability enhancement for early-stage molecules. Our culture of creativity and innovation is grounded in our advanced delivery technologies, our scientists and engineers, and our patents and proprietary manufacturing processes throughout our global network. Our global product development team drives a focused application of resources to our highest priority opportunities for both new customer product introductions and platform technology development. As of June 30, 2016 , we had approximately 700 &#32;product development programs in active development across our businesses. 

Long-Duration Relationships Provide Sustainability 

Our broad and diverse range of technologies closely integrates with our customers&#8217; molecules to yield final dose forms, and this generally results in the inclusion of Catalent in our customers&#8217; prescription product regulatory filings. Both of these factors translate to long-duration supply relationships at an individual product level, to which we apply our expertise in contracting to produce long-duration commercial supply agreements. These agreements typically have initial terms of three to ten years with regular renewals of one to three years (see &#8220;Contractual Arrangements&#8221; for more detail). Nearly two-thirds of our fiscal 2016 &#32;advanced delivery technology platform revenues (comprised of our Softgel Technologies and Drug Delivery Solutions reporting segments) were covered by such long-term contractual arrangements. We believe this base provides us with a sustainable competitive advantage. 

Significant Recent Growth Investments 

We have made significant investments over time to establish a global manufacturing network, and today employ 5.1 million &#32;square feet of manufacturing and laboratory space across five continents. We have invested approximately $630 million &#32;in the last five fiscal years in gross capital expenditures. Growth-related investments in facilities, capacity and capabilities across our businesses have positioned us for future growth in areas aligned with anticipated future demand. Through our focus on operational, quality and regulatory excellence, we drive ongoing and continuous improvements in safety, productivity and reliable supply to customer expectations, which we believe further differentiate us. Our manufacturing network and capabilities allow us the flexibility to reliably supply the changing needs of our customers while consistently meeting their quality, delivery and regulatory compliance expectations. 

High Standards of Regulatory Compliance and Operational and Quality Excellence 

We operate our plants in accordance with current good manufacturing practices (&#8220;cGMP&#8221;), following our own high standards that are consistent with those of many of our large global pharmaceutical and biotechnology customers. We have more than 1,100 &#32;employees around the globe focused on quality and regulatory compliance. More than half of our facilities are registered with the FDA , with the remaining facilities registered with other applicable regulatory agencies, such as the European Medicines Agency (the &#8220;EMA&#8221;). In some cases, facilities are registered with multiple regulatory agencies. In fiscal 2016 , we were subject to 49 regulatory audits and, over the last five fiscal years, we successfully completed more than 250 regulatory audits . We also undergo more than 400 customer and internal audits annually. We believe our quality and regulatory track record to be a competitive differentiator for Catalent. 

&#160; 

Strong and Experienced Management Team 

Our executive leadership team collectively has more than 200 years of combined and diverse experience within the pharmaceutical and healthcare industries. With an average of more than 20 years of functional experience, this team possesses deep knowledge and a wide network of industry relationships. 

Our Strategy 

We are pursuing the following key growth initiatives: 

&#8220;Follow the Molecule&#8221; by Providing Solutions to our Customers across all Phases of the Product Lifecycle 

We intend to use our advanced delivery technologies and development solutions across the entire lifecycle of our customers&#8217; products to drive future growth. Our development solutions span the drug development process, starting with our platforms for development of small molecules, biologics and antibody-drug conjugates, to formulation and analytical services, through early stage clinical development and manufacturing of clinical trials supply, to regulatory consulting. Once a molecule is ready for late-stage trials and subsequent commercialization, we provide our customers with a range of advanced delivery technologies and manufacturing expertise that allow them to deliver their molecules to the end-users in appropriate dosage forms. The relationship between a molecule and our advanced delivery technologies typically starts with developing and manufacturing the innovator product, then extends throughout the molecule&#8217;s commercial life, including through potential generic launches or over-the-counter conversion. For prescription products, we are typically the sole and/or exclusive provider, and are reflected in customers&#8217; new drug applications. 

Our breadth of solutions gives us multiple entry points into the lifecycle of our customers&#8217; molecules. Our initial commercial opportunity arises during the discovery and development of a molecule, when our development and particle engineering solutions can be applied. Once a product reaches late-stage development, we can provide our customers with drug delivery solutions for the commercialization of their products. We have two additional entry points during the commercial phase: upon loss-of-exclusivity and upon conversion to over-the-counter status. At these points, we partner with the makers and marketers of both generic and over-the-counter products to provide them with advanced delivery technologies that can be applied to their products through these stages of the product lifecycle. Our revenues from our advanced delivery technologies are primarily driven by volumes and, as a result, the loss of exclusivity may not have a significant negative impact if we continue to work with both branded and generic partners. 

An example of this can be found in a leading over-the-counter respiratory brand, which today uses both our Zydis fast dissolve and our Liqui-Gels softgel technologies. We originally began development of the prescription format of this product for our multinational pharmaceutical company partner in 1992 to address specific patient sub-segment needs. After four years of development, we then commercially supplied the prescription Zydis product for six years, and we have continued to provide the Zydis form since the switch to over-the-counter status in the United States and other markets in the early 2000s. More recently, we proactively brought a softgel product concept for the brand to the customer, which the customer elected to develop and launch as well. By following this molecule, we have built a strong, 24-year long relationship across multiple formats and markets. 

Continue to Grow Through New Product Launches and Projects 

We intend to grow by supplementing our existing diverse base of commercialized advanced delivery technology products with new development programs. As of June 30, 2016 , our product development teams were working on approximately 700 &#32;new customer programs. Our base of active development programs has expanded in recent years from growing market demand, as well as from our investments since 2010 to expand our global sales and marketing function; once developed and approved in the future, we expect these programs to add to long-duration commercial revenues under long-term contracts and grow our existing product base. In the year ended June 30, 2016 , we introduced 184 new products, which is up 12% versus new product introductions in the year ended June 30, 2015 . We also expect that our expanded offerings and capacity, such as our OptiForm Solutions Suite bioavailability enhancement offering, expanded bioanalytical testing and commercial-scale metered dose inhaler production, ongoing service offering and geographic network expansion in our clinical supply services business, our expanded presence in Brazil, and our continued growth in China, will further expand our active advanced delivery technologies development programs, and position us for future growth. &#32; Our development solutions business is driven by thousands of projects annually, ranging from individual short-duration analytical projects to multi-year clinical supply programs. 

Catalent continues to be the global leader in providing chemistry, manufacturing and controls-based product development services to the global pharmaceutical, biotechnology and consumer health industry. In the year ended June 30, 2016, we recognized approximately $330 million of revenue related to the development of products on behalf of customers, included in our Softgel Technologies and Drug Delivery Solutions reporting segments, up 19% from the prior year. In addition, 

&#160; 

substantially all of the revenues associated with the Clinical Supply Services segment relate to our support of customer products in development. 

Accelerate Growth with Existing Customers through Increased Penetration and Broadening of Services 

While we have a broad presence across the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries, we believe there are significant opportunities for additional revenue growth in our existing customer base, by providing advanced delivery solutions for new pipeline or commercial molecules, and by expanding the range and depth of our development solutions used by those customers. Within our top 50 customers, nearly 75% use less than half of our individual offerings. In order to ensure we provide the most value to our customers, we have increased our field sales and marketing force by approximately 20% since fiscal 2009. We have continued to follow a targeted account strategy, designating certain accounts as global accounts, based on current materiality, partnering approach and growth potential. We also designate other accounts as growth accounts, based primarily on partnering approach and potential to become global accounts in the future. In both cases, we assign incremental business development product development resources to identify and pursue new opportunities to partner. Global accounts represented nearly 29% &#32;of our revenues in fiscal 2016 , while growth accounts represented approximately 8% &#32;of revenues in that same period. 

Enter Into and Expand Into Attractive Technologies and Geographies 

We have made a number of internal investments in new geographies and markets, including the construction and ongoing expansion of a state-of-the-art biomanufacturing facility in Wisconsin to serve the growing global biologics development market, a recently completed significant expansion of oral solid controlled release production capacity in Kentucky, the scaling-up of commercial manufacturing capacity for metered-dose inhalers and continuing development and scale-up of the SMARTag&#8482; antibody-drug conjugate technology to address the growing need for improved targeted delivery of therapeutic compounds directly to tumor sites. 

In addition, we intend to increase our presence in emerging/high-growth geographies and other markets where we are currently only narrowly represented, including China, Brazil, Japan, and the animal health market. 

Capitalize on Our Substantial Technology Platform 

We have a broad and diverse technology platform that is supported by approximately 1,100 &#32;patents and patent applications in approximately 100 families across advanced delivery technologies, drug and biologics formulation and manufacturing. This platform is supported by substantial know-how and trade secrets that provide us with additional competitive advantages. For example, we have significant softgel fill and formulation databases and substantial softgel regulatory approval expertise, and as a result, approximately 90% of NCE softgel approvals by the FDA over the last 25 years have been developed and supplied by us . 

In addition to resolving product challenges for our customers&#8217; molecules, for more than two decades we have applied our technology platforms and development expertise to proactively develop proof-of-concept products, whether improved versions of existing drugs, new generic formulations or innovative consumer health products. In the consumer health area, we file product dossiers with regulators in relevant jurisdictions for self-created products, which help contribute sustainable growth to our consumer health business. We expect to continue to seek proactive development and other non-traditional relationships to increase demand for and value realized from our technology platforms. These activities have provided us with opportunities to capture an increased share of end-market value through out-licensing, profit-sharing and other arrangements. 

&#160; 

Leverage Existing Infrastructure and Operational Discipline to Drive Profitable Growth 

Through our existing infrastructure, including our global network of operating locations and programs, we promote operational discipline and drive margin expansion. With our Lean Manufacturing and Lean Six Sigma programs, a global procurement function and conversion cost productivity metrics in place, we have created a culture of functional excellence and cost accountability. We intend to continue to apply this discipline to further leverage our operational network for profitable growth. Since fiscal 2009, we have expanded gross margin by over 400 basis points &#32;and Adjusted EBITDA margin by over 200 basis points . 

&#160; 

Pursue Strategic Acquisitions and Licensing to Build upon our Existing Platform 

We operate in highly fragmented markets in both our advanced delivery technologies and development solutions businesses. Within those markets, the five top players represent nearly 35% and 10% of the total market share, respectively, by revenue. Our broad platform, global infrastructure and diversified customer base provide us with a strong foundation from which to consolidate within these markets and to generate operating leverage through such acquisitions. Since fiscal 2012, we have executed nine &#32;transactions, investing more than $700 million, and have demonstrated an ability to efficiently and effectively integrate these acquisitions. 

While we are rigorously focused on driving Catalent's organic growth, we intend to continue to opportunistically source and execute bolt-on strategic acquisitions within our existing business areas, as well as to undertake transactions that provide us with expansion opportunities within new geographic markets or adjacent market segments. We have a dedicated corporate development team in place to identify these opportunities and have a rigorous and financially disciplined process for evaluating, executing and integrating such acquisitions. 

Our Reportable Segments 

In fiscal 2016, the Company engaged in a business reorganization which was finalized in the fourth quarter to better align its internal business unit structure with its "Follow the Molecule" strategy. Under the revised structure, we have created a Drug Delivery Solutions ("DDS") operating segment which encompasses all of our modified release technologies; prefilled syringes and other injectable formats; blow-fill seal unit dose development and manufacturing; biologic cell line development; analytical services; micronization technologies; and other conventional oral dose forms under a single DDS management team. Additionally, as part of the re-alignment, we have created a stand-alone Clinical Supply Services ("CSS") operating segment and management team with a sole focus on providing global clinical supply chain management services that aim to speed our customers' drugs to market. Further, as a result of the business unit re-alignment, our Softgel Technologies business now reports as a distinct operating segment. Our operating segments are the same as our reporting segments. All prior period comparative segment information has been restated to reflect the current reportable segments in accordance with ASC 280 Segment Reporting as discussed in Note 1 &#32;to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K (the "Consolidated Financial Statements"). Our offerings and services are summarized below by reporting segment. 

(Dollars in millions) 

Segment 

Offerings and Services 

Fiscal 2016 

Revenue* &#160; 

Softgel Technologies 

Formulation, development and manufacturing of prescription and consumer health soft capsules, or "softgels" including traditional softgel capsules (in which the shell is made from animal-derived materials) and Vegicaps and OptiShell capsules (in which the shell is made from vegetable-derived materials). 

$ 

775.0 

Drug Delivery Solutions 

Formulation, development and manufacturing of prescription and consumer and animal health products using our proprietary OptiMelt, OptiPact, OptiForm and Zydis technologies, other proprietary and conventional drug delivery technologies such as prefilled syringes; blow-fill seal unit dose manufacturing including our ADVASEPT technology; biologic cell line development including our GPEx and SMARTag technologies; and analytical and bioanalytical development; and testing services. 

$ 

806.4 

Clinical Supply Services 

Manufacturing, packaging, labeling, storage, distribution and inventory management for global clinical trials of drugs and biologics for customer required patient kits; FastChain demand-led clinical supply service; clinical e-solutions and informatics; and global comparator sourcing services. 

$ 

307.5 

*Segment Revenue includes inter-segment revenue of $40.8 million . 

This table should be read in conjunction with Note 17 &#32;to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

&#160; 

Softgel Technologies 

Through our Softgel Technologies segment, we provide formulation, development and manufacturing services for soft capsules, or &#8220;softgels,&#8221; which we first commercialized in the 1930s and have continually enhanced. We are the market leader in overall softgel manufacturing, and hold the leading market position in the prescription arena. Our principal softgel technologies include traditional softgel capsules, in which the shell is made of animal-derived gelatin, and Vegicaps and OptiShell capsules, in which the shell is made from vegetable-derived materials. Softgel capsules are used in a broad range of customer products, including prescription drugs, over-the-counter medications, dietary supplements and unit-dose cosmetics. Softgel capsules encapsulate liquid, paste or oil-based active compounds in solution or suspension within an outer shell, filling and sealing the capsule simultaneously. We typically perform all encapsulation for a product within one of our softgel facilities, with active ingredients provided by customers or sourced directly by us. Softgels have historically been used to solve formulation challenges or technical issues for a specific drug, to help improve the clinical performance of compounds, to provide important market differentiation, particularly for over-the-counter compounds, and to provide safe handling of hormonal, potent and cytotoxic drugs. We also participate in the softgel vitamin, mineral and supplement business in selected regions around the world. With the 2001 introduction of our vegetable-derived softgel shell, Vegicaps capsules, consumer health manufacturers have been able to extend the softgel dose form to a broader range of active ingredients and serve patient/consumer populations that were previously inaccessible due to religious, dietary or cultural preferences. In recent years, we have extended this platform to pharmaceutical products via our OptiShell offering. Our Vegicaps and OptiShell capsules are protected by patents in most major global markets. Physician and patient studies we have conducted have demonstrated a preference for softgels versus traditional tablet and hard capsule dose forms in terms of ease of swallowing, real or perceived speed of delivery, ability to remove or eliminate unpleasant odor or taste and, for physicians, perceived improved patient adherence with dosing regimens. Representative customers of Softgel Technologies include Pfizer, Novartis, Bayer, GlaxoSmithKline, Teva, Johnson &#38; Johnson and Allergan. 

Our Softgel Technologies segment represents 41% , 42%, and 46% of the segments' aggregate revenue before inter-segment eliminations for fiscal 2016 , 2015 and 2014, respectively. 

Drug Delivery Solutions 

Our Drug Delivery Solutions segment provides various complex advanced formulation delivery technologies, and related integrated solutions including: development and manufacturing of a broad range of oral dose forms including fast-dissolve tablets and both proprietary and conventional controlled release products, and delivery of pharmaceuticals, biologics and biosimilars administered via injection, inhalation and ophthalmic routes, using both traditional and advanced technologies. Representative customers of DDS include Pfizer, GlaxoSmithKline, Roche, Teva, Eli Lilly, Johnson &#38; Johnson and Allergan. 

We provide comprehensive pre-formulation, development, and both clinical and commercial scale for most traditional and advanced oral solid dose formats, including uncoated and coated tablets, powder/pellet/bead-filled two piece hard capsules, lozenges, powders and other forms for immediate and modified release prescription, consumer and animal health products. We have substantial experience developing and scaling up products requiring accelerated development timelines, requiring specialized handling, complex technology transfers, or specialized manufacturing processes. 

&#32;We launched our orally dissolving tablet business in 1986 with the introduction of Zydis tablets, a unique oral dosage form that is freeze-dried in its package, can be swallowed without water, and typically dissolves in the mouth in less than three seconds. Most often used for indications, drugs and patient groups that can benefit from rapid oral disintegration, the Zydis technology is utilized in a wide range of products and indications, including treatments for a variety of central nervous system-related conditions such as migraines, Parkinson&#8217;s Disease, schizophrenia, and pain relief and consumer healthcare products targeting allergy relief. Zydis tablets continue to be used in new ways by our customers as we extend the application of the technology to new categories, such as for immunotherapies, vaccines and biologics delivery. 

Our range of injectable manufacturing offerings includes filling drugs or biologics into pre-filled syringes and glass-free ADVASEPT vials, with flexibility to accommodate other formats within our existing network, increasingly focused on complex pharmaceuticals and biologics. With our range of technologies we are able to meet a wide range of specifications, timelines and budgets. The complexity of the manufacturing process, the importance of experience and know-how, regulatory compliance, and high start-up capital requirements create significant barriers to entry and, as a result, limit the number of competitors in the market. For example, blow-fill-seal is an advanced aseptic processing technology, which uses a continuous process to form, fill with drug, and seal a plastic container in a sterile environment. Blow-fill-seal units are currently used for a variety of pharmaceuticals in liquid form, such as respiratory, ophthalmic and otic products. We are a leader in the outsourced blow-fill-seal market, and operate one of the largest capacity commercial manufacturing blow-fill-seal facilities in the world. Our sterile blow-fill-seal manufacturing has significant capacity and flexibility of manufacturing configurations. This business provides 

&#160; 

flexible and scalable solutions for unit-dose delivery of complex formulations such as suspensions and emulsions. Further, the business provides engineering and manufacturing solutions related to complex containers. Our regulatory expertise can lead to decreased time to commercialization, and our dedicated development production lines support feasibility, stability and clinical runs. We plan to continue to expand our product line in existing and new markets, and in higher margin specialty products with additional respiratory, ophthalmic, injectable and nasal applications. 

Our fast-growing biologics offerings include our formulation development and cell-line manufacturing based on our advanced and patented GPEx technology, which is used to develop stable, high-yielding mammalian cell lines for both innovator and biosimilar biologic compounds. Our GPEx technology can provide rapid cell-line development, high biologics production yields, flexibility and versatility. We believe our development-stage SMARTag next-generation antibody-drug conjugate technology will provide more precision targeting for delivery of drugs to tumors or other locations, with improved safety versus existing technologies. Our biologics facility in Madison, Wisconsin has the capability and capacity to produce clinical-scale biologic supplies; combined with offerings from our other businesses and external partners, we provide the broadest range of technologies and services supporting the development and launch of new biologic entities, biosimilars or biobetters to bring a product from gene to market commercialization, faster. 

We also offer analytical chemical and cell-based testing and scientific services, stability testing, respiratory products formulation and manufacturing, micronization and particle engineering services, regulatory consulting, and bioanalytical testing for biologic products. Our respiratory product capabilities include development and manufacturing services for inhaled products for delivery via metered dose inhalers, dry powder inhalers and intra-nasal sprays. We also provide formulation development and clinical and commercial manufacturing for conventional and specialty oral dose forms. We provide global regulatory and clinical support services for our customers&#8217; regulatory and clinical strategies during all stages of development. Demand for our offerings is driven by the need for scientific expertise and depth and breadth of services offered, as well as by the reliable supply thereof, including quality, execution and performance. 

Our Drug Delivery Solutions segment represents 43% , 43% and 38% of the segments' aggregate revenue before inter-segment eliminations for fiscal 2016 , 2015 and 2014, respectively. 

Clinical Supply Services 

Our Clinical Supply Services segment provides manufacturing, packaging, storage and inventory management for drugs and biologics in clinical trials. We offer customers flexible solutions for clinical supplies production, and provide distribution and inventory management support for both simple and complex clinical trials. This includes dose form manufacturing or over-encapsulation where needed; supplying placebos, comparator drug procurement and clinical packages and kits for physicians and patients; inventory management; investigator kit ordering and fulfillment; and return supply reconciliation and reporting. We support trials in all regions of the world through our facilities and distribution network. In fiscal 2016, we commenced an expansion of our Singapore facility by building new flexible cGMP space and we introduced clinical supply services at our 200,000 square foot facility in Japan, expanding our Asia Pacific capabilities. Additionally, in fiscal 2013, we established our first clinical supply services facility in China as a joint venture and assumed full ownership in fiscal 2015. We are the leading provider of integrated development solutions and one of the leading providers of clinical trial supplies and respiratory products. Representative customers of Clinical Supply Services include Astellas, GlaxoSmithKline, Eli Lilly, Merck, Pfizer and Shire. 

Our Clinical Supply Services segment represents 16% , 15% and 16% of the segments' aggregate revenue before inter-segment eliminations for fiscal 2016 , 2015 and 2014, respectively. 

Development and Product Supply Chain Solutions 

In addition to our proprietary offerings, we are also differentiated in the market by our ability to bring together our development solutions and advanced delivery technologies to offer innovative development and product supply solutions which can be combined or tailored in many ways to enable our customers to take their drugs, biologics and consumer and animal health products from laboratory to market. Once a product is on the market, we can provide comprehensive integrated product supply, from the sourcing of the bulk active ingredient to comprehensive manufacturing and packaging to the testing required for release to distribution. Customer solutions we develop are flexible, scalable and creative, so that they meet the unique needs of both large and emerging companies, and for products of all sizes. We believe that our development and product supply solutions will continue to contribute to our future growth. 

&#160; 

Sales and Marketing 

Our target customers include large pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, mid-size, emerging and specialty pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, and consumer health companies, along with companies in other selected healthcare market segments such as animal health and medical devices and companies in adjacent industries, such as cosmetics. We have longstanding, extensive relationships with leading pharmaceutical and biotechnology customers. In fiscal 2016 , we did business with 87 of the top 100 branded drug marketers, 22 of the top 25 generics marketers, 24 of the top 25 biologics marketers, and 21 of the top 25 consumer health marketers globally , as well as with more than 1,000 &#32;other customers. Faced with access, pricing and reimbursement pressures as well as other market challenges, large pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies have increasingly sought partners to enhance the clinical competitiveness of their drugs and biologics and improve the productivity of their research and development activities, while reducing their fixed cost base. Many mid-size, emerging and specialty pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, while facing the same pricing and market pressures, have chosen not to build a full infrastructure, but rather to partner with other companies through licensing agreements or outsourcing to access the critical skills, technologies and services required to bring their products to market. Consumer health companies require rapidly developed, innovative dose forms and formulations to keep up in the fast-paced over-the-counter medication and vitamins markets. These market segments are all critically important to our growth, but require distinct solutions, marketing and sales approaches, and market strategy. 

We follow a hybrid demand generation organization model, with global and growth account teams offering the full breadth of Catalent&#8217;s solutions to selected accounts, and technical specialist teams providing the in-depth technical knowledge and practical experience essential for each individual offering. All business development and field sales representatives ultimately report to a single sales head, and significant ongoing investments are made to enhance their skills and capabilities. Our sales organization currently consists of more than 150 &#32;full-time, experienced sales professionals, supported by inside sales and sales operations. We also have built a dedicated strategic marketing team, providing strategic market and product planning and management for our offerings. As part of our marketing efforts, we participate in major trade shows relevant to the offerings globally and ensure adequate visibility to our offerings and solutions through a comprehensive print and on-line advertising and publicity program. We believe that Catalent is a strong brand with high overall awareness in our established markets and target customers, and that our brand identity has become a competitive advantage for us. 

Global Accounts 

We manage selected accounts globally due to their substantial current business and growth potential by establishing strategic plans, goals and targets. We recorded approximately 29% &#32;of our total revenue in fiscal 2016 &#32;from these global accounts. Each global account is assigned a dedicated business development professional with substantial industry experience. These account leaders, along with the leadership of the sales and marketing function and other members of the executive leadership team, are responsible for managing and extending the overall account relationship. Growing sales, profitability, and increasing account penetration are key goals and are directly linked to compensation. Account leaders also work closely with the rest of the sales organization to ensure alignment around critical priorities for the accounts. 

&#160; 

Emerging, Specialty and Virtual Accounts 

Emerging, specialty and virtual pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies are expected to be critical drivers of industry growth globally. Historically, many of these companies have chosen not to build a full infrastructure, but rather partner with other companies to produce their products. We expect them to continue to do so in the future, providing a critical source for future integrated solutions demand. We expect to continue to increase our penetration of geographic clusters of emerging companies in North America, Europe, South America and Asia. We regularly use active pipeline and product screening and customer targeting to identify the optimal candidates for partnering based on product profiles, funding status, and relationships, to ensure that our technical sales specialists and field sales representatives develop custom solutions designed to address the specific needs of customers in the market. 

Contractual Arrangements 

We generally enter into a broad range of contractual arrangements with our customers, including agreements with respect to feasibility, development, supply, licenses, and quality. The terms of these contracts vary significantly depending on the offering and customer requirements. Some of our agreements may include a variety of revenue arrangements such as fee-for-service, royalties, profit-sharing and fixed fees. We employ a range of capacity access approaches, from standard to completely dedicated capacity models, based on consumer and product needs. We generally secure pricing and contract mechanisms in our supply agreements that allow for periodic resetting of pricing terms and, in some cases, these agreements provide for our ability to renegotiate pricing in the event of certain price increases for the raw materials utilized in the products we make. Our typical supply agreements include indemnification from our customers for product liability and intellectual property matters and caps on our contractual liabilities, subject in each case to negotiated exclusions. In addition, our manufacturing supply agreement 

&#160; 

terms range from three to ten years with regular renewals of one to three years, although some of our agreements are terminable upon much shorter notice periods, such as 30 or 90 days. For our development solutions offerings, we may enter into master service agreements, which provide for standardized terms and conditions and make it easier and faster for customers with multiple development needs to access our offerings. 

Backlog 

While we generally have long-term supply agreements that provide for a revenue stream over a period of years, our backlog represents, as of a point in time, future service revenues from work not yet completed. For our Softgel and DDS segments, backlog represents firm orders for manufacturing services and includes minimum volumes, where applicable. For our Clinical Supply Services segment, backlog represents estimated future service revenues from work not yet completed under signed contracts. Using these methods of reporting backlog, as of June 30, 2016 , our backlog was approximately $827.5 million , as compared to approximately $827.6 million &#32;as of June 30, 2015 , including approximately $292.1 million &#32;and $246.0 million , respectively, related to our Clinical Supply Services segment. We expect to recognize approximately 85% of revenue from the backlog in existence as of June 30, 2016 &#32;by the completion of the fiscal year ending June 30, 2017 . 

To the extent projects are delayed, the timing of our revenue could be affected. If a customer cancels an order, we may be reimbursed for the costs we have incurred. For orders that are placed inside a contractual firm period, we generally have a contractual right to payment in the event of cancellation. Fluctuations in our reported backlog levels also result from the timing and order pattern of our customers who often seek to manage their level of inventory on hand. Because of customer ordering patterns, our backlog reported for certain periods may fluctuate and may not be indicative of future results. 

Manufacturing Capabilities 

We operate manufacturing facilities, development centers and sales offices throughout the world. We have thirty-three &#32;facilities (three locations each operate as two facilities for different reporting segments) on five continents with 5.1 million &#32;square feet of manufacturing, lab and related space. Our manufacturing capabilities include the full suite of competencies relevant to support each site&#8217;s activities, including regulatory, quality assurance and in-house validation. 

&#160; 

We operate our plants in accordance with cGMP. More than half of our facilities are registered with the FDA , with the remaining facilities being registered with other applicable regulatory agencies, such as the EMA. In some cases, our facilities are registered with multiple regulatory agencies. 

We have invested approximately $403.0 million &#32;of cash outflows in our manufacturing facilities since fiscal 2014 &#32;through improvements and expansions in our facilities, including approximately $139.6 million &#32;on capital expenditures in fiscal 2016 . We believe that our facilities and equipment are in good condition, are well maintained and are able to operate at or above present levels for the foreseeable future, in all material respects. 

Our manufacturing operations are focused on employee health and safety, regulatory compliance, operational excellence, continuous improvement, and process standardization across the organization. In fiscal 2016 , we achieved approximately 97% on-time shipment delivery versus customer request date across our network as a result of this focus. Our manufacturing operations are structured around an enterprise management philosophy and methodology that utilizes principles and tools common to a number of quality management programs, including Lean Six Sigma and Lean Manufacturing. 

Raw Materials 

We use a broad and diverse range of raw materials in the design, development and manufacture of our products. This includes, but is not limited to, key materials such as gelatin, starch, and iota carrageenan for our Softgel Technologies segment; packaging films for our Clinical Supply Services segment, and resin for our blow-fill-seal business in our Drug Delivery Solutions segment. The raw materials that we use are sourced externally on a global basis. Globally, our supplier relationships could be interrupted due to natural disasters and international supply disruptions, including those caused by pandemics, geopolitical and other issues. For example, the supply of gelatin is obtained from a limited number of sources. In addition, much of the gelatin we use is bovine-derived. Past concerns of contamination from Bovine Spongiform Encephalopathy (&#8220;BSE&#8221;) have narrowed the number of possible sources of particular types of gelatin. If there were a future disruption in the supply of gelatin from any one or more key suppliers, there can be no assurance that we could obtain an alternative supply from our other suppliers. If future restrictions were to emerge on the use of bovine-derived gelatin from certain geographic sources due to concerns of contamination from BSE, any such restriction could hinder our ability to timely supply our customers with products and the use of alternative non-bovine-derived gelatin for specific customer products could be subject to lengthy formulation, testing and regulatory approval. 

&#160; 

We work very closely with our suppliers to assure continuity of supply while maintaining excellence in material quality and reliability, and we have an active and effective supplier audit program. We continually evaluate alternate sources of supply, although we do not frequently pursue regulatory qualification of alternative sources for key raw materials due to the strength of our existing supplier relationships, the reliability of our current supplier base and the time and expense associated with the regulatory process. Although a change in suppliers could require significant effort or investment by us in circumstances where the items supplied are integral to the performance of our products or incorporate specialized material such as gelatin, we do not believe that the loss of any existing supply arrangement would have a material adverse effect on our business. See &#8220;Risk Factors&#8212;Risks Relating to Our Business and Industry&#8212;Our future results of operations are subject to fluctuations in the costs, availability, and suitability of the components of the products we manufacture, including active pharmaceutical ingredients, excipients, purchased components, and raw materials.&#8221; 

Competition 

We compete on several fronts both domestically and internationally, including with other companies that offer advanced delivery technologies, outsourced dose form manufacturing, or development services to pharmaceutical, biotechnology and consumer health companies based in North America, South America, Europe and the Asia-Pacific region. We also may compete with the internal operations of those pharmaceutical, biotechnology and consumer health manufacturers that choose to source these services internally, where possible. 

&#160; 

Competition is driven by proprietary technologies and know-how (where relevant), consistency of operational performance, quality, price, value and speed. While we do have competitors that compete with us in our individual offerings, we do not believe we have competition from any directly comparable companies. 

Research and Development Costs 

Our research activities are primarily directed toward the development of new offerings and manufacturing process improvements. Costs incurred in connection with the development of new offerings and manufacturing process improvements are recorded within selling, general, and administrative expenses. Such research and development costs included in selling, general, and administrative expenses amounted to $7.6 million , $12.2 million &#32;and $17.5 million &#32;for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2016 , June 30, 2015 &#32;and June 30, 2014 , respectively. Costs incurred in connection with research and development services we provide to customers and services performed in support of the commercial manufacturing process for customers are recorded within cost of sales. Such research and development costs included in cost of sales amounted to $47.4 million , $41.3 million &#32;and $34.0 million &#32;for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2016 , June 30, 2015 &#32;and June 30, 2014 , respectively. 

Employees 

As of June 30, 2016 , we had approximately 9,200 employees in thirty-three facilities on five continents: eleven &#32;facilities are in the United States, with certain employees at one facility being represented by a labor organization with their terms and conditions of employment being subject to a collective bargaining agreement. National works councils and/or labor organizations are active at all twelve &#32;of our European facilities consistent with labor environments/laws in European countries. Similar relationships with labor organizations or national works councils exist in our plants in Argentina, Brazil, and Australia. Our management believes that our employee relations are satisfactory. 

&#160; 

&#160; 

North America 

Europe 

South America 

Asia Pacific 

Total 

Approximate Number of Employees 

3,900 

3,600 

800 

9,200 

Intellectual Property 

We rely on a combination of know-how, trade secrets, patents, copyrights and trademarks and other intellectual property laws, nondisclosure and other contractual provisions and technical measures to protect a number of our offerings, services and intangible assets. These proprietary rights are important to our ongoing operations. Certain of our operations and products are under intellectual property licenses from third parties, and in certain instances we license our technology to third parties. We also have a long track record of innovation across our lines of business, and, to further encourage active innovation, we have developed incentive compensation systems linked to patent filings and other recognition and reward programs for scientists and non-scientists alike. 

We have applied in the United States and certain foreign countries for registration of a number of trademarks, service marks and patents, some of which have been registered and issued, and also hold common law rights in various trademarks and 

&#160; 

service marks. We hold approximately 1,100 &#32;patents and patent applications worldwide in advanced drug delivery and biologics formulations and technologies, and manufacturing and other areas. 

We hold patents and license rights relating to certain aspects of our formulations, nutritional and pharmaceutical dosage forms, mammalian cell engineering, and sterile manufacturing services. We also hold patents relating to certain processes and products. We have a number of pending patent applications in the United States and certain foreign countries, and intend to pursue additional patents as appropriate. We have enforced and will continue to enforce our intellectual property rights in the United States and worldwide. 

We do not consider any particular patent, trademark, license, franchise or concession to be material to our overall business. 

Regulatory Matters 

The manufacture, distribution and marketing of healthcare products are subject to extensive ongoing regulation by the FDA, other United States (&#8220;U.S.&#8221;) governmental authorities and foreign regulatory authorities. Certain of our subsidiaries are required to register for permits and/or licenses with, and must comply with the operating, cGMP, quality and security standards of, applicable domestic and foreign healthcare regulators, including the FDA, the Drug Enforcement Agency (the &#8220;DEA&#8221;), the Department of Health and Human Services (the &#8220;DHHS&#8221;), the equivalent agencies of European Union (the &#8220;EU&#8221;) member states and various state boards of pharmacy, state health departments and comparable foreign agencies, as well as various accrediting bodies, each depending upon the type of operations and the locations of distribution and sale of the products manufactured or services provided by those subsidiaries. 

&#160; 

In addition, certain of our subsidiaries are subject to other healthcare laws, including the United States Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, the Public Health Service Act, the Controlled Substances Act and comparable state and foreign laws and regulations in certain of their activities. 

We are also subject to various federal, state, local, foreign and transnational laws, regulations and recommendations, both in the United States and abroad, relating to safe working conditions, laboratory and distribution practices and the use, transportation and disposal of hazardous or potentially hazardous substances. In addition, U.S. and international import and export laws and regulations require us to abide by certain standards relating to the cross-border transit of finished goods, raw materials and supplies and the handling of information. We are also subject to various other laws and regulations concerning the conduct of our foreign operations, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Anti-Bribery Act and other anti-bribery laws and laws pertaining to the accuracy of our internal books and records. 

The costs associated with complying with the various applicable federal, state, local, foreign and transnational regulations could be significant and the failure to comply with such legal requirements could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. See &#8220;Risk Factors&#8212;Risks Relating to Our Business and Industry&#8212; Failure to comply with existing and future regulatory requirements could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition ,&#8221; for additional discussion of the costs associated with complying with the various regulations. 

In fiscal 2016 , we were subject to 49 regulatory audits and, over the last five fiscal years, we successfully completed more than 250 regulatory audits , with more than 50% resulting in no reported observations. 

Quality Assurance 

We are committed to ensuring and maintaining the highest standard of regulatory compliance while providing high quality products to our customers. To meet these commitments, we have developed and implemented a Catalent-wide quality management system throughout the organization. We have more than 1,100 &#32;employees around the globe focusing on quality and regulatory compliance. Our senior management team is actively involved in setting quality policies, standards and internal position papers as well as managing internal and external quality performance. Our quality assurance department provides quality leadership and supervises our quality systems programs. An internal audit program monitors compliance with applicable regulations, standards and internal policies. In addition, our facilities are subject to periodic inspection by the FDA, the DEA and other equivalent local, state and foreign regulatory authorities and customers. All FDA, DEA and other regulatory inspectional observations have been resolved or are on track to be completed at the prescribed timeframe provided in commitments to the applicable agency. We believe that our operations are in compliance in all material respects with the regulations under which our facilities are governed. 

&#160; 

Environmental Matters 

Our operations are subject to a variety of environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, including those of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (the &#8220;EPA&#8221;) and equivalent state, local and foreign regulatory agencies in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate. These laws and regulations govern, among other things, air emissions, wastewater discharges, the use, handling and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes, soil and groundwater contamination and employee health and safety. Our manufacturing facilities use, in varying degrees, hazardous substances in their processes. These substances include, among others, chlorinated solvents, and in the past chlorinated solvents were used at one or more of our facilities, including a number we no longer own or operate. As at our current facilities, contamination at such formerly owned or operated properties can result and has resulted in liability to us, for which we have recorded appropriate reserves as needed. We believe that our operations are in compliance in all material respects with the environment, health and safety regulations applicable to our facilities. 

Available Information 

We file annual, quarterly and special reports and other information with the SEC. Our filings with the SEC are available to the public on the SEC&#8217;s website at www.sec.gov. Those filings are also available to the public on, or accessible through, our website for free via the &#8220;Investors&#8221; section at www.catalent.com. 

The information we file with the SEC or contained on or accessible through our corporate website or any other website that we may maintain is not incorporated by reference and is not part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. You may also read and copy, at SEC prescribed rates, any document we file with the SEC at the SEC&#8217;s Public Reference Room located at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington D.C. 20549. You can call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 to obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room. 

&#160; 

