 ITEM 1. DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS 

&#160;

History and Organization

YUMMIES, INC., (hereinafter "The Company") was originally incorporated on June 11, 1998, pursuant to the Nevada Business Corporation Act. Its Articles of Incorporation provide for authorized capital of Fifty Million (50,000,000) shares of common stock with a $0.001 par value. The Company was formed with the stated purpose of engaging in the business of rental of boats and personal water craft and engaging in any other lawful business activity. In pursuing its business objective, the Company undertook offering of 40,000 shares of its common stock at $1.00 share pursuant to Rule 504 of Regulation D, as promulgated by the US Securities and Exchange Commission, and pursuant to sate law exemptions from registration in the States of Utah and Florida. The specific purpose of the offering was to allow the Company to raise sufficient funds to purchase one water ski boat with trailer to be rented to recreational users at various lakes in the Wasatch front. Specifically the use of proceeds provided for the below allocations, assuming the maximum was sold:

Costs of Offering

&#160; $

10,000

&#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; Acquisition of Ski boat &#38; Trailer

&#160; $

25,000

&#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; Operating Capital

&#160; $ 

5,000

&#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; Total:

&#160; $

40,000

&#160; 

Because of changes in Rule 504 that became effective April 7, 1999, the Company was unable to offer its securities for sale past that date, having sold only 17,500 shares and raising $17,500. After that point in time the Company sought other avenues for accomplishing its goal. Those included raising additional monies through a private placement, seeking financing for part of the costs of the boat &#38; trailer, and looking at used boats rather than new boats. None of these were successful. The ultimate result of the Company's efforts was that it does not have sufficient funds to pursue its initial business plan. As of October 31, 2000 the Company's assets consisted of $12,029 on deposit at the Company's bank.

&#160;

The Company has never engaged in an active trade or business throughout the period from inception to date. By January of 2001, because of the limited capitalization of the company, management saw no alternatives other than abandoning its original business plan and seeking other business opportunities which its limited capital might support. Management believed that the most cost effective direction for the Company to pursue would be to locate a suitable merger or acquisition candidate. Because this represented a complete change from the use of funds set forth in the Rule 504 placement, a special shareholders meeting was held on February 5, 2001 to discuss the meeting and vote on certain matters. Specifically these were:(1) to re-elect Dianne Hatton-Ward as the sole director; (2) to authorize a change, as set forth in the proxy statement, in the use of proceeds raised in the Company's offering made under Regulation D, Rule 504 and; (3) to authorize a 6 to 1 forward split of the Company's outstanding shares while maintaining the authorized shares at 50,000,000 and the par value at $.001. Because the matter affected a change in the use of funds which had been raised under the 504 placement, management agreed to abstain from voting its shares and allow the matters above to be decided by a majority of the holders of the 17,500 shares sold. All matters were approved at the February 5 th meeting by a majority vote on the 17,500 shares held by non-affiliates and the forward split became effective that date. The Company has since been in the development stage and has been engaged in the activity of seeking profitable business opportunities.

Business.

Other than the above-referenced matters and seeking and investigating potential assets, properties or businesses to acquire, the Company has had no business operations since inception. To the extent that the Company intends to continue to seek the acquisition of assets, property or business that may benefit the Company and its stockholders, it is essentially a "blank check" company. Because the Company has limited assets and conducts no business, management anticipates that any such acquisition would require it to issue shares of its common stock as the sole consideration for the acquisition. This may result in substantial dilution of the shares of current stockholders. The Company's Board of Directors shall make the final determination whether to complete any such acquisition; the approval of stockholders will not be sought unless required by applicable laws, rules and regulations, its Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws, or contract. The Company makes no assurance that any future enterprise will be profitable or successful.

The Company is not currently engaging in any substantive business activity and has no plans to engage in any such activity in the foreseeable future. In its present form, the Company may be deemed to be a vehicle to acquire or merge with a business or company. The Company does not intend to restrict its search to any particular business or industry, and the areas in which it will seek out acquisitions, reorganizations or mergers may include, but will not be limited to, the fields of high technology, manufacturing, natural resources, service, research and development, communications, transportation, insurance, brokerage, finance and all medically related fields, among others. The Company recognizes that the number of suitable potential business ventures that may be available to it may be extremely limited, and may be restricted to entities who desire to avoid what these entities may deem to be the adverse factors related to an initial public offering ("IPO"). The most prevalent of these factors include substantial time requirements, legal and accounting costs, the inability to obtain an underwriter who is willing to publicly offer and sell shares, the lack of or the inability to obtain the required financial statements for such an undertaking, limitations on the amount of dilution to public investors in comparison to the stockholders of any such entities, along with other conditions or requirements imposed by various federal and state securities laws, rules and regulations. Any of these types of entities, regardless of their prospects, would require the Company to issue a substantial number of shares of its common stock to complete any such acquisition, reorganization or merger, usually amounting to between 80 and 95 percent of the outstanding shares of the Company following the completion of any such transaction; accordingly, investments in any such private entity, if available, would be much more favorable than any investment in the Company.

In the event that the Company engages in any transaction resulting in a change of control of the Company and/or the acquisition of a business, the Company will be required to file with the Commission a Current Report on Form 8-K within the time periods provided for in the form. A filing on Form 8-K also requires the filing of audited financial statements of the business acquired, as well as pro forma financial information consisting of a pro forma condensed balance sheet, pro forma statements of income and accompanying explanatory notes.

Management intends to consider a number of factors prior to making any decision as to whether to participate in any specific business endeavor, none of which may be determinative or provide any assurance of success. These may include, but will not be limited to an analysis of the quality of the entity's management personnel; the anticipated acceptability of any new products or marketing concepts; the merit of technological changes; its present financial condition, projected growth potential and available technical, financial and managerial resources; its working capital, history of operations and future prospects; the nature of its present and expected competition; the quality and experience of its management services and the depth of its management; its potential for further research, development or exploration; risk factors specifically related to its business operations; its potential for growth, expansion and profit; the perceived public recognition or acceptance of its products, services, trademarks and name identification; and numerous other factors which are difficult, if not impossible, to properly or accurately analyze, let alone describe or identify, without referring to specific objective criteria.

Regardless, the results of operations of any specific entity may not necessarily be indicative of what may occur in the future, by reason of changing market strategies, plant or product expansion, changes in product emphasis, future management personnel and changes in innumerable other factors. Further, in the case of a new business venture or one that is in a research and development mode, the risks will be substantial, and there will be no objective criteria to examine the effectiveness or the abilities of its management or its business objectives. Also, a firm market for its products or services may yet need to be established, and with no past track record, the profitability of any such entity will be unproven and cannot be predicted with any certainty.

Management will attempt to meet personally with management and key personnel of the entity sponsoring any business opportunity afforded to the Company, visit and inspect material facilities, obtain independent analysis or verification of information provided and gathered, check references of management and key personnel and conduct other reasonably prudent measures calculated to ensure a reasonably thorough review of any particular business opportunity; however, due to time constraints of management, these activities may be limited.

The Company is unable to predict the time as to when and if it may actually participate in any specific business endeavor. The Company anticipates that proposed business ventures will be made available to it through personal contacts of directors, executive officers and principal stockholders, professional advisors, broker dealers in securities, venture capital personnel, members of the financial community and others who may present unsolicited proposals. In certain cases, the Company may agree to pay a finder's fee or to otherwise compensate the persons who submit a potential business endeavor in which the Company eventually participates. Such persons may include the Company's directors, executive officers, beneficial owners or their affiliates. In this event, such fees may become a factor in negotiations regarding a potential acquisition and, accordingly, may present a conflict of interest for such individuals.

Although the Company has not identified any potential acquisition target, the possibility exists that the Company may acquire or merge with a business or company in which the Company's executive officers, directors, beneficial owners or their affiliates may have an ownership interest. Current Company policy does not prohibit such transactions. Because no such transaction is currently contemplated, it is impossible to estimate the potential pecuniary benefits to these persons.

Further, substantial fees are often paid in connection with the completion of these types of acquisitions, reorganizations or mergers, ranging from a small amount to as much as $250,000. These fees are usually divided among promoters or founders, after deduction of legal, accounting and other related expenses, and it is not unusual for a portion of these fees to be paid to members of management or to principal stockholders as consideration for their agreement to retire a portion of the shares of common stock owned by them. In the event that such fees are paid, they may become a factor in negotiations regarding any potential acquisition by the Company and, accordingly, may present a conflict of interest for such individuals.

&#160;

Principal Products and Services .

The limited business operations of the Company, as now contemplated, involve those of a "blank check" company. The only activities to be conducted by the Company are to manage its current limited assets and to seek out and investigate the acquisition of any viable business opportunity by purchase and exchange for securities of the Company or pursuant to a reorganization or merger through which securities of the Company will be issued or exchanged.

Distribution Methods of the Products or Services.

Management will seek out and investigate business opportunities through every reasonably available fashion, including personal contacts, professionals, securities broker dealers, venture capital personnel, members of the financial community and others who may present unsolicited proposals; the Company may also advertise its availability as a vehicle to bring a company to the public market through a "reverse" reorganization or merger.

Status of any Publicly Announced New Product or Service.

None; not applicable.

Competitive Business Conditions.

Management believes that there are literally thousands of "blank check" companies engaged in endeavors similar to those engaged in by the Company; many of these companies have substantial current assets and cash reserves. Competitors also include thousands of other publicly-held companies whose business operations have proven unsuccessful, and whose only viable business opportunity is that of providing a publicly-held vehicle through which a private entity may have access to the public capital markets. There is no reasonable way to predict the competitive position of the Company or any other entity in the strata of these endeavors; however, the Company, having limited assets and cash reserves, will no doubt be at a competitive disadvantage in competing with entities which have recently completed IPO's, have significant cash resources and have recent operating histories when compared with the complete lack of any substantive operations by the Company for the past several years.

Sources and Availability of Raw Materials and Names of Principal Suppliers.

None; not applicable.

Dependence on One or a Few Major Customers.

None; not applicable.

Patents, Trademarks, Licenses, Franchises, Concessions, Royalty Agreements or Labor Contracts.

None; not applicable.

Need for any Governmental Approval of Principal Products or Services.

Because the Company currently produces no products or services, it is not presently subject to any governmental regulation in this regard. However, in the event that the Company engages in a merger or acquisition transaction with an entity that engages in such activities, it will become subject to all governmental approval requirements to which the merged or acquired entity is subject.

Effect of Existing or Probable Governmental Regulations on Business.

The integrated disclosure system for small business issuers adopted by the Commission in Release No. 34-30968 and effective as of August 13, 1992, substantially modified the information and financial requirements of a "Small Business Issuer," defined to be an issuer that has revenues of less than $25 million; is a U.S. or Canadian issuer; is not an investment company; and if a majority-owned subsidiary, the parent is also a small business issuer; provided, however, an entity is not a small business issuer if it has a public float (the aggregate market value of the issuer's outstanding securities held by non-affiliates) of $25 million or more.

The Commission, state securities commissions and the North American Securities Administrators Association, Inc. ("NASAA") have expressed an interest in adopting policies that will streamline the registration process and make it easier for a small business issuer to have access to the public capital markets. The present laws, rules and regulations designed to promote availability to the small business issuer of these capital markets and similar laws, rules and regulations that may be adopted in the future will substantially limit the demand for "blank check" companies like the Company, and may make the use of these companies obsolete.

Research and Development.

None; not applicable.

Cost and Effects of Compliance with Environmental Laws.

None; not applicable. However, environmental laws, rules and regulations may have an adverse effect on any business venture viewed by the Company as an attractive acquisition, reorganization or merger candidate, and these factors may further limit the number of potential candidates available to the Company for acquisition, reorganization or merger.

Number of Employees.

None. 

