 ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

Forward-Looking Statements 

This annual report contains &#147;forward-looking statements&#148;. All statements other than statements of historical fact are &#147;forward-looking statements&#148; for purposes of federal and state securities laws, including, but not limited to, any projections of earnings, revenue or other financial items; any statements of the plans, strategies and objections of management for future operations; any statements concerning proposed new services or developments; any statements regarding future economic conditions or performance; any statements or belief; and any statements of assumptions underlying any of the foregoing. Forward-looking statements may include the words &#147;may,&#148; &#147;could,&#148; &#147;estimate,&#148; &#147;intend,&#148; &#147;continue,&#148; &#147;believe,&#148; &#147;expect&#148; or &#147;anticipate&#148; or other similar words. These forward-looking statements present our estimates and assumptions only as of the date of this report. Accordingly, readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the dates on which they are made. Except as required by applicable law, including the securities laws of the United States, we do not intend, and undertake no obligation, to update any forward-looking statement. 

Although we believe the expectations reflected in any of our forward-looking statements are reasonable, actual results could differ materially from those projected or assumed in any of our forward-looking statements. Our future financial condition and results of operations, as well as any forward-looking statements, are subject to change and inherent risks and uncertainties. The factors impacting these risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to: 

&#149; our current lack of working capital; 

&#149; inability to raise additional financing; 

&#149; the fact that our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we report our financial condition and results of operations, and they may require our management to make estimates about matters that are inherently uncertain; 

&#149; deterioration in general or regional economic conditions; 

&#149; adverse state or federal legislation or regulation that increases the costs of compliance, or adverse findings by a regulator with respect to existing operations; 

&#149; inability to efficiently manage our operations; 

&#149; inability to achieve future sales levels or other operating results; and 

&#149; the unavailability of funds for capital expenditures. 

Our financial statements are stated in United States Dollars (US$) unless otherwise stated and are prepared in accordance with United States Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.

In this annual report, unless otherwise specified, all references to &#147;common shares&#148; refer to the common shares in our capital stock. 

As used in this annual report on Form 10-K, the terms &#147;we&#148;, &#147;us&#148; &#147;our&#148;, the &#147;Company&#148; and &#147;Alkaline&#148; refer to The Alkaline Water Company Inc., a Nevada corporation, and its wholly-owned subsidiary, Alkaline Water Corp., and Alkaline Water Corp.&#146;s wholly-owned subsidiary, Alkaline 88, LLC (formerly Alkaline 84, LLC), unless otherwise specified. 

Corporate Overview 

Our company offers retail consumers bottled alkaline water in 500ml, 700ml, 1-liter, 3-liter and 1-gallon sizes under the trade name Alkaline88. Our product is produced through an electrolysis process that uses specialized electronic cells coated with a variety of rare earth minerals to produce our 8.8 pH drinking water without the use of any chemicals. Our product also incorporates 84 trace Himalayan salts. The main reason consumers drink our product is for the perceived benefit that a proper pH balance helps fight disease and boosts the immune system and the perception that alkaline water helps to maintain a proper body pH and keeps cells young and hydrated. 

- 5 - 

Our company, The Alkaline Water Company Inc., was incorporated under the laws of the State of Nevada on June 6, 2011 under the name &#147;Global Lines Inc.&#148;. Our business model prior to the acquisition of Alkaline Water Corp. on May 31, 2013 was to provide chauffeuring and transportation services to residents within our local market, primarily providing transportation services such as private school student transport, sightseeing trips, and elderly transportation, and offering transportation to the airport and special events such as proms and weddings. However, as we had not successfully developed our service and had no source of revenue from our business plan, we determined to seek out a new business opportunity to increase value for our stockholders. 

On February 20, 2013, The Alkaline Water Company Inc. (formerly Global Lines Inc.) entered into a non-binding letter of intent with Alkaline 88, LLC (formerly Alkaline 84, LLC), a wholly-owned subsidiary of Alkaline Water Corp., for the acquisition of all of the issued and outstanding securities of the capital of Alkaline 88, LLC. Further to this letter of intent, on May 31, 2013, The Alkaline Water Company Inc. entered into a share exchange agreement with Alkaline Water Corp. and all of its stockholders, and as a result of the closing of this agreement on the same date, Alkaline Water Corp. became a wholly-owned subsidiary of The Alkaline Water Company Inc. Consequently, after the closing of this agreement we adopted the business of Alkaline Water Corp.&#146;s wholly-owned subsidiary, Alkaline 88, LLC. 

Alkaline Water Corp. was incorporated in the State of Arizona on March 7, 2013, and it is the sole stockholder of Alkaline 88, LLC. Alkaline Water Corp. is the wholly-owned subsidiary of The Alkaline Water Company Inc., and Alkaline 88, LLC is Alkaline Water Corp.&#146;s wholly-owned subsidiary. 

Prior to the closing of the share exchange agreement, on May 30, 2013, our company effected a name change by merging with its wholly-owned Nevada subsidiary named &#147;The Alkaline Water Company Inc.&#148; with our company as the surviving corporation under the new name &#147;The Alkaline Water Company Inc.&#148; In addition, on May 30, 2013, our company effected a 15:1 forward stock split of our authorized and issued and outstanding common stock. 

On October 7, 2013, we amended our articles of incorporation to create 100,000,000 shares of preferred stock by filing a Certificate of Amendment to Articles of Incorporation with the Secretary of State of the State of Nevada. The preferred stock may be divided into and issued in series, with such designations, rights, qualifications, preferences, limitations and terms as fixed and determined by our board of directors. 

On October 8, 2013, we designated 20,000,000 shares of the authorized and unissued preferred stock of our company as &#147;Series A Preferred Stock&#148; by filing a Certificate of Designation with the Secretary of State of the State of Nevada. At the time, the Series A Preferred Stock had 10 votes per share. The Series A Preferred Stock is not convertible into shares of our common stock. 

On November 5, 2013, we designated 1,000 shares of the authorized and unissued preferred stock of our company as &#147;10% Series B Convertible Preferred Stock&#148; by filing a Certificate of Designation with the Secretary of State of the State of Nevada. The 10% Series B Convertible Preferred Stock has, among other things, conversion rights, liquidation preferences, dividend rights, redemption rights and conversion rights. 

On December 30, 2015, we effected a 50-for-1 reverse stock split of our authorized and issued and outstanding shares of common stock. As a result of the reverse stock split, the number of authorized shares of common stock of our company decreased from 1,125,000,000 to 22,500,000 and the number of issued and outstanding shares of common stock of our company decreased correspondingly. As a result of the reverse stock split, holders of our Series A Preferred Stock had 0.2 votes per share of Series A Preferred Stock. 

On January 21, 2016, we amended our Articles of Incorporation to increase the number of authorized shares of our common stock from 22,500,000 to 200,000,000 by filing a Certificate of Amendment to Articles of Incorporation with the Secretary of State of the State of Nevada. As a result, the aggregate number of shares that we have the authority to issue is 300,000,000, of which 200,000,000 shares are common stock, with a par value of $0.001 per share, and 100,000,000 shares are preferred stock, with a par value of $0.001 per share. 

On January 22, 2016, we amended the Certificate of Designation for our Series A Preferred Stock by filing an Amendment to Certificate of Designation with the Secretary of State of the State of Nevada. We amended the Certificate of Designation for our Series A Preferred Stock by deleting Section 2.2 of the certificate of designation, which proportionately increases or decreases the number of votes per share of Series A Preferred Stock in the event of any divided or other distribution on our common stock payable in our common stock or a subdivision or consolidation of the outstanding shares of our common stock. Accordingly, holders of Series A Preferred Stock now have 10 votes per share of Series A Preferred Stock, instead of 0.2 votes per share of Series A Preferred Stock.

- 6 - 

On March 30, 2016, we designated 3,000,000 shares of the authorized and unissued preferred stock of our company as &#147;Series C Preferred Stock&#148; by filing a Certificate of Designation with the Secretary of State of the State of Nevada. Each share of the Series C Preferred Stock will be convertible, without the payment of any additional consideration by the holder and at the option of the holder, into one fully paid and non-assessable share of our common stock at any time after (i) we achieve the consolidated revenue of our company and all of its subsidiaries equal to or greater than $15,000,000 in any 12 month period, ending on the last day of any quarterly period of our fiscal year; or (ii) a Negotiated Trigger Event, defined as an event upon which the Series C Preferred Stock will be convertible as may be agreed by our company and the holder in writing from time to time. 

The principal offices of our company are located at 7730 E Greenway Road, Ste. 203, Scottsdale, AZ 85260. Our telephone number is (480) 656-2423. 

Operations 

Alkaline 88, LLC, our operating subsidiary, operates primarily as a marketing and distribution company. Alkaline 88, LLC has entered into exclusive arrangements with Water Engineering Solutions LLC, an entity that is controlled and owned by our President, Chief Executive Officer and Director, Steven P. Nickolas, and our Vice-President, Secretary, Treasurer and Director, Richard A. Wright, for the manufacture and production of our alkaline generating electrolysis system machines. Alkaline 88, LLC has entered into one-year agreement(s) with six different bottling companies in Ohio, Georgia, California, Texas and Arizona to act as co-packers for our product. Our current capacity at all plants exceeds $4,000,000 per month wholesale. Our branding is being coordinated through 602 Design, LLC and our component materials are readily available through multiple vendors. Our principal suppliers are Plastipack Packaging, Polyplastics Co., Van Plastics Inc., Amcor Inc. and Cactus Containers. 

Our product is currently at the expansion phase of its lifecycle. In March 2012 Alkaline 88, LLC did market research on the demand for a bulk alkaline product at the Natural Product Expo West in Anaheim, California. In January 2013, we began the formal launching of our product in Southern California and Arizona. Since then, we have begun to deliver product through approximately 25,000 retail outlets throughout the United States. We are presently in all 50 States and the District of Columbia, although over 50% of our current sales are concentrated in the Southwest and Texas. We have distribution agreements with large national distributors (UNFI, KeHe, Tree of Life and Natures Best, CoreMark and C&#38;S), representing over 150,000 retail establishments. Our current stores include convenience stores, natural food products stores, large ethnic markets and national retailers. Currently, we sell all of our products to our retailers through brokers and distributors. Our larger retail clients bring the water in through their own warehouse distribution network. Our current retail clients are made up of a variety of the following; convenience stores, including 7-11&#146;s; large national retailers, including Albertson&#146;s/Safeway, Kroger companies, and regional grocery chains such as Schnucks, Smart &#38; Final, Jewel-Osco, Sprouts, Bashas&#146;, Bristol Farms, Vallarta, Superior Foods, Brookshire&#146;s, HEB and other companies throughout the United States. In total we are now in 36 of the top 75 (by sales) grocery retailers in the United States. 

In April 2014 we entered into an exclusive territorial distribution agreement with Kalil Bottling Co. on a new single serve 700ml Bottle with a sport cap. This exclusivity is in Arizona and other areas in the Southwestern United States. Kalil Bottling Co. is a direct to store distributor (DSD). In the past fiscal year we have added a number of additional DSD&#146;s in the Southwest and have expanded our product offering to include 500ml and 1 liter bottles. 

In order to continue our expansion, we anticipate that we will be required, in most cases, to continue to give promotional deals throughout 2016 and in subsequent years on a quarterly basis ranging from a 5%-20% discount similar to all other beverage company promotional programs. It has been our experience that most of the retailers have requested some type of promotional introductory program which has included either a $0.25 -$0.50 per unit discount on an initial order; a buy one get one free program; or a free-fill program which includes 1-2 cases of free product per store location. Slotting has only been presented and negotiated in the larger national grocery chains and, in most cases, is offset by product sales. Our slotting fees with our current national retailers do not exceed $600,000 in the aggregate and are offset through product sales. In addition we participate in promotional activities of our distributors, but these fees are not in excess of $1,100,000 and are offset through product sales. 

- 7 - 

Plan of Operations 

In order for us to implement our business plan over the next twelve-month period, we have identified the following milestones that we expect to achieve:

Expansion of Broker Network - We expect to continue to develop our working relationship with our national broker network. We continually meet train and go on sales call with our national broker network in order to take advantage of the momentum currently being created by their efforts. We anticipate a considerable amount of travel and ongoing expenses at an estimated cost during that time of $100,000. 

Increase Manufacturing Capacity &#150; We expect to add one or two new co-packer facilities, strategically located to reduce freight costs and meet future growth objectives. 

Expand Retail Distribution - We are currently in negotiations or have received the new item paperwork from retailers that will introduce our Alkaline 88 product line to retailers representing approximately 35,000 store locations throughout North America. We believe that by the end of fiscal year 2017, we will be in over 35,000 stores. The cost of this retail expansion is expected to be up to $1,500,000 during that time. 

Addition of Support Staff - In order to support expansion efforts and to continue the training and support of our broker network, we will need to hire approximately two more people on the corporate level, which will be hired for the specific purpose of supporting the broker, distributor and retailers and their logistical requirements. We continue to seek and interview candidates to fill our growing need for additional staffing. The additional cost of these new hires is expected to be approximately $250,000 in salary and benefits over the next twelve months. 

Capital Considerations &#150; Our business plan can be adjusted based on the available capital to the business. We anticipate that approximately $2,500,000 is necessary in the near term in order to build-out a national presence for our product and to allow for the purchase of the necessary equipment and facilities over the next twelve months. To fund our expansion in the longer term, we anticipate that we need at least $3,000,000 during fiscal year 2016-2017. 

We believe that cash flow from operations will not meet our present and near-term cash needs and thus we will require additional cash resources, including the sale of equity or debt securities, to meet our planned capital expenditures and working capital requirements for the next 12 months. We estimate that our capital needs over the next 12 months will be up to $3,000,000. We will require additional cash resources to achieve the milestones indicated above. If our own financial resources and future cash-flows from operations are insufficient to satisfy our capital requirements, we may seek to sell additional equity or debt securities or obtain additional credit facilities. The sale of additional equity securities will result in dilution to our stockholders. The incurrence of indebtedness will result in increased debt service obligations and could require us to agree to operating and financial covenants that could restrict our operations or modify our plans to grow the business. Financing may not be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Any failure by us to raise additional funds on terms favorable to us, or at all, will limit our ability to expand our business operations and could harm our overall business prospects. 

Distribution Method for Our Product 

Our distribution network is a broker-distributor-retailer network, whereby brokers represent our products to distributors and retailers. Our target retail markets are: (a) chain and independent health food stores; (b) grocery stores; (c) convenience stores; (d) drug stores; and (e) the mass retail market. 

- 8 - 

Currently we have gained broker representation through the Beacon United Group of brokers, which extend throughout the United States. Across the country and in all categories of retail trade, we are aggressively utilizing both DSD (direct to store deliveries) and warehouse opportunities in the distribution of our products throughout the country. 

We have distribution agreements with large national distributors (UNFI, KeHe, Tree of Life and Natures Best, CoreMark and C&#38;S), representing over 150,000 retail establishments. Our current stores include convenience stores, natural food products stores, large ethnic markets and national retailers. Currently, we sell all of our products to our retailers through brokers and distributors. Our larger retail clients bring the water in through their own warehouse distribution network. Our current retail clients are made up of a variety of the following; convenience stores, including 7-11&#146;s; large national retailers, including Albertson&#146;s/Safeway, Kroger companies, and regional grocery chains such as Schnucks, Smart &#38; Final, Jewel-Osco, Sprouts, Bashas&#146;, Bristol Farms, Vallarta, Superior Foods, Brookshire&#146;s, HEB and other companies throughout the United States. In total we are now in 36 of the top 75 grocery retailers in the United States. 

Dependence on Few Customers 

We have 3 major customers that together account for 57% (24%, 17%, and 15%, respectively) of accounts receivable at March 31, 2016, and 4 customers that together account for 60% (20%, 17%, 12%, and 11%, respectively) of the total revenues earned for the year ended March 31, 2016.

There can be no assurance that such customers will continue to order our products in the same level or at all. A reduction or delay in orders from such customers, including reductions or delays due to market, economic or competitive conditions, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. 

Marketing 

We intend to market our product through our broker network and to avail ourselves to the promotional activities of other companies and competitors regarding the benefits of alkaline water. We anticipate that our initial marketing thrust will be to support the retailers and distribution network with point of sales displays and other marketing materials, strategically adding an extensive public relations program and other marketing as the markets dictate. 

Competition 

The beverage industry is extremely competitive. The principal areas of competition include pricing, packaging, development of new products and flavors, and marketing campaigns. Our product will be competing directly with a wide range of drinks produced by a relatively large number of manufacturers. Most of these brands have enjoyed broad, well-established national recognition for years, through well-funded ad and other marketing campaigns. In addition, companies manufacturing these products generally have far greater financial, marketing, and distribution resources than we have. 

Important factors that will affect our ability to compete successfully include the continued public perception of the benefits of alkaline water, taste and flavor of our product, trade and consumer promotions, the development of new, unique and cutting edge products, attractive and unique packaging, branded product advertising, pricing, and the success of our distribution network. 

We will also be competing to secure distributors who will agree to market our product over those of our competitors, provide stable and reliable distribution, and secure adequate shelf space in retail outlets. The extremely competitive pressures within the beverage categories could result in our product never even being introduced beyond what they can market locally themselves. 

- 9 - 

Our product will compete generally with all liquid refreshments, including bottled water and numerous specialty beverages, such as SoBe, Snapple, Arizona, Vitamin Water, Gatorade, and Powerade. We will compete directly with other alkaline water producers and brands focused on the emerging alkaline beverage market including Eternal, Essentia, Icelandic, Real Water, Aqua Hydrate, Mountain Valley, Qure, Penta, and Alka Power. 

Products offered by our direct competitors are sold in various volumes and prices with prices ranging from approximately $1.39 for a half-liter bottle to $2.99 for a one-liter bottle, and volumes ranging from half-liter bottles to one-and-a half liter bottles. We currently offer our product in a three-liter bottle for a suggested retail price (SRP) of $3.99, one-gallon bottle for an SRP of $4.99, 700 milliliter single serving at an SRP of $1.29, 1 liter at an SRP of $1.79 and a 500 milliliter at an SRP of $0.99. 

Intellectual Property 

Where available, we intend to obtain trademark protection in the United States for a number of trademarks for slogans and product designs. We intend to aggressively assert our rights under trade secret, unfair competition, trademark and copyright laws to protect our intellectual property, including product design, product research and concepts and recognized trademarks. These rights are protected through the acquisition of patents and trademark registrations, the maintenance of trade secrets, the development of trade dress, and, where appropriate, litigation against those who are, in our opinion, infringing these rights. The trademark for Alkaline 88 has been approved and is currently active. 

While there can be no assurance that registered trademarks will protect our proprietary information, we intend to assert our intellectual property rights against any infringer. Although any assertion of our rights could result in a substantial cost to, and diversion of effort by, our company, management believes that the protection of our intellectual property rights will be a key component of our sales and operating strategy. 

Seasonality of Business 

The sales of our products are influenced to some extent by weather conditions in the markets in which we operate. Unusually cold or rainy weather during the summer months may have a temporary effect on the demand for our product and contribute to lower sales, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations for such periods. 

Research and Development Costs During the Last Two Years 

Alkaline 88, LLC has worked with Water Engineering Solutions, LLC, an entity that is controlled and majority-owned by Steven P. Nickolas and Richard A. Wright, on the research and development activities related to the development of our alkaline generating electrolysis system machines, a proprietary alkaline water system. 

Government Regulation 

The advertising, distribution, labeling, production, safety, sale, and transportation in the United States of our product will be subject to: the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act; the Federal Trade Commission Act; the Lanham Act; state consumer protection laws; competition laws; federal, state and local workplace health and safety laws; various federal, state and local environmental protection laws; and various other federal, state and local statutes and regulations. 

Legal requirements apply in many jurisdictions in the United States requiring that deposits or certain ecotaxes or fees be charged for the sale, marketing, and use of certain non-refillable beverage containers. The precise requirements imposed by these measures vary. Other types of statutes and regulations relating to beverage container deposits, recycling, ecotaxes and/or product stewardship also apply in various jurisdictions in the United States. We anticipate that additional, similar legal requirements may be proposed or enacted in the future at the local, state and federal levels in the United States. 

- 10 - 

Any third-party bottling facility that we may choose to utilize in the future and any other such operations will be subject to various environmental protection statutes and regulations, including those relating to the use of water resources and the discharge of wastewater. It will be our policy to comply with any and all such legal requirements. Compliance with these provisions has not had, and we do not expect such compliance to have, any material adverse effect on our capital expenditures, net income or competitive position. 

Employees 

In addition to Steven P. Nickolas, who is our President, Chief Executive Officer and Director, and Richard A. Wright, who is our Vice-President, Secretary, Treasurer and Director, we currently employ 11 full time employees and 1 part-time employee in marketing, accounting and administration. We also work with retail brokers in the United States who are paid on a contract basis. Our operations are overseen directly by management that engages our employees to carry on our business. Our management oversees all responsibilities in the areas of corporate administration, business development, and research. We intend to expand our current management to retain skilled directors, officers, and employees with experience relevant to our business focus. Our management&#146;s relationships with manufacturers, distillers, development/research companies, bottling concerns, and certain retail customers will provide the foundation through which we expect to grow our business in the future. We believe that the skill-set of our management team will be a primary asset in the development of our brands and trademarks. We also plan to form an independent network of contract sales and regional managers, a promotional support team, and several market segment specialists who will be paid on a variable basis. 

