 ITEM 1. BUSINESS. 

CORPORATE BACKGROUND 

Grasshopper Staffing Inc (the &#147;Company&#148;), formally Tomichi Creek Outfitters, was formed in the state of Nevada on June 25, 2013. Our plan of operation is to provide our clients with a once in a lifetime experience to harvest a big game animal or to enjoy a guided scenic tour on the western slopes of the Rocky Mountains. Our operations are located in Sargents, Colorado, which is approximately four hours southwest of Denver. We are nestled just west of the continental divide surrounded by 12,000 to 14,000-foot mountain peaks. This territory is remote, yet accessible, and rich with diverse wildlife which is adjacent to the 1.86 million acre Rio Grande National Forest. The Company has access to over 500,000 acres of private land which is located adjacent to approximately 42 square miles of public land.

On March 2, 2015, the Company entered into a Business Acquisition Agreement and share exchange under which we acquired the business and assets of Grasshopper Staffing Inc. (&#147;Grasshopper Colorado&#148;), formed in the state of Colorado on January 13, 2015. The exchange for $10,651 was represented by 250,000 shares of the Company&#146;s common stock in exchange for all of the outstanding shares of Grasshopper Colorado. The assets purchased include the trademark and website, office supplies and office furniture. Grasshopper Colorado is operating as a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company.

Grasshopper Colorado was founded as a solution to the staffing needs presented in the blossoming cannabis industry in Colorado. Grasshopper Colorado is an agency that serves the Colorado's cannabis employment needs by providing employee recruiting, training, securing proper credentials and ensuring compliance with the ever-changing local and state laws. Grasshopper Colorado specializes in providing budtenders, trimmers, janitorial, security, payroll, armored transport, edible production, infusion specialists, grow consultants, irrigation, retail sales, IT solutions, web design, and event services.

Grasshopper Staffing was founded in 2015 by Amber Wick, Melanie Osterman, Barbara Ianne, and Cheryl Zanotelli, as a solution to the staffing needs presented in the blossoming cannabis industry in Colorado. Grasshopper Staffing is an agency that serves the Colorado's cannabis employment needs by providing employee recruiting, training, securing proper credentials and ensuring compliance with the ever-changing local and state laws. Grasshopper Staffing specializes in providing budtenders, trimmers, janitorial, security, payroll, armored transport, edible production, infusion specialists, grow consultants, irrigation, retail sales, IT solutions, web design, and event services.

Effective February 27, 2015 Jeremy Gindro resigned as Chief Executive Officer, President, Secretary, Treasurer and Director. Effective February 27, 2015, Amber Wick was appointed to the board of directors. Effective March 2, 2015, Amber Wick was appointed as Chief Executive Officer, Secretary, and Treasurer. 

On May 5, 2015, Amber Wick resigned from all officer and director positions with the Company and the board of directors appointed Melanie Osterman to serve as Chief Executive Officer and President until the next regularly scheduled election of directors and officers.

On November 2, 2015 we filed a Certificate of Amendment to our Articles of Incorporation changing the name of our Company from Tomichi Creek Outfitters to Grasshopper Staffing, Inc., a name which more accurately represents our new business. 

Business Overview 

Grasshopper Staffing Inc (the &#147;Company&#148;), formally Tomichi Creek Outfitters, was formed in the state of Nevada on June 25, 2013. We have a plan of operation to provide clients with an opportunity to harvest a trophy size elk or deer or to enjoy a guided scenic tour on the western slopes of the Rocky Mountains. Our operations are located in Sargents, Colorado which is approximately four hours southwest from Denver. We are located just west of the continental divide surrounded by 12,000 to 14,000-foot mountain peaks. This territory is remote yet accessible with diverse wildlife which is adjacent to the 1.86 million acre Rio Grande National Forest Tomichi Creek Outfitters primary business is offering professionally guided Elk or Deer animal hunts. This area of the country is home to trophy size Elk and Mule Deer. Our secondary business includes offering guided scenic tours. Every season offers an opportunity to view diverse wildlife and scenic views for every season of the year. We plan to offer guided options in addition to providing maps and information on where clients can locate what they are interested in if they wish to trek on their own. 

On March 2, 2015, the Company, pursuant to a Business Acquisition Agreement, (the "Acquisition Agreement&#148;), among the Company, Grasshopper Staffing, Inc. (&#147;Grasshopper Colorado&#148;), and the holders of all of the outstanding common stock of Grasshopper Colorado exchanged their common stock in Grasshopper Colorado for a total of 250,000 shares of common stock of the Company&#146;s stock. The issuance of the 250,000 shares of common stock to the former holders of Grasshoppers Colorado&#146;s common stock in exchange for the capital stock of Grasshopper Colorado is referred to as the reverse acquisition transaction. As a result of the reverse acquisition, the Company's business has become the business of Grasshopper Colorado.

Grasshopper Colorado was founded in 2015 by Amber Wick, Melanie Osterman, Barbara Ianne, and Cheryl Zanotelli, as a solution to the staffing needs presented in the blossoming cannabis industry in Colorado. Grasshopper Staffing is an agency that serves the Colorado's cannabis employment needs by providing employee recruiting, training, securing proper credentials and ensuring compliance with the ever-changing local and state laws. Grasshopper Colorado specializes in providing budtenders, trimmers, janitorial, security, payroll, armored transport, edible production, infusion specialists, grow consultants, irrigation, retail sales, IT solutions, web design, and event services.

