 Item 1. &#160; Business 

The Company 

The Corporation is a New York Stock Exchange listed company under the ticker symbol "SRC". We are a self-administered and self-managed REIT with in-house capabilities, including acquisition, portfolio management, asset management, credit research, real estate research, legal, finance and accounting and capital markets. We primarily invest in single-tenant, operationally essential real estate throughout the U.S., which is generally acquired through strategic sale-leaseback transactions and subsequently leased on a long-term, triple-net basis to high-quality tenants with business operations within predominantly retail, but also office and industrial property types. 

As of December 31, 2015 , our undepreciated gross investment in real estate and loans totaled approximately $8.30 billion , representing investments in 2,629 &#32;properties, including properties securing our mortgage loans. Of this amount, 

98.7% &#32;consisted of our gross investment in real estate, representing ownership of 2,485 &#32;properties, and the remaining 1.3% &#32;consisted primarily of commercial mortgage loans receivable secured by 144 &#32;real properties. 

As of December 31, 2015 , our owned properties were approximately 98.6% &#32;occupied (based on number of properties), and our leases had a weighted average non-cancelable remaining lease term (based on total rental revenue) of approximately 10.7 &#32;years. Our leases are generally long-term, typically with non-cancelable initial terms of 15 &#32;to 20 &#32;years and tenant renewal options for additional terms. As of December 31, 2015 , approximately 88% &#32;of our single-tenant leases (based on Normalized Rental Revenue) provided for increases in future annual base rent. See Item 2. "Properties - Our Real Estate Investment Portfolio" for further information on our properties and tenants. 

Our operations are carried out through the Operating Partnership. OP Holdings, one of our wholly-owned subsidiaries, is the sole general partner and owns 1.0% of the Operating Partnership. We and one of our wholly-owned subsidiaries are the only limited partners and together own the remaining 99.0% of the Operating Partnership. 

Although the Operating Partnership is wholly-owned by us, in the future, we may issue partnership interests in the Operating Partnership to third parties in exchange for assets owned by such third parties. In general, any partnership interests of the Operating Partnership issued to third parties would be exchangeable for cash or, at our election, shares of our common stock at specified ratios set when partnership interests in the Operating Partnership are issued. 

As of December 31, 2015 , we had 71 &#32;employees, as compared to 73 &#32;employees as of December 31, 2014 . None of these employees are represented by a labor union. 

History 

We began operations through a predecessor legal entity in 2003. We became a public company in December 2004 and were subsequently taken private in August 2007 by a consortium of private investors. On September 25, 2012, we completed our IPO of 33.35 million &#32;shares of common stock (including shares issued on October 1, 2012 pursuant to the underwriters&#8217; option to purchase additional shares). 

On July 17, 2013, we completed the acquisition of Cole II through the Merger. Our board of directors (including two additional members designated by Cole II) and executive team managed the surviving entity, which was renamed Spirit Realty Capital, Inc. and began trading on the NYSE under the "SRC" symbol. Cole II was the "legal acquirer" in the Merger for certain legal and regulatory matters and the Corporation was deemed the "accounting acquirer" in the Merger for accounting and financial reporting purposes, including the financial information set forth herein. 

Business and Growth Strategies 

Our objective is to maximize stockholder value by seeking superior risk-adjusted returns with an emphasis on stable rental revenue, primarily by investing in and managing a portfolio of single-tenant, operationally essential real estate throughout the U.S. that is generally acquired through strategic sale-leaseback transactions and subsequently leased on a long-term, triple-net basis. We generate our revenue primarily by leasing our properties to our tenants. We operate in one reporting segment. See Item 2. "Properties" for property information and Item 6. "Selected Financial Data" for additional financial and asset information. 

Single-tenant, operationally essential real estate consists of properties that are generally free-standing, commercial real estate facilities where our tenants conduct activities that are essential to the generation of their sales and profits. Under a triple-net lease, the tenant is typically responsible for all improvements and is contractually obligated to pay all property operating expenses, such as real estate taxes, insurance premiums and repair and maintenance costs. In support of our primary business of owning and leasing real estate, we have also strategically originated or acquired long-term, commercial mortgage and other loans. We view our operations as one segment consisting of leased properties. We intend to pursue our objective through the following business and growth strategies: 

Focus on Small and Middle Market Companies. &#32;We primarily focus on investing in properties that we net lease to small and middle market companies that we determine have attractive credit characteristics and stable operating histories, but that may not carry a credit rating from a rating agency. This strategy offers us the opportunity to achieve superior risk-adjusted returns when coupled with our intensive credit and real estate analysis, lease structuring and ongoing portfolio management. Small and middle market companies are often willing to enter into leases with structures and terms that we consider attractive (such as master leases, leases with rental escalations and leases that require ongoing tenant financial reporting) and that we believe increase the security of rental 

payments. In addition to small and middle market companies, we selectively acquire properties leased to large companies where we believe that we can achieve superior risk-adjusted returns. 

The following chart highlights the tenants that we target based on company size and corporate credit equivalent: 

&#160; 

Use Our Developed Underwriting and Risk Management Processes to Structure and Manage Our Portfolio. &#32;We seek to maintain the stability of our rental revenue and the long-term return on our investments by using our developed underwriting and risk management processes to structure and manage our portfolio. In particular, our underwriting and risk management processes emphasize the following: 

&#9702; 

Leases for Operationally Essential Real Estate with Relatively Long Terms. &#32;We seek to own properties that are operationally essential to our tenants, thereby reducing the risk that the tenant would choose not to renew an expiring lease or reject a lease in bankruptcy. In addition, we seek to enter into leases with relatively long terms, typically with non-cancelable initial terms of 15 &#32;to 20 &#32;years and tenant renewal options for additional terms with attractive rent escalation provisions. 

&#9702; 

Use of the Master Lease Structure. &#32;Where appropriate, we seek to enter into master leases, pursuant to which we lease multiple properties to a single tenant on an &#8220;all or none&#8221; basis. In a master lease structure, a tenant is responsible for a single lease payment relating to the entire portfolio of leased properties, as opposed to multiple lease payments relating to individually leased properties. The master lease structure prevents a tenant from &#8220;cherry picking&#8221; locations, where it unilaterally gives up underperforming properties while maintaining its leasehold interest in well-performing properties. As of December 31, 2015 , we had 124 &#32;active master leases with portfolios of leased properties ranging from 2 &#32;to 189 &#32;and a weighted average non-cancelable remaining lease term (based on rental revenues) of 13.6 &#32;years. Master lease revenues contributed approximately 46% &#32;of our Normalized Rental Revenue. One &#32;master lease, consisting of 81 &#32;properties, contributed 7.7% &#32;of our Normalized Revenue, and our smallest master lease, consisting of 2 &#32;properties, contributed less than 1% &#32;of our Normalized Revenue for the three months ended December 31, 2015 . As of December 31, 2015 , the majority of our master leases include between two &#32;and eight &#32;properties. 

&#9702; 

Active Management and Monitoring of Risks Related to Our Investments. &#32;When monitoring existing investments or evaluating new investments, we typically consider two broad categories of risk: (1) tenant financial distress risk; and (2) lease renewal risk. We seek to measure these risks through various processes, including the use of a credit modeling product that we license from Moody&#8217;s Analytics that 

estimates the performance of the leased properties relative to rental payments due under the leases, and a review of current market data and our historical recovery rates on re-leased properties and property dispositions. Our underwriting and risk management processes are designed to structure new investments and manage existing investments to address and mitigate each of the above risks and preserve the long-term return on our invested capital. Since our inception, our occupancy has never been below 96.1% (based on number of properties), despite the economic downturn of 2008 through 2010. 

&#9702; 

Portfolio Diversification. &#32;We monitor and manage the diversification of our real estate investment portfolio in order to reduce the risks associated with adverse developments affecting a particular tenant, property, industry or region. Our strategy emphasizes a portfolio that (1) derives no more than 10% of its annual rent from any single tenant and no more than 1.0% of its annual rent from any single property, (2) is leased to tenants operating in various industries and (3) is located across the U.S. without significant geographic concentration. While we consider the foregoing when making investments, we have made, and may make investments in the future that do not meet one or more of these criteria, and we may make additional investments that do not meet one or more of these criteria if we believe the opportunity is sufficiently attractive. 

Enhance Our Portfolio through Contractual Growth. &#32;Approximately 88% &#32;of our single-tenant properties (based on Normalized Rental Revenue) contain contractual provisions that increase the rental revenue over the term of the lease. Generally, our rent escalators increase rent at specified dates by: (1) a fixed amount; or (2) the lesser of (a ) 1 to 1.25 &#32; ti mes any increase in the CPI over a specified period, or (b) a fixed percentage, typically 1% to 2% per year. 

Selectively Grow Our Portfolio through Acquisitions. &#32;We plan to selectively make acquisitions that we believe will contribute to our business objective. We believe there will be ample acquisition opportunities in the single-tenant market fitting our underwriting and acquisition criteria, which may include improving our portfolio&#8217;s tenant, industry and geographic diversification, among other rationale. Acquisitions of such properties or portfolios may be subject to existing indebtedness or to new indebtedness which may be incurred in connection with acquiring or refinancing these investments. 

Deleverage Our Portfolio. &#32;A significant amount of our debt is partially amortizing, and its principal amount will be reduced prior to the balloon payments due at maturity. Contractual amortization payments are scheduled to reduce our outstanding principal amount of indebtedness by $180.0 million &#32;prior to January 1, 2021. We may also selectively reduce our indebtedness using cash from operations in excess of our distributions or proceeds from equity offerings. We may also strategically replace or refinance certain indebtedness with proceeds from new borrowings that represent a lower cost of capital. We believe contractual rent growth, selective growth through acquisitions and the ongoing deleveraging of our portfolio will contribute to our cash available for distributions. 

Disciplined Disposition of Select Assets. &#32;We typically retain and manage real estate assets that fit within our investment criteria, which criteria are subject to change without notice to or vote by our stockholders. Additionally, management may elect to dispose of assets when it believes appropriate in view of our business objective, considering criteria including, but not limited to, tenant concentration, tenant credit quality, unit financial performance, local market conditions and lease rates, associated indebtedness, asset location, tenant operation type (e.g., industry, sector, or concept/brand), and asset zoning, as well as potential capital appreciation, potential uses of proceeds and tax considerations, among others. 

Financing Strategy 

Our long-term financing strategy is to maintain a leverage profile that creates operational flexibility and generates superior risk-adjusted returns for our stockholders. We finance our operations and investments using a variety of methods, including available unrestricted cash balances, property operating revenue, proceeds from property dispositions, borrowing under our available Revolving Credit Facilities and Term Loan, common stock issuances, and debt securities issuances, including mortgage indebtedness and senior unsecured debt. We determine the amount of equity and debt financing to be used when acquiring an asset by evaluating our cost of equity capital, terms available in the credit markets (such as interest rate, repayment provisions and maturity) and our assessment of the particular asset&#8217;s risk. 

We may issue common stock when we believe that our share price is at a level that allows the offering proceeds to be accretively invested into additional properties, to permanently finance properties that were financed by our Revolving Credit Facilities or to repay high interest rate mortgage debt. 

In November 2013, we filed a shelf registration statement with the SEC, which is effective for a term of three years and will expire in November 2016. The securities covered by this registration statement include (1) common stock, (2) preferred stock, (3) depositary shares representing shares or fractional shares of preferred stock, (4) warrants to purchase shares of common stock, preferred stock or depositary shares, (5) rights to purchase shares of common stock or other securities and (6) units consisting of two or more of the foregoing. We may periodically offer one or more of these securities in amounts, prices and on terms to be announced when and if these securities are offered. The specifics of any future offerings, along with the use of proceeds from any such offerings, will be described in detail in a prospectus supplement or other offering materials at the time of such offerings. 

Historically, a significant portion of our debt has consisted of long-term borrowings secured by specific real estate assets or, more typically, pools of real estate assets. We have also utilized our asset-backed securitization platform to raise capital through the issuance of non-recourse net-lease mortgage notes collateralized by commercial real estate, net-leases and mortgage loans under the Spirit Master Funding Program. In addition, we have issued senior unsecured debt securities and have obtained other senior unsecured debt at the Operating Partnership level. To the extent practicable, we expect to maintain a well-balanced debt profile with manageable and balanced maturities. 

We expect to fund our operating expenses and other short-term liquidity requirements, including property acquisitions, payment of principal and interest on our outstanding indebtedness, property improvements, re-leasing costs, and cash distributions to common stockholders, primarily through cash provided by operating activities, borrowings under our available Revolving Credit Facilities and Term Loan and occasionally through issuances of common stock and entering into secured and unsecured debt agreements. 

We anticipate that we will continue to use a number of different sources to finance our acquisitions and operations going forward; however, we cannot assure you that we will have access to the capital and credit markets at times and at terms that are acceptable to us. 

Recent Developments 

Financing Activities 

2015 Credit Facility 

On March 31, 2015, the Operating Partnership entered into a new $600.0 million unsecured Credit Agreement with various lenders with an initial term that expires on March 31, 2019 (extendable at the Operating Partnership's option to March 31, 2020, subject to certain requirements). The 2015 Credit Facility replaced the Operating Partnership&#8217;s previous $400.0 million secured revolving credit facility and bears interest at LIBOR plus an applicable margin based on our leverage. The applicable margin in effect at December 31, 2015 was 1.55%. The Credit Agreement includes an accordion feature to increase the size of the 2015 Credit Facility to up to $1.0 billion, subject to satisfying certain requirements and obtaining additional lender commitments. 

On November 3, 2015, the Company entered into a first amendment to the Credit Agreement. The amendment provided the release of the subsidiary guarantors that were parties thereto and conforms certain of the terms and covenants to those in the Term Loan Agreement. Additionally, the Operating Partnership&#8217;s election to change the grid pricing from leverage based to credit rating based pricing will initially require at least two credit ratings of BBB- or better from S&#38;P or Fitch or Baa3 or better from Moody&#8217;s. 

Issuance of Common Stock 

In April 2015, we completed an underwritten public offering of 23.0 million shares of our common stock at $11.85 per share, including 3.0 million shares issued pursuant to the underwriter&#8217;s option to purchase additional shares. Gross proceeds raised were approximately $272.6 million and net proceeds were approximately $268.7 million after underwriter discounts and offering costs paid by the Company. 

Term Loan 

On November 3, 2015, the Company entered into a Term Loan Agreement among the Operating Partnership as borrower, the Corporation as guarantor and the lenders that are parties thereto. The Term Loan Agreement provides for a $325.0 million senior unsecured term facility that has an initial maturity date of November 2, 2018, which may be extended at the Company's option pursuant to two one-year extension options, subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions and payment of an extension fee. On December 3, 2015, a new lender committed an additional $45.0 million increasing the committed amount under the Term Loan to $370.0 million. An accordion feature allows the Term Loan to be increased to up to $600.0 million, subject to obtaining additional lender commitments. Borrowings may be repaid without premium or penalty and may be reborrowed within 30 days up to the then available loan commitment. Borrowings bear interest at either prime or LIBOR plus a margin at the Operating Partnership&#8217;s option. If the Operating Partnership receives at least two credit ratings of BBB- or better from S&#38;P or Fitch or Baa3 or better from Moody&#8217;s, then the Operating Partnership may elect to change the grid pricing from leverage based to credit rating based pricing. Pricing under the Term Loan at December 31, 2015 was LIBOR plus 1.45%. Proceeds from the borrowing were primarily used to pay off amounts then outstanding under the 2015 Credit Facility and partially defease a certain CMBS loan balance. 

See Item 7. &#8220;Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources - Description of Certain Debt&#8221; for further information on our debt and equity financings. 

Real Estate Portfolio Activities 

Tenant Concentration 

Shopko is our most significant tenant, representing 9.1% &#32;of our Normalized Revenue for the three months ended December 31, 2015 . Shopko leases 137 &#32;properties under three &#32;separate master leases and two &#32;properties under individual leases with four &#32;indirect wholly-owned subsidiaries of ours. We took a number of steps during 2015 and 2014 to reduce the tenant concentration of Shopko assets below 10%, which we accomplished during the third quarter of 2015. Our Shopko concentration will continue to decrease over time as we grow our existing portfolio base and continue to effect accretive dispositions. 

During the three months ended December 31, 2015 , no other tenant exceeded 4.0% &#32;of our Normalized Revenue, and no one single property contributed more than 1.5% &#32;of our Normalized Revenue. See Item 2. &#8220;Properties - Our Real Estate Investment Portfolio" for further information on our ten largest tenants and the composition of our tenant base. 

Acquisition and Dispositions 

During the year ended December 31, 2015 , we purchased 232 &#32;properties, representing an aggregate gross investment of $889.2 million , which includes $9.2 million &#32;in revenue producing follow-on investments in existing properties. The properties acquired had a weighted average lease term of 16.4 &#32;years. During the same period, we sold 110 &#32;properties for $546.9 million &#32;in gross sales proceeds. See Note 4 to our Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional discussion of our investments. 

Competition 

We face competition for acquisitions of real property from investors, including traded and non-traded public REITs, private equity investors and institutional investment funds, some of which have greater financial resources than we do, a greater ability to borrow funds to acquire properties and the ability to accept more risk than we can prudently manage. This competition may increase the demand for the types of properties in which we typically invest and, therefore, reduce the number of suitable acquisition opportunities available to us and increase the prices paid for such. This competition will increase if investments in real estate become more attractive relative to other forms of investment. 

As a landlord, we compete in the multi-billion dollar commercial real estate market with numerous developers and owners of properties, many of which own properties similar to ours in the same markets in which our properties are located. In operating and managing our portfolio, we compete for tenants based on a number of factors, including location, rental rates and flexibility. Some of our competitors have greater economies of scale, have lower cost of capital, have access to more resources and have greater name recognition than we do. If our competitors offer space at rental rates below current market rates or below the rental rates we currently charge our tenants, we may lose our tenants or prospective tenants and we may be pressured to reduce our rental rates or to offer substantial rent 

abatements, tenant improvement allowances, early termination rights or below-market renewal options in order to retain tenants when our leases expire. 

Regulation 

General 

Our properties are subject to various covenants, laws, ordinances and regulations, including regulations relating to common areas and fire and safety requirements. We believe that each of our properties has the necessary permits and approvals. 

Americans With Disabilities Act 

Pursuant to the ADA, our properties are required to meet federal requirements related to access and use by persons with disabilities. Compliance with the ADA, as well as a number of additional federal, state and local laws and regulations, may require modifications to properties we currently own and any properties we purchase, or may restrict renovations of those properties. Noncompliance with these laws or regulations could result in the imposition of fines or an award of damages to private litigants, as well as the incurrence of the costs of making modifications to attain compliance, and future legislation could impose additional financial obligations or restrictions on our properties. Although our tenants are generally responsible for all maintenance and repair costs pursuant to triple-net leases, including compliance with the ADA and other similar laws or regulations, we could be held liable as the owner of the property for a failure of one of our tenants to comply with such laws or regulations. 

Environmental Matters 

Federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations regulate, and impose liability for, releases of hazardous or toxic substances into the environment. Under various of these laws and regulations, a current or previous owner, operator or tenant of real estate may be required to investigate and clean up hazardous or toxic substances, hazardous wastes or petroleum product releases or threats of releases at the property, and may be held liable to a government entity or to third parties for property damage and for investigation, clean-up and monitoring costs incurred by those parties in connection with actual or threatened contamination. These laws typically impose clean-up responsibility and liability without regard to fault, or whether or not the owner, operator or tenant knew of or caused the presence of the contamination. The liability under these laws may be joint and several for the full amount of the investigation, clean-up and monitoring costs incurred or to be incurred or actions to be undertaken, although a party held jointly and severally liable may seek contributions from other identified, solvent, responsible parties for their fair share toward these costs. These costs may be substantial, and can exceed the value of the property. The presence of contamination, or the failure to properly remediate contamination, on a property may adversely affect the ability of the owner, operator or tenant to sell or rent that property or to borrow using the property as collateral, and may adversely impact our investment in that property. 

Some of our properties contain, have contained, or are adjacent to or near other properties that have contained or currently contain storage tanks for the storage of petroleum products or other hazardous or toxic substances. Similarly, some of our properties are or were used for commercial or industrial purposes that involve or involved the use of petroleum products or other hazardous or toxic substances, or are adjacent to or near properties that have been or are used for similar commercial or industrial purposes. These operations create a potential for the release of petroleum products or other hazardous or toxic substances, and we could potentially be required to pay to clean up any contamination. In addition, strict environmental laws regulate a variety of activities that can occur on a property, including the storage of petroleum products or other hazardous or toxic substances, air emissions and water discharges. Such laws may impose fines or penalties for violations. As a result of the foregoing, we could be materially and adversely affected. 

Environmental laws also govern the presence, maintenance and removal of ACM. Federal regulations require building owners and those exercising control over a building&#8217;s management to identify and warn, through signs and labels, of potential hazards posed by workplace exposure to installed ACM in their building. The regulations also have employee training, record keeping and due diligence requirements pertaining to ACM. Significant fines can be assessed for violation of these regulations. As a result of these regulations, building owners and those exercising control over a building&#8217;s management may be subject to an increased risk of personal injury lawsuits by workers and others exposed to ACM. The regulations may affect the value of a building containing ACM in which we have invested. Federal, state and local laws and regulations also govern the removal, encapsulation, disturbance, handling and/or disposal of ACM when those materials are in poor condition or in the event of construction, remodeling, renovation or demolition of a 

building. These laws may impose liability for improper handling or a release into the environment of ACM and may provide for fines to, and for third parties to seek recovery from, owners or operators of real properties for personal injury or improper work exposure associated with ACM. 

When excessive moisture accumulates in buildings or on building materials, mold growth may occur, particularly if the moisture problem remains undiscovered or is not addressed over a period of time. Some molds may produce airborne toxins or irritants. Indoor air quality issues can also stem from inadequate ventilation, chemical contamination from indoor or outdoor sources, and other biological contaminants such as pollen, viruses and bacteria. Indoor exposure to airborne toxins or irritants above certain levels can be alleged to cause a variety of adverse health effects and symptoms, including allergic or other reactions. As a result, the presence of significant mold or other airborne contaminants at any of our properties could require us to undertake a costly remediation program to contain or remove the mold or other airborne contaminants from the affected property or increase indoor ventilation. In addition, the presence of significant mold or other airborne contaminants could expose us to liability from our tenants, employees of our tenants or others if property damage or personal injury occurs. We are not presently aware of any material adverse indoor air quality issues at our properties that have not been previously addressed or remediated by us. 

Before completing any property acquisition, we obtain environmental assessments in order to identify potential environmental concerns at the property. These assessments are carried out in accordance with the Standard Practice for Environmental Site Assessments (ASTM Practice E 1527-05) as set by ASTM International, formerly known as the American Society for Testing and Materials, and generally include a physical site inspection, a review of relevant federal, state and local environmental and health agency database records, one or more interviews with appropriate site-related personnel, review of the property&#8217;s chain of title and review of historical aerial photographs and other information on past uses of the property. These assessments are limited in scope, however, if recommended in the initial assessments, we may undertake additional assessments such as soil and/or groundwater samplings or other limited subsurface investigations and ACM or mold surveys to test for substances of concern. A prior owner or operator of a property or historic operations at our properties may have created a material environmental condition that is not known to us or the independent consultants preparing the site assessments. Material environmental conditions may have arisen after the review was completed or may arise in the future, and future laws, ordinances or regulations may impose material additional environmental liability. If environmental concerns are not satisfactorily resolved in any initial or additional assessments, we may obtain environment insurance policies to insure against potential environmental risk or loss depending on the type of property, the availability and cost of the insurance and various other factors we deem relevant ( i.e. , an environmental occurrence affects one of our properties where our lessee may not have the financial capability to honor its indemnification obligations to us). 

Generally, our leases provide that the lessee will indemnify us for any loss or expense we incur as a result of the presence, use or release of hazardous materials on our property. However, our ultimate liability for environmental conditions may exceed the policy limits on any environmental insurance policies we obtain, if any. If we are unable to enforce the indemnification obligations of our lessees or if the amount of environmental insurance we carry is inadequate, our results of operations would be adversely affected. 

Insurance 

Our tenants are generally required to maintain liability and property insurance coverage for the properties they lease from us pursuant to triple-net leases. Pursuant to such leases, our tenants are required to name us (and any of our lenders that have a mortgage on the property leased by the tenant) as additional insureds on their liability policies and additional named insured and/or loss payee (or mortgagee, in the case of our lenders) on their property policies. Tenants are required to maintain casualty coverage and most carry limits at 100% of replacement cost. Depending on the location of the property, losses of a catastrophic nature, such as those caused by earthquakes and floods, may be covered by insurance policies that are held by our tenant with limitations such as large deductibles or co-payments that a tenant may not be able to meet. In addition, losses of a catastrophic nature, such as those caused by wind/hail, hurricanes, terrorism or acts of war, may be uninsurable or not economically insurable. In the event there is damage to our properties that is not covered by insurance and such properties are subject to recourse indebtedness, we will continue to be liable for the indebtedness, even if these properties are irreparably damaged. See Item 1A. &#8220;Risk Factors-Risks Related to Our Business and Properties-Insurance on our properties may not adequately cover all losses and uninsured losses could materially and adversely affect us.&#8221; 

In addition to being a named insured on our tenants&#8217; liability policies, we separately maintain commercial general liability coverage with an aggregate limit of $52.0 million. We also maintain full property coverage on all unleased properties and other property coverage as may be required by our lenders and which is not required to be carried by our tenants under our leases. 

