 ITEM 1. &#160; BUSINESS. 

Background of the Issuer 

Multi Solutions II, Inc., (&#8220;we,&#8221; &#8220;us,&#8221; &#8220;our,&#8221; or the "Company"), was originally incorporated on July 26, 1982 in New Jersey under the name "Multi Solutions, Inc." Through our subsidiary, Multi Soft II, Inc. ("Multi Soft"), we were engaged in the production, marketing and maintenance of a line of software products consisting of tools for the development of client-server, front-ending, and Internet based applications using a mainframe or an Internet server through 2002 (the "Prior Operations"). In September 2011, we (and Multi Soft) effected a 50 for 1 reverse split and changed our domicile from New Jersey to Florida, as discussed below. As a result of the filing of Articles of Merger with the State of Florida, the reverse split for both Multi Solutions II, Inc. and Multi Soft was effective on September 29, 2011. All shares issued prior to September 29, 2011 have been restated retroactively to reflect the reverse split. 

In 1983, we consummated our initial public offering of securities pursuant to a Registration Statement on Form S-18 (SEC File No. 2-85710-NY) declared effective by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) on November 14, 1983 and contemporaneously registered our shares of Common Stock under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (SEC File No. 0-12162). In 2002, we began to discontinue and wind down our Prior Operations and by 2005, our Prior Operations had completely ceased. 

In April and May 2005, we and Multi Soft entered into purchase agreements with several investors pursuant to which the investors purchased $105,000 principal amount of our 6% convertible debentures due May 1, 2006 and $36,000 principal amount of Multi Soft's 6% convertible debentures due May 1, 2006 (collectively, the "Debentures"). The Debentures were convertible into an aggregate of 1,476,788 shares of our common stock (73,839,393 shares pre- 

split), and 959,663 shares of common stock of Multi Soft (47,983,170 shares pre-split). The proceeds from the sale of the Debentures were used to satisfy certain liabilities of ours and Multi Soft. 

On July 27, 2005, we received a letter from the SEC notifying us that we were subject to deregistration pursuant to Section 12 of the Exchange Act for failure to comply with SEC reporting requirements. We responded and provided the SEC with a timetable for becoming compliant with Exchange Act reporting requirements. We became compliant with our Exchange Act reporting obligations in 2006. 

On August 7, 2009, we received a letter (the &#8220;Letter&#8221;) from Moore &#38; Associates, Chartered (&#8220;Moore&#8221;), our independent registered public accounting firm, stating that Moore would no longer be engaged in auditing or reviewing public company financial statements, effectively resigning from serving as our independent registered public accounting firm. In July 2011, we retained Marcum, LLP as our independent registered public accounting firm. 

In 2009, we again became delinquent in our Exchange Act reporting obligations by not filing our Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2009 and 2010, and our Forms 10-Q for the fiscal quarters ended April 30, 2009, July 31, 2009, October 31, 2009, April 30, 2010 and July 30, 2010. On September 7, 2010, we received a letter from the SEC that due to our failure to comply with our Exchange Act reporting obligations, we were again subject to the deregistration of our securities under the Exchange Act. On September 29, 2010, the SEC revoked the registration of our securities under Section 12(g) of the Exchange Act, and our stock symbol ("MULT") was removed from trading on the over-the-counter markets. 

In May 2011, pursuant to the terms of several debenture purchase agreements between our debenture holders and Vector Group Ltd., a Delaware corporation ("Vector") (the "Vector Purchase Agreements"), Vector purchased from the debenture holders an aggregate of $97,000 principal amount of the Debentures and assumed certain liabilities from us and Multi Soft. Upon the closing, Vector converted $39,102 of the $141,000 outstanding principal amount of the Debentures into 378,058 shares of our common stock (18,902,885 shares pre-split), and 325,806 shares of common stock of Multi Soft (16,290,286 shares pre-split). 

On June 1, 2011, we filed an Amended and Restated Certificates of Incorporation with the State of New Jersey to increase our authorized common stock from 40,000,000 to 200,000,000 shares, and to create a class of 50,000,000 shares of blank check preferred stock, $0.001 par value. On the same date, we filed an Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation with the State of New Jersey to increase the authorized common stock of our 51% subsidiary Multi Soft from 30,000,000 to 200,000,000, and to create a class of 50,000,000 shares of blank check preferred stock, $0.001 par value. Pursuant to the terms of the Vector Purchase Agreements described above, upon the effectiveness of the amended certificates, the remaining $101,898 outstanding principal balance of the Debentures was converted by Vector and the other debenture holders into an aggregate of 1,098,730 shares of our common stock (54,936,508 shares pre-split), and 633,858 shares of common stock of Multi Soft (31,692,884 shares pre-split). Interest due as of May 25, 2011 on the Debentures was $60,106, which was forgiven by the holders upon conversion. 

As a result of the consummation of the transactions contemplated by the Vector Purchase Agreements, Vector became the holder of 53% and 54% of our outstanding common stock and the common stock of Multi Soft, respectively, which resulted in a change in control of Multi Soft because our ownership of the outstanding common stock of Multi Soft decreased from 51% to 11%, and Multi Soft was no longer consolidated as a subsidiary in our financial statements. Upon the closing of the Vector Purchase Agreements in May 2011, our incumbent directors and officers resigned, and Richard J. Lampen, J. Bryant Kirkland III and Robert L. Frome were appointed to our board of directors and Messrs. Lampen and Kirkland became our President, and Secretary, Treasurer and Chief Financial Officer respectively. In July 2012, Mr. Lampen resigned as an officer and director, Robert M. Lundgren was appointed to our board of directors, Mr. Kirkland was appointed as our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, and Deborah Fasanelli was appointed as our Secretary, Treasurer and Chief Financial Officer. 

On September 21, 2011, Multi Solutions (Florida), Inc., a Florida corporation, was formed for the purpose of merging with us to change our domicile from New Jersey to Florida and to effect a 50 for 1 reverse split of our outstanding common stock (the "Reverse Split"). Articles of Merger for Multi Solutions, Inc. and the Florida corporation were filed in New Jersey and, respectively, Florida to effectuate the merger of the New Jersey corporation with and 

into the Florida corporation (the "Merger"), which Merger became effective on September 29, 2011. As a result of the Merger and in accordance with the terms of the agreement and plan of merger executed by both companies, the shareholders of the New Jersey corporation received .02 shares of new (Florida) common stock for every one share of old (New Jersey) common stock they owned, and all outstanding shares of the New Jersey corporation's common stock were canceled. Pursuant to the Merger, the Florida corporation became the surviving entity, and as a result, we are authorized to issue 200,000,000 shares of $0.001 par value common stock and 50,000,000 shares of $0.001 par value preferred stock. 

Effective on October 4, 2011, we changed our name to Multi Solutions II, Inc. The name change is not meant to be reflective of any business plan or particular business industry but rather is thought by management to be neutral and therefore may assist us in our current business plan. 

In August 2012, we registered our shares of common stock under Section 12(g) of the Exchange Act. 

Our Business 

Our intended business purpose is to seek the acquisition of, or merger with, an existing company. The acquisition of a business opportunity may be made by purchase, merger, exchange of stock, or otherwise, and may encompass assets or a business entity, such as a corporation, joint venture, or partnership. We have very limited capital, and it is unlikely that we will be able to take advantage of more than one such business opportunity. We intend to seek opportunities demonstrating the potential of long-term growth as opposed to short-term earnings. We will not restrict potential candidate target companies to any specific business, industry or geographical location and, thus, may acquire any type of business. As of the date hereof, we have made no efforts to identify a possible business combination including, but not limited to, not conducting negotiations or entering into a letter of intent with respect to any target business and we have not entered into a letter of intent or any definitive agreement with respect to any target business. If we are unable to locate a suitable entity with which to enter into a business combination, we may invest in passive investments as an alternative to acquiring a business. This may prove to be more suitable, as an alternative, because it will be a non-management control investment. 

The analysis of new business opportunities will be undertaken by or under the supervision of our officers and directors. We have not yet considered potential acquisition transactions with any companies, nor, as of this date, have we entered into any definitive agreement with any party. We have unrestricted flexibility in seeking, analyzing and participating in potential business opportunities. Notwithstanding this flexibility, we shall have no duty or obligation to analyze and investigate more than one business opportunity. In our efforts to analyze potential acquisition targets, we will consider a number of factors including, but not limited to, the following: 

&#160; 

&#8226; 

Competitive position as compared to other firms of similar size and experience within the industry segment as well as within the industry as a whole; 

&#8226; 

Potential for growth, indicated by new technology, anticipated market expansion or new products; 

&#8226; 

Capital requirements and anticipated availability of required funds, to be provided by the target business or from operations, through the sale of additional securities, through joint ventures or similar arrangements or from other sources; 

&#8226; 

Strength and diversity of management, either in place or scheduled for recruitment; 

&#8226; 

The cost of participation by us as compared to the perceived tangible and intangible values and potentials; 

&#8226; 

The accessibility of required management expertise, personnel, raw materials, services, professional assistance and other required items; and 

&#8226; 

The extent to which the business opportunity can be advanced; 

&#160; 

In applying the foregoing factors, none of which will be controlling, management will attempt to analyze all facts and circumstances and make a determination based upon reasonable investigative measures and available data. Management intends to meet personally with management and key personnel of the target business entity as part of its investigation and to utilize written reports and personal investigation in order to evaluate each of the above factors. 

Potentially available business opportunities may occur in many different industries, and at various stages of development, all of which will make the task of comparative investigation and analysis of such business opportunities extremely difficult and complex. Due to the limited capital available for investigation, we may not discover or adequately evaluate adverse facts about the opportunity to be acquired. 

Our plans are in the conceptual stage only. There is no relationship between our particular name and our intended business plan. If successful in completing a merger or acquisition, we expect that our name would change to reflect the marketing goals of the business combination. 

In evaluating a prospective business combination, we will conduct as extensive a due diligence review of potential targets as possible; however, none of our management are professional business analysts and none are committing their full time to our operations. (See "Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance&#8221;.) Potential investors must recognize that due to our management's limited commitment in terms of time to our business, we may not adequately evaluate a potential business opportunity. 

We are unable to predict the time as to when, and if we will ever engage in identifying potential merger or acquisition candidates. We anticipate that proposed business ventures will be made available to us through personal contacts of our directors, executive officers and principal shareholders, professional advisors, broker dealers in securities, venture capital personnel, members of the financial community and others who may present unsolicited proposals. In certain cases, we may agree to pay a finder's fee or to otherwise compensate the persons who submit a potential business endeavor in which we eventually participate. Such persons may include our directors, executive officers and beneficial owners of our securities or their &#8220;affiliates.&#8221; In that event, such fees may become a factor in negotiations regarding any potential venture and, accordingly, may present a conflict of interest for such individuals. 

In addition, certain conflicts of interest exist or may develop between us and our officers and directors. Our members of management have other business interests to which they currently devote attention, which include their primary employment and management of another shell reporting company, Multi Soft (See "Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance&#8221; below.) They may be expected to continue to devote their attention to these other business interests although management time should be devoted to our business. In order to minimize potential conflicts of interest which may arise because our directors and officers also serve as the directors and officers of Multi Soft each of our officers and directors has entered into an agreement with us and Multi Soft whereby they have each agreed that Multi Soft shall not analyze or consider any possible business combination opportunities until we have agreed to consummate a business combination. 

We expect that when and if we commence our due diligence, it will encompass, among other things, meetings with the target business's incumbent management and inspection of its facilities, as necessary, as well as a review of financial and other information which is made available to us. This due diligence review will be conducted either by our management or by unaffiliated third parties we may engage. Our limited funds and the lack of full-time management will likely make it impracticable to conduct a complete and exhaustive investigation and analysis of a target business before we consummate a business combination. Management decisions, therefore, will likely be made without detailed feasibility studies, independent analysis, market surveys and the like which, if we had more funds available to us, would be desirable. We will be particularly dependent in making decisions upon information provided by the promoters, owners, sponsors or other persons associated with the target business seeking our participation. 

The time and costs required to select and evaluate a target business and to structure and complete a business combination cannot presently be ascertained with any degree of certainty. Any costs incurred with respect to the indemnification and evaluation of a prospective business combination that is not ultimately completed will result in a loss to us. Also, substantial fees are often paid in connection with the completion of all types of acquisitions, 

reorganizations or mergers. These fees are usually divided among promoters or founders or finders, after deduction of legal, accounting and other related expenses, and it is not unusual for a portion of these fees to be paid to members of management or to principal shareholders as consideration for their agreement to retire a portion of the shares of common stock owned by them. Management may actively negotiate or otherwise consent to the purchase of all or any portion of their common stock as a condition to, or in connection with, a proposed reorganization, merger or acquisition. It is not anticipated that any such opportunity will be afforded to other shareholders or that such other shareholders will be afforded the opportunity to approve or consent to any particular stock buy-out transaction. In the event that any such fees are paid, they may become a factor in negotiations regarding any potential acquisition or merger by us, and accordingly, may also present a conflict of interest for such individuals. We have no present arrangements or understandings respecting any of these types of fees or opportunities. 

Our common stock is not publicly traded at this time and we cannot assure that a market will develop or that a shareholder ever will be able to liquidate his investments without considerable delay, if at all. If a market develops, our shares will likely be subject to the rules of the Penny Stock Suitability Reform Act of 1990. The liquidity of penny stock is affected by specific disclosure procedures required by this Act to be followed by all broker-dealers, including but not limited to, determining the suitability of the stock for a particular customer, and obtaining a written agreement from the customer to purchase the stock. This rule may affect the ability of broker-dealers to sell our securities and may affect the ability of purchasers to sell our securities in any future market. 

Form of Acquisition 

The manner in which we participate in an opportunity will depend upon the nature of the opportunity, our respective needs and desires and the promoters of the opportunity, and our relative negotiating strength. 

It is likely that we will acquire our participation in a business opportunity through the issuance of our common stock or other securities. Although the terms of any such transaction cannot be predicted, it should be noted that in certain circumstances the criteria for determining whether or not an acquisition is a so-called "tax free" reorganization under Section 368(a) (1) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code") depends upon whether the owners of the acquired business own 80% or more of the voting stock of the surviving entity. If a transaction were structured to take advantage of these provisions rather than other "tax free" provisions provided under the Code, all prior shareholders would in such circumstances retain 20% or less of the total issued and outstanding shares of the surviving entity. Under other circumstances, depending upon the relative negotiating strength of the parties, prior shareholders may retain substantially less than 20% of the total issued and outstanding shares of the surviving entity. This could result in substantial additional dilution to the equity of those persons who were our shareholders prior to such reorganization. 

Our present shareholders will likely not have control of a majority of our voting securities following a reorganization transaction. As part of such a transaction, all or a majority of our directors may resign, and one or more new directors may be appointed, without any vote by shareholders. 

In the case of an acquisition, the transaction may be accomplished upon the sole determination of management without any vote or approval by shareholders. In the case of a statutory merger or consolidation directly involving us, it will likely be necessary to call a shareholders' meeting and obtain the approval of the holders of a majority of the outstanding securities. The necessity to obtain such shareholder approval may result in delay and additional expense in the consummation of any proposed transaction and will also give rise to certain appraisal rights to dissenting shareholders. Most likely, management will seek to structure any such transaction so as not to require shareholder approval. 

It is anticipated that the investigation of specific business opportunities and the negotiation, drafting and execution of relevant agreements, disclosure documents and other instruments will require substantial management time and attention and substantial cost for accountants, attorneys and others. If a decision is made not to participate in a specific business opportunity, the costs incurred in the related investigation might not be recoverable. Furthermore, even if an agreement is reached for the participation in a specific business opportunity, the failure to consummate that transaction may result in the loss to us of the related costs incurred. 

In addition, Form 8-K of the SEC regarding shell companies and transactions with shell companies requires the filing of all information about an acquired company that would have been required to have been filed had any such company filed a Form 10 Registration Statement with the SEC, along with required audited, interim and pro forma financial statements, within four business days of the closing of any such transaction; this may eliminate many of the perceived advantages of these types of transactions. These regulations also limit the use of Form S-8 to a reorganized shell company until the expiration of 60 days from when any such entity is no longer considered to be a shell company. This prohibition could further restrict opportunities for us to acquire companies that may already have stock option plans in place that cover numerous employees. In such an instance, there may be no exemption from registration for the issuance of securities in any business combination to these employees, thereby necessitating the filing of a registration statement with the SEC to complete any such reorganization, and incurring the time and expense costs that are normally avoided by reverse reorganizations. 

Employees 

Apart from management, we have no employees. Mr. Kirkland, our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, and Ms. Fasanelli, our Secretary, Treasurer and Chief Financial Officer, are responsible for managing our administrative affairs, including our reporting obligations pursuant to the requirements of the Exchange Act. We will engage consultants, attorneys and accountants as necessary for us to conduct our business operations and to implement our business plan. Our directors and officers are engaged in outside business activities and anticipate that they devote very limited time to our business. We expect no significant changes in the number of our employees other than such changes, if any, incident to a business combination. 

