 Item 1. BUSINESS 

General 

M/I Homes, Inc. and subsidiaries (the &#8220;Company,&#8221; &#8220;we,&#8221; &#8220;us&#8221; or &#8220;our&#8221;) is one of the nation&#8217;s leading builders of single-family homes. The Company was incorporated, through predecessor entities, in 1973 and commenced homebuilding activities in 1976, with 2016 &#32;marking our 40th year of business. Since that time, the Company has delivered over 94,000 &#32;homes. 

The Company consists of two distinct operations: homebuilding and financial services. Our homebuilding operations are aggregated for reporting purposes into three reporting segments - the Midwest, Mid-Atlantic and Southern regions. Our financial services operations support our homebuilding operations by providing mortgage loans and title services to the customers of our homebuilding operations and is reported as its own segment. Please see Note 15 &#32;of our Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information related to the financial and operating results for each of our reporting segments. 

Our homebuilding operations comprise the most substantial portion of our business, representing 97% &#32;of consolidated revenue in 2015 &#32;and 98% &#32;in 2014 . We design, market, construct and sell single-family homes and attached townhomes to first-time, move-up, empty-nester and luxury buyers. In addition to home sales, our homebuilding operations generate revenue from the sale of land and lots. We use the term &#8220;home&#8221; to refer to a single-family residence, whether it is a single-family home or other type of residential property, and we use the term &#8220;community&#8221; to refer to a single development in which we construct homes. We primarily construct homes in planned development communities and mixed-use communities. We are currently offering homes for sale in 175 &#32;communities within 14 &#32;markets located in nine &#32;states. Our average sales price of homes delivered during 2015 &#32;was $346,000 , and the average sales price of our homes in backlog at December 31, 2015 &#32;was $372,000 . We offer homes ranging from a base sales price of approximately $140,000 &#32;to $1,200,000 &#32;and believe that this range of price points allows us to appeal to and attract a wide range of buyers. We believe that we distinguish ourselves from competitors by offering homes in select areas with a high level of design and construction quality within a given price range, providing superior customer service and offering mortgage and title services in order to fully serve our customers. In our experience, our product offerings and customer service make the homebuying process more efficient for our customers. 

Our financial services operations generate revenue primarily from originating and selling mortgages and collecting fees for title insurance and closing services. We offer mortgage banking services to our homebuyers through our 100%-owned subsidiary, M/I Financial, LLC (&#8220;M/I Financial&#8221;). We offer title services through subsidiaries that are either 100% or majority owned by the Company. Our financial services operations accounted for 3% &#32;of our consolidated revenues in 2015 &#32;and 2% &#32;in 2014 . See the &#8220;Financial Services&#8221; section below for additional information regarding our financial services operations. 

Our principal executive offices are located at 3 Easton Oval, Suite 500, Columbus, Ohio 43219. The telephone number of our corporate headquarters is (614) 418-8000 and our website address is www.mihomes.com. Information on our website is not a part of and shall not be deemed incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K. 

&#32;3 

Markets 

Our 14 &#32;homebuilding divisions are aggregated into the following three segments for reporting purposes: 

Region 

Market/Division 

Year Operations Commenced 

Midwest 

Columbus, Ohio 

Midwest 

Cincinnati, Ohio 

Midwest 

Indianapolis, Indiana 

Midwest 

Chicago, Illinois 

Midwest 

Minneapolis/St. Paul, Minnesota 

Southern 

Tampa, Florida 

Southern 

Orlando, Florida 

Southern 

Houston, Texas 

Southern 

San Antonio, Texas 

Southern 

Austin, Texas 

Southern 

Dallas/Fort Worth, Texas 

Mid-Atlantic 

Charlotte, North Carolina 

Mid-Atlantic 

Raleigh, North Carolina 

Mid-Atlantic 

Washington, D.C. 

We believe we have experienced management teams in each of our divisions with local market expertise. Our business requires in-depth knowledge of local markets to acquire land in desirable locations and on favorable terms, engage subcontractors, plan communities that meet local demand, anticipate consumer tastes in specific markets, and assess local regulatory environments. Although we centralize certain functions (such as accounting, human resources, legal, marketing, product development, purchasing administration, and risk management) to benefit from economies of scale, our local management, generally under the direction of an Area President and supervised by a Region President, exercises considerable autonomy in identifying land acquisition opportunities, developing and implementing product and sales strategies, and controlling costs. 

Industry Overview and Current Market Conditions 

Housing market conditions were generally favorable in 2015 &#32;as demand for new homes improved, reflecting positive underlying demographic and economic trends, including low interest rates and improved consumer confidence, higher employment levels in most of our markets, and improved mortgage availability. We expect continued modest improvement in the overall housing market in 2016 , driven by these factors, accelerating household formation, improving own-versus-rent dynamics, and attractive home affordability relative to income levels. According to the U.S. Census Bureau, new home sales increased &#32;in 2015 &#32;with 501,000 &#32;new homes sold in the United States compared to 435,000 &#32;sold in 2014 &#32;and 428,000 &#32;sold in 2013 , and we expect new home sales to continue to increase in 2016 . The number of housing permits issued in the United States also increased to an estimated 1,178,000 &#32;in 2015 &#32;compared to 1,033,000 &#32;in 2014 &#32;and 975,000 &#32;in 2013 . 

Business Strategy 

We believe that we are well-positioned to further improve our profitability and results in 2016 , as a result of our market expansions into Texas and, most recently, Minnesota, and our solid competitive positions in our other markets, combined with the 17% &#32;increase in our number of active communities in 2015 . Consistent with our focus on improving long-term financial results, we expect to continue to emphasize the following strategic business objectives in 2016 : 

&#8226; 

profitably growing our presence in our existing markets, including opening new communities; 

&#8226; 

reviewing new markets for investment opportunities; 

&#8226; 

maintaining a strong balance sheet; and 

&#8226; 

emphasizing customer service, product quality and design, and premier locations. 

However, we can provide no assurance that the positive trends reflected in our financial and operating metrics in 2014 &#32;and 2015 &#32;will continue in 2016 . 

Sales and Marketing 

During 2015 , we continued to focus our marketing efforts on first-time and move-up homebuyers, including home designs targeted to empty-nester homebuyers. We market and sell our homes primarily under the M/I Homes and Showcase Collection (exclusively by M/I Homes) brands and, following our acquisition of a privately-held homebuilder in the Minneapolis/St. Paul market in 

&#32;4 

December 2015, we also currently operate under the name Hans Hagen Homes in that market. Our marketing efforts are directed at driving product preference for the M/I Homes brand over other homebuilders or the resale market. 

We provide our homebuyers with the following products, programs and services which we believe differentiate our brand: (1) homes with high quality construction located in attractive areas and desirable communities that are supported by our industry leading15-year transferable structural warranty in the majority of our markets (or a 10-year transferable structural warranty in our Texas markets); (2) fully furnished model homes and highly-trained sales consultants to build the buyer&#8217;s confidence and enhance the quality of the homebuying experience; (3) our Whole Home Building Standards which are designed to deliver features and benefits that validate the buyer&#8217;s expectation for a better-built home, including a more eco-friendly and energy efficient home that we believe will generally save our customers up to 30% on their energy costs compared to a home that is built to minimum code requirements; (4) our StyleSmart Design Centers and suite of home design products and StyleSmart Design Consultants that assist our homebuyers in selecting product and design options; (5) our mortgage financing programs that we offer through M/I Financial, including competitive fixed-rate and adjustable-rate loans; (6) our Ready Now Homes program which offers homebuyers the opportunity to close on certain new homes in 60 days or less; and (7) our unwavering focus on customer care and customer satisfaction. 

We invest in designing and decorating fully-furnished and distinctive model homes intended to create an atmosphere reflecting how people live today and help our customers imagine the possibilities for a &#8220;home of their own -- just the way they dreamed it.&#8221; We also carefully select the interior decorating of our model homes to reflect the lifestyles of our prospective buyers. We believe these models showcase our homes at their maximum livability and potential and provide ideas and inspiration for our customers to incorporate valuable design options into their new home. 

Our company-employed sales consultants are trained and prepared to meet the buyer&#8217;s expectations and build the buyer&#8217;s confidence by fully explaining the features and benefits of our homes, helping each buyer determine which home best suits their needs, explaining the construction process, and assisting the buyer in choosing the best financing option. Significant attention is given to the ongoing training of all sales personnel to assure a high level of professionalism and product knowledge. As of December 31, 2015 , we employed 169 &#32;new home sales consultants. 

By offering whole home energy-efficient homes to our customers, we enable our homebuyers to save on their energy costs (the second largest cost of homeownership) compared to a home that is built to minimum code requirements. We use independent RESNET-Certified Raters and the HERS (Home Energy Rating System) Index, the national standard for energy efficiency, to measure the performance of our homes, including insulation, ventilation, air tightness, and the heating and cooling system. Our divisions&#8217; average scores are generally better than the EPA&#8217;s Energy Star target standard of 72-75, 100 for a home built to the original code standard, and 130 or higher for a resale home. 

To further enhance the homebuying process, we operate StyleSmart Design Centers in a majority of our markets. Our design centers allow our homebuyers to select from thousands of product and design options that are available for purchase as part of the original construction of their homes. Our centers are staffed with StyleSmart Design Consultants who help our homebuyers select the right combination of options to meet their budget, lifestyle and design sensibilities. In most of our markets, we offer our homebuyers the option to consider and make design planning decisions using our Envision online design tool. We believe this tool is helpful for prospective buyers to use during the planning phase and makes their actual visit to our design centers more productive and efficient as our consultants are able to view the buyer&#8217;s preliminary design selections and pull samples in advance of the buyer&#8217;s visit. 

We also offer specialized mortgage financing programs through M/I Financial to assist our homebuyers. We offer conventional financing options along with Federal Housing Authority (&#8220;FHA&#8221;), U.S. Veterans Administration (&#8220;VA&#8221;), the United States Department of Agriculture (&#8220;USDA&#8221;) and state housing bond programs. M/I Financial often provides closing cost assistance and below market interest rates. 

M/I Financial offers our potential homebuyers &#8220;one-stop&#8221; shopping by providing financing and title services for the purchase of their home, which we believe saves our customers both time and money. M/I Financial provides our homebuyers with access to several of what we believe are the best mortgage programs available through its networks, which include many of the major mortgage providers in the United States. We aim to offer our homebuyers unique programs with below-market financing options that are more competitive than what homebuyers could obtain on their own. With respect to title services, M/I Financial works closely with our homebuilding divisions so that we are able to provide an organized and efficient home delivery process. 

We also build inventory homes in most of our communities to support our Ready Now Homes program, which offers homebuyers the opportunity to close on certain new homes in 60 days or less. These homes enhance our marketing and sales efforts to prospective homebuyers who require a home delivery within a short time frame. We determine our inventory homes strategy in each market based on local market factors, such as job growth, the number of job relocations, housing demand and supply, seasonality and our 

&#32;5 

past experience in the market. We maintain a level of inventory homes in each community based on our current and planned sales pace, and we monitor and adjust inventory homes on an ongoing basis as conditions warrant. 

We seek to keep our homebuyers actively involved in the construction of their new home, giving them increased engagement throughout the design and construction process. Our goal is to put the buyer first and enhance the total homebuying experience. We believe prompt and courteous responses to homebuyers&#8217; needs throughout the homebuying process reduce post-delivery repair costs, enhance our reputation for quality and service, and encourage repeat and referral business from homebuyers and the real estate community. 

Finally, we believe our ultimate differentiator comes from the principles our company was founded upon -- integrity and delivering superior customer service and a quality product. Our customer satisfaction scores are measured by an independent third-party company 30 days and 6 months after delivery to hold us accountable for building a home of the highest quality. 

We market our homes using traditional media such as newspapers, magazines, direct mail, billboards, radio and television. The particular media used differs from market to market based on area demographics and other competitive factors. In recent years, we have also significantly increased the reach of our website through enhanced search engine optimization and search engine marketing. We also have increased the number of referral sites, such as Zillow.com and Trulia.com, that we use to drive incremental leads to our internet sales associates. We also use email and database marketing, which have become an increasingly important part of our marketing. We use our social media presence to communicate to potential homebuyers the experiences of customers who have bought our homes and to provide social content about our homes and design features. In the last five years, we have experienced a significant increase in sales demand from buyers who initially identified us online. 

Product Lines, Design and Construction 

Our residential communities are generally located in suburban areas that are easily accessible through public and personal transportation. Our communities are designed as neighborhoods that fit existing land characteristics. We strive to achieve diversity among architectural styles within a community by offering a variety of house models and several exterior design options for each model and preserve existing trees and foliage whenever practicable. Normally, homes of the same type or color may not be built next to each other. We believe our communities have attractive entrances with distinctive signage and landscaping and our added attention to community detail avoids a &#8220;development&#8221; appearance and gives each community a diversified neighborhood appearance. 

We offer homes ranging from a base sales price of approximately $140,000 &#32;to $ 1,200,000 &#32;&#32;and from approximately 1,400 &#32;to 5,500 &#32;square feet. In addition to single-family detached homes, we also offer attached townhomes in some of our markets. By offering a wide range of homes, we are able to attract first-time, move-up, empty-nester and luxury homebuyers. It is our goal to sell more than one home to our buyers, and we believe we have had success in this strategy. 

We devote significant resources to the research, design and development of our homes to meet the demands of our buyers as well as the changing market requirements. Across all of our divisions, we currently offer over 690 &#32;different floor plans designed to reflect current lifestyles and design trends. Our Showcase Collection is designed for our move-up, empty-nester and luxury homebuyers and offers more design options, larger floor plans, and a higher-end product line of homes in upscale communities. In addition, we are developing new floor plans and communities specifically for the growing empty-nester market. These plans (primarily ranch and main floor master bedroom type plans) focus on move-down buyers, are smaller in size, and feature outdoor living potential, fewer bedrooms, and better community amenities. Our primary market remains move-up buyers and, as a result, we focus significant attention on current trends, livability and offering design flexibility to our customers. We have value-engineered all of our product lines to reduce production costs and construction cycle times while adhering to our quality standards and using materials and construction techniques that reflect our commitment to more environmentally conscious homebuilding methods. It is a core value of M/I Homes to offer homes that reflect current design and lifestyle trends. Our homebuilding divisions share successful plans with other divisions, when appropriate. 

All of our homes are constructed according to proprietary designs that meet the applicable FHA and VA requirements and all local building codes. We attempt to maintain efficient operations by utilizing standardized materials. Our raw materials consist primarily of lumber, concrete and similar construction materials, and while these materials are generally available from a variety of sources, we have reduced construction and administrative costs by executing national purchasing contracts with select vendors. Our homes are constructed according to standardized prototypes which are designed and engineered to provide innovative product design while attempting to minimize costs of construction and control product consistency and availability. We generally employ subcontractors for the installation of site improvements and the construction of homes. The construction of each home is supervised by a Personal Construction Supervisor who reports to a Production Manager, both of whom are employees of the Company. Our Personal Construction Supervisors manage the scheduling and construction process. Subcontractor work is performed pursuant to written agreements that require our subcontractors to comply with all applicable laws and labor practices, follow local building 

&#32;6 

codes and permits, and meet performance, warranty, and insurance requirements. The agreements are generally short-term, with terms from six to twelve months, and specify a fixed price for labor and materials. The agreements are structured to provide price protection for a majority of the higher-cost phases of construction for homes in our backlog. In 2015 , we experienced modest construction delays due to shortage of materials and/or labor; however, we cannot predict the extent to which shortages in necessary materials or labor may occur in the future. The materials are substantially comprised of natural resource commodities; therefore, their cost and availability is subject to national and global price fluctuations and inflation, each of which could be impacted by legislation or regulation relating to energy and climate change.We generally begin construction on a majority of our homes after we have obtained a sales contract and preliminary oral confirmation from the buyer&#8217;s lender that financing should be approved. In certain markets, contracts may be accepted contingent upon the sale of an existing home, and construction may be authorized through a certain phase prior to satisfaction of that contingency. The construction of our homes typically takes approximately four to six months from the start of construction to completion of the home, depending on the size and complexity of the particular home being built, weather conditions, and the availability of labor, materials, and supplies. 

We also begin construction on inventory homes (i.e., homes started in the absence of an executed contract) to facilitate delivery of homes on an immediate-need basis under our Ready Now Homes program and to provide presentation of new products. For some prospective buyers, selling their existing home has become a less predictable process and, as a result, when they sell their home, they often need to find, buy and move into a new home in 60 days or less. Other buyers simply prefer the certainty provided by being able to fully visualize a home before purchasing it. Of the total number of homes closed in 2015 &#32;and 2014 , 52% &#32;and 55% , respectively, were inventory homes which include both homes started as inventory homes and homes that started under a contract that were later cancelled and became inventory homes as a result. 

Backlog 

We sell our homes under standard purchase contracts, which generally require a homebuyer deposit at the time of signing the contract. The amount of the deposit varies among markets and communities. Homebuyers are also generally required to pay additional deposits when they select options or upgrades for their homes. Most of our home purchase contracts stipulate that if a homebuyer cancels a contract with us, we have the right to retain the homebuyer&#8217;s deposits. However, we generally permit our homebuyers to cancel their obligations and obtain refunds of all or a portion of their deposits (unless home construction has started) in the event mortgage financing cannot be obtained within the period specified in their contract as a means to maintain goodwill with the potential buyer. 

Backlog consists of homes that are under contract but have not yet been delivered. Ending backlog represents the number of homes in backlog from the previous period plus the number of net new contracts (new contracts for homes less cancellations) generated during the current period minus the number of homes delivered during the current period. The backlog at any given time will be affected by cancellations. Due to the seasonality of the homebuilding industry, the number of homes delivered has historically increased from the first to the fourth quarter in any year. 

As of December 31, 2015 , we had a total of 1,531 &#32;homes, with $569.4 million &#32;aggregate sales value, in backlog in various stages of completion, including homes that are under contract but for which construction had not yet begun. As of December 31, 2014 , we had a total of 1,222 &#32;homes, with $425.2 million &#32;aggregate sales value, in backlog. Homes included in year-end backlog are typically included in homes delivered in the subsequent year. 

Warranty 

We provide certain warranties in connection with our homes and also have a program to perform multiple inspections on each home that we sell. Immediately prior to delivery and as needed after a home is delivered, we inspect each home with the buyer. The Company offers a limited warranty program (&#8220;Home Builder&#8217;s Limited Warranty&#8221;). In addition, for homes sold after December 1, 2015, we offer a ten or fifteen-year transferable structural limited warranty, and for homes sold after April 25, 1998 and on or before December 1, 2015, we offered a ten or thirty-year transferable structural limited warranty. The Home Builder&#8217;s Limited Warranty covers construction defects for a statutory period based on geographic market and state law (currently ranging from five to ten years for the states in which the Company operates) and includes a mandatory arbitration clause. We also pass along to our homebuyers all warranties provided by the manufacturers or suppliers of components installed in each home. Although our subcontractors are generally required to repair and replace any product or labor defects during their respective warranty periods, we are ultimately responsible to the homeowner for making such repairs during our applicable warranty period. Accordingly, we have estimated and established reserves for both our Home Builder&#8217;s Limited Warranty and potential future structural warranty costs based on the number of home deliveries and historical data trends for our communities. In the case of the structural warranty, we also employ an actuary to assist in the determination of our future costs on an annual basis. Our warranty expense was approximately 1.0% , 1.1% &#32;and 0.9% &#32;of total housing revenue in 2015, 2014 and 2013 , respectively. 

&#32;7 

Land Acquisition and Development 

We continuously evaluate land acquisition opportunities in the normal course of our homebuilding business, and we focus on both the replenishment of our lot positions and adding to our lot positions in key submarkets to expand our market share. Our goal is to maintain an approximate three to five-year supply of lots, including lots controlled under option contracts and purchase agreements, which we believe provides an appropriate horizon for addressing regulatory matters and land development and the subsequent build-out of the homes in each community, and allows us to manage our business plan for future home deliveries. 

We seek to meet our need for lots by obtaining advantageous land positions in desirable locations in a cost effective manner that is responsive to market conditions and maintains our financial strength and liquidity. Before entering into a contract to acquire land, we complete extensive comparative studies and analyses, which assist us in evaluating the economic feasibility of the land acquisition. We consider a number of factors, including projected rates of return, estimated gross margins, and projected pace of absorption and sales prices of the homes to be built, all of which are impacted by our evaluation of population and employment growth patterns, demographic trends and competing new home subdivisions and resales in the relevant sub-market. 

We attempt to acquire land with a minimum cash investment and negotiate takedown options when available from sellers. We also restrict the use of guarantees or commitments in our land contracts to limit our financial exposure to the amounts invested in the property and pre-development costs during the life of the community we are developing. We believe this approach significantly reduces our risk. In addition, we generally obtain necessary development approvals before we acquire land. We acquire land primarily through contingent purchase agreements, which typically condition our obligation to purchase land upon approval of zoning, utilities, soil and subsurface conditions, environmental and wetland conditions, market analysis, development costs, title matters and other property-related criteria. We only enter into a commitment to purchase land after we complete a thorough market and financial evaluation. All land and lot purchase agreements and the funding of land purchases require the approval of our corporate land acquisition committee, which is comprised of our senior management team and key operating and financial executives. Purchase agreements to acquire developed lots and raw land to be developed are generally contingent upon satisfaction of certain requirements by us and the sellers, such as zoning approval and availability of building permits. Further details relating to our land option agreements are included in Note 1 &#32;to our Consolidated Financial Statements. 

In 2015 , we continued to increase our investments in land acquisition, land development and housing inventory to meet increasing housing demand and expand our operations in certain markets. In both 2015 &#32;and 2014 , we developed over 76% &#32;of our lots internally, primarily due to a lack of availability of developed lots in desirable locations in the market. Raw land that requires development generally remains more available. In order to minimize our investment and risk of large exposure in a single location, we have periodically partnered with other land developers or homebuilders to share in the cost of land investment and development through joint ownership and development agreements, joint ventures, and other similar arrangements. For joint venture arrangements where a special purpose entity is established to own the property, we enter into limited liability company or similar arrangements (&#8220;LLCs&#8221;) with the other partners. Further details relating to our unconsolidated joint ventures are included in Note 1 &#32;to our Consolidated Financial Statements. 

During the development of lots, we are required by some municipalities and other governmental authorities to provide completion bonds or letters of credit for sewer, streets and other improvements. The development agreements under which we are required to provide completion bonds or letters of credit are generally not subject to a required completion date and only require that the improvements are in place in phases as homes are built and sold. In locations where development has progressed, the amount of development work remaining to be completed is typically less than the remaining amount of bonds or letters of credit due to timing delays in obtaining release of the bonds or letters of credit. Our ability to continue development activities over the long-term will depend upon, among other things, a suitable economic environment and our continued ability to locate suitable parcels of land, enter into options or agreements to purchase such land, obtain governmental approvals for such land, and consummate the acquisition and development of such land. 

&#32;8 

In the normal course of our homebuilding business, we balance the economic risk of owning lots and land with the necessity of having lots available for construction of our homes. The following table sets forth our land position in lots (including lots held in unconsolidated joint ventures) at December 31, 2015 : &#160; 

Lots Owned 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Region 

Developed Lots 

Lots Under Development 

Undeveloped Lots (a) 

Total Lots Owned 

Lots Under Contract 

Total 

Midwest 

1,795 

1,937 

3,921 

4,220 

8,141 

Southern 

1,800 

2,101 

4,664 

4,972 

9,636 

Mid-Atlantic 

360 

1,490 

2,814 

1,831 

4,645 

Total 

4,559 

1,312 

5,528 

11,399 

11,023 

22,422 

(a) 

Includes our interest in raw land held by unconsolidated joint ventures expected to be developed into 1,029 &#32;lots. 

Financial Services 

We sell our homes to customers who generally finance their purchases through mortgages. M/I Financial provides our customers with competitive financing and coordinates and expedites the loan origination transaction through the steps of loan application, loan approval, and closing and title services. M/I Financial provides financing services in all of our housing markets. We believe that our ability to offer financing to customers on competitive terms as a part of the sales process is an important factor in completing sales. 

M/I Financial has been approved by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development, the VA and the USDA to originate mortgages that are insured and/or guaranteed by these entities. In addition, M/I Financial has been approved by the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation (&#8220;Freddie Mac&#8221;) and the Federal National Mortgage Association (&#8220;Fannie Mae&#8221;) as a seller and servicer of mortgages and as a Government National Mortgage Association (&#8220;Ginnie Mae&#8221;) issuer. Our agency approvals, along with a sub-servicing relationship, allow us to sell loans on either a servicing released or servicing retained basis. This option provides flexibility and additional financing options to our customers. 

We also provide title and closing services to purchasers of our homes through our 100%-owned subsidiaries, TransOhio Residential Title Agency Ltd., M/I Title Agency Ltd., and M/I Title LLC, and our majority-owned subsidiary, Washington/Metro Residential Title Agency, LLC. Through these entities, we serve as a title insurance agent by providing title insurance policies and examination and closing services to purchasers of our homes in Columbus, Tampa, Orlando, San Antonio, Houston and the Washington, D.C. markets. In addition, TransOhio Residential Title Agency Ltd. provides examination and title insurance services to our housing markets in Raleigh, Charlotte, Chicago, Indianapolis and Cincinnati. We assume no underwriting risk associated with the title policies. 

Corporate Operations 

Our corporate operations and home office are located in Columbus, Ohio, where we perform the following functions at a centralized level: 

&#8226; 

establish strategy, goals and operating policies; 

&#8226; 

ensure brand integrity and consistency across all local and regional communications; 

&#8226; 

monitor and manage the performance of our operations; 

&#8226; 

allocate capital resources; 

&#8226; 

provide financing and perform all cash management functions for the Company, and maintain our relationship with lenders; 

&#8226; 

maintain centralized information and communication systems; and 

&#8226; 

maintain centralized financial reporting, internal audit functions, and risk management. 

Competition 

The homebuilding industry is fragmented and highly competitive. We operate as a top ten builder in the majority of our markets. We compete with numerous national, regional, and local homebuilders in each of the geographic areas in which we operate. Our competition ranges from small local builders to larger regional builders to publicly-owned builders and developers, some of which have greater financial, marketing, land acquisition, and sales resources than us. Previously owned homes and the availability of rental housing provide additional competition. We compete primarily on the basis of price, location, design, quality, service, and reputation. Our financial services operations compete with other mortgage lenders to arrange financings for homebuyers. Principal competitive factors include interest rates and other features of mortgage loan products available to the consumer. 

&#32;9 

Government Regulation and Environmental Matters 

Our homebuilding and financial services operations are subject to compliance with numerous laws and regulations. Our homebuilding operations must comply with various federal, state and local statutes, ordinances, rules and regulations concerning environmental, zoning, building, design, construction, sales, and similar matters. These regulations increase the cost to produce and market our products, and in some instances, delay our developers&#8217; ability to deliver finished lots to us. Counties and cities in which we build homes have at times declared moratoriums on the issuance of building permits and imposed other restrictions in the areas in which sewage treatment facilities and other public facilities do not reach minimum standards. In addition, our homebuilding operations are regulated in certain areas by restrictive zoning and density requirements that limit the number of homes that can be built within the boundaries of a particular area. 

Our mortgage company and title insurance agencies must comply with various federal and state laws and regulations (including requirements for participation in programs offered by FHA, VA, USDA, Ginnie Mae, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac). These laws and regulations restrict certain activities of our financial services operations as further described in our description of &#8220;Risk Factors&#8221; below in Item 1A. In addition, our financial services operations are subject to regulation at the state and federal level, including regulations issued by the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (the &#8220;CFPB&#8221;) with respect to specific origination, selling and servicing practices. 

Seasonality 

Our homebuilding operations experience significant seasonality and quarter-to-quarter variability in homebuilding activity levels. In general, homes delivered increase substantially in the second half of the year. We believe that this seasonality reflects the tendency of homebuyers to shop for a new home in the spring with the goal of closing in the fall or winter, as well as the scheduling of construction to accommodate seasonal weather conditions. Our financial services operations also experience seasonality because their loan originations correspond with the delivery of homes in our homebuilding operations. 

Employees 

At December 31, 2015 , we employed 1,008 &#32;people (including part-time employees), of which 808 &#32;were employed in homebuilding operations, 114 &#32;were employed in financial services and 86 &#32;were employed in management and administrative services. No employees are represented by a collective bargaining agreement. 

Available Information 

We are subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (&#8220;Exchange Act&#8221;), and file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission (&#8220;SEC&#8221;). These filings are available to the public on the SEC&#8217;s website at www.sec.gov. Our periodic reports and any other information we file with the SEC may be inspected without charge and copied at the SEC&#8217;s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for further information on the operation of the Public Reference Room. 

Our website address is www.mihomes.com. We make available, free of charge, on or through our website, our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. Our website also includes printable versions of our Corporate Governance Guidelines, our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, and the charters for each of our Audit, Compensation, and Nominating and Corporate Governance Committees. The contents of our website are not incorporated by reference in, or otherwise made a part of, this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

