 Item 1. Business 

General: 

As used herein, the term &#8220;Timken&#8221; or the &#8220;Company&#8221; refers to The Timken Company and its subsidiaries unless the context otherwise requires. Timken engineers, manufactures and markets bearings, transmissions, gearboxes, belts, chain and related products and offers a spectrum of power system rebuild and repair services around the world. The Company&#8217;s growing product and services portfolio features many strong industrial brands, including Timken, Fafnir, Philadelphia Gear, Carlisle, Drives and Interlube. 

The Company was founded in 1899 by Henry Timken, who received two patents on the design of a tapered roller bearing. Timken later became, and continues to be, the world's largest manufacturer of tapered roller bearings, leveraging its expertise to develop a full portfolio of industry-leading products and services. Timken built its reputation as a global leader by applying its knowledge of metallurgy, friction management and mechanical power transmission to increase the reliability and efficiency of its customers' equipment across a diverse range of industries. Today, the Company's global footprint consists of 63 &#32;manufacturing facilities/service centers, 12 &#32;technology and engineering centers and 26 &#32;distribution centers and warehouses, supported by a team comprised of more than 14,000 &#32;employees. Timken operates in 28 &#32;countries and territories around the globe. 

Industry Segments and Geographical Financial Information: 

Information required by this Item is incorporated herein by reference to Note 16 - Segment Information &#32;in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Major Customers: 

The Company sells products and services to a diverse customer base globally, including customers in the following market sectors: industrial equipment, construction, agriculture, rail, aerospace and defense, automotive, heavy truck and energy. No single customer accounts for 5% &#32;or more of total net sales. 

Products: 

Timken manufactures and manages global supply chains for multiple product lines including anti-friction bearings and mechanical power transmission products designed to operate in demanding environments. The Company leverages its technical knowledge, research expertise, and production and engineering capabilities across all of its products and end markets to deliver high-performance products and services to its customers. Differentiation in these product lines is achieved by either: (1) product type or (2) the targeted applications utilizing the product. 

Engineered Bearings: 

The Timken&#174; bearing portfolio features a broad range of anti-friction bearing products, including tapered, spherical and cylindrical roller bearings; thrust and ball bearings; and housed units. Timken is a leading authority on tapered roller bearings, and leverages its position by applying engineering know-how and technology across its entire bearing portfolio. 

A bearing is a mechanical device that reduces friction between moving parts. The purpose of a bearing is to carry a load while allowing a machine shaft to rotate freely. The basic elements of the bearing include two rings, called races; a set of rollers that rotate around the bearing raceway; and a cage to separate and guide the rolling elements. Bearings come in a number of designs, featuring tapered, spherical, cylindrical or ball rolling elements. The various bearing designs accommodate radial and/or thrust loads differently, making certain bearing types better suited for specific applications. 

Selection and development of bearings for customer applications and demand for high reliability require sophisticated engineering and analytical techniques. High precision tolerances, proprietary internal geometries and quality materials provide Timken bearings with high load-carrying capacity, excellent friction-reducing qualities and long service lives. The uses for bearings are diverse and can be found in transportation applications that include passenger cars and trucks, heavy trucks, helicopters, airplanes and trains. Ranging in size from precision bearings the size of a pencil eraser to those roughly three meters in diameter, Timken components are also used in a wide variety of industrial applications: paper and steel mills, mining, oil and gas extraction and production, machine tools, gear drives, health and positioning control, wind turbines and food processing. 

Tapered Roller Bearings . Timken tapered roller bearings can increase power density and can include customized geometries, engineered surfaces and specialized sealing solutions. The Company&#8217;s tapered roller bearing line comes in thousands of combinations in single-, double- and four-row configurations. Tapered roller designs permit ready absorption of both radial and axial load combinations, which makes them particularly well-adapted to reducing friction where shafts, gears or wheels are used. 

Spherical and Cylindrical Roller Bearings. Timken also produces spherical and cylindrical roller bearings that are used in large gear drives, rolling mills and other industrial and infrastructure development applications. These products are sold worldwide to original equipment manufacturers and industrial distributors serving major end-market sectors, including construction and mining, natural resources, defense, pulp and paper production, rolling mills and general industrial goods. 

Ball Bearings. Timken radial, angular and precision ball bearings are used by customers in a variety of market sectors, including aerospace, agriculture, construction, health, machine tool and general industries. Radial ball bearings are designed to tolerate relatively high-speed operation under a range of load conditions. These bearing types consist of an inner and outer ring with a cage containing a complement of precision balls. Angular contact ball bearings are designed for a combination of radial and axial loading. Precision ball bearings are manufactured to tight tolerances and come in miniature and instrument, thin section and ball screw support designs. 

Housed Units. Timken markets among the broadest range of bearing housed units in the industry. These products deliver durable, heavy-duty components designed to protect spherical, tapered and ball bearings in debris-filled, contaminated or high-moisture environments. Common housed unit applications include material handling and processing equipment. 

Mechanical Power Transmission: 

Belts. Timken makes and markets a full line of Carlisle&#174; belts used in industrial, commercial and consumer applications. The portfolio features more than 20,000 parts designed for demanding applications, which are sold to original equipment and aftermarket customers. Carlisle&#174; belts are engineered for maximum performance and durability, with products available in wrap molded, raw edge, v-ribbed and synchronous belt designs. Common applications include agriculture, construction, industrial machinery, outdoor power equipment and powersports. 

Chains. &#32;&#32;Timken manufactures precision Drives&#174; roller chain, pintle chain, agricultural conveyor chain, engineering class chain and oil field roller chain. These highly engineered products are used in a wide range of mobile and industrial machinery applications, including agriculture, oil and gas, aggregate and mining, primary metals, forest products and other heavy industries. These products are also utilized in the food and beverage and packaged goods sectors, which often require high-end, specialty products, including stainless-steel and corrosion-resistant roller chain. 

Lubrication Systems. The Company offers 27 formulations of grease, leveraging its knowledge of tribology and anti-friction bearings to enable smooth equipment operation. Interlube&#174; automated lubrication delivery systems dispense precise amounts of Timken grease, saving users from having to manually apply lubrication. These multifaceted delivery systems are used by the commercial vehicle, construction, mining, and heavy and general industries. 

Aerospace Products . The Company's portfolio of parts, systems and services for the aerospace market sector includes products used in helicopters and fixed-wing aircraft for the military and commercial aviation industries. Timken designs, manufactures and tests a wide variety of power transmission and drive train components, including bearings, transmissions, turbine engine components, gears and rotor-head assemblies and housings. In addition to original equipment, Timken provides aftermarket component repair for bearings and compressor cases. Timken inspects and reconditions main engine, gearbox and APU bearings on a wide range of platforms, such as engines, transmissions and gearboxes. 

Industrial Gearboxes. &#32; &#32;The Company&#8217;s Philadelphia Gear&#174; line of low- and high-speed gear drive designs are used in large-scale industrial applications. These gear drive configurations are custom-made to meet user specifications, offering a wide-array of size, footprint and gear arrangements. Low-speed drives are commonly used in crushing and pulverizing equipment, cooling towers, conveyors and pumps. High-speed drives are typically used by power generation, oil and gas, marine and pipeline industries. 

Other Products. &#32; &#32;The Company also offers a full line of seals, couplings, augers and other mechanical power transmission components. Timken industrial sealing solutions come in a variety of types and material options that are used in manufacturing, food processing, mining, power generation, chemical processing, primary metals, pulp and paper, and oil and gas industry applications. Timken couplings, another mechanical power transmission component, are commonly found in gear drives, motors and pump applications. The Company also designs and manufactures Drives helicoid and sectional augers for agricultural applications, like conveying, digging and combines. 

Services: 

Power Systems. Timken services components in the industrial customer's drive train, including switch gears, electric motors and generators, gearboxes, bearings, couplings and central panels. The Company&#8217;s Philadelphia Gear services for gear drive applications include onsite technical services; inspection, repair and upgrade capabilities; and manufacturing of parts to OEM specifications. In addition, the Company&#8217;s Wazee, Smith Services, Schulz, Standard Machine and H&#38;N service centers provide customers with services that include motor and generator rewind and repair and uptower wind turbine maintenance and repair. Timken Power Systems commonly serves customers in the power, wind energy, hydro and fossil fuel, water management, paper, mining and general manufacturing sectors. 

Bearing Repair. Timken bearing repair services return worn bearings to like-new specifications, which increases bearing service life and can often restore bearings in less time than required to manufacture new. Bearing remanufacturing is available for any bearing type or brand - including competitor products - and is well-suited to heavy industrial applications such as paper, metals, mining, power generation and cement; railroad locomotives, passenger cars and freight cars; and aerospace engines and gearboxes. 

Services accounted for approximately 7% of the Company&#8217;s net sales for the year ended December 31, 2015 . 

Sales and Distribution: 

Timken products are sold principally by its own internal sales organizations. A portion of each segment's sales are made through authorized distributors. 

Customer collaboration is central to the Company's sales strategy. Therefore, Timken goes where its customers need them, with sales engineers primarily working in close proximity to customers rather than at production sites. In some cases, Timken may co-locate with a customer at their facility to ensure optimized collaboration. The Company's sales force constantly updates the team's training and knowledge regarding all friction management products and market sector trends, and Timken employees assist customers during development and implementation phases and provide ongoing service and support. 

The Company has a joint venture in North America focused on joint logistics and e-business services. This joint venture, CoLinx, LLC, includes five equity members: Timken, SKF Group, the Schaeffler Group, ABB Group and Gates Corporation. The e-business service focuses on information and business services for authorized distributors in the Process Industries segment. 

Timken has entered into individually negotiated contracts with some of its customers. These contracts may extend for one or more years and, if a price is fixed for any period extending beyond current shipments, customarily include a commitment by the customer to purchase a designated percentage of its requirements from Timken. Timken does not believe that there is any significant loss of earnings risk associated with any given contract. 

Competition: 

The anti-friction bearing business is highly competitive in every country where Timken sells products. Timken competes primarily based on total value, including price, quality, timeliness of delivery, product design and the ability to provide engineering support and service on a global basis. The Company competes with domestic manufacturers and many foreign manufacturers of anti-friction bearings, including SKF Group, the Schaeffler Group, NTN Corporation, JTEKT Corporation and NSK Ltd. 

Joint Ventures: 

Investments in affiliated companies accounted for under the equity method were approximately $2.6 million &#32;and $1.8 million , respectively, at December 31, 2015 &#32;and 2014 . The amount at December 31, 2015 &#32;was reported in other non-current assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. 

Backlog: 

The following table provides the backlog of orders of the Company's domestic and overseas operations at December 31, 2015 &#32;and 2014 : 

&#160; 

December 31, 

(Dollars in millions) 

2014 

Segment: 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Mobile Industries 

$ 

587.1 

$ 

838.5 

Process Industries 

356.1 

450.6 

Total Company 

$ 

943.2 

$ 

1,289.1 

Approximately 90% &#32;of the Company&#8217;s backlog at December 31, 2015 , is scheduled for delivery in the succeeding twelve months. Actual shipments depend upon customers' ever-changing production schedules. Accordingly, Timken does not believe that its backlog data and comparisons thereof, as of different dates, reliably indicate future sales or shipments. 

Raw Materials: 

The principal raw material used by the Company to make anti-friction bearings is special bar quality (SBQ) steel. SBQ steel is produced around the world by various suppliers. SBQ steel is purchased in bar, tube and wire forms. The primary inputs to SBQ steel include scrap metal, iron ore, alloys, energy and labor. The availability and price of SBQ steel are subject to changes in supply and demand, commodity prices for ferrous scrap, ore, alloy, electricity, natural gas, transportation fuel, and labor costs. The Company manages price variability of commodities by using surcharge mechanisms on some of its contracts with its customers that provides for partial recovery of these cost increases in the price of bearing products. 

Any significant increase in the cost of steel could materially affect the Company&#8217;s earnings. Disruptions in the supply of SBQ steel could temporarily impair the Company&#8217;s ability to manufacture bearings for its customers, or require the Company to pay higher prices in order to obtain SBQ, which could affect the Company&#8217;s revenues and profitability. The availability of bearing quality tubing is relatively limited, and the Company is taking steps to diversify its processes to limit its exposure to this particular form of SBQ steel. Overall, the Company believes that the number of suppliers of SBQ steel is adequate to support the needs of global bearing production, and, in general, the Company is not dependent on any single source of supply. 

Research: 

Timken operates a network of technology and engineering centers to support its global customers with sites in North America, Europe and Asia. This network develops and delivers innovative friction management and mechanical power transmission solutions and technical services. Timken's largest technical center is located at the Company's world headquarters in North Canton, Ohio. Other sites in the United States include Manchester, Connecticut; Fulton, Illinois; Springfield, Missouri; Keene and Lebanon, New Hampshire; and King of Prussia, Pennsylvania. Within Europe, the Company has technology facilities in Plymouth, England; Colmar, France; and Ploiesti, Romania. In Asia, Timken operates technology and engineering facilities in Bangalore, India and Shanghai, China. 

Expenditures for research and development amounted to approximately $32.6 million , $38.8 million &#32;and $39.3 million &#32;in 2015 , 2014 &#32;and 2013 , respectively. Of these amounts, approximately $0.3 million &#32;and $0.4 million &#32;were funded by others in 2014 &#32;and 2013 , respectively. None was funded by others in 2015. 

Environmental Matters: 

The Company continues its efforts to protect the environment and comply with environmental protection laws. Additionally, it has invested in pollution control equipment and updated plant operational practices. The Company is committed to implementing a documented environmental management system worldwide and to becoming certified under the ISO 14001 standard where appropriate to meet or exceed customer requirements. As of the end of 2015 , 16 &#32;of the Company&#8217;s plants had obtained ISO 14001 certification. 

The Company believes it has established appropriate reserves to cover its environmental expenses and has a well-established environmental compliance audit program for its domestic and international units. This program measures performance against applicable laws, as well as against internal standards that have been established for all units worldwide. It is difficult to assess the possible effect of compliance with future requirements that differ from existing requirements. 

The Company and certain of its U.S. subsidiaries previously have been and could in the future be identified as potentially responsible parties for investigation and remediation at off-site disposal or recycling facilities under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (CERCLA), known as the Superfund, or state laws similar to CERCLA. In general, such claims for investigation and remediation have also been asserted against numerous other entities. 

Management believes any ultimate liability with respect to pending actions will not materially affect the Company&#8217;s operations, cash flows or consolidated financial position. The Company is also conducting environmental investigation and/or remediation activities at a number of current or former operating sites. The costs of such investigation and remediation activities, in the aggregate, are not expected to be material to the operations or financial position of the Company. 

New laws and regulations, stricter enforcement of existing laws and regulations, the discovery of previously unknown contamination or the imposition of new clean-up requirements may require Timken to incur costs or become the basis for new or increased liabilities that could have a materially adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition or results of operations. 

Patents, Trademarks and Licenses: 

Timken owns numerous U.S. and foreign patents, trademarks and licenses relating to certain products. While Timken regards these as important, it does not deem its business as a whole, or any industry segment, to be materially dependent upon any one item or group of items. 

Employment: 

At December 31, 2015 , Timken had more than 14,000 &#32;employees. Approximately 7% &#32;of Timken&#8217;s U.S. employees are covered under collective bargaining agreements. 

Available Information: 

The Company uses its Investor Relations website at www.timken.com/investors, as a channel for routine distribution of important information, including news releases, analyst presentations and financial information. The Company posts filings as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC), including its annual, quarterly and current reports on Forms 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K; its proxy statements; and any amendments to those reports or statements. All such postings and filings are available on the Company&#8217;s website free of charge. In addition, this website allows investors and other interested persons to sign up to automatically receive e-mail alerts when the Company posts news releases and financial information on the Company&#8217;s website. The SEC also maintains a website, www.sec.gov, which contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. The content on any website referred to in this Annual Report on Form 10-K is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report unless expressly noted. 

