 ITEM 1 

BUSINESS 

(a) General Development of Business 

The Eastern Company (the &#8220;Company&#8221;) was incorporated under the laws of the State of Connecticut in October, 1912, succeeding a co-partnership established in October, 1858. 

The business of the Company is the manufacture and sale of industrial hardware, security products and metal products from six U.S. operations and seven wholly-owned foreign subsidiaries. The Company maintains thirteen physical locations. 

RECENT DEVELOPMENTS 

On January 13, 2016, the Board of Directors of the Company approved amendments to the Certificate of Incorporation and the By-Laws of the Company which will eliminate the classification of the Board of Directors in a phased in manner and will provide for the election of directors by a majority of the votes cast at the Annual Meeting of Shareholders. The declassification of the Board of Directors and the election of Directors by a majority of the votes cast will become effective only upon approval of the shareholders. 

On December 21, 2015, the Company announced the retirement of Leonard F. Leganza from his position as Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer effective December 31, 2015. Mr. Leganza will remain as a member of the Board of Directors of the Company until the expiration of his term at the 2017 annual meeting of the shareholders. The Company also announced that James M. Mitarotonda will serve as Chairman of the Board of Directors effective January 1, 2016 and that August M. Vlak will serve as President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company effective January 1, 2016. 

On August 7, 2015 the Board of Directors of the Company terminated the Rights Agreement between the Company and American Stock Transfer &#38; Trust Company, LLC. 

&#160;(b) Financial Information about Industry Segments 

Financial information about industry segments is included in Note 11 to the Company&#8217;s financial statements, included at Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

(c) Narrative Description of Business 

The Company operates in three business segments: Industrial Hardware, Security Products and Metal Products. 

Industrial Hardware 

The Industrial Hardware segment consists of Eberhard Manufacturing, Eberhard Hardware Manufacturing Ltd., Canadian Commercial Vehicles Corporation, Composite Panel Technologies, Eastern Industrial Ltd. and Sesamee Mexicana, S.A. de C.V. The units design, manufacture and market a diverse product line of industrial and vehicular hardware throughout North America. The segment&#8217;s locks, latches, hinges, handles, lightweight honeycomb composite structures and related hardware can be found on tractor-trailer trucks, moving vans, off-road construction and farming equipment, school buses, military vehicles 

&#160;

&#160; 

&#160; 

&#160; 

and recreational boats. They are also used on pickup trucks, sport utility vehicles and fire and rescue vehicles. In addition, the segment manufactures a wide selection of fasteners and other closure devices used to secure access doors on various types of industrial equipment such as metal cabinets, machinery housings and electronic instruments. Eastern Industrial expands the range of offerings of this segment to include plastic injection molding. 

Typical products include passenger restraint locks, slam and draw latches, dead bolt latches, compression latches, cam-type vehicular locks, hinges, tool box locks, light-weight sleeper boxes and vents for Class 8 trucks and school bus door closure hardware. The products are sold directly to original equipment manufacturers and to distributors through a distribution channel consisting of in-house salesmen and outside sales representatives. Sales and customer service efforts are concentrated through in-house sales personnel where greater representation of our diverse product lines can be promoted across a variety of markets. 

The Industrial Hardware segment sells its products to a diverse array of markets, such as the truck, bus and automotive industries as well as to the industrial equipment, military and marine sectors. Although service, quality and price are major criteria for servicing these markets, the continued introduction of new or improved product designs and the acquisition of synergistic product lines are vital for maintaining and increasing market share. 

Security Products 

The Security Products segment, made up of Greenwald Industries, Argo Transdata, Illinois Lock Company/CCL Security Products, World Lock Company Ltd., Dongguan Reeworld Security Products Ltd. and World Security Industries Ltd., is a leading manufacturer of security products. This segment manufactures electronic and mechanical locking devices, both keyed and keyless, for the computer, electronics, vending and gaming industries. The segment also supplies its products to the luggage, furniture, laboratory equipment and commercial laundry industries. Greenwald manufactures and markets coin acceptors and other coin security products used primarily in the commercial laundry markets, as well as hardware and accessories for the appliance industry. In addition, the segment provides a new level of security for the commercial laundry industry through the use of &#8220;smart card&#8221; technology. Argo Transdata supplies printed circuit boards and other electronic assemblies to Original Equipment Manufacturers (&#8220;OEM&#8221;) in industries such as measurement systems, semiconductor equipment manufacturing, and industrial controls, medical and military markets. 

Greenwald&#8217;s products include timers, drop meters, coin chutes, money boxes, meter cases, smart cards, value transfer stations, smart card readers, card management software, access control units, oven door latches, oven door switches and smoke eliminators. Illinois Lock Company/CCL Security Products sales include cabinet locks, cam locks, electric switch locks, tubular key locks and combination padlocks. Many of the products are sold under the names, SESAMEE &#174; , PRESTOLOCK &#174; and &#160; SEARCHALERT&#8482;. These products are sold to original equipment manufacturers, distributors, route operators, and locksmiths via in-house salesmen and outside sales representatives. Sales efforts are concentrated through national and regional sales personnel where greater representation of our diverse product lines can be promoted across a variety of markets. 

The Security Products segment continuously seeks new markets where it can offer competitive pricing and provide customers with engineered solutions for their security needs. 

Metal Products 

The Metal Products segment, based at the Company&#8217;s Frazer &#38; Jones facility, is the largest and most efficient producer of expansion shells for use in supporting the roofs of underground mines. This segment also manufactures specialty malleable and ductile iron castings. 

Typical products include mine roof support anchors, couplers for railroad braking systems, support anchoring for construction and couplers/fittings for utility (oil, water and gas) industries. Mine roof support anchors are sold to bolt manufacturers while specialty castings are sold to original equipment manufacturers or machine houses. 

General 

Raw materials and outside services were readily available from domestic sources for all of the Company&#8217;s segments during 2015 and are expected to be readily available in 2016 and the foreseeable future. The Company also obtains materials from Asian affiliated and nonaffiliated sources. The Company has not experienced any significant problems obtaining material from its Asian sources in 2015 and does not expect any such problems in 2016. In 2013 and 2014, the Company experienced price increases for many of the raw materials used in producing its products, including: scrap iron, zinc, brass and stainless steel. In 2015 the Company experienced a price decline for many of these same materials. The Company expects raw material prices to stabilize and then continue to increase as demand for raw materials increases as the world economy grows. These raw material cost increases could negatively impact the Company&#8217;s gross margin if raw material prices increase too rapidly for the Company 

&#160;

&#160; 

&#160; 

&#160; 

to recover those cost increases through either price increases to our customers or cost reductions in other areas of the businesses. 

Patent protection for the various product lines within the Company is limited, but is sufficient to protect the Company&#8217;s competitive positions. Foreign sales and license agreements are not significant. 

None of the Company&#8217;s business segments are seasonal. 

Customer lists for all business segments are broad-based geographically and by markets, and sales are generally not highly concentrated by customer. One customer of the Metal Products segment, Jennmar Corporation, accounted for 10.5% of the Company&#8217;s consolidated sales in 2014 and 11.5% in 2013. No other customer exceeded 10% of total consolidated sales in 2015, 2014 or 2013. 

The dollar amount of the backlog of orders received by the Company believed to be firm as of the fiscal year end January 2, 2016 is $27,622,000, as compared to $23,143,000 at January 3, 2015. The primary reasons for the increase from 2014 to 2015 were the timing of orders received from customers, the increase related to the opening of our new panel facility in North Carolina and the acquisition of Argo Transdata Corporation. 

The Company encounters competition in all of its business segments. The Company has been successful in dealing with this competition by offering high quality diversified products with the flexibility of meeting customer needs on a timely basis. This is accomplished by effectively using internal engineering resources and cost effective manufacturing capabilities, expanding product lines through product development and acquisitions, and maintaining sufficient inventory for fast turnaround of customer orders. Imports from Asia and Latin America with favorable currency exchange rates and low cost labor have created additional competitive pressures. The Company currently utilizes four wholly-owned subsidiaries in Asia to help offset offshore competition. 

Research and development expenditures in 2015 were $1,219,000 and represented less than 1% of gross revenues. In 2014 and 2013 they were $1,080,000 and $991,000, respectively. The research costs are primarily attributable to the Greenwald Industries and Eberhard Manufacturing divisions. Greenwald performs ongoing research, in both the mechanical and smart card product lines, which is necessary in order to remain competitive and to continue to provide technologically advanced smart card systems. Eberhard develops new products for the various markets they serve based on changing customer requirements to remain competitive. Other research projects include the development of various latches, rotaries and various transportation and industrial hardware products. 

The Company does not anticipate that compliance with federal, state or local environmental laws or regulations will have a material effect on the Company&#8217;s capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position. 

The average number of employees in 2015 was 911. 

(d) Financial Information about Geographic Areas 

The Company includes six separate operating divisions located within the United States, two wholly-owned Canadian subsidiaries (one located in Tillsonburg, Ontario, Canada, and one in Kelowna, British Columbia, Canada), a wholly-owned Taiwanese subsidiary located in Taipei, Taiwan, a wholly-owned subsidiary in Hong Kong, two wholly-owned Chinese subsidiaries (one located in Shanghai, China, and one located in Dongguan, China) and a wholly-owned subsidiary in Lerma, Mexico. 

Individually, the Canadian, Taiwanese, Hong Kong, Chinese and Mexican subsidiaries&#8217; revenue and assets are not significant. Substantially all other revenues are derived from customers located in the United States. 

Financial information about foreign and domestic operations&#8217; revenues and identifiable assets is included in Note 11 to the Company&#8217;s financial statements, included at Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Information about risks attendant to the Company&#8217;s foreign operations is set forth at Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

e) Available Information 

The Company makes available, free of charge through its Internet website at http://www.easterncompany.com, its annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission. The public may read and 

&#160;

&#160; 

&#160; 

&#160; 

copy any materials that the Company files with the SEC at the SEC&#8217;s Public Reference Room, 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, DC 20549 or by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The Company&#8217;s reports filed with, or furnished to, the SEC are also available on the SEC&#8217;s website at www.sec.gov. 

