 ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

GENERAL 

Ashland Global Holdings Inc. is a Delaware corporation, with its principal executive offices located at 50 E. RiverCenter Boulevard, Covington, Kentucky 41011 (Telephone: (859) 815-3333). Ashland Global Holdings Inc. was incorporated in 2016 as the successor to a Kentucky corporation named Ashland Inc. organized in 2004 (now known as Ashland LLC), which was itself organized as the successor to a Kentucky corporation of the same name organized in 1936. The new holding company structure was put in place to allow Ashland Inc. to reincorporate in Delaware and to help facilitate the separation of the Valvoline business from the specialty chemicals businesses, creating two independent, publicly held companies (the Reorganization). As a result of the Reorganization, Ashland Global Holdings Inc. replaced Ashland Inc. as the publicly held corporation, and Ashland Inc. was converted to a Kentucky limited liability company and is now an indirect, wholly owned subsidiary of Ashland Global Holdings Inc. The terms &#8220;Ashland&#8221; and the &#8220;Company&#8221; as used herein include Ashland Global Holdings Inc., its predecessors and its consolidated subsidiaries, except where the context indicates otherwise. As a result of the Reorganization, Ashland is the successor issuer to Ashland Inc. pursuant to Rule 12g-3(a) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act) and will file periodic and other reports required by the Exchange Act. 

Ashland is a global leader in providing specialty chemical solutions to customers in a wide range of consumer and industrial markets, including adhesives, architectural coatings, automotive, construction, energy, food and beverage, personal care and pharmaceutical. Ashland also maintains a controlling interest in Valvoline Inc., a premium consumer-branded lubricant supplier. With approximately 11,000 employees worldwide (including approximately 5,000 employees of Valvoline Inc.), Ashland serves customers in more than 100 countries. 

Ashland has three reportable segments: Specialty Ingredients, Performance Materials and Valvoline, which is included within a majority-owned, publicly traded subsidiary, Valvoline Inc. As of September 30, 2016, and as described below under &#8220;Corporate Developments&#8221;, Ashland owned approximately 83% of the outstanding shares of Valvoline Inc.&#8217;s common stock. Since Ashland&#8217;s ownership interest in Valvoline Inc., which includes the operations of the Valvoline reportable segment, is now less than 100%, the outside stockholders&#8217; interests in Valvoline Inc. are presented separately as a noncontrolling interest within Ashland&#8217;s equity in the Consolidated Balance Sheet. The amount of consolidated net income attributable to Ashland and the noncontrolling interest are both presented within the Statement of Consolidated Comprehensive Income. Financial information about Ashland&#8217;s three reportable segments for each of the fiscal years in the three-year period ended September 30, 2016 is set forth in Note R of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including sales, equity income, other income, operating income and assets. International data, such as sales to external customers, net assets and property, plant and equipment, are set forth in Note R as well. 

Specialty Ingredients is a global leader in cellulose ethers, vinyl pyrrolidones and biofunctionals. It offers industry-leading products, technologies and resources for solving formulation and product-performance challenges. Specialty Ingredients uses natural, synthetic and semisynthetic polymers derived from cellulose ethers, vinyl pyrrolidones, acrylic polymers, polyester and polyurethane-based adhesives, and plant and seed extract. Specialty Ingredients includes two divisions, Consumer Specialties and Industrial Specialties, that offer comprehensive and innovative solutions for today&#8217;s demanding consumer and industrial applications. Key customers include: pharmaceutical companies; makers of personal care products, food and beverages; manufacturers of paint, coatings and construction materials; packaging and converting; and oilfield service companies. 

Performance Materials is a global leader in unsaturated polyester resins and vinyl ester resins. The business unit has leading positions in gelcoats, maleic anhydride, butanediol, tetrahydrofuran, N-Methylpyrrolidone and other intermediates and solvents. Key customers include: manufacturers of residential and commercial building products; industrial product specifiers and manufacturers; wind blade and pipe manufacturers; automotive and truck OEM suppliers; boatbuilders; engineered plastics and electronic producers; and specialty chemical manufacturers. 

Valvoline is a leading worldwide producer and distributor of premium-branded automotive, commercial and industrial lubricants, and automotive chemicals. In 2016, it ranks as the #2 quick-lube chain by number of stores and #3 passenger car motor oil in the &#8220;Do-It-Yourself&#8221; market by volume brand in the United States. The brand operates and franchises 1,068 Valvoline Instant Oil Change SM &#32;centers in the United States. It also markets Valvoline TM &#32;lubricants and automotive chemicals; MaxLife TM &#32;lubricants created for higher-mileage engines; SynPower TM &#32;synthetic motor oil; and Zerex TM &#32;antifreeze. Key customers include: retail auto parts stores and mass merchandisers who sell to consumers; installers, such as car dealers, repair shops and quick lubes; commercial fleets; and distributors. During February 2016, Ashland completed the acquisition of Oil Can Henry&#8217;s resulting in the addition of 89 quick-lube stores. On September 28, 2016, Valvoline Inc. completed an initial public offering of 34.5 million &#32;shares of its common stock, with Ashland continuing to own 170 million &#32;shares of Valvoline Inc.&#8217;s common stock, representing approximately 83% of the total outstanding shares of Valvoline Inc.&#8217;s common stock. Valvoline Inc.&#8217;s common stock began trading September 23, 2016, on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol &#8220;VVV.&#8221; For additional information on the separation and acquisition, 

see &#8220;Corporate Developments&#8221; below and the &#8220;Key Developments&#8221; section of Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis in this annual report on Form 10-K. 

Available Information - Ashland&#8217;s Internet address is http://www.ashland.com. On this website, Ashland makes available, free of charge, its annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports, as well as any beneficial ownership reports of officers and directors filed on Forms 3, 4 and 5. All such reports are available as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with, or electronically furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Ashland also makes available, free of charge on its website, its Corporate Governance Guidelines, Board Committee Charters, Director Independence Standards and code of business conduct that applies to Ashland&#8217;s directors, officers and employees. These documents are also available in print to any stockholder who requests them. Information contained on Ashland&#8217;s website is not part of this annual report on Form 10-K and is not incorporated by reference in this document. The public may read and copy any materials Ashland files with the SEC at the SEC&#8217;s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet site (http://www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. 

CORPORATE DEVELOPMENTS 

On September 22, 2015, Ashland announced that the Board of Directors approved proceeding with a plan to separate Ashland into two independent, publicly traded companies comprising of the Valvoline business and the specialty chemicals businesses. 

In connection with the separation, in May 2016, Ashland filed a proxy statement/prospectus for a proposal to reorganize under a new public holding company to facilitate its reincorporation in the State of Delaware and to help facilitate the separation process. Upon completing the Reorganization in September 2016, Ashland Global Holdings Inc. replaced Ashland Inc. as the publicly held corporation and, through its subsidiaries, conducts all of the operations previously conducted by Ashland Inc. Each outstanding share of Ashland Inc. common stock was converted into the right to receive one share of Ashland Global Holdings Inc. common stock. Ashland Inc. was converted to a limited liability company and is now an indirect, wholly owned subsidiary of Ashland Global Holdings Inc. 

Following the closing of the Reorganization, Ashland took steps to transfer the Valvoline business to Valvoline Inc. On September 22, 2016, Ashland and Valvoline Inc. announced the pricing of the initial public offering (IPO) of 30 million shares of Valvoline Inc.&#8217;s common stock at a price to the public of $22.00 per share and closed the IPO on September 28, 2016. The underwriters exercised an option to purchase an additional 4.5 million shares of Valvoline Inc.&#8217;s common stock to cover overallotments. After completing the IPO, Ashland owns 170 million shares of Valvoline Inc.&#8217;s common stock, representing approximately 83% of the total outstanding shares of Valvoline Inc.&#8217;s common stock. The total net proceeds, after underwriters discount and other offering expenses, received from the IPO were $712 million . Valvoline Inc.&#8217;s common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol &#8220;VVV&#8221;. Ashland presently intends to distribute the remaining Valvoline Inc. shares in 2017 to Ashland&#8217;s stockholders following the release of March-quarter earnings results by both Ashland and Valvoline Inc. 

During 2016, certain financing related activities were executed for both Ashland and Valvoline in connection with the separation process. See further discussion in Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis and Note J of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this annual report on Form 10-K. 

Transferring of Assets and Liabilities 

As of September 30, 2016, Valvoline Inc. includes substantially all of the Valvoline business as historically reported by Ashland, as well as certain other assets and liabilities transferred to Valvoline Inc. by Ashland. The largest transferred liabilities are the net pension and other postretirement plan liabilities, which include a substantial portion of the largest U.S. qualified pension plan and non-qualified U.S. pension plans. Other transferred assets and liabilities primarily consist of deferred compensation, certain Ashland legacy business insurance reserves, tax attributes, and certain trade payables. Additionally, any deferred tax assets and liabilities that relate specifically to these assets and liabilities have been transferred to Valvoline Inc. as well as certain other tax liabilities as a result of the Tax Matters Agreement entered into between Ashland Global Holdings Inc. and Valvoline Inc. For purposes of Ashland&#8217;s 2016 segment reporting and consistent with prior periods, these transferred assets and liabilities remain included within Unallocated and other. 

ASHLAND SPECIALTY INGREDIENTS 

Ashland Specialty Ingredients (Specialty Ingredients) offers industry-leading products, technologies and resources for solving formulation and product-performance challenges. Using natural, synthetic and semisynthetic polymers derived from cellulose 

ethers, vinyl pyrrolidones, acrylic polymers, polyester and polyurethane-based adhesives, and plant and seed extract, Specialty Ingredients offers comprehensive and innovative solutions for consumer and industrial applications. 

Key customers include pharmaceutical companies; makers of personal care products, food and beverages; manufacturers of paint, coatings and construction materials; packaging and converting; and oilfield service companies. Certain customer relationships are significant, and the loss of any one of those customers could have a material adverse effect on the Specialty Ingredients reportable segment. 

Specialty Ingredients&#8217; areas of expertise include: organic and synthetic chemistry, polymer chemistry, surface and colloid science, rheology, structural analysis and microbiology. 

Specialty Ingredients&#8217; solutions provide an array of properties, including: thickening and rheology control, water retention, adhesive strength, binding power, film formation, conditioning and deposition, colloid stabilization and suspension. 

Specialty Ingredients is composed of two divisions based on end use markets of customers: Consumer Specialties and Industrial Specialties. Many of the products of the two divisions are produced in shared manufacturing facilities, in order to better manage capacity and achieve desired returns. 

Consumer Specialties - The Consumer Specialties division includes the Oral Care, Hair Care, Skin Care, Home Care and Pharmaceutical &#38; Nutrition portfolios. 

&#8226; 

Oral Care - Specialty Ingredients&#8217; portfolio of oral care products delivers active ingredients in toothpaste and mouthwashes; provides bioadhesive functionality for dentures; delivers flavor, texture and other functional properties; and provides product binding to ensure form and function throughout product lifecycle. 

&#8226; 

Hair Care - Specialty Ingredients&#8217; portfolio of hair care products includes advanced styling polymers, fixatives, conditioning polymers, emulsifiers, preservatives and rheology modifiers. 

&#8226; 

Skin Care - Specialty Ingredients&#8217; portfolio of skin care products helps to firm, nourish, revitalize and smooth skin. The Skin Care line also provides sun care products, including UV filters, water-resistant agents and thickeners. Emulsifiers, emollients, preservatives and rheology modifiers complete the Skin Care product line. 

&#8226; 

Home Care - Specialty Ingredients&#8217; portfolio of products and technologies is used in many types of cleaning applications, including fabric care, home care and dishwashing. Specialty Ingredients&#8217; products are used in a variety of applications for viscosity enhancement, particle suspension, rheology modification and stabilization. 

&#8226; 

Pharmaceutical - Specialty Ingredients is a leading supplier of excipients and tablet coating systems to the pharmaceutical and nutraceutical industries. Excipients include a comprehensive range of polymers for use as tablet binders, superdisintegrants, sustained-release agents and drug solubilizers, as well as a portfolio of fully formulated, one-step tablet coating systems for immediate-, sustained- and delayed-release applications. 

&#8226; 

Nutrition - Specialty Ingredients&#8217; nutrition portfolio provides functional benefits in areas such as thickening, texture control, thermal gelation, structure enhancement, water binding, clarification and stabilization. Its core products include cellulose gums and vinyl pyrrolidone polymers which are used in a wide range of offerings for bakery, beverage, dairy, desserts, meat products, pet food, prepared foods, sauces and savory products. 

Industrial Specialties - The Industrial Specialties division includes Coatings, Construction, Energy, Adhesives and Performance Specialties. 

&#8226; 

Coatings - Coatings Specialties is a recognized leader in rheology solutions for waterborne architectural paint and coatings. Products include hydroxyethylcellulose (HEC), which provides thickening and application properties for interior and exterior paints, and nonionic synthetic associative thickeners (NSATs), which are APEO-free liquid synthetics for high-performance paint and industrial coatings. The Coatings Specialties market complements its rheology offering with a broad portfolio of performance foam-control agents, surfactants and wetting agents, dispersants and pH neutralizers. 

&#8226; 

Construction - Construction Specialties is a major producer and supplier of cellulose ethers and companion products for the construction industry. These products control properties such as water retention, open time, workability, adhesion, stabilization, pumping, sag resistance, rheology, strength, appearance and performance in dry-mortar formulations. 

&#8226; 

Energy - Energy Specialties is a leading global manufacturer of guar-, synthetic- and cellulosic-based products for drilling fluids, oil-well cement slurries, completion and workover fluids, fracturing fluids and production chemicals. Specialty Ingredients offers the oil and gas industry solutions for drilling, stimulation, completion, cementing and production applications. 

&#8226; 

Adhesives - Adhesives Specialties manufactures and sells adhesive solutions to the packaging and converting, building and construction, and transportation markets and manufactures and markets specialty coatings and adhesive solutions for 

use across multiple industries. Key technologies and markets include: acrylic polymers for pressure-sensitive adhesives; urethane adhesive for flexible packaging applications; aqueous and radiation-curable adhesives and specialty coatings for printing and converting applications; emulsion polymer isocyanate adhesives for structural wood bonding; elastomeric polymer adhesives for commercial roofing applications; acrylic, polyurethane and epoxy structural adhesives for bonding fiberglass reinforced plastics, composites, thermoplastics and metals in automotive, marine, recreational and industrial applications; specialty phenolic resins for paper impregnation and friction material bonding. Adhesive Specialties&#8217; products provide an array of functional properties including high-strength bonding, ease and speed of product assembly, heat and moisture resistance and design flexibility. 

&#8226; 

Performance - Performance Specialties provides products and services to over 30 industries. Ashland offers a broad spectrum of organo- and water-soluble polymers that are derived from both natural and synthetic resources. Product lines include derivatized cellulose polymers, synthetics, guar and guar derivatives that impart effective functionalities to serve a variety of industrial markets and specialized applications. Many of the products within Performance Specialties function as performance additives that deliver high levels of end-user value in formulated products. In other areas, such as plastics and textiles, Performance Specialties&#8217; products function as a processing aid, improving the quality of end products and reducing manufacturing costs. 

Specialty Ingredients&#8217; cellulosics products were approximately 38% and 16% of Specialty Ingredients&#8217; sales and Ashland&#8217;s total consolidated sales, respectively, for fiscal 2016. 

Specialty Ingredients operates throughout the Americas, Europe and Asia Pacific. It has 27 manufacturing facilities in eight countries which serve both the Consumer Specialties and Industrial Specialties divisions and participates in two joint ventures. Specialty Ingredients has manufacturing facilities in Huntsville, Alabama; Wilmington, Delaware; Dalton, Georgia; Calumet City, Illinois; Calvert City, Kentucky; Freetown, Massachusetts; Chatham and Parlin, New Jersey; Columbus, Hilliard and Ashland, Ohio; White City, Oregon; Piedmont, South Carolina; Kenedy and Texas City, Texas and Hopewell, Virginia within the United States and Doel-Beveren, Belgium; Cabreuva, Brazil; Jiangmen and Nanjing, China; Alizay and Sophia Antipolis, France; Memmingen, Germany; Zwijndrecht, the Netherlands and Kidderminster, Newton Aycliffe and Poole, United Kingdom. Specialty Ingredients currently operates two production facilities through a joint venture in Luzhou and Suzhou, China. 

Specialty Ingredients markets and distributes its products and services directly and through third-party distributors in the Americas, Europe, the Middle East, Africa and Asia Pacific. 

ASHLAND PERFORMANCE MATERIALS 

Ashland Performance Materials (Performance Materials) is a global leader in unsaturated polyester resins and vinyl ester resins. The business unit has leading positions in gelcoats, maleic anhydride, butanediol, tetrahydrofuran, N-Methylpyrrolidone and other intermediates and solvents. Performance Materials&#8217; Composites division helps customers create stronger, lighter, more corrosion-resistant substitutes for traditional materials through higher performing, cost-efficient resin technologies that improve the manufacturing, fabrication and design process. Applied industries include construction, transportation, infrastructure, and boatbuilding. The Intermediates and Solvents division provides butanediol and its derivatives to the chemical process industry, plastics manufacturers, and electronics markets, among others. 

Key customers include manufacturers of residential and commercial building products, industrial product specifiers and manufacturers, wind blade manufacturers, pipe manufacturers, automotive and truck OEM suppliers, boatbuilders, chemical producers and electronics makers. 

Performance Materials is composed of the following divisions: 

Composites &#32;- The Composites division manufactures and sells a broad range of general-purpose and high-performance grades of unsaturated polyester and vinyl ester resins, gelcoats and low-profile additives for the reinforced plastics industry. Key markets include the transportation, construction, marine and infrastructure end markets. Performance Materials&#8217; composite products provide an array of functional properties including corrosion resistance, fire retardance, ultraviolet resistance, water and chemical resistance, high mechanical strength, impact and scratch resistance and high strength-to-weight ratios. In addition, the division also manufactures and sells molten maleic anhydride for the manufacture of a variety of products such as unsaturated polyester resins, copolymers, lubricating oil additives, alkenyl succinic anhydrides, malic acid, fumaric acid and numerous derivative chemicals. Molten maleic anhydride is supplied both to Ashland businesses who consume it as a raw material, primarily in North America, and to the merchant market. 

Intermediates and Solvents - &#32; The Intermediates and Solvents (I&#38;S) division is a leading producer of 1,4 butanediol and its derivatives, including tetrahydrofuran and n-methylpyrrolidone. These products are used as chemical intermediates in the production of engineering polymers and polyurethanes, and as specialty process solvents in a wide array of applications including 

electronics, construction, and active pharmaceutical ingredient manufacture. Butanediol is also supplied to Specialty Ingredients for use as a raw material. 

Performance Materials&#8217; composites products were approximately 72% and 14% of Performance Materials&#8217; sales and Ashland&#8217;s total consolidated sales, respectively, for fiscal 2016. 

Performance Materials operates throughout the Americas, Europe and Asia Pacific. It has 15 manufacturing facilities in seven countries. Composites has manufacturing plants in Fort Smith and Jacksonville, Arkansas; Commerce, California; Bartow, Florida; Neville Island and Philadelphia, Pennsylvania; and Neal, West Virginia within the United States and Aracariguama, Brazil; Changzhou, China; Porvoo, Finland; Miszewo, Poland; and Benicarl&#243;, Spain. I&#38;S has manufacturing facilities in Lima, Ohio and Marl, Germany. 

Performance Materials markets and distributes its products directly and through third-party distributors in the Americas, Europe, the Middle East, Africa and Asia Pacific. Additionally, Performance Materials has a joint venture agreement through which it manufactures products in two manufacturing plants in Saudi Arabia. 

VALVOLINE 

Valvoline delivers premium-branded automotive, commercial and industrial lubricants and automotive chemicals. It operates and franchises 1,068 &#32;Valvoline Instant Oil Change SM &#32;centers in the United States. It markets Valvoline&#8482; lubricants and automotive chemicals; MaxLife&#8482; lubricants for cars with higher mileage engines; SynPower&#8482; synthetic motor oil; and Zerex&#8482; antifreeze. On September 28, 2016, Valvoline Inc. completed an initial public offering of 34.5 million &#32;shares of its common stock, with Ashland continuing to own 170 million &#32;shares of Valvoline Inc.&#8217;s common stock, representing approximately 83% of the total outstanding shares of Valvoline&#8217;s common stock. Valvoline&#8217;s common stock began trading September 23, 2016, on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol &#8220;VVV.&#8221; 

Key customers include retail auto parts stores and mass merchandisers who sell to consumers; installers, such as car dealers, repair shops and quick lubes; commercial fleets; and distributors. Certain customer relationships are significant, and the loss of any one of those customers could have a material adverse effect on the Valvoline business unit. 

The Valvoline reportable segment is composed of the following divisions: 

Core North America &#32;- The &#8220;Do-It-Yourself&#8221; or &#8220;DIY&#8221; channel sells Valvoline&#8482; and other branded and private label products to consumers who perform their own automotive maintenance. These products are sold through retail outlets such as AutoZone, O&#8217;Reilly Auto Parts and Advance Auto Parts. Valvoline also sells branded products and services to installer customers such as car dealers, general repair shops and quick lubes locations, including Goodyear, Monro, Express Oil Change, TBC Retail Group and Sears, directly and through distributors. The installer channel team also sells branded products and solutions to heavy duty customers, such as on-highway fleets and construction companies, and has a strategic relationship with Cummins Inc. (Cummins) for co-branding products in the heavy duty business. 

Quick Lubes &#32;- The Valvoline Instant Oil Change SM (VIOC) &#160; chain is the second largest U.S. retail quick lube service chain by number of stores, providing Valvoline with a significant presence in the passenger car and light truck quick lube market. As of September 30, 2016, 342 company-owned and 726 franchised VIOC centers were operating in 44 states. VIOC centers offer consumers a quick, easy and trusted way to maintain their vehicles, utilizing well trained technicians who have access to a proprietary computer-based point-of-sale technology system and a proprietary service process that sets forth rigorous protocols for both the steps that must be followed in the service of vehicles and for interactions with consumers. In addition, the Quick Lubes market includes the Express Care&#8482; platform, which is a quick lube customer platform developed for independent operators who purchase Valvoline motor oil and other products pursuant to contracts while displaying Valvoline branded signage. During February 2016, Ashland completed the acquisition of Oil Can Henry&#8217;s resulting in the addition of 89 quick-lube stores. 

International &#32;- Outside of North America, Valvoline International sells Valvoline&#8482; and other branded products through wholly-owned affiliates, joint ventures, licensees and independent distributors in approximately 140 countries. Valvoline International operates joint ventures with Cummins in Argentina, China and India. In addition, Valvoline International operates joint ventures with local entities in Colombia, Ecuador and Thailand. Valvoline International markets products for both consumer and commercial vehicles and equipment and is served by company-owned plants in the United States, Australia and the Netherlands, a joint venture-owned facility in India and third-party warehouses and toll manufacturers in other regions. 

Valvoline International sells branded products and services to original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) through company-owned and operated &#8220;direct market&#8221; operations, national accounts and a network of distributors. Valvoline International also maintains a strategic alliance with Cummins to distribute heavy duty lubricants to the commercial market, as well as smaller alliances with other global OEMs. 

Valvoline&#8217;s lubricants products were approximately 89% and 35% of Valvoline&#8217;s sales and Ashland&#8217;s total consolidated sales, respectively, for fiscal 2016. 

Valvoline operates four lubricant blending and packaging plants, three bulk blending and distribution facilities and two distribution centers throughout the United States and additional lubricant blending and packaging plants in Australia and the Netherlands. Valvoline also has a bulk blending and distribution facility in Canada, a distribution center in the U.K., and leased distribution centers in Australia and the Netherlands. In addition to owned and leased facilities, Valvoline also uses numerous toll manufacturers and third-party warehouses. 

Valvoline owns or leases approximately 40 facilities throughout the United States, Australia, Brazil, Canada, China, Croatia, India, Indonesia, the Netherlands, New Zealand, the Philippines, Russia, Singapore, the U.K. and Vietnam that comprise over 2,000,000 square feet of blending, packaging, distribution, warehouse and office space. In addition, Valvoline owns or leases the property associated with 342 quick lubes stores under the VIOC and Oil Can Henry&#8217;s brands throughout the United States. The properties leased by Valvoline have expiration dates ranging from less than one year to more than 25 years (including certain renewal options). 

MISCELLANEOUS 

Environmental Matters 

Ashland maintains a companywide environmental policy overseen by the Environmental, Health, Safety and Quality Committee of Ashland&#8217;s Board of Directors. Ashland&#8217;s Environmental, Health, Safety, Quality and Regulatory Affairs (EHSQ&#38;RA) department has the responsibility to ensure that Ashland&#8217;s businesses worldwide maintain environmental compliance in accordance with applicable laws and regulations. This responsibility is carried out via training; widespread communication of EHSQ&#38;RA policies; information and regulatory updates; formulation of relevant policies, procedures and work practices; design and implementation of EHSQ&#38;RA management systems; internal auditing by a separate auditing group; monitoring of legislative and regulatory developments that may affect Ashland&#8217;s operations; assistance to the businesses in identifying compliance issues and opportunities for voluntary actions that go beyond compliance; and incident response planning and implementation. 

Federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment have a significant impact on how Ashland conducts its businesses. In addition, Ashland&#8217;s operations outside the United States are subject to the environmental laws of the countries in which they are located. These laws include regulation of air emissions and water discharges, waste handling, remediation and product inventory, registration and regulation. New laws and regulations may be enacted or adopted by various regulatory agencies globally. The costs of compliance with any new laws or regulations cannot be estimated until the manner in which they will be implemented has been more precisely defined. 

At September 30, 2016 , Ashland&#8217;s reserves for environmental remediation and related environmental litigation amounted to $177 million , reflecting Ashland&#8217;s best estimates of the most likely costs that will be incurred over an extended period to remediate identified conditions for which the costs are reasonably estimable, without regard to any third-party recoveries. Engineering studies, historical experience and other factors are used to identify and evaluate remediation alternatives and their related costs in determining the estimated reserves for environmental remediation. Environmental remediation reserves are subject to numerous inherent uncertainties that affect Ashland&#8217;s ability to estimate its share of the costs. Such uncertainties involve the nature and extent of contamination at each site, the extent of required cleanup efforts under existing environmental regulations, widely varying costs of alternate cleanup methods, changes in environmental regulations, the potential effect of continuing improvements in remediation technology and the number and financial strength of other potentially responsible parties at multiparty sites. Although it is not possible to predict with certainty the ultimate costs of environmental remediation, Ashland currently estimates that the upper end of the reasonably possible range of future costs for identified sites could be as high as approximately $380 million . No individual remediation location is significant, as the largest reserve for any site is less than 15% &#32;of the remediation reserve. Ashland regularly adjusts its reserves as environmental remediation continues. Environmental remediation expense, net of insurance receivables, amounted to $40 million &#32;in 2016 , compared to $40 million &#32;in 2015 &#32;and $33 million &#32;in 2014 . 

Product Control, Registration and Inventory &#32;- Many of Ashland&#8217;s products and operations are subject to chemical control laws of the countries in which they are located. These laws include regulation of chemical substances and inventories under the Toxic Substances Control Act (TSCA) in the United States and the Registration, Evaluation and Authorization of Chemicals (REACH) regulation in Europe. Under REACH, additional testing requirements, documentation, risk assessments and registrations are occurring and will continue to occur and may adversely affect Ashland&#8217;s costs of products produced in or imported into the European Union. Examples of other product control regulations include right to know laws under the Global Harmonized System (GHS) for hazard communication, regulation of chemicals used in the manufacture of pharmaceuticals and personal care products and that contact food under the Food, Drug and Cosmetics Act in the United States, the Framework Regulation in Europe and other product control requirements for chemical weapons, drug precursors and import/export. New laws and regulations may be 

enacted or adopted by various regulatory agencies globally. The costs of compliance with any new laws or regulations cannot be estimated until the manner in which they will be implemented has been more precisely defined. 

Remediation &#32;- Ashland currently operates, and in the past has operated, various facilities at which, during the normal course of business, releases of hazardous substances have occurred. Additionally, Ashland has known or alleged potential environmental liabilities at a number of third-party sites. Federal and state laws, including but not limited to the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA), the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980 (CERCLA) and various other remediation laws, require that contamination caused by hazardous substance releases be assessed and, if necessary, remediated to meet applicable standards. Some of these laws also provide for liability for related damage to natural resources, and claims for alleged property and personal injury damage can also arise related to contaminated sites. Laws in other jurisdictions in which Ashland operates require that contamination caused by such releases at these sites be assessed and, if necessary, remediated to meet applicable standards. 

Air &#32;- In the United States, the Clean Air Act (CAA) imposes stringent limits on facility air emissions, establishes a federally mandated operating permit program, allows for civil and criminal enforcement actions and sets limits on the volatile or toxic content of many types of industrial materials and consumer products. The CAA establishes national ambient air quality standards (NAAQS) with attainment deadlines and control requirements based on the severity of air pollution in a given geographical area. Various state clean air acts implement, complement and, in many instances, add to the requirements of the federal CAA. The requirements of the CAA and its state counterparts have a significant impact on the daily operation of Ashland&#8217;s businesses and, in many cases, on product formulation and other long-term business decisions. Other countries where Ashland operates also have laws and regulations relating to air quality. Ashland&#8217;s businesses maintain numerous permits and emission control devices pursuant to these clean air laws. 

The United States Environmental Protection Agency (USEPA) has increased its frequency in reviewing the NAAQS. The USEPA has stringent standards for particulate matter, ozone and sulfur dioxide. Throughout 2016, state and local agencies continued to implement options for meeting the newest standards. Particulate matter strategies include dust control measures for construction sites and reductions in emission rates allowed for industrial operations. Options for ozone include emission controls for certain types of sources, reduced limits on the volatile organic compound content of industrial materials and consumer products, and requirements on the transportation sector. Most options for sulfur dioxide focus on coal and diesel fuel combustion sources. It is not possible at this time to estimate the potential financial impact that these newest standards may have on Ashland&#8217;s operations or products. Ashland will continue to monitor and evaluate these standards to meet these and all air quality requirements. 

Solid Waste &#32;- Ashland&#8217;s businesses are subject to various laws relating to and establishing standards for the management of hazardous and solid waste. In the United States, Ashland&#8217;s facilities are subject to RCRA and its regulations governing generators of hazardous waste. Ashland has implemented systems to oversee compliance with the RCRA regulations. In addition to regulating current waste disposal practices, RCRA also addresses the environmental effects of certain past waste disposal operations, the recycling of wastes and the storage of regulated substances in underground tanks. Ashland has the remediation liability for certain facilities subject to these regulations. Other countries where Ashland operates also have laws and regulations relating to hazardous and solid waste, and Ashland has systems in place to oversee compliance. 

Water &#32;- Ashland&#8217;s businesses maintain numerous discharge permits. In the United States, such permits may be required by the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System of the Clean Water Act and similar state programs. Other countries have similar laws and regulations requiring permits and controls relating to water discharge. 

Climate Change and Related Regulatory Developments &#32;- Ashland has been collecting energy use data and calculating greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions for many years. Ashland evaluates the potential impacts from both climate change and the anticipated GHG regulations to facilities, products and other business interests, as well as the strategies commonly considered by the industrial sector to reduce the potential impact of these risks. These risks are generally grouped as impacts from legislative, regulatory and international developments, impacts from business and investment trends and impacts to company assets from the physical effects of climate change. Current North American, European and other regional regulatory developments are not expected to have a material effect on Ashland&#8217;s operations, although some facilities are subject to promulgated rules. Business and investment trends are expected to drive an increase in the demand for products that improve energy efficiency, reduce energy use and increase the use of renewable resources. At this time, Ashland cannot estimate the impact of this expected demand increase to its businesses. Physical effects from climate change have the potential to affect Ashland&#8217;s assets in areas prone to sea level rise or extreme weather events much as they do the general public and other businesses. Due to the uncertainty of these matters, Ashland cannot estimate the impact at this time of GHG-related developments on its operations or financial condition. 

Competition 

Specialty Ingredients and Performance Materials compete in the highly fragmented specialty chemicals industry. The participants in the industry offer a varied and broad array of product lines designed to meet specific customer requirements. Participants compete with individual and service product offerings on a global, regional and/or local level subject 

to the nature of the businesses and products, as well as the end-markets and customers served. Competition is based on several key criteria, including product performance and quality, product price, product availability and security of supply, responsiveness of product development in cooperation with customers, customer service, industry knowledge and technical capability. Certain key competitors are significantly larger than Ashland and have greater financial resources, leading to greater operating and financial flexibility. The industry has become increasingly global as participants have focused on establishing and maintaining leadership positions outside of their home markets. Many of these segments&#8217; product lines face domestic and international competition, as a result of industry consolidation, pricing pressures and competing technologies. 

Valvoline operates in highly competitive markets and faces competition in each of its product categories and subcategories. In the United States and Canada, its principal competitors for retail customers are global integrated oil brands, such as Shell, which produces Pennzoil and Quaker State, BP, which produces Castrol, and Exxon Mobil, the producer of Mobil1, mid-tier brands, and private label producers. With respect to installer customers in the United States and Canada, Valvoline competes with these major integrated oil brands and regional private label companies. Valvoline also competes with other major franchised brands that offer a turn-key operations management system, such as Jiffy Lube (owned by Shell), Grease Monkey and Express Oil Change, as well as national branded companies that offer a professional signage program with limited business model support, similar to its Express Care network, and regional players such as Super-Lube and American Lube Fast that are not directly affiliated with a major brand. Valvoline also competes to some degree with automotive dealerships and service stations, which provide quick lube and other preventative maintenance services. Jiffy Lube is currently the largest player, with just over 1,900 stores, all of which are owned and operated by franchisees. The major competitors of the Valvoline International market vary by region. Valvoline generally faces strong competition from global integrated oil brands, as these companies have a particularly strong presence in Europe and Asia. In certain markets it also competes with regional brands, including brands produced by national oil companies, such as Sinopec in China and Indian Oil in India. Competitive factors in all of these markets include price, product or service technology, brand awareness and loyalty, customer service and sales and marketing. Certain of Valvoline&#8217;s products also compete on the basis of shelf space and product packaging. 

Intellectual Property 

Ashland has a broad intellectual property portfolio which is an important component of all of Ashland&#8217;s reportable segments. In particular, Ashland&#8217;s Specialty Ingredients and Performance Materials reportable segments rely on patents, trade secrets, formulae and know-how to protect and differentiate their products and technologies. In addition, these reportable segments own valuable trademarks which identify and differentiate Ashland&#8217;s products from its competitors. The Valvoline&#8482; trademark and other trademarks related to Valvoline brand products and franchises are of particular importance to the Valvoline brand segment and the overall Ashland business. Ashland also licenses intellectual property rights from third-parties. 

Raw Materials 

Ashland purchases its raw materials from multiple sources of supply in the United States and other countries, and believes that raw material supplies will be available in quantities sufficient to meet demand in fiscal 2017 . All of Ashland&#8217;s reportable segments were impacted to varying degrees in fiscal 2016 &#32;by the volatility of raw materials costs, and these conditions may continue in fiscal 2017 . 

Research and Development 

Ashland&#8217;s program of research and development is focused on defining the needs of the marketplace and framing those needs into technology platforms. Ashland has the capability to deliver and develop the intellectual property required to grow and protect those platforms. Ashland is focused on developing new chemistries, market-changing technologies and customer driven solutions at numerous technology centers located in the Americas, Europe and the Asia Pacific region. Research and development costs are expensed as they are incurred and totaled $100 million &#32;in 2016 , $110 million &#32;in 2015 &#32;and $114 million &#32;in 2014 . These amounts include impairment charges of $11 million &#32;and $13 million &#32;during 2015 &#32;and 2014 , respectively, related to certain in-process research and development assets associated with the 2011 acquisition of International Specialty Products Inc. (ISP). For additional information regarding these impairment charges, see Note I of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this annual report on Form 10-K. 

Seasonality 

Ashland&#8217;s business may vary due to seasonality. Ashland&#8217;s business units typically experience stronger demand during warmer weather months, which generally occur during Ashland&#8217;s third and fourth quarters. 

Forward-Looking Statements 

This annual report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the &#8220;Exchange Act&#8221;). These forward-looking statements are not historical facts and generally are identified by words such as &#8220;anticipates,&#8221; &#8220;believes,&#8221; 

&#8220;estimates,&#8221; &#8220;expects,&#8221; &#8220;is likely,&#8221; &#8220;predicts,&#8221; &#8220;projects,&#8221; &#8220;forecasts,&#8221; &#8220;may,&#8221; &#8220;will,&#8221; &#8220;should,&#8221; and &#8220;intends&#8221; and the negative of these words or other comparable terminology. Although Ashland believes that its expectations are based on reasonable assumptions, such expectations are subject to risks and uncertainties that are difficult to predict and may be beyond Ashland&#8217;s control. As a result, Ashland cannot assure that the expectations contained in such statements will be achieved. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in such statements are discussed under &#8220;Use of estimates, risks and uncertainties&#8221; in Note A of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this annual report on Form 10-K. For a discussion of other factors and risks that could affect Ashland&#8217;s expectations and operations, see &#8220;Item 1A. Risk Factors&#8221; in this annual report on Form 10-K. 

