 Item 1. Business 

A. 

The Company 

SIFCO Industries, Inc., an Ohio corporation, was incorporated in 1916. The executive offices of the Company are located at 970 East 64th Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44103, and its telephone number is (216) 881-8600. 

SIFCO Industries, Inc. is engaged in the production of forgings and machined components primarily for the Aerospace and Energy ("A&#38;E") markets. The processes and services include forging, heat-treating and machining. SIFCO Industries, Inc.'s operations are conducted in a single business segment (&#8220;SIFCO,&#8221; "Company," "we" or &#8220;our&#8221;), previously referenced as SIFCO Forged Components during fiscal 2014. Information relating to the Company's financial results is set forth in the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. In fiscal 2015, SIFCO completed the acquisition of all of the outstanding equity of C Blade S.p.A. Forging &#38; Manufacturing (&#8220;C*Blade&#8221;), located in Maniago, Italy, from Riello Investimenti Partners SGR S.p.A., Giorgio Visentini, Giorgio Frassini, Giancarlo Sclabi and Matteo Talmassons. Financial information relating to the Company's acquisition is referenced in Note 12 of the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. In fiscal 2013, the Company had two additional segments: Turbine Component Services and Repair, which was discontinued in fiscal 2013, and Applied Surface Concepts, which was divested in fiscal 2013. Financial information relating to the Company&#8217;s divestiture and discontinued operations is referenced in Note 13 of the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. 

B. 

Principal Products and Services 

1. SIFCO 

Operations 

SIFCO is a manufacturer of forgings and machined components for the A&#38;E markets. SIFCO services both original equipment manufacturers ("OEM") and aftermarket customers with products that range in size from approximately 2 to 1,200 pounds. The Company's strategic vision is to build a leading A&#38;E company positioned for long-term, stable growth and profitability. In the past several years, SIFCO has actively diversified into the industrial gas turbine business, added more commercial aerospace business, reduced its dependence on the U.S. military business, and broadened the scope of its product and service offerings by adding machining and finishing to its forgings capabilities. This strategic evolution continued in fiscal 2015 with the acquisition of C*Blade, a leading manufacturer of steam and gas turbine blades located in Maniago, Italy. 

SIFCO&#8217;s continued migration toward a more commercial business and decreased dependence on military business is consistent with its strategic vision. In fiscal 2015, commercial and military revenues accounted for 57.0% and 43.0% of revenues, respectively, compared with 55.9% and 52.4% in commercial revenues and 44.1% and 47.6% in military revenues in fiscal 2014 and fiscal 2013, respectively. The Company has also expanded its capabilities to be a supplier of forged and machined components, consisting primarily of aluminum, steel and titanium. 

In addition to the newly acquired facilities of C*Blade, located in Maniago, Italy, SIFCO operates from multiple locations. SIFCO manufacturing facilities are located in Cleveland, Ohio; Alliance, Ohio; Orange, California; Long Beach, California; and Colorado Springs, Colorado. On July 23, 2013, the Company completed the purchase of the forging business and substantially all related operating assets from MW General, Inc. (DBA General Aluminium Forgings), which business is operated in the Colorado Springs, Colorado facility. 

The Company's success is not dependent on patents, trademarks, licenses or franchises. 

SIFCO generally has multiple sources for its raw materials, which consist primarily of high quality metals essential to its business. Suppliers of such materials are located principally in North America, Taiwan and Europe. SIFCO generally does not depend on a single source for the supply of its materials. Due to the limited supply of certain raw materials, some material is provided by a small number of suppliers; however, SIFCO believes that its sources are adequate for its business. SIFCO's various operations are AS 9100C and/or ISO 9001:2000 certified. 

Products 

SIFCO&#8217;s products are made primarily of steel, stainless steel, titanium and aluminum and include: OEM and aftermarket components for aircraft and industrial gas turbine engines; steam turbine blades; structural airframe components; aircraft landing gear components; aircraft wheels and brakes; critical rotating components for helicopters; and commercial/industrial products. SIFCO also provides heat-treatment, surface-treatment, non-destructive testing and select machining of forged components. 

Industry 

The performance of the domestic and international air transport industry and the energy industry, as well as government defense spending, directly and significantly impacts the performance of SIFCO. 

&#8226; 

SIFCO supplies new and spare components for commercial aircraft, principally for large aircraft produced by Boeing and Airbus. A continued increase in passenger travel demand will drive backlog for new aircraft. Demand for more fuel-efficient aircraft, particularly the Boeing 737Max and 787 and the Airbus A320neo and A350, remains strong despite oil prices moderating recently. 

&#8226; 

SIFCO also supplies new and spare components to the U.S. military for aircraft, helicopters, vehicles, and ammunition. While the defense budget in the United States has decreased in recent years, the demand for certain programs in which the Company participates has been more favorable. 

&#8226; 

SIFCO supplies new and spare components to the energy industry, particularly the industrial turbine market. The industrial gas turbine market is projecting flat near-term growth and stable long-term OEM growth. The demand in the maintenance, repair and overhaul market should remain strong. 

Competition 

SIFCO competes with numerous companies, approximately fifteen of which are known by SIFCO, and some of which are non-U.S. based companies. Many of these companies focus within the A&#38;E markets. While there has been some consolidation in the forging industry, SIFCO believes there is limited opportunity to increase prices, other than for the pass-through of raw material price increases and valued added services. SIFCO believes that it has an advantage in the primary markets it serves due to: (i) demonstrated A&#38;E expertise; (ii) focus on quality and customer service; (iii) operating initiatives such as SMART (Streamlined Manufacturing Activities to Reduce Time/Cost) and Six Sigma; and (iv) offering a broad range of capabilities. SIFCO competes with both U.S. and non-U.S. suppliers of forgings, some of which are significantly larger than SIFCO. As customers establish new facilities throughout the world, SIFCO will continue to encounter non-U.S. competition. SIFCO believes it can expand its markets by (i) acquiring additional forging and machining operations; (ii) broadening its product lines through investment in equipment that expands its manufacturing capabilities; and (iii) developing new customers in markets where the participants require similar technical competence and service as those in the A&#38;E industries and who are willing to pay a premium for quality and service. 

Customers 

During fiscal 2015, SIFCO had two customers, consisting of various business units of United Technologies Corporation and Boeing, which accounted for 22% and 16%, respectively, of consolidated net sales. The net sales to these two customers, and to their direct subcontractors, accounted for 38% of consolidated net sales in fiscal 2015. SIFCO believes that the loss of sales to such customers would result in a materially adverse impact on the business and its income. However, SIFCO has maintained a business relationship with many of these customers for several years and is currently conducting business with some of them under multi-year agreements. Although there is no assurance that this will continue, historically, as one or more major customers have reduced their purchases, SIFCO has generally been successful in gaining new business, thereby avoiding a material adverse impact on the Company. SIFCO relies on its ability to adapt its services and operations to changing requirements of the market in general and its customers in particular. No material part of SIFCO&#8217;s business is seasonal. For additional financial information about geographic areas refer to Note 10 of the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. 

Backlog of Orders 

SIFCO&#8217;s backlog as of September 30, 2015 increased to $94.8 million, of which $78.1 million is scheduled for delivery during fiscal 2016, compared with $86.7 million as of September 30, 2014, of which $71.7 million was scheduled for delivery during fiscal 2015. Orders may be subject to modification or cancellation by the customer with limited charges. The increase in the backlog as of September 30, 2015 compared with September 30, 2014 is primarily attributed to the acquisition of the C*Blade business. The backlog amount may not necessarily be indicative of expected future sales. 

2. Other 

In fiscal 2013, the Company discontinued its Turbine Component Services and Repair ("Repair Group") operations. The Repair Group had a single operation in Minneapolis, Minnesota, and this segment of the Company&#8217;s business consisted of the repair and remanufacture of small turbine engine components principally for aerospace applications. As a part of the repair and remanufacture process, the business performed precision component machining and applied high temperature-resistant coatings to turbine engine components. In January of fiscal 2015, the Company completed the sale of its Minneapolis building held for sale. 

In fiscal 2013, the Company also divested its Applied Surface Concepts ("ASC") business. ASC previously provided surface enhancement technologies principally related to selective plating and anodizing. Principal product offerings included (i) the development, production and sale of metal plating solutions and equipment required for selective plating and (ii) providing selective plating contract services. See Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 for more details on discontinued operations. 

C. 

Environmental Regulations 

The Company is required to comply with various laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment. The costs of such compliance have not had, and are not presently expected to have, a material effect on the capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position of the Company and its subsidiaries under existing regulations and interpretations. 

D. 

Employees 

The number of SIFCO employees increased from approximately 465 at the beginning of fiscal 2015 to approximately 593 employees at the end of fiscal 2015, largely attributable to the acquisition of C*Blade. The Company is a party to collective bargaining agreements with certain employees located at the Cleveland (expires in May 2020) and Alliance (expires in July 2017) plants. C*Blade is party to the National Collective Agreement in metal working (expired December 2015; negotiations are currently underway to renew the Agreement). 

E. 

Non-U.S. Operations 

In fiscal 2015, SIFCO completed the acquisition of all the outstanding equity of C*Blade, located in Maniago, Italy. C*Blade specializes in the manufacture of steam turbine blades and gas compressor blades for the energy industry. 

The Company previously operated service and distribution facilities in the United Kingdom, France and Sweden prior to the divestiture of these operations in fiscal 2013. Further discussion about the divestiture is set forth in Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. 

F. 

Available Information 

The Company files annual, quarterly, and current reports, proxy statements, and other documents with the SEC under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The public may read and copy any materials filed with the SEC at the SEC&#8217;s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. Also, the SEC maintains an Internet website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. The public can obtain any documents that are filed by the Company at http://www.sec.gov. 

&#160; 

In addition, our annual reports on Form 10-K, as well as our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to all of the foregoing reports, are made available free of charge on or through the &#8220;Investor Relations&#8221; section of our website at www.sifco.com as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. 

&#160; 

Information relating to our corporate governance at SIFCO, including the Audit Committee, Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee and Compensation Committee Charters, as well as the Corporate Governance Guidelines and Policies and the Code of Conduct &#38; Ethics adopted by our Board of Directors, is available free of charge on or through the &#8220;Investor Relations&#8221; section of our website at www.sifco.com . References to our website or the SEC&#8217;s website do not constitute incorporation by reference of the information contained on such websites, and such information is not part of this Form 10-K. 

