 ITEM 1. DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS

&#160;

American International Holdings Corp.

American International Holdings Corp. ( &#8220; AMIH &#8221; ) is a 93.2% owned subsidiary of American International Industries, Inc. ("American") (OTCBB: AMIN). AMIH also has a wholly-owned subsidiary, Delta Seaboard Well Service, Inc. ("DSWSI"), a Texas corporation. 

Description of AMIH&#8217;s Business

Since April 3, 2012, we have been classified as a "shell company". Rule 12b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act") defines "shell company," as a company (other than an asset-backed issuer), which has "no operations; and either no or nominal assets; assets consisting of solely cash and cash equivalents; or assets consisting of any amount of cash and cash equivalents and nominal other assets." Management does not intend to undertake any efforts to cause a market to develop in our securities, either debt or equity, until we have successfully concluded a business combination. The Company intends to comply with the periodic reporting requirements of the Exchange Act for so long as we are subject to those requirements.

Business Objective

The Company's current business objective is to become an operating company, by seeking a business combination with an operating company, acquiring assets or other means. We intend to use the Company's limited personnel but significant cash resources and liquidity resulting from the sale of DSWSI in connection with fulfilling its business objective. The Company will utilize its capital stock, debt or a combination of capital stock and debt, together with its financial resources, in furtherance of its business objective.

It may be expected that entering into one or more transactions in pursuit of its business objective will involve the issuance of restricted shares of capital stock. The issuance of additional shares of our Common Stock or other capital stock that may be convertible into Common Stock:

&#183; &#160; may significantly reduce the equity interest of our existing stockholders;

&#183; &#160; may cause a change in control if a substantial number of our shares of Common Stock or other capital stock are issued and may also result in the resignation or removal of our present officers and directors; and

&#183; may adversely affect the prevailing market price for our Common Stock.

Similarly, if we issued debt securities, it could result in:

&#183; default and foreclosure on our assets if our operating revenues after a business combination were insufficient to pay our debt obligations;

&#183; acceleration of our obligations to repay the indebtedness even if we have made all principal and interest payments when due if the debt security contained covenants that required the maintenance of certain financial ratios or reserves and any such covenants were breached without a waiver or renegotiations of such covenants;

&#183; our inability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, if the debt security contained covenants restricting our ability to obtain additional financing while such security was outstanding.

&#183; our immediate payment of all principal and accrued interest, if any, if the debt security was payable on demand; and

We currently plan to seek potential business combinations by investigating opportunities and, if such investigation warrants, acquiring a target company or business seeking the perceived advantages of being a publicly held corporation and that understands the benefit of being able to employ our funds in its business. Our principal business objective for the next 12 months and beyond will be to achieve long-term growth potential through a combination with a business (and/or an acquisition) rather than immediate, short-term earnings. We will not restrict our potential candidate target companies to any specific business, industry or geographical location and, thus, may acquire any type of business.

The investigation and analysis of new business opportunities has and will be undertaken by or under the supervision of our officers and directors. As of the date of this filing, we have not entered into any preliminary or definitive agreement with any party, nor have there been any specific discussions with any potential business combination candidates regarding business combination opportunities for us. In our efforts to analyze potential acquisition targets, we may consider the following kinds of factors:

&#183; potential for growth, indicated by new technology, anticipated market expansion or new products;

&#183; competitive position as compared to other firms of similar size and experience within the industry segment as well as within the industry as a whole;

&#183; strength and diversity of management, either in place or scheduled for recruitment;

&#183; capital requirements and anticipated availability of required funds, to be provided by the Company or from operations, through the sale of additional securities, through joint ventures or similar arrangements or from other sources;

&#183; the cost of participation by us as compared to the perceived tangible and intangible values and potentials;

&#183; the extent to which the business opportunity can be advanced;

&#183; the accessibility of required management expertise, personnel, raw materials, services, professional assistance and other required items; and

&#183; other relevant factors.

In applying the foregoing criteria, no one of which will be controlling, our management will attempt to analyze all factors and circumstances and make a determination based upon reasonable investigative measures and available data. Potentially available business opportunities may occur in many different industries, and at various stages of development, all of which will make the task of comparative investigation and analysis of such business opportunities extremely difficult and complex. Due to the limited capital we have, plans to allocate for investigation, we may not discover or adequately evaluate adverse facts about the potential business opportunities that may be acquired.

Form of Acquisition

The manner and extent to which we participate in a business combination opportunity will depend upon the nature of the opportunity, our respective needs and desires as well as those of the principals of the opportunity, and the relative negotiating strength of us and such principals.

It is likely that we will affect a business combination through the issuance of common stock or other securities, which may result in a change of control. Although the terms of any such transaction cannot be predicted, it should be noted that in certain circumstances the criteria for determining whether or not an acquisition is a so-called "tax free" reorganization under Section 368(a)(1) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"), depends upon the issuance to the stockholders of the acquired company of at least 80% of the common stock of the combined entities immediately following the reorganization. If a transaction were structured to take advantage of these provisions rather than other "tax free" provisions provided under the Code, all present AMIH stockholders would, in such circumstances, retain 20% or less of the total issued and outstanding shares. Under other circumstances, depending upon the relative negotiating strength of the parties, present AMIH stockholders may retain substantially less than 20% of the total issued and outstanding shares. This could result in substantial additional dilution to the equity of those who were our stockholders prior to such reorganization / business combination.

Our present stockholders may not have control of a majority of our voting shares following a reorganization / business combination transaction. Further, as part of such a transaction, all or a majority of our directors may resign and new directors may be appointed without any vote by stockholders.

In the case of an acquisition, the transaction may be accomplished upon the sole determination of our management without any vote or approval by stockholders. In the case of a statutory merger or consolidation directly involving the Company, it will likely be necessary to call a stockholders' meeting and obtain the approval of the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares. The necessity to obtain such stockholder approval may result in delay and additional expense in the consummation of any proposed transaction and will also give rise to certain appraisal rights to dissenting stockholders. It may be expected that AMIH &#8217; s management will seek to structure any such transaction so as not to require stockholder approval and the inherent delays and expenses.

It is anticipated that the investigation of specific business opportunities and the negotiation, preparation and execution of relevant agreements, disclosure documents and other instruments will require substantial management time and attention and substantial cost for accountants, attorneys and others. If a decision is made not to consummate a specific business combination opportunity after incurring the associated costs, the costs of the related investigation would not be recoverable.

We presently have no employees apart from our officers and directors. We expect no significant changes in the number of our employees other than such changes, if any, that may result in connection with a business combination.

Risk Factors

&#160;

Investing in our common stock will provide an investor with an equity ownership interest. Shareholders will be subject to risks inherent in our business. The performance of our shares will reflect the performance of our business relative to, among other things, general economic and industry conditions, market conditions and competition. The value of the investment may increase or decrease and could result in a loss. An investor should carefully consider the following factors as well as other information contained in this annual report on Form 10-K.

&#160;

This annual report on Form 10-K also contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements as a result of many factors, including the risk factors described below and the other factors described elsewhere in this Form 10-K. &#160;

