 ITEM 1. BUSINESS. 

Organization 

EastGroup Properties, Inc. (the Company or EastGroup) is an equity real estate investment trust (REIT) organized in 1969. The Company has elected to be taxed and intends to continue to qualify as a REIT under Sections 856-860 of the Internal Revenue Code (the Code), as amended. 

Available Information 

The Company maintains a website at eastgroup.net. The Company posts its annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as soon as reasonably practicable after it electronically files or furnishes such materials to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). In addition, the Company's website includes items related to corporate governance matters, including, among other things, the Company's corporate governance guidelines, charters of various committees of the Board of Directors, and the Company's code of business conduct and ethics applicable to all employees, officers and directors. The Company intends to disclose on its website any amendment to, or waiver of, any provision of this code of business conduct and ethics applicable to the Company's directors and executive officers that would otherwise be required to be disclosed under the rules of the SEC or the New York Stock Exchange. Copies of these reports and corporate governance documents may be obtained, free of charge, from the Company's website. Any shareholder also may obtain copies of these documents, free of charge, by sending a request in writing to: Investor Relations, EastGroup Properties, Inc., 190 East Capitol Street, Suite 400, Jackson, MS 39201-2152. 

Administration 

EastGroup maintains its principal executive office and headquarters in Jackson, Mississippi. The Company also has regional offices in Orlando, Houston and Phoenix and asset management offices in Charlotte and Dallas. EastGroup has property management offices in Jacksonville, Tampa, Fort Lauderdale and San Antonio. Offices at these locations allow the Company to provide property management services to all of its Florida, Texas (except Austin and El Paso), Arizona, Mississippi and North Carolina properties, which together account for 80% of the Company&#8217;s total portfolio on a square foot basis. In addition, the Company currently provides property administration (accounting of operations) for its entire portfolio. The regional offices in Florida, Texas and Arizona provide oversight of the Company's development program. As of February 16, 2016 , EastGroup had 70 full-time employees and 3 part-time employees. 

Operations 

EastGroup is focused on the development, acquisition and operation of industrial properties in major Sunbelt markets throughout the United States with an emphasis in the states of Florida, Texas, Arizona, California and North Carolina. The Company&#8217;s goal is to maximize shareholder value by being a leading provider of functional, flexible and quality business distribution space for location sensitive tenants primarily in the 5,000 to 50,000 square foot range. EastGroup&#8217;s strategy for growth is based on the ownership of premier distribution facilities generally clustered near major transportation features in supply constrained submarkets. Over 99% of the Company&#8217;s revenue consists of rental income from real estate properties. 

During 2015 , EastGroup increased its holdings in real estate properties through its acquisition and development programs. The Company purchased two warehouse distribution complexes (335,000 square feet) and 112.6 &#32;acres of development land for a total of $50.9 million. Also during 2015 , the Company began construction of 11 development projects containing 1,283,000 square feet and transferred 17 &#32;properties ( 1,419,000 &#32;square feet) from its development program to real estate properties with costs of $96.8 million &#32;at the date of transfer. 

Typically, the Company initially funds its development and acquisition programs through its $335 million unsecured bank credit facilities. As market conditions permit, EastGroup issues equity and/or employs fixed-rate debt, including variable-rate debt that has been swapped to an effectively fixed rate through the use of interest rate swaps, to replace short-term bank borrowings. In March 2015, Moody's Investor Services affirmed the Company's issuer rating of Baa2 with a stable outlook. Also in March 2015, Fitch Ratings affirmed EastGroup's issuer rating of BBB with a stable outlook. A security rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell, or hold securities and may be subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating agency. Each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. The Company intends to issue primarily unsecured fixed-rate debt, including variable-rate debt that has been swapped to an effectively fixed rate through the use of interest rate swaps, in the future. The Company may also access the public debt market in the future as a means to raise capital. 

EastGroup holds its properties as long-term investments but may determine to sell certain properties that no longer meet its investment criteria. The Company may provide financing in connection with such sales of property if market conditions require. In 

addition, the Company may provide financing to a partner or co-owner in connection with an acquisition of real estate in certain situations. 

Subject to the requirements necessary to maintain EastGroup&#8217;s qualifications as a REIT, the Company may acquire securities of entities engaged in real estate activities or securities of other issuers, including for the purpose of exercising control over those entities. 

The Company intends to continue to qualify as a REIT under the Code. To maintain its status as a REIT, the Company is required to distribute at least 90% of its ordinary taxable income to its stockholders. If the Company has a capital gain, it has the option of (i) deferring recognition of the capital gain through a tax-deferred exchange, (ii) declaring and paying a capital gain dividend on any recognized net capital gain resulting in no corporate level tax, or (iii) retaining and paying corporate income tax on its net long-term capital gain, with shareholders reporting their proportional share of the undistributed long-term capital gain and receiving a credit or refund of their share of the tax paid by the Company. 

&#160; 

EastGroup has no present intention of acting as an underwriter of offerings of securities of other issuers. The strategies and policies set forth above were determined and are subject to review by EastGroup's Board of Directors, which may change such strategies or policies based upon its evaluation of the state of the real estate market, the performance of EastGroup's assets, capital and credit market conditions, and other relevant factors. EastGroup provides annual reports to its stockholders, which contain financial statements audited by the Company&#8217;s independent registered public accounting firm. 

Environmental Matters 

Under various federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations, an owner of real estate may be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of certain hazardous or toxic substances on or in such property. Many such laws impose liability without regard to whether the owner knows of, or was responsible for, the presence of such hazardous or toxic substances. The presence of such substances, or the failure to properly remediate such substances, may adversely affect the owner&#8217;s ability to sell or rent such property or to use such property as collateral in its borrowings. EastGroup&#8217;s properties have been subjected to Phase I Environmental Site Assessments (ESAs) by independent environmental consultants and as necessary, have been subjected to Phase II ESAs. These reports have not revealed any potential significant environmental liability. Management of EastGroup is not aware of any environmental liability that would have a material adverse effect on EastGroup&#8217;s business, assets, financial position or results of operations. 

