 Item 1. Business 

The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our financial statements and the related notes and other financial information appearing elsewhere in this Annual Report.

Overview 

We have designed and developed, and now own and operate a business-to-business web-based marketplace focused on the US pharmaceutical industry. Our core service is designed to bring the nation&#146;s independent pharmacies and accredited national suppliers of pharmaceuticals together to provide efficient and transparent buying and selling opportunities on a web-based platform.

CORPORATE HISTORY 

Background of XCEL 

Our company was incorporated in Delaware on July 15, 2005 as &#147;Bluebird Exploration Company&#148; (&#147; Bluebird &#148;). Bluebird was originally formed to engage in the exploitation of mineral properties. In December 2008, Bluebird changed its name to &#147;Xcellink International, Inc.&#148; (&#147; XCEL &#148;), and subsequently announced that its business plan was being expanded to include the development and marketing of platform-independent customer-centric payment systems and methodologies. XCEL was unable to raise the funds necessary to implement its business strategy, never generated any revenue and was a reporting as a &#147;shell&#148; corporation. On January 9, 2014, Trxade Group, Inc., a privately held Nevada corporation merged with and into XCEL, and XCEL changed its name to &#147;Trxade Group, Inc.&#148;XCEL&#146;s shares traded on the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board (&#147; OTCBB &#148;) market until early 2010.

Background of Trxade 

PharmaCycle LLC, a Nevada limited liability company (&#34;PharmaCycle&#34;), was formed in August 2010 by Prashant Patel to serve as a web-based market platform designed to enable trading among healthcare buyers and sellers of pharmaceuticals, accessories and services. In January 2013, PharmaCycle converted into a Florida corporation and changed its name to Trxade, Inc. (&#34;Trxade Florida&#34;). In May 2013, Trxade Florida created a new wholly owned subsidiary, Trxade Group, Inc., a Nevada corporation (&#34;Trxade Nevada&#34;). Trxade Nevada acquired Trxade Florida pursuant to a reverse triangular merger, resulting in Trxade Florida becoming a wholly owned subsidiary of Trxade Nevada (the &#34;Nevada-Florida Merger&#34;). The sole purpose of the Nevada-Florida Merger was to provide for a holding company to own Trxade Florida, the operating company. At all times up to the Nevada-Florida Merger, Trxade Florida was capitalized exclusively through cash capital contributions made by Messrs. Suren Ajjarapu and Patel. Immediately following the Nevada-Florida Merger, Messrs. Ajjarapu and Patel collectively owned 99% of Trxade Nevada. Subsequent to the Nevada-Florida Merger (but prior to the merger with XCEL), Trxade Nevada raised $670,000 through the sale of its preferred stock in private placements made to third party investors. 

Reverse Merger with Trxade 

On September 26, 2008, Mark Fingarson, the former President, sole Director and controlling shareholder of XCEL, sold 80,000,000 shares of XCEL to XCEL&#146;s then attorney, Ron McIntyre. On November 22, 2013, Trxade Nevada acquired Mr. McIntyre&#146;s controlling interest of 80,000,000 shares in XCEL pursuant to a Purchase and Sale Agreement dated November 7, 2013. At the time of the sale, XCEL had 104,160,000 shares of common stock issued and outstanding, including the 80,000,000 shares of stock acquired by Trxade Nevada.

On December 16, 2013, Trxade Nevada and XCEL entered into a definitive merger agreement (the &#147; Merger Agreement &#148;) providing for the merger (the &#147; Merger &#148;) of Trxade Nevada with and into XCEL, with XCEL as the surviving corporation. The Merger closed on January 8, 2014. Under the terms of the Merger Agreement, we amended our articles of incorporation (filed herewith), changed our name to &#147;Trxade Group, Inc.,&#148; and changed our trading symbol to XCEL.PK. On February 13, 2014 an additional 600,000 shares of our common stock (on a post-reverse split basis) were issued pursuant to the conversion of $19,333 aggregate principal amount of our outstanding promissory notes. Our current officers and directors were the officers and directors of Trxade Nevada.

Recapitalization of Common Stock by a Reverse Split and Increase of Authorized Shares of Stock 

Pursuant to our Amended and Restated Certification of Incorporation, we increased the authorized shares of our Common Stock from 200,000,000 shares to 500,000,000 shares, and authorized 100,000,000 shares of Preferred Stock, including 10,000,000 shares of Series &#147;A&#148; Preferred Stock. We also effectuated a one thousand-for-one (1,000:1) reverse stock split of our shares effective upon the closing of the Merger (the &#147; Reverse Split &#148;). As a result of the Merger and the Reverse Split, 29,470,000 shares of our common stock were issued to the former Trxade Nevada stockholders,

We also effectuated a reverse stock split at the ratio of one thousand-for-one (1,000:1) shares effective upon the closing of the Merger (the &#147; Reverse Split &#148;). In connection with the split, the 104,160,000 outstanding shares of our Common Stock, including the 80,000,000 shares held by Trxade Nevada, converted into 104,160 shares of Common Stock. As a result of the Merger, Trxade Nevada Shareholders holding 28,800,000 shares of Common Stock and 670,000 shares of Series A Preferred Stock converted their shares on one-to-one basis into 28,800,000 shares of our Common Stock and 670,000 shares of our Series A Preferred Stock, for an aggregate total of 29,470,000 shares. Further, 600,000 shares of our common stock (on a post- Reverse Split basis) were issued following the merger in connection with the conversion of our promissory notes. The 80,000,000 pre-merger shares held by Trxade Nevada, which post-split amounted to 80,000 shares, revered to treasury stock of the company.

On June 11, 2015, pursuant to our Second Amended and Restated Certification of Incorporation, we decreased the authorized shares of our Common Stock from 500,000,000 to 100,000,000 and decreased the authorized shares of our Preferred Stock from 100,000,000 to 10,000,000. 

Subsidiaries 

We own 100% of Trxade Florida. This subsidiary is included in our attached financial statements and is engaged in the same line of business as Trxade. Trxade Florida is a web-based market platform that enables trade among healthcare buyers and sellers of pharmaceuticals, accessories and services.

We also own 100% of Westminster Pharmaceutical LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (&#147; Westminster &#148;). Westminster was formed in January 2013 as a single member LLC wholly owned by Trxade Florida. This licensed subsidiary is included in our attached financial statements and provides state-licensed pharmacies and buying groups in the United States with pharmaceuticals approved by the United States Food and Drug Administration (the &#147; FDA &#148;). In late 2015 and early 2015 Westminster entered into multiple supply contracts with wholesale manufacturers of generic pharmaceuticals to begin selling Westminster private label generic pharmaceuticals to our customers. 

We own 100% of Pinnacle Tek, Inc., a Florida corporation founded by Mr. Ajjarapu in 2011. (&#147; Pinnacle &#148;). Pinnacle Tek serves as a technology consultant provider that supports our programming needs and provides research on pharmaceutical pricing and shortages in acute care and retail settings. Through July 2013, Pinnacle Tek was funded entirely by cash contributions made by Mr. Ajjarapu. In July 2013, Trxade Nevada made the strategic decision to acquire Pinnacle Tek pursuant to a merger in which each share of common stock of Pinnacle Tek owned by Mr. Ajjarapu (the owner of 1 million shares of Pinnacle Tec&#146;s common stock, representing 100% ownership) was exchanged for three shares of common stock of Trxade Nevada, resulting in the issuance to Mr. Ajjarapu of 3,000,000 shares of common stock of Trxade Nevada. Pinnacle Tek is included in our attached financial statements. In early 2016 we discontinued the technology consulting business line under Pinnacle Tek. We do not believe this will have any material effect on our operations going forward.

BUSINESS OF TRXADE 

Our Principal Products and Services and their Markets. 

Trxade.com: Trxade.com is a web-based pharmaceutical marketplace engaged in promoting and enabling trade among independent pharmacies and large pharmaceutical suppliers nationally. Additional features include the ability of independent pharmacies to trade among each other in currently 18 states that follow the Model State Pharmacy Act. (The Model State Pharmacy Act and Model Rules of the National Association of Boards of Pharmacy (Model Act) provide the boards of pharmacy with model language that may be used when developing state laws or board rules.) Other value-added components include access to Trxade&#146;s proprietary pharmaceutical shortage database, data analytics regarding medication pricing, and manufacturer return policies. We generate revenue from this service by charging a transaction fee to the seller of the products for sales conducted via the Trxade platform. The buyers do not bear the cost of transaction fees for the purchases that they make nor do they pay a fee to join or register with our platform.

InventoryRx.com : InventoryRx.com is a web-based pharmaceutical marketplace formed to promote and enable trade among suppliers, manufacturers and large healthcare facilities nationally. The seller of products and advertisers are charged a transaction fee or posting fee for products sold or featured on the platform. To date, we have not generated any revenue from this product.

Pharmabayonline : Pharmabayonline was created to provide access to proprietary pharmaceutical data analytics to United States-based independent pharmacies, pharmaceutical shortage databases, proposed governmental reimbursement benchmarks comparison and analysis, and a proprietary suggested national retail drug benchmark. To date no revenue has been generated from this service.

RxGuru : RxGuru is a service-based desktop software application designed to provide valid, daily drug pricing and analytics to the independent pharmacist at time of care to enable their patients to realize cost savings on their medications. This application works in conjunction with the Trxade platform but to date has not driven any revenue.

Westminster Pharmaceuticals : Westminster Pharmaceuticals buys US FDA approved prescription medication from licensed pharmaceutical wholesalers and manufacturers. These products are delivered and stored at a licensed logistics location in Olive Brach, MS and ready for delivery to our customer base once a product is sold. In late 2015 and early 2016 Westminster entered into multiple supply contracts with wholesale manufacturers of generic pharmaceuticals to begin selling Westminster private label generic pharmaceuticals to our customers. Revenue is currently being generated from the sale of private label products owned by Westminster.

Pinnacle Tek : Pinnacle Tek was our Information Technology consulting and staffing division, with particular focus on pharmaceutical data research and analytics on product shortages and pricing benchmarks. This business line was not profitable for the Company, and in early 2016 the company discontinued the Pinnacle Tek division. We do not believe this will have any material effect on our operations going forward... 

All our product offerings are focused on the US markets. Some products are restricted to certain states depending on the various state regulations and guidelines pertaining to pharmaceuticals. Our services are distributed through our online platform. Our wholesale division distributes pharmaceuticals to independent pharmacies in 26 states currently via a third party logistics company.

The Pharmaceutical Industry 

According to the 2013-14 Economic Report on Retail, Mail, and Specialty Pharmacies by Adam J. Fein, Ph.D. the US pharmaceutical industry is a $330 billion industry consisting of over 65,000 pharmacy facilities and over 700 DEA-registered and 1,500 State-licensed suppliers. There are very few platforms currently in place to bring these participants together to share market knowledge, product pricing transparency and product availability. According to this, the pharmaceutical market is comprised primarily of three wholesalers that control an estimated approximately 92% of the market. Our management believes that this concentration has, over the years, led to a lack of price and cost transparency, thereby resulting in severe limitations on the purchasing choices of industry participants. These market dynamics have enabled these large wholesalers (McKesson, Cardinal Health and AmerisourceBergen), known as ADR distributors, to dominate the industry with respect to both generic and brand pharmaceuticals. The increasing concentration of generic medications (ANDA or Abbreviated New Drug Application), however, with many more expected to go to market in the near future (approximately $80 billion branded medications will lose their patent protection within the next ten years), have enabled smaller suppliers access to an increasing number of medications at highly discounted prices. In essence, the market is slowly changing towards one where medications will become a commoditized and trade influenced by price rather than the business relationships imposed upon the dominant participants of the past.

To fuel this change, insurance companies (Pharmacy Benefits Management PBM and private health payers) and the federal government have recently initiated lower medication reimbursement payments to healthcare providers. We believe that pharmacies in due course will face increasing pressure to source medications as inexpensively as possible and improve operational efficiency. Trxade seeks to be in the forefront of solving these transparency and pricing concerns by providing independent, retail pharmacies with real-time, pharmacy acquisition cost &#147;PAC&#148; benchmarks to the NDC level The National Drug Code (NDC) is a unique product identifier used in the United States for drugs intended for human use.

Status of any publicly announced new products or services. 

Our RxGuru application was launched in the first quarter of 2014 and complements Trxade.com&#146;s efforts of delivering timely information at time of purchase. Our industry leading price prediction model &#147;RxGuru&#148; integrates product shortage insight into pharmacy acquisition benchmarks (&#147; PAC &#148;) to ascertain trends and pricing variances that result in significant purchasing opportunities. &#147;RX Guru&#148; helps to predicts prices and affords our members an opportunity to continuously benefit from real price purchasing opportunities that are often concealed from the rest of the industry. 

InventoryRx, launched in the first quarter of 2014, is a web based pharmaceutical exchange platform where wholesalers can purchase and sell pharmaceuticals and other over the counter medications among each other. The site offers these trading partners greater product availability and pricing transparency and may substantially improve their buying efficiency as well as lower their cost of goods on a continuous basis. 

Westminster Pharmaceuticals, our private label pharmaceutical distributer, launched a strategic expansion. In late 2015 and early 2016 Westminster entered into multiple supply agreements with wholesale manufacturers of generic pharmaceuticals to begin selling Westminster private label generic pharmaceuticals to our customers. Westminster has a licensed storage and distribution facility in Olive Branch, MS. Revenue is currently being generated from the sale of private label products owned by Westminster.

Competitive business conditions, the issuer&#146;s competitive position in the industry, and methods of competition. 

We expect to face competition from the three large ADR distributors (McKesson, Cardinal Health &#38; AmerisourceBergen), other pharmaceutical distributors, buying groups, software products, and other start-up companies. Most of these operations have substantially greater financial and manufacturer backed resources, longer operating histories, greater name recognition and more established relationships in the industry.

Other Start-up Companies . We have identified a limited number of start-ups that provide pharmacy-to-pharmacy retail wholesaling for their overstock pharmaceuticals. In addition, some start-ups provide for a supplier-pharmacy trading such as PharmaBid, RxCherrypick, PharmSaver and GenericBid, and provide web-based services similar to ours, allowing pharmacies to buy from several suppliers. Trxade differentiates itself from these exchanges by providing our pharmacies with both brand and generic pharmaceutical products.

Buying Groups . Buying Groups provide discounted prices to their members by negotiating better pricing with one primary wholesaler, while charging administration fees generally ranging from 3-5%. Some Buying Groups are structured like co-operatives (IPC, API) and offer their members monthly or quarterly rebates. Although they can function well to bring pricing competition to the industry, they often offer rebates only after the purchase and we don&#146;t believe they will provide long term savings to customers with this model given the increased transparency and competition in the industry.

Pharmaceutical Software . Some pharmaceutical software companies compete with us on some levels. SureCost, for example provides inventory management software that allows pharmacies to comply with primary supplier contracts. This software is fee based, and requires training.

Moving forward . Some pharmacies may be reluctant to adapt to this format of buying due to the historical negativity associated with purchasing pharmaceuticals on the internet and the uncertainty with respect to the origin and purity of pharmaceuticals so purchased. Trxade management believes that as we continue to develop our brand, our customer base, and our vast product offerings, we will gain the trust of the market and overcome the negativity associated with purchasing via a pharmaceutical marketplace.

One advantage that we believe we have over our competition is our ability to be flexible and fast moving in adjusting our business model to address the needs of our customer base. Trxade started by offering pharmacies a reverse auction model to enhance savings on the purchase of their pharmaceuticals. Customer feedback suggested that pharmacies prefer a more buy now format, which we implemented and then supplemented with a pharmacy-to-pharmacy trading capability for all overstock pharmaceuticals. This resulted in a &#147;one stop-one-search&#148; platform to buy quality pharmaceuticals for less and a data-rich platform to help pharmacies overcome the complexities related to supply chain purchasing.

Sources and availability of raw materials and the names of principal suppliers. 

Trxade is a web-based technology platform. Because we are not a manufacturing company, we don&#146;t need any raw materials. Our module on the platform is supplier-to-pharmacy trade. We bring buyers and sellers together on this platform. Our suppliers include Bellco Generics, Independent Pharmacy Cooperative (IPC) and Bonita Pharmaceuticals. 

Dependence on one or a few major customers. 

As of the date of this Form 10-K, we have over 5,000 pharmacies and over 15 pharmaceutical suppliers as customers, with a market potential of approximately 24,000 independent pharmacies and 1,500 regional and local suppliers. We have a working relationship with over 15 wholesalers and the nation&#146;s largest buying group. Although we feel those entities are satisfied with their business relationship with Trxade, if our buying group and two or three of the wholesalers decided no longer to do business with Trxade, the resulting supplier void would materially and adversely affect our competitiveness in the marketplace.

Intellectual Property 

Although we believe that our name and brand are protected by common law trademark principals, other than Trxade and pending trademarks on RxGuru and our pharmaceutical pricing benchmarks PAC, we do not currently have any other registered trademarks, patents, concessions, licenses, royalty agreements, or franchises. Our business operates under proprietary software system and various trade secrets within our database, business practices and pricing model.

Need for government approval of principle products and services. 

We are required to hold business licenses and to follow applicable state and federal government regulations detailed herein. Our wholesale division, which warehouses pharmaceutical products, requires requisite FDA and state approval, which we have obtained.

Effect of existing or probable government regulations on the business . 

Federal Drug Administration Guidelines 

On April 12, 1988, President Ronald Reagan signed into law the Prescription Drug Marketing Act of 1987 (PDMA), setting the baseline for wholesale distribution regulations. The final regulations were published in 1999, establishing the minimum wholesale distribution requirements for state licensure. With the intent to prevent the introduction and retail sale of substandard, ineffective, or counterfeit drugs into the distribution system, state licensing systems moved to update their standards to match those provided federally as guided under FDA&#146;s Guidelines for State Licensing of Wholesale Prescription Drug Distributors (21 CFR 205). PDMA established minimum federal pedigree requirements to trace the ownership of prescription drugs through the supply chain. The principal goal of the PDMA was to further secure the nation&#146;s drug supply from counterfeit and substandard prescription drugs. The law establishes two types of distributors: &#147;Authorized distributor[s] of record&#148; or ADRs; and &#147;Unauthorized distributor[s],&#148; such as wholesalers. The pedigree requirement was to require each person engaged in the wholesale distribution of a prescription drug in interstate commerce, who is not the manufacturer or an authorized distributor of record for that drug, to provide a pedigree to the recipient. After meeting resistance from various stakeholders, the FDA delayed the effective date of the regulations several times, until final implementation in December 2006.

At the federal level the implementation of the track and trace legislation by 2017 will require the use of pharmaceutical pedigree to track the movement of pharmaceuticals along the supply chain. The costs of complying with this new legislation may be too burdensome for many of the smaller suppliers. Further, some state laws utilizing the Federal Model Pharmacy Act may change or add rules that restrict pharmacy to pharmacy trading in the future. Current model act laws allow for a pharmacy being able to trade 5% of their annual inventory with other pharmacies while most state laws allow for retail pharmacies to be able to trade a product in national shortage status.

State Drug Administration Guidelines 

There are a number of national and state wide regulations that have an effect on our business. All drug wholesalers must be licensed under state licensing systems, which must in turn meet the FDA guidelines under State Licensing of Wholesale Prescription Drug Distributors (21 CFR Part 205). The regulations set forth minimum requirements for prescription drug storage and security as well as for the treatment of returned, damaged, and outdated prescription drugs. Further, wholesale drug distributors must establish and maintain inventories and records of all transactions regarding the receipt and distribution of prescription drugs and make these available for inspection and copying by authorized federal, state, or local law enforcement officials. In most states, wholesale distributor licenses are issued by the State Boards of Pharmacy and require periodic renewal. Approximately 40 states also require out-of-state wholesalers that distribute drugs within their borders to be licensed as well.

States have statutes pertaining to the need to possess a wholesaler license for pharmacies to exchange pharmaceuticals with other pharmacies. There are a number of states that allow pharmacies to exchange pharmaceuticals with other pharmacies if the amount of the exchange does not exceed 5% of either pharmacy&#146;s annual revenue generated from prescription pharmaceuticals, without the need to acquire a wholesaler license. Some state pharmacy boards limit that exchange to only emergency exchanges and many of those states define emergency exchanges to mean exchanges to address temporary shortages. It is important to know the opinion taken by the board of pharmacy for each state because these boards are initially responsible for interpreting the statute, and not their respective state attorney general. Approximately 30 states currently have opined that pharmacy to pharmacy exchange does not require a pharmacy to possess a wholesaler&#146;s license. The interpretation of state statutes have changed, although the statutes have remained unchanged.

California, Florida, Nevada, New Mexico and Indiana define the normal distribution channel to not include the lateral sales of pharmaceuticals between wholesalers. The new Supply Chain Act, part of the Quality Drug Act, which was signed into federal law in December 2013, precludes all states from restricting, investigating or inspecting the distribution channel and transactional history. Until the federal government provides guidelines for the new federal law, no state regulation or guideline exists. The transactional history regulation guidelines should be available in early 2015. Federal licensing of wholesalers will take place in January 2017.

The warehousing of pharmaceuticals is also restricted and requires additional state licenses. Some licenses require bonds and written exams and may take some time to approve. Currently, Westminster Pharmaceuticals, our wholesale distributor, asks for formal pedigrees from the ADR wholesalers and provides pedigrees to those entities they sell to in the marketplace. This requirement limits liability and provides assurance if a recall is warranted that Trxade and its participants will receive value for the commodity.

Other Regulations: 

Changes in state and federal regulations related to pharmacy-to-pharmacy trading may negatively impact that aspect of our business. Individual state regulation changes can be expected from time to time regarding wholesaler distribution activities and have the potential of increasing the cost of doing business in those states by influencing licensing requirements, fees and thus elevating our administrative costs.

Research and Development. 

During the last two fiscal years, Trxade.com, InventoryRx.com, Pharmabayonline and RxGuru have been developed as proprietary software. For the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2015, $319,443 and $239,578 respectfully was spent by the company in development activities. None of these expenses were borne directly by customers.

Cost of compliance with environmental laws. 

We are not aware of any costs or effects of our compliance with environmental laws.

Employees 

Currently, we have 48 employees. We also utilize numerous outside consultants.

