 Item 1. Business. 

The Company 

TransAct Technologies Incorporated (&#8220;TransAct&#8221; or the &#8220;Company&#8221;) was incorporated in June 1996 and began operating as a stand-alone business in August 1996 as a spin-off of the printer business that was formerly conducted by certain subsidiaries of Tridex Corporation. We completed an initial public offering on August 22, 1996. 

TransAct designs, develops and sells market-specific solutions, including printers, terminals, software and other products for transaction-based and other industries. These world-class products are sold under the AccuDate&#8482;, Ithaca&#174;, RESPONDER&#174;, Epic, EPICENTRAL&#8482;, and Printrex&#174; brand names. Known and respected worldwide for innovative designs and real-world service reliability, our thermal, inkjet and impact printers and terminals generate top-quality food rotation date and nutritional labels, promotional coupons and transaction records such as receipts, tickets, register journals and other documents as well as printed logging and plotting of oil field and well drilling data. We focus on the following core markets: food safety, banking and point-of-sale (&#8220;POS&#8221;), casino and gaming, lottery, and Printrex (which serves the oil and gas, medical and mobile printing markets). We sell our products to original equipment manufacturers (&#8220;OEMs&#8221;), value-added resellers, selected distributors, as well as directly to end-users. Our product distribution spans across the Americas, Europe, the Middle East, Africa, Asia, Australia, the Caribbean Islands and the South Pacific. TransAct also provides world-class service, spare parts, accessories and printing supplies to its growing worldwide installed base of printers. Through our TransAct Services Group (&#8220;TSG&#8221;) we provide a complete range of supplies and consumables used in the printing and scanning activities of customers in the hospitality, banking, retail, casino and gaming, government and oil and gas exploration markets. Through our webstore, www.transactsupplies.com , and our direct selling team, we address the on-line demand for these products. &#160; We have one primary operating, hardware research and development and eastern region service center located in Ithaca, NY. In addition, we have a casino and gaming sales headquarters, software research and development and western region service center in Las Vegas, NV, a sales and service center for the oil and gas industry in Houston, TX, a European sales and service center in the United Kingdom, and a sales office located in Macau. Our executive offices are located at One Hamden Center, 2319 Whitney Avenue, Suite 3B, Hamden, CT , 06518, with a telephone number of (203) 859-6800. 

Financial Information about Segments 

We operate in one reportable segment, the design, development, assembly and marketing of transaction printers and terminals and providing related software, services, supplies and spare parts. Information about our net sales, gross profit and assets can be found in our Consolidated Financial Statements on pages F-3 and F-4 hereof. 

Products, Services and Distribution Methods 

Printers and terminals: TransAct designs, develops, assembles and markets a broad array of transaction-based and specialty printers and terminals utilizing thermal, inkjet and impact printing technology for applications, primarily in the food safety, banking and POS, casino and gaming, lottery, oil and gas, medical and mobile printing markets. Our printers and terminals are configurable and offer customers the ability to choose from a variety of features and functions. Options typically include interface configuration, mounting configuration, paper cutting devices, paper handling capacities and cabinetry color. Our food safety terminals also offer configurable menu options. In addition to our configurable printers and terminals, we design and assemble custom printers for certain OEM customers. In collaboration with these customers, we provide engineering and manufacturing expertise for the design and development of specialized printers. 

&#160;

Food safety, banking and POS: &#160; Our food safety terminals are printing devices that consist of an operating system, a touchscreen and one or two thermal print mechanisms, that print easy-to-read expiration and "enjoy by" date labels to help restaurants effectively manage food rotation and spoilage. &#160; In the food safety market, we use an internal sales force to manage sales of our terminals through distribution, as well as to solicit sales directly from end-users. 

&#160;

Our banking and POS printers include hundreds of optional configurations that can be selected to meet particular customer needs. We believe that this is a significant competitive strength, as it allows us to satisfy a wide variety of printing applications that our customers request. In the banking market, we sell printers that are used by banks, credit unions and other financial institutions to print receipts and/or validate checks at bank teller stations. In the POS market, we sell several models of printers utilizing inkjet, thermal and impact printing technology. Our printers are used primarily by retailers in the restaurant (including fine dining, casual dining, and fast food) and hospitality industries to print receipts for consumers, validate checks, or print on linerless labels or other inserted media. In the POS market, we primarily sell our products through a network of domestic and international distributors and resellers. We use an internal sales force to manage sales through our distributors and resellers, as well as to solicit sales directly from end-users. In the banking market, we primarily sell our products directly to end-user banks and financial institutions through the use of our internal sales force. 

&#160;

Lottery: We supply lottery printers to IGT (formerly GTECH Corporation) and its subsidiaries, our largest customer and the world&#8217;s largest provider of lottery terminals. In addition, during 2015 we launched a new lottery printer, the Epic 3000, that we will begin to sell to other lottery system customers beyond IGT. These printers are designed for high-volume, high-speed printing of lottery tickets for various lottery applications. Sales of our lottery products are made directly to IGT and managed by an internal sales representative. 

&#160;

Casino and gaming: We sell several models of printers used in slot machines and video lottery terminals (&#8220;VLT&#8217;s&#8221;) and other gaming machines that print tickets or receipts instead of issuing coins (&#8220;ticket-in, ticket-out&#8221; or &#8220;TITO&#8221;) &#160; at casinos, racetracks (&#8220;racinos&#8221;) &#160; and other gaming venues worldwide. These printers utilize thermal printing technology and can print tickets or receipts in monochrome or two-color (depending upon the model), and offer various other features such as jam resistant bezels and a dual port interface that enables casinos to print coupons and promotions. In addition, we sell printers using thermal printing technology for use in non-casino establishments, including game types such as Amusements with Prizes (&#8220;AWP&#8221;), Skills with Prizes (&#8220;SWP&#8221;), Fixed Odds Betting Terminals (&#8220;FOBT&#8221;) and other off-premise gaming type machines around the world. We sell our products primarily to (1) slot machine manufacturers, who incorporate our printers into slot machines and, in turn, sell completed slot machines directly to casinos and other gaming establishments and (2) through our primary worldwide distributor, Suzo-Happ Group. We also maintain a dedicated internal sales force to solicit sales from slot manufacturers and casinos, as well as to manage sales through our distributor. 

&#160; 

&#160; 

We also offer a software solution, the EPICENTRAL TM Print System (&#8220;EPICENTRAL TM &#8221;), that enables casino operators to create promotional coupons and marketing messages and print them in real-time at the slot machine. With EPICENTRAL TM , casinos can utilize the system to create multiple promotions and incentives to either increase customer time spent on the casino floor or encourage additional visits to generate more revenue to the casinos. 

Printrex: Printrex printers include wide format, rack mounted and vehicle mounted black/white and color thermal printers used by customers to log and plot oil field and down hole well drilling data in the oil and gas exploration industry. It also includes high-speed color inkjet desktop printers used to print logs at data centers of the oil and gas field service companies. In 2015, we launched the Responder MP2&#8482;, our first printer for the large machine-to-machine (M2M) vertical market. The Responder MP2&#8482; is an all-in-one mobile printing solution for a number of vehicles, including fire, police, EMS, insurance, public utilities and delivery. In addition, we sell wide format thermal printers used to print test results in ophthalmology devices in the medical industry, as well as vehicle mounted printers used to print schematics and certain other critical information in emergency services vehicles and other mobile printing applications. We primarily sell our Printrex products directly to oil field service and drilling companies and OEM&#8217;s, as well as through regional distributors in the United States, Europe, Canada and Asia. We also maintain a dedicated internal sales representative with a sales office located in Houston, Texas. 

TSG : Through TSG, we proactively market the sale of consumable products (including inkjet cartridges, ribbons, receipt paper, color thermal paper and other printing supplies), replacement parts, maintenance and repair services and testing services for all of our products and certain competitor&#8217;s products. Our maintenance services include the sale of extended warranties, multi-year maintenance contracts, 24-hour guaranteed replacement product service called TransAct Xpress SM and TransAct Care, and other repair services for our printers and terminals. Within the United States, we provide repair services through our eastern region service center in Ithaca, NY, our western region service center in Las Vegas, NV and our oil and gas industry service center in Houston, TX. Internationally, we provide repair services through our European service center located in Doncaster, United Kingdom, and through partners strategically located around the world. 

We also provide customers with telephone sales and technical support, and a personal account representative to handle orders, shipping and general information. Technical and sales support personnel receive training on all of our manufactured products and our services. 

In addition to personalized telephone and technical support, we also market and sell consumable products 24 hours a day, seven days a week, via our online webstore www.transactsupplies.com . 

Sources and Availability of Raw Materials 

We design our products to optimize product performance, quality, reliability and durability. These designs combine cost efficient materials, sourcing and assembly methods with high standards of workmanship. Approximately 95% of our printer production is primarily through one third-party contract manufacturer in Asia and to a lesser extent two others in Asia. The remaining 5% of our products are assembled in our Ithaca, NY facility largely on a configure-to-order basis using components and subassemblies that have been sourced from vendors and contract manufacturers around the world. 

We procure component parts and subassemblies for use in the assembly of our products in Ithaca, NY. Critical component parts and subassemblies include thermal, inkjet and impact print heads, printing/cutting mechanisms, power supplies, motors, injection molded plastic parts, LCD screens, circuit boards and electronic components, which are obtained from domestic and foreign suppliers at competitive prices. As a result of the majority of our production being performed by our contract manufacturers, purchases of component parts have declined while purchases of fully-assembled printers produced by our contract manufacturers have increased. We typically strive to maintain more than one source for our component parts, subassemblies and fully assembled printers to reduce the risk of parts shortages or unavailability. However, we could experience temporary disruption if certain suppliers ceased doing business with us, as described below. 

We currently buy substantially all of our thermal print mechanisms, an important component of our thermal printers, and fully assembled printers for several of our printer and food safety terminal models, from one foreign contract manufacturer, and to a much lesser extent, one other foreign contract manufacturer. Although we believe that other contract manufacturers could provide similar thermal print mechanisms or fully assembled printers and terminals, on comparable terms, a change in contract manufacturers could cause a delay in manufacturing and possible loss of sales, which may have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Although we do not have a supply agreement with our foreign contract manufacturers, our relationship with them remains strong and we have no reason to believe that they will discontinue their supply of thermal print mechanisms to us during 2016 or that their terms to us will be any less favorable than they have been historically. 

Hewlett-Packard Company (&#8220;HP&#8221;) is the sole supplier of inkjet cartridges that are used in all of our banking inkjet printers. In addition, we also sell a substantial number of HP inkjet cartridges as a consumable product through TSG. Although other inkjet cartridges that are compatible with our banking inkjet printers are available, the loss of the supply of HP inkjet cartridges could have a material adverse effect on both the sale of our inkjet printers and TSG consumable products. Our relationship with HP remains stable and we have no reason to believe that HP will discontinue its supply of inkjet cartridges to us or that their terms to us will be materially different than they have been historically. The inkjet cartridges we purchase from HP are used not only in our inkjet printers for the banking and POS market, but also in other manufacturer&#8217;s printing devices across several other markets. 

Canon, Inc. (&#8220;Canon&#8221;) is the sole supplier of inkjet cartridges and other consumable items (&#8220;Canon Consumables&#8221;) that are used in our Printrex 980 oil and gas printer. The loss of supply of Canon Consumables would have a material adverse effect on the sale of Printrex 980 printers and the Canon Consumables. We have a supply agreement with Canon to supply us with Canon Consumables until May 2017. Prices under this agreement were fixed through May 2013, but may be changed during the remainder of the agreement if the exchange rate fluctuates significantly between the Japanese yen and the U.S. dollar. 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Patents and Proprietary Information 

TransAct relies on a combination of trade secrets, patents, employee and third party nondisclosure agreements, copyright laws and contractual rights to establish and protect its proprietary rights in its products. We hold 33 United States and 35 foreign patents and have 4 United States and 6 foreign patent applications pending pertaining to our products. The duration of these patents range from 2 to 16 years. The expiration of any individual patent would not have a significant negative impact on our business. We regard certain manufacturing processes and designs to be proprietary and attempt to protect them through employee and third-party nondisclosure agreements and similar means. It may be possible for unauthorized third parties to copy certain portions of our products or to reverse engineer or otherwise obtain and use, to our detriment, information that we regard as proprietary. Moreover, the laws of some foreign countries do not afford the same protection to our proprietary rights as do the laws of the United States. There can be no assurance that legal protections we rely upon to protect our proprietary position will be adequate or that our competitors will not independently develop technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to our technologies. 

Seasonality 

Restaurants typically reduce purchases of new food safety equipment in the fourth quarter due to the increased volume of transactions during that holiday period. 

Working Capital 

Inventory, accounts receivable, and accounts payable levels, payment terms, and where applicable, return policies are in accordance with the general practices of the industry and standard business procedures. See also Item 7. Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 

Certain Customers 

IGT (formerly GTECH Corporation) has been our most significant customer. On May 29, 2015, we signed a new agreement with IGT to sell on-line lottery and casino printers to IGT through December 31, 2019. This new agreement replaced the previous agreement that expired on May 29, 2015. Under the terms of the new agreement, we will sell on-line lottery and casino printers to IGT on a non-exclusive basis, and IGT will purchase such printers from us on a non-exclusive basis. This new agreement will allow TransAct to sell printers to other lottery system customers beyond IGT. 

&#160;

Sales to IGT and other customers representing 10% or more of our total net sales were as follows: 

&#160;

&#160; &#160; Year ended December 31, 

&#160; &#160; 2015 

&#160; &#160; 2014 

&#160; &#160; 2013 

IGT 

&#160; &#160; 29% &#160; &#160; &#160; 19% &#160; &#160; &#160; 19% Suzo-Happ 

&#160; &#160; 14% &#160; &#160; &#160; 7% &#160; &#160; &#160; 4% Eurocoin 

&#160; &#160; 0% &#160; &#160; &#160; 11% &#160; &#160; &#160; 12% &#160; 

Backlog 

Our backlog of firm orders was approximately $5,403,000 as of February 29, 2016, compared to $11,356,000 as of February 27, 2015. Based on customers&#8217; current delivery requirements, we expect to ship our entire current backlog during 2016. 

Competition 

The market for transaction-based and specialty printers is extremely competitive, and we expect such competition to continue in the future. However, we experience less competition for our food safety terminals and EPICENTRAL software due to the highly customized nature of the product. We compete with a number of companies, many of which have greater financial, technical and marketing resources than us. We believe our ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors both within and outside our control, including durability, reliability, quality, design capability, product customization, price, customer support, success in developing new products, manufacturing expertise and capacity, supply of component parts and materials, strategic relationships with suppliers, the timing of new product introductions by us and our competitors, general market, economic and political conditions and, in some cases, the uniqueness of our products. 

In the food safety market, we compete with Avery Dennison Corporation, Ecolab Inc. and Integrated Control Corp. We compete in this market based largely on our ability to provide highly specialized products, custom engineering and ongoing technical support. 

In the banking and POS market, our major competitor is Epson America, Inc., which holds a dominant market position of the POS markets into which we sell. We also compete, to a much lesser extent, with CognitiveTPG, Star Micronics America, Inc., Citizen -- CBM America Corporation, Pertech Industries, Inc., Addmaster, and Samsung/Bixolon. Certain competitors of ours have greater financial resources, lower costs attributable to higher volume production and sometimes offer lower prices than us. However, we have and will continue to deemphasize efforts in the POS and banking markets going forward. 

In the casino and gaming market (consisting principally of slot machine and VLT transaction printing and promotional coupon printing), we compete with several companies including JCM Global (formerly FutureLogic, Inc.), Nanoptix, Inc., Custom Engineering SPA and others. Certain of our products sold for casino and gaming applications compete based upon our ability to provide highly specialized products, custom engineering and ongoing technical support. 

In the lottery market (consisting principally of on-line lottery transaction printing), we hold a leading position, based largely on our long-term relationship with IGT. On May 29, 2015, we signed a non-exclusive agreement with IGT to provide thermal lottery printers to IGT for various lottery applications through December 31, 2019. Prior to this agreement, we had an exclusive purchase agreement whereby IGT exclusively purchased all of its requirements for thermal on-line lottery printers from us and we exclusively sold such printers to IGT. We now compete in this market with other lottery printer providers such as Custom Engineering SPA, Star Micronics and Wincor Nixdorf. 

In the Printrex market, we primarily compete with the Imaging Systems Group, Inc. (&#8220;iSys&#8221;), Neuralog Inc. and GSI Group. We compete in this market based largely on our ability to provide specialized, custom-engineered products. 

&#160; 

&#160; 

The TSG business is highly fragmented, and we compete with numerous competitors of various sizes, including POS and internet resellers, depending on the geographic area. 

Our strategy for competing in our markets is to continually develop new products (hardware and software) and product line extensions that are technologically advanced and provide differentiated features and functions, to increase our geographic market penetration, to take advantage of strategic relationships, and to lower product costs by sourcing certain products overseas. Although we believe that our products, operations and relationships provide a competitive foundation, there can be no assurance that we will compete successfully in the future. In addition, our products utilize certain thermal, inkjet and impact printing technology. If other technologies, or variations to existing technologies, were to evolve or become available to us, it is possible that we would incorporate these technologies into our products. Alternatively, if such technologies were to evolve or become available to our competitors, our products could become obsolete, which would have a significant negative impact on our business. 

Research and Development Activities 

Research, development, and engineering expenditures represent costs incurred in the experimental or laboratory sense aimed at discovery and/or application of new knowledge in developing a new product or process, or in bringing about significant improvement in an existing product or process. We spent approximately $3,599,000, $4,302,000, and $4,065,000 in 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively, on engineering, design and product development efforts in connection with specialized engineering and design to introduce new hardware and software products and to customize or improve existing products. 

Costs incurred in researching and developing a computer software product are charged to expense until technological feasibility has been established, at which point all material software costs are capitalized within Intangible assets in our Consolidated Balance Sheets until the product is available for sale to customers. While judgment is required in determining when technological feasibility of a product is established, we have determined that it is reached after all high-risk development issues have been documented in a formal detailed plan design. The amortization of these costs will be included in cost of sales over the estimated life of the product. During 2010, we began the development of EPICENTRAL TM , which enables casino customers to print coupons and promotions at the slot machine. Unamortized development costs for such software were approximately $31,000 and $169,000 as of December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. The total amount charged to cost of sales for capitalized software development costs were approximately $138,000, $201,000, and $199,000 in 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. 

Environment 

We are not aware of any material noncompliance with federal, state and local provisions that have been enacted or adopted regulating the discharge of materials into the environment, or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment. 

Employees 

As of December 31, 2015, TransAct and our subsidiaries employed 125 persons, all of whom were full-time employees. None of our employees are unionized, and we consider our relationships with our employees to be good. 

Financial Information About Geographic Areas 

For financial information regarding our geographic areas see Note 15 &#8211; Geographic Area Information in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Risks related to our foreign operations are described in Item 1A below. 

Trademarks, Service Marks and Copyrights 

We own or have rights to trademarks, service marks, trade names and copyrights that we use in connection with the operation of our business, including our corporate names, logos and website names. Other trademarks, service marks and trade names appearing in this annual report on Form 10-K are the property of their respective owners. The trademarks we own include TransAct&#174;, AccuDate&#8482;, Epic, EPICENTRAL&#174;, Ithaca&#174;, RESPONDER&#174; and Printrex&#174;. Solely for convenience, some of the trademarks, service marks, trade names and copyrights referred to in this annual report on Form 10-K are listed without the &#169;, &#174; and &#8482; symbols, but we will assert, to the fullest extent under applicable law, our rights to our trademarks, service marks, trade names and copyrights. 

Available Information 

We make available free of charge through the &#8220;Investor Relations&#8221; tab on our internet website, www.transact-tech.com , our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission (&#8220;SEC&#8221;). You may read and copy any materials filed with the SEC at the SEC&#8217;s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. You may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. This information is also available at www.sec.gov. The reference to these website addresses does not constitute incorporation by reference of the information contained on the websites and should not be considered part of this document. 

