 ITEM 1 Business General Mills, Inc. was incorporated in Delaware in 1928. The terms &#147;General Mills,&#148; &#147;Company,&#148; &#147;registrant,&#148; &#147;we,&#148; &#147;us,&#148; and &#147;our&#148; mean General Mills, Inc. and all subsidiaries included in the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report unless the context indicates otherwise. 

Certain terms used throughout this report are defined in a glossary in Item 8 of this report. 

COMPANY OVERVIEW 

We are a leading global manufacturer and marketer of branded consumer foods sold through retail stores. We also are a leading supplier of branded and unbranded food products to the North American foodservice and commercial baking industries. We manufacture our products in 13 countries and market them in more than 100 countries. In addition to our consolidated operations, we have 50 percent interests in two strategic joint ventures that manufacture and market food products sold in more than 130 countries worldwide. 

We manage and review the financial results of our business under three operating segments: U.S. Retail; International; and Convenience Stores and Foodservice. See Management&#146;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&#38;A) in Item 7 of this report for a description of our segments. For financial information by segment and geographic area, see Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report. 

We offer a variety of food products that provide great taste, nutrition, convenience and value for consumers around the world, with a focus on five large global categories: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; ready-to-eat cereal; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; convenient meals, including meal kits, ethnic meals, pizza, soup, side dish mixes, frozen breakfast, and frozen entrees; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; snacks, including grain, fruit and savory snacks, nutrition bars, and frozen hot snacks; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; yogurt; and &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; super-premium ice cream. Other significant product categories include: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; baking mixes and ingredients; and &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; refrigerated and frozen dough. Our Cereal Partners Worldwide (CPW) joint venture with Nestl&#233; S.A. (Nestl&#233;) competes in the ready-to-eat cereal category in markets outside North America, and our H&#228;agen-Dazs Japan, Inc. (HDJ) joint venture competes in the super-premium ice cream category in Japan. For net sales contributed by each class of similar products, see Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report. 

Customers. Our primary customers are grocery stores, mass merchandisers, membership stores, natural food chains, drug, dollar and discount chains, e-commerce grocery providers, commercial and noncommercial foodservice distributors and operators, restaurants, and convenience stores. We generally sell to these customers through our direct sales force. We use broker and distribution arrangements for certain products and to serve certain types of customers. For further information on our customer credit and product return practices, please refer to Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report. During fiscal 2016, Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. and its 

&#160;

affiliates (Wal-Mart) accounted for 20 percent of our consolidated net sales and 30 percent of net sales of our U.S. Retail segment. No other customer accounted for 10 percent or more of our consolidated net sales. For further information on significant customers, please refer to Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report. 

Competition. The consumer foods industry is highly competitive, with numerous manufacturers of varying sizes in the United States and throughout the world. The food categories in which we participate also are very competitive. Our principal competitors in these categories all have substantial financial, marketing, and other resources. Competition in our product categories is based on product innovation, product quality, price, brand recognition and loyalty, effectiveness of marketing, promotional activity, and the ability to identify and satisfy consumer preferences. Our principal strategies for competing in each of our segments include unique consumer insights, effective customer relationships, superior product quality, innovative advertising, product promotion, product innovation aligned with consumers&#146; needs, an efficient supply chain, and price. In most product categories, we compete not only with other widely advertised, branded products, but also with regional brands and with generic and private label products that are generally sold at lower prices. Internationally, we compete with both multi-national and local manufacturers, and each country includes a unique group of competitors. 

Raw materials, ingredients, and packaging. The principal raw materials that we use are grains (wheat, oats, and corn), sugar, dairy products, vegetables, fruits, meats, vegetable oils, and other agricultural products. We also use substantial quantities of carton board, corrugated, plastic and metal packaging materials, operating supplies, and energy. Most of these inputs for our domestic and Canadian operations are purchased from suppliers in the United States. In our international operations, inputs that are not locally available in adequate supply may be imported from other countries. The cost of these inputs may fluctuate widely due to external conditions such as weather, product scarcity, limited sources of supply, commodity market fluctuations, currency fluctuations, and changes in governmental agricultural and energy policies and regulations. We have some long-term fixed price contracts, but the majority of our inputs are purchased on the open market. We believe that we will be able to obtain an adequate supply of needed inputs. Occasionally and where possible, we make advance purchases of items significant to our business in order to ensure continuity of operations. Our objective is to procure materials meeting both our quality standards and our production needs at price levels that allow a targeted profit margin. Since these inputs generally represent the largest variable cost in manufacturing our products, to the extent possible, we often manage the risk associated with adverse price movements for some inputs using a variety of risk management strategies. We also have a grain merchandising operation that provides us efficient access to, and more informed knowledge of, various commodity markets, principally wheat and oats. This operation holds physical inventories that are carried at fair market value and uses derivatives to manage its net inventory position and minimize its market exposures. 

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT 

Our research and development resources are focused on new product development, product improvement, process design and improvement, packaging, and exploratory research in new business and technology areas. Research and development expenditures were $222 million in fiscal 2016, $229 million in fiscal 2015, and $244 million in fiscal 2014. 

TRADEMARKS AND PATENTS 

Our products are marketed under a variety of valuable trademarks. Some of the more important trademarks used in our global operations (set forth in italics in this report) include Annie&#146;s, Betty Crocker , Bisquick , Bugles , Cascadian Farm , Cheerios , Chex , Cinnamon Toast Crunch , Cocoa Puffs , Cookie Crisp , Fiber One , Food Should Taste Good , Fruit by the Foot , Fruit Gushers , Fruit Roll-Ups , Gardetto&#146;s , Go-Gurt , Gold Medal , Golden Grahams , H&#228;agen-Dazs , Helpers , Jeno&#146;s , Jus-Rol , Kitano , Kix , La Salte&#241;a , L&#228;rabar , Latina , Libert&#233; , Lucky Charms , Muir Glen , Nature Valley , Oatmeal Crisp , Old El Paso , Pillsbury , Progresso , Raisin Nut Bran , Total , Totino&#146;s , Trix , Wanchai Ferry , Wheaties , Yoki , and Yoplait . We protect these marks as appropriate through registrations in the United States and other jurisdictions. Depending on the jurisdiction, trademarks are generally valid as long as they are in use or their registrations are properly maintained and they have not been found to have become generic. Registrations of trademarks can also generally be renewed indefinitely as long as the trademarks are in use. 

&#160;

Some of our products are marketed under or in combination with trademarks that have been licensed from others, including Reese&#146;s Puffs for cereal, Hershey&#146;s for a variety of products, Green Giant for vegetables in certain countries, and Cinnabon for refrigerated dough, frozen pastries, and baking products. Our fruit snacks business uses a variety of licensed trademarks, including Mott&#146;s , Minions , Sunkist , Scooby Doo , Batman , Tom and Jerry , Hello Kitty , Thomas the Tank Engine , and various Warner Bros. and Nickelodeon characters. Our yogurt business uses a variety of licensed trademarks, including various Disney, Marvel, Warner Bros., and Nickelodeon characters. 

Our cereal trademarks are licensed to CPW and may be used in association with the Nestl&#233; trademark. Nestl&#233; licenses certain of its trademarks to CPW, including the Nestl&#233; and Uncle Toby&#146;s trademarks. The H&#228;agen-Dazs trademark is licensed royalty-free and exclusively to Nestl&#233; for ice cream and other frozen dessert products in the United States and Canada. The H&#228;agen-Dazs trademark is also licensed to HDJ. The J. M. Smucker Company holds an exclusive royalty-free license to use the Pillsbury brand and the Pillsbury Doughboy character in the dessert mix and baking mix categories in the United States and under limited circumstances in Canada and Mexico. 

The Yoplait trademark and other related trademarks are owned by Yoplait Marques SNC, an entity in which we own a 50 percent interest. These marks are licensed exclusively to Yoplait SAS, an entity in which we own a 51 percent interest. Yoplait SAS licenses these trademarks to its franchisees. The Libert&#233; trademark and other related trademarks are owned by Libert&#233; Marques S&#224;rl, an entity in which we own a 50 percent interest. 

We continue our focus on developing and marketing innovative, proprietary products. We consider the collective rights under our various patents, which expire from time to time, a valuable asset, but we do not believe that our businesses are materially dependent upon any single patent or group of related patents. 

SEASONALITY 

In general, demand for our products is evenly balanced throughout the year. However, within our U.S. Retail segment demand for refrigerated dough, frozen baked goods, and baking products is stronger in the fourth calendar quarter. Demand for Progresso soup is higher during the fall and winter months. Internationally, demand for H&#228;agen-Dazs ice cream is higher during the summer months and demand for baking mix and dough products increases during winter months. Due to the offsetting impact of these demand trends, as well as the different seasons in the northern and southern hemispheres, our International segment net sales are generally evenly balanced throughout the year. 

BACKLOG 

Orders are generally filled within a few days of receipt and are subject to cancellation at any time prior to shipment. The backlog of any unfilled orders as of May 29, 2016, was not material. 

WORKING CAPITAL 

A description of our working capital is included in the Liquidity section of MD&#38;A in Item 7 of this report. Our product return practices are described in Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report. 

EMPLOYEES 

As of May 29, 2016, we had approximately 39,000 full- and part-time employees. 

FOOD QUALITY AND SAFETY REGULATION 

The manufacture and sale of consumer food products is highly regulated. In the United States, our activities are subject to regulation by various federal government agencies, including the Food and Drug Administration, Department of Agriculture, Federal Trade Commission, Department of Commerce, and Environmental Protection Agency, as well as various state and local agencies. Our business is also regulated by similar agencies outside of the United States. 

&#160;

ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS 

As of May 29, 2016, we were involved with two active cleanup sites associated with the alleged or threatened release of hazardous substances or wastes located in Minneapolis, Minnesota and Moonachie, New Jersey. These matters involve several different actions, including administrative proceedings commenced by regulatory agencies and demand letters by regulatory agencies and private parties. 

Our operations are subject to the Clean Air Act, Clean Water Act, Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act, and the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act, and all similar state, local, and foreign environmental laws and regulations applicable to the jurisdictions in which we operate. 

Based on current facts and circumstances, we believe that neither the results of our environmental proceedings nor our compliance in general with environmental laws or regulations will have a material adverse effect upon our capital expenditures, earnings, or competitive position. 

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS 

The section below provides information regarding our executive officers as of June 30, 2016: 

Richard C. Allendorf , age 55, is Senior Vice President, General Counsel, and Secretary. Mr. Allendorf joined General Mills in 2001 from The Pillsbury Company. He was promoted to Vice President, Deputy General Counsel in 2010, first overseeing the legal affairs of the U.S. Retail segment and Consumer Food Sales and then, in August 2012, overseeing the legal affairs of the International segment and Global Ethics and Compliance. He was named to his present position in February 2015. Prior to joining General Mills, he practiced law with the Shearman and Sterling and Mackall, Crounse and Moore law firms. He was in finance with General Electric prior to his legal career. 

John R. Church , age 50, is Executive Vice President, Supply Chain. Mr. Church joined General Mills in 1988 as a Product Developer in the Big G cereals division and held various positions before becoming Vice President, Engineering in 2003. In 2005, his role was expanded to include development of the Company&#146;s strategy for the global sourcing of raw materials and manufacturing capabilities. He was named Vice President, Supply Chain Operations in 2007, Senior Vice President, Supply Chain in 2008, and to his present position in July 2013. 

Peter C. Erickson , age 55, is Executive Vice President, Innovation, Technology and Quality. Mr. Erickson joined General Mills in 1994 as part of the Colombo yogurt acquisition. He has held various positions in Research &#38; Development and became Vice President, Innovation, Technology and Quality in 2003 and Senior Vice President, Innovation, Technology and Quality in 2006. He was named to his present position in July 2013. 

Jeffrey L. Harmening , age 49, is Executive Vice President, Chief Operating Officer, U.S. Retail. Mr. Harmening joined General Mills in 1994 and served in various marketing roles in the Betty Crocker, Yoplait, and Big G cereal divisions. He was promoted to Marketing Director in 2000 and held leadership roles in Big G New Enterprises and Foodservice New Business. He was named Vice President, Marketing for CPW in 2003 and a Vice President of the Big G cereal division in 2007. In 2011, he was promoted to Senior Vice President for the Big G cereal division. Mr. Harmening was appointed Senior Vice President, Chief Executive Officer of CPW in July 2012, and he was named to his present position in May 2014. Mr. Harmening was appointed President, Chief Operating Officer effective July 1, 2016. 

Donal L. Mulligan , age 55, is Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer. Mr. Mulligan joined General Mills in 2001 from The Pillsbury Company. He served as Vice President, Financial Operations for our International division until 2004, when he was named Vice President, Financial Operations for Operations and Technology. Mr. Mulligan was appointed Treasurer of General Mills in 2006, Senior Vice President, Financial Operations in 2007, and was elected to his present position in 2007. From 1987 to 1998, he held several international positions at PepsiCo, Inc. and YUM! Brands, Inc. Mr. Mulligan is a director of Tennant Company. 

&#160;

Kimberly A. Nelson , age 53, is Senior Vice President, External Relations, and President of the General Mills Foundation. Ms. Nelson joined General Mills in 1988 and has held marketing leadership roles in the Big G cereal, Snacks, and Meals divisions. She was elected Vice President, President, Snacks in 2004, Senior Vice President, President, Snacks in 2008, and Senior Vice President, External Relations in September 2010. She was named President of the General Mills Foundation in 2011. 

Shawn P. O&#146;Grady , age 52, is Senior Vice President, President, Sales &#38; Channel Development. Mr. O&#146;Grady joined General Mills in 1990 and held several marketing roles in the Snacks, Meals and Big G cereal divisions. He was promoted to Vice President in 1998 and held marketing positions in the Betty Crocker and Pillsbury USA divisions. In 2004, he moved into Consumer Foods Sales, becoming Vice President, President, U.S. Retail Sales in 2007, and Senior Vice President, President, Consumer Foods Sales Division in 2010. He was promoted to his current position in June 2012. 

Christopher D. O&#146;Leary , age 56, is Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, International. Mr. O&#146;Leary joined General Mills in 1997 as Vice President, Corporate Growth. He was elected a Senior Vice President in 1999 and President of the Meals division in 2001. Mr. O&#146;Leary was named to his present position in 2006. Prior to joining General Mills, he spent 17 years at PepsiCo, Inc., last serving as President and Chief Executive Officer of the Hostess Frito-Lay business in Canada. Mr. O&#146;Leary is a director of Telephone and Data Systems, Inc. 

Kendall J. Powell , age 62, is Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of General Mills. Mr. Powell joined General Mills in 1979 and served in a variety of positions before becoming a Vice President in 1990. He became President of the Yoplait division in 1996, President of the Big G cereal division in 1997, and Senior Vice President of General Mills in 1998. From 1999 to 2004, he served as Chief Executive Officer of CPW. He returned from CPW in 2004 and was elected Executive Vice President. Mr. Powell was elected President and Chief Operating Officer of General Mills with overall global operating responsibility for the Company in 2006, Chief Executive Officer in 2007, and Chairman of the Board in 2008. He is a director of Medtronic, Inc. 

Jacqueline Williams-Roll , age 47, is Senior Vice President, Human Resources. Ms. Williams-Roll joined General Mills in 1995. She held human resources leadership roles in Supply Chain, Finance, Marketing and Organization Effectiveness, and she also worked a large part of her career on businesses outside of the United States. She was named Vice President, Human Resources, International in 2010, and then promoted to Senior Vice President, Human Resources Operations in September 2013. She was named to her present position in September 2014. Prior to joining General Mills, she held sales and management roles with Jenny Craig International. 

Jerald A. Young , age 59, is Vice President, Controller. Mr. Young joined General Mills in 2001 from The Pillsbury Company. He was appointed Vice President of Finance for the Bakeries and Foodservice Division while at Pillsbury in 2000. Mr. Young was subsequently appointed Vice President Internal Audit in 2005 and Vice President, Supply Chain in 2008. He was named to his present position in August 2011. 

WEBSITE ACCESS 

Our website is www.GeneralMills.com. We make available, free of charge in the &#147;Investors&#148; portion of this website, annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (1934 Act) as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Reports of beneficial ownership filed pursuant to Section 16(a) of the 1934 Act are also available on our website. 

&#160;

