 ITEM 1. BUSINESS.

&#160;

In this report, unless the context requires otherwise, references to the "Company", "UVIC", "we", "us" and "our" are to UVIC, Inc.

&#160;

CORPORATE HISTORY

&#160;

UVIC was incorporated in Nevada on August 21, 2013. We are development stage company and intend to commence operations in the business of developing a web catalog integrated within the inventory count of any kind of shops aimed at all sorts of customers willing to acquire goods of any purpose. Our catalog is about to be based on the website platform demonstrating the availability of different goods intended for different purposes. The website mentioned above will permit the end commercial customers to order, purchase, or to put a hold on the goods in the shop itself. We intend to engage in business activity, however, there is no assurance that we will be successful in developing our marketable product.

OUR BUSINESS

&#160;

We intend to develop a web catalog integrated within the inventory count of any kind of shops aimed at all sorts of customers willing to acquire goods of any purpose. Our catalog is about to be based on the website platform demonstrating the availability of different goods intended for different purposes. The website mentioned above will permit the end commercial customers to order, purchase, or to put a hold on the goods in the shop itself. We plan to provide the customers with the uptodate information concerning available goods and second, the onlineshop service will be offered, as an optional one. For instance, the end commercial customer will be able to put a hold on the goods in a shop using our web catalog. These goods will be automatically marked as "hold on/suspended", so the user will only need to go to the shop to pay for the goods he chose. Also, we plan to develop a mobile application with all the functions of the website.

We have not yet developed our web catalog. We only have created the concept and have been developing the programming code and web designed for our web site. We do not yet offer our service.

&#160;

&#160;

- 3 -

We are software development company and we believe that such type of business does not have any restrictions for business operation worldwide. We believe that majority of business processes could be realized with help of freelancers and outsource suppliers of products and services.

Our principal office address is located at 2235 E. Flamingo Rd., #100G, Las Vegas, NV 89119. Our telephone number is 702-608-4543. Mr. Iuldashkhan Umurzakov mostly resides in Kyrgyzstan and partly resides in USA. We have rented the office in Nevada for business operations.

BUSINESS MODEL DESCRIPTION

We consider creating a web platform in a form of a web catalog to distribute various goods aimed at different categories of the end commercial users. Our principal incomes are planned to be advertising collaterals (the information about the shops listed in our catalog). In turn we propose special services, divided into the following stages:

Preparatory

This stage is meant to organize preparatory work with our clients before placing the articles of merchandize into our catalog. To carry out this stage we formulate a proposal which meets the expectations of our clients on how to promote their goods with the help of our catalog.

Dealing with articles of merchandize

Soon after the items of commerce are selected, we plan to offer a professional photoshoot of the goods and 3d visualization. We look forward to working with modeling agencies to have professional models involved, in cases where photoshoots of clothes are required.

Design and the web page

When the photographs are made we resolve photo editing and 3d rigging. After this work is complete, the web page of a particular shop is designed and placed into our web catalog. Every shop has its own system of inventory procedures, monitoring of stock balances, sales or pricing. We purpose of integrating those inventory systems into the one of our web catalog.

Launch

After all the stages mentioned above are all complete, our client will be able to possess a prepared web page where a commercial user may access the goods of our client listed in the catalog.

CLIENTS

We mainly aim at B2B market, at companies willing to have their goods presented on the Internet. Goods in mass demand are planned to be presented on our website. We think of dividing the clients into the following categories:

- Companies without the websites of their own, but willing to have their goods presented on the Internet. To the present date, there are many companies which do not have their website designed but they already have strong need to be promoted via world wide web. Thus, our web catalog is meant to be a starting point of their promotion and success.

&#160;

&#160;

- 4 -

- Companies possessing a website of their own but willing to expand their presence on the Internet. Some companies need additional presence of their goods on the Internet. We plan to include the information about goods of such clients into our catalog.

- Trade centers or single purpose shops. Many &#160; trade centers may place the information &#160; concerning particular boutiques within &#160; mentioned trade centers and the goods they &#160; sell.

- Private persons. People willing to use our services of the online shop to order goods with delivery.

MARKETING AND ADVERTISING

We plan to conduct an active marketing campaign to promote our web catalog. Our marketing strategy follows the next steps:

- Search engine optimization (SEO) . We plan to pay great attention to online promotion of our catalog. We target to promote our web catalog to the first lines of search results at websites as Google.com, Yahoo.com, Aol. com, Bing.com, Ask.com.

Social networks. We plan to promote our web catalog in different social networks, for instance, Facebook, Twitter or Instagram.

- Presentations and exhibitions. We offer participation in different exhibitions and conferences dedicated to web technologies. Moreover, we intend to participate in displays of those goods which might be included in our web catalog.

- Direct sales. We may offer placing goods into our catalog through direct sales. We intend to hire sale managers whose task is make phone calls and arrange appointments with our target clients.

COMPETITION

As to the present date, there are many companies with similar services. There are the few barriers of entry in the business and level of competition is extremely high. We think that our main competitive advantage is a possibility to integrate inventory systems of shops into our web catalog. We intend to focus our forces on the specific needs related to our potential clients.

Revenue

Our principal income is planned to be based on the following grounds:

1. Selling of advertising spaces.

2. Commission fees for the sales on our web catalog platform.

3. Additional services such as a custom design of a web page of a particular shop, absence of rivals' advertisements on the web page of a shop, etc.

We plan to sell our product and service mostly through the Internet. We intend to turn our forces mostly on the United States market.

INSURANCE

We do not maintain any insurance and do not intend to maintain insurance in the future. Because we do not have any insurance, if we are made a party of a products liability action, we may not have sufficient funds to defend the litigation. If that occurs a judgment could be rendered against us that could cause us to cease operations.

- 5 -

Employees; Identification of Certain Significant Employees.

We are a development stage company and currently have no employees. Iuldashkhan Umurzakov, our sole officer and director, is a non-employee officer and director of the Company. We intend to hire employees on an as needed basis.

GOVERNMENT REGULATION

We will be required to comply with all regulations, rules, and directives of governmental authorities and agencies applicable to our business in any jurisdiction which we would conduct activities. We do not believe that regulation will have a material impact on the way we conduct our business.

CONTRACTUAL AGREEMENTS

On approximately February 24, 2015, we entered into that certain service agreement (the "Angara Agreement") with Angara Corp. (the "Client") for the purpose of preparing and creating 3D model of the Client's goods for publishing on our web-catalog and developing a webpage to be installed on our web space. The Client authorizes us to access its products and provide with all information for the web catalog. The estimated cost of the Angara Agreement is $2,614, which includes: Client goods photographs, Client goods 3D modeling, one web page, one additional blank web page and publishing of the final approved webpage to our web catalog. Fees due and owing to us under the terms of the Angara Agreement are due and payable on the following schedule: (i) 50% of the estimated cost upon signing of the Angara Agreement; and (ii) remaining balance due once web page is completed with the content provided from the Client. The Angara Agreement commenced with an initial non &#8208; refundable deposit payment of $1,307. At the completion of the site, we will provide the Client with a final billing of the actual cost for the site.

&#160;

On June 21, 2015 we executed a further service agreement (the "Rivex Agreement") with Rivex Technology Corp (the "Second Client"). The Rivex Agreement commences with an initial non &#8208; refundable prepayment of $1,300.

