 Item 1. 

Business 

General 

United Technologies Corporation was incorporated in Delaware in 1934. UTC provides high technology products and services to the building systems and aerospace industries worldwide. Growth is attributable primarily to the internal development of our existing businesses and to acquisitions. The following description of our business should be read in conjunction with "Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in our 2015 &#32;Annual Report, including the information contained therein under the heading "Business Overview." 

Our financial reporting segments include businesses with operations throughout the world. Otis and UTC Climate, Controls &#38; Security (collectively, referred to as the "commercial businesses") serve customers in the commercial, government, infrastructure and residential property sectors worldwide. UTC Climate, Controls &#38; Security also serves industrial, transport refrigeration and food service equipment customers. On September 10, 2015, we announced a change in organizational structure and now operate Otis and UTC Climate, Controls &#38; Security as stand-alone businesses that are no longer combined as UTC Building &#38; Industrial Systems. Otis and UTC Climate, Controls &#38; Security each continue to report their financial and operational results as separate segments, which is consistent with how we allocate resources and measure the financial performance of these businesses. &#32; Following that change, Otis and UTC Climate, Controls &#38; Security continue to share certain support and building systems strategic functions in order to retain efficiencies achieved under the UTC Building &#38; Industrial Systems organization. 

Pratt &#38; Whitney and UTC Aerospace Systems (collectively referred to as the "aerospace businesses") primarily serve commercial and government customers in both the original equipment and aftermarket parts and services markets of the aerospace industry. Pratt &#38; Whitney also provides products to certain industrial markets. In January 2015, UTC announced that it would streamline its aerospace operations by eliminating the UTC Propulsion &#38; Aerospace Systems organization, which had previously overseen the Pratt &#38; Whitney and UTC Aerospace Systems segments. Pratt &#38; Whitney and UTC Aerospace Systems will continue to operate as stand-alone businesses. On November 6, 2015, UTC completed the sale of the Sikorsky Aircraft business (collectively, referred to as "Sikorsky") to Lockheed Martin Corp. ("Lockheed Martin"). Prior to the sale, Sikorsky had been classified as a fifth business segment of UTC. For more information regarding Sikorsky, see "Other" below. 

For 2015, our commercial and industrial sales (generated principally by the commercial businesses) were approximately 52 &#32;percent of our consolidated sales, and our commercial aerospace sales and military aerospace sales (generated exclusively by our aerospace businesses) were approximately 36 &#32;percent and 12 &#32;percent, respectively, of our consolidated sales. International sales for 2015, including U.S. export sales, were 62 &#32;percent of our total segment sales. 

This Form 10-K and our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to those reports are available free of charge through the Investor Relations section of our Internet website (http://www.utc.com) under the heading "SEC Filings" as soon as reasonably practicable after these reports are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Our SEC filings are also available for reading and copying at the SEC&#8217;s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. In addition, the SEC maintains an Internet site (http://www.sec.gov) 

containing reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. 

Description of Business by Segment 

Our operations for the periods presented herein are classified into four segments: Otis, UTC Climate, Controls &#38; Security, Pratt &#38; Whitney, and UTC Aerospace Systems, with each segment comprised of groups of similar operating companies. References to each segment include the various operating companies established worldwide through which the operations for each segment are conducted. Each segment's business, including its principal products and services and other material developments and information, is described below. 

Segment financial data for the years 2013 through 2015, including financial information about foreign and domestic operations and export sales, appears in Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in our 2015 &#32;Annual Report. Segment sales as discussed below include intercompany sales, which are ultimately eliminated within the "Eliminations and other" category as reflected in the segment financial data in Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in our 2015 &#32;Annual Report. Similarly, total segment backlog as discussed below includes intercompany backlog, as well as fully-funded government orders. 

Otis 

Otis is the world&#8217;s largest elevator and escalator manufacturing, installation and service company. Otis designs, manufactures, sells and installs passenger and freight elevators for low-, medium- and high-speed applications, as well as a broad line of escalators and moving walkways. In addition to new equipment, Otis provides modernization products to upgrade elevators and escalators as well as maintenance and repair services for both its products and those of other manufacturers. Otis serves customers in the commercial and residential property industries around the world. Otis sells directly to the end customer and through sales representatives and distributors. 

Sales generated by Otis&#8217; international operations were 77 percent and 81 percent of total Otis segment sales in 2015 and 2014, respectively. At December 31, 2015 , Otis&#8217; backlog was $15.0 billion as compared to $15.3 billion at December 31, 2014. Of the total Otis backlog at December 31, 2015 , approximately $8.1 billion is expected to be realized as sales in 2016. 

UTC Climate, Controls &#38; Security 

UTC Climate, Controls &#38; Security is a leading provider of heating, ventilating, air conditioning (HVAC) and refrigeration solutions, including controls for residential, commercial, industrial and transportation applications. These products and services are sold under the Carrier name and other brand names to building contractors and owners, homeowners, transportation companies, retail stores and food service companies. UTC Climate, Controls &#38; Security is also a global provider of security and fire safety products and services. UTC Climate, Controls &#38; Security provides electronic security products such as intruder alarms, access control systems and video surveillance systems and designs and manufactures a wide range of fire safety products including specialty hazard detection and fixed suppression products, portable fire extinguishers, and fire detection and life safety systems. Services provided to the electronic security and fire safety industries include systems integration, video surveillance, installation, maintenance, and inspection services. In certain markets, UTC Climate, Controls &#38; Security also provides monitoring and response services, to complement its electronic security and fire safety businesses. Through its venture with Watsco, Inc., UTC Climate, Controls &#38; Security distributes Carrier, Bryant, Payne and Totaline residential and light commercial HVAC products in certain parts of the U.S., Canada and certain territories in the Caribbean and Latin America. UTC Climate, Controls &#38; Security sells directly to end customers and through other joint ventures, manufacturer's representatives, distributors, wholesalers, dealers and retail outlets. Certain UTC Climate, Controls &#38; Security HVAC businesses are seasonal and sales and service activity can be impacted by weather. UTC Climate, Controls &#38; Security customarily offers its customers incentives to purchase products to ensure an adequate supply of its products in the distribution channels. The principal incentive program provides reimbursements to distributors for offering promotional pricing on UTC Climate, Controls &#38; Security products. UTC Climate, Controls &#38; Security products and services are used by governments, financial institutions, architects, building owners and developers, security and fire consultants, homeowners and other end-users requiring a high level of security and fire protection for their businesses and residences. UTC Climate, Controls &#38; Security provides its security and fire safety products and services under Chubb, Kidde and other brand names and sells directly to customers as well as through manufacturer's representatives, distributors, dealers and U.S. retail distribution. 

Sales generated by UTC Climate, Controls &#38; Security&#8217;s international operations, including U.S. export sales, were 56 percent and 59 percent of total UTC Climate, Controls &#38; Security segment sales in 2015 and 2014, respectively. At 

December 31, 2015, UTC Climate, Controls &#38; Security&#8217;s backlog was $3.1 billion as compared to $3.4 billion at December 31, 2014. Substantially all of the backlog at December 31, 2015 is expected to be realized as sales in 2016. 

Pratt &#38; Whitney 

Pratt &#38; Whitney is among the world&#8217;s leading suppliers of aircraft engines for the commercial, military, business jet and general aviation markets. Pratt &#38; Whitney also provides fleet management services and aftermarket maintenance, repair and overhaul services, including the sale of spare parts, auxiliary power units and industrial gas generators. Pratt &#38; Whitney produces families of large engines for wide- and narrow-body and large regional aircraft in the commercial market and for fighter and transport aircraft in the military market. Pratt &#38; Whitney Canada (P&#38;WC) is a world leader in the production of engines powering general and business aviation, as well as regional airline, utility and military, airplanes and helicopters. 

In view of the risks and costs associated with developing new engines, Pratt &#38; Whitney has entered into collaboration arrangements in which sales, costs and risks are shared with third parties. At December 31, 2015, the interests of third party participants in Pratt &#38; Whitney-directed commercial jet engine programs ranged from approximately 14 percent to 50 &#32;percent. See Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in our 2015 &#32;Annual Report for a description of our accounting for collaborative arrangements. In addition, Pratt &#38; Whitney has interests in other engine programs, including a 50 percent ownership interest in the Engine Alliance (EA), a joint venture with GE Aviation, which markets and manufactures the GP7000 engine for the Airbus A380 aircraft. Pratt &#38; Whitney has entered into risk and revenue sharing arrangements with third parties for 40 percent of the products and services that Pratt &#38; Whitney is responsible for providing to the EA. Pratt &#38; Whitney accounts for its interests in the EA joint venture under the equity method of accounting. Pratt &#38; Whitney continues to pursue additional collaboration partners. 

Pratt &#38; Whitney holds a net 61 percent program share interest in the IAE International Aero Engines AG (IAE) collaboration with MTU Aero Engines AG (MTU) and Japanese Aero Engines Corporation (JAEC). As previously reported in June 2012, Rolls-Royce sold its collaboration interest in IAE to Pratt &#38; Whitney, while also entering into an agreement to license its V2500 intellectual property to Pratt &#38; Whitney. Rolls-Royce continues to support the program as a strategic supplier for the V2500 engine and continues to manufacture parts and assemble engines. 

The development of new engines and improvements to current production engines present important growth opportunities. Pratt &#38; Whitney is under contract with the U.S. Government's F-35 Joint Program Office to develop, produce, and sustain the F135 engine, a derivative of Pratt &#38; Whitney&#8217;s F119 engine, to power the single-engine F-35 Lightning II aircraft (commonly known as the Joint Strike Fighter) being developed and produced by Lockheed Martin. The two F135 propulsion system configurations for the F-35A/F-35C and F-35B jets are certified for production and in use by the U.S. Air Force and the U.S. Marine Corps. F135 engines are also used on F-35 aircraft purchased by Joint Strike Fighter partner countries and foreign military sales countries. 

&#32;In addition, Pratt &#38; Whitney is currently developing technology, including the PurePower&#174; PW1000G Geared TurboFan engine, intended to enable it to power both currently-proposed and future aircraft. The PurePower&#174; PW1000G engine targets a significant reduction in fuel burn and noise levels with lower environmental emissions and operating costs than current production engines. Airbus has selected the PW1100G-JM engine, a member of the PurePower&#174; PW1000G engine family, as a new engine option to power its A320neo family of aircraft, which entered into service in January 2016. The PW1100G-JM is being developed as part of a collaboration with MTU and JAEC. Additionally, PurePower&#174; PW1000G engine models have been selected by Bombardier to power the new CSeries passenger aircraft, Mitsubishi Aircraft Corporation to power the new Mitsubishi Regional Jet, Irkut Corporation to power the new Irkut MC-21 passenger aircraft and Embraer to power the next generation of Embraer&#8217;s E-Jet family of aircraft. In October 2014, Gulfstream announced the selection of the PurePower&#174; PW 800 engine to exclusively power Gulfstream&#8217;s new G500 and G600 business jets scheduled to enter service in 2018. The CSeries (CS100) aircraft was certified in December 2015, and Bombardier has announced that it expects the larger CSeries (CS300) aircraft to be certified in the the first half of 2016. The Irkut MC-21 is scheduled to enter service in 2017. The Mitsubishi Regional Jet and Embraer&#8217;s next generation of E-Jet family aircraft are scheduled to enter service in 2018. The success of these aircraft and the PurePower&#174; family of engines is dependent upon many factors including technological accomplishments, program execution, aircraft demand, and regulatory approval. Based on these factors, as well as the level of success of aircraft program launches by aircraft manufacturers and other conditions, additional investment in the PurePower&#174; program may be required. P&#38;WC has developed and certified the PW210 engine family for helicopters manufactured by Sikorsky and AgustaWestland. Pratt &#38; Whitney continues to enhance its programs through performance improvement measures and product base expansion. 

Pratt &#38; Whitney&#8217;s products are sold principally to aircraft manufacturers, airlines and other aircraft operators, aircraft leasing companies and the U.S. and foreign governments. Pratt &#38; Whitney&#8217;s products and services must adhere to strict regulatory and market-driven safety and performance standards. The frequently changing nature of these standards, along with 

the long duration of aircraft engine development, production and support programs, creates uncertainty regarding engine program profitability. Sales to Airbus (Pratt &#38; Whitney&#8217;s largest customer by sales) were 39 percent and 41 percent of total Pratt &#38; Whitney segment sales in 2015 and 2014, respectively, before taking into account discounts or financial incentives offered to customers. Sales to the U.S. Government were 21 percent and 22 percent of total Pratt &#38; Whitney segment sales in 2015 and 2014, respectively. 

Sales generated by Pratt &#38; Whitney&#8217;s international operations, including U.S. export sales, were 60 percent and 62 percent of total Pratt &#38; Whitney segment sales in 2015 and 2014, respectively. At December 31, 2015, Pratt &#38; Whitney&#8217;s backlog was $52.5 billion, including $4.4 billion of U.S. Government-funded contracts and subcontracts. At December 31, 2014, these amounts were $50.2 billion and $4.2 billion, respectively. Of the total Pratt &#38; Whitney backlog at December 31, 2015, approximately $8.8 billion is expected to be realized as sales in 2016. Pratt &#38; Whitney&#8217;s backlog includes certain contracts for which actual costs may ultimately exceed total sales. Pratt &#38; Whitney&#8217;s backlog excludes orders for new commercial engines that have not yet received aviation authority engine certification. The PurePower&#174; PW1100G-JM engine completed Federal Aviation Agency (FAA) certification for the Airbus A320neo platform on December 19, 2014 and entered into service in January 2016. See Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in our 2015 &#32;Annual Report for a description of our accounting for long-term contracts. 

UTC Aerospace Systems 

UTC Aerospace Systems is a leading global provider of technologically advanced aerospace products and aftermarket service solutions for aircraft manufacturers, airlines, regional, business and general aviation markets, military, space and undersea operations. UTC Aerospace Systems&#8217; product portfolio includes electric power generation, power management and distribution systems, air data and flight sensing and management systems, engine control systems, electric systems, intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance systems, engine components, environmental control systems, fire and ice detection and protection systems, propeller systems, aircraft aerostructures including engine nacelles, thrust reversers, and mounting pylons, interior and exterior aircraft lighting, aircraft seating and cargo systems, actuation systems, landing systems, including landing gears, wheels and brakes, and space products and subsystems. Aftermarket services include spare parts, overhaul and repair, engineering and technical support and fleet management solutions. UTC Aerospace Systems sells aerospace products to aircraft manufacturers, airlines and other aircraft operators, the U.S. and foreign governments, maintenance, repair and overhaul providers, and independent distributors. UTC Aerospace Systems&#8217; largest customers are Boeing and Airbus with a combined 31 &#32; percent and 29 percent of total UTC Aerospace Systems segment sales in 2015 and 2014, respectively. Sales to the U.S. Government were 19 percent of total UTC Aerospace Systems segment sales in 2015 and 2014. 

UTC Aerospace Systems had product placements supporting first flight in 2015 of the Sikorsky CH-53K, Gulfstream G500, Boeing KC-46A, Embraer KC390, and Mitsubishi Regional Jet. In addition, UTC Aerospace Systems had product placement supporting the certification of the Airbus A320neo, the certification of the Bombardier CSeries (CS100), and Initial Operational Capability (IOC) of the F-35B STOVL. 

&#32; Significant development activity continues in the commercial and military markets for the Airbus A350-1000 aircraft, Boeing 737MAX, 777X and 787-10 aircraft, the Bombardier CSeries (CS300) and Global 7000/8000 business jet, the COMAC C919 aircraft, the Embraer E-Jet E2 and KC-390 aircraft, the Irkut MC-21 aircraft, the Mitsubishi Regional Jet, the Gulfstream G500/600 aircraft, and SYERS-2 multispectral sensors. UTC Aerospace Systems is also the operations support prime contractor for NASA&#8217;s space suit/life support system and produces environmental monitoring and control, life support, power management and distribution, and thermal control systems for the International Space Station and the Orion crew exploration vehicle. 

Sales generated by UTC Aerospace Systems&#8217; international operations, including U.S. export sales, were 54 percent of total UTC Aerospace Systems segment sales in 2015 and 2014. At December 31, 2015, UTC Aerospace Systems&#8217; backlog was $11.5 billion, including $2.5 billion of U.S. Government-funded contracts and subcontracts. At December 31, 2014, these amounts were $11.1 billion and $2.3 billion, respectively. Of the total UTC Aerospace Systems backlog at December 31, 2015, approximately $7.2 billion is expected to be realized as sales in 2016. 

Other 

On November 6, 2015, UTC completed its sale of Sikorsky to Lockheed Martin. Sikorsky manufactures military and commercial helicopters and also provides aftermarket helicopter and aircraft parts and services. The results of operations for Sikorsky and the related cash flows accordingly have been reclassified to "Discontinued Operations" in our Consolidated Statement of Operations and our Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for all periods presented. 

Other Matters Relating to Our Business as a Whole 

Competition and Other Factors Affecting Our Businesses 

As worldwide businesses, our operations can be affected by a variety of economic, industry and other factors, including those described in this section, in "Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" included in our 2015 &#32;Annual Report, in Item 1, "Cautionary Note Concerning Factors That May Affect Future Results," and in Item 1A, "Risk Factors" in this Form 10-K. Each business unit is subject to significant competition from a large number of companies in the U.S. and other countries, and each competes on the basis of price, delivery schedule, product performance and service. 

Our aerospace businesses are subject to substantial competition from domestic manufacturers, foreign manufacturers (whose governments sometimes provide research and development assistance, marketing subsidies and other assistance for certain of their commercial products beyond the assistance that may be available in the U.S.) and companies that obtain regulatory agency approval to manufacture spare parts. In particular, Pratt &#38; Whitney experiences intense competition for new commercial airframe/engine combinations. Engine suppliers may offer substantial discounts and other financial incentives, performance and operating cost guarantees, and participation in financing arrangements, in an effort to compete for the aftermarket associated with these engines. For information regarding customer financing commitments, participation in guarantees of customer financing arrangements and performance and operating cost guarantees, primarily related to Pratt &#38; Whitney, see Notes 5 and 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in our 2015 &#32;Annual Report. Customer selections of engines and components can also have a significant impact on later sales of parts and services. In addition, the U.S. Government&#8217;s and other governments&#8217; policies of purchasing parts from suppliers other than the original equipment manufacturer affect military spare parts sales. Significant elements of our aerospace businesses, such as spare parts sales for engines and aircraft in service, have short lead times. Therefore, backlog information may not be indicative of future demand. Pratt &#38; Whitney&#8217;s major competitors in the sale of engines are GE Aviation, Rolls-Royce, Honeywell, Turbomeca, and CFM International. 

Research and Development 

Because changes in technology can have a significant impact on our operations and competitive position, we spend substantial amounts of our own funds on research and development. These expenditures, which are charged to expense as incurred, were $2.3 billion or 4.1 percent of total sales in 2015, as compared with $2.5 billion or 4.3 percent of total sales in 2014 and $2.3 billion or 4.1 percent of total sales in 2013. We also perform research and development work under contracts funded by the U.S. Government and other customers. Costs incurred under this contract research and development, which is performed in our aerospace businesses, amounted to $1.5 billion in 2015, as compared to $2.0 billion in 2014 and $1.8 billion in 2013. These contract research and development costs include amounts that are expensed as incurred, through cost of products sold, and amounts that are capitalized into inventory to be subsequently recovered through production shipments. Total contract research and development costs of $1.6 billion, $2.0 billion and $1.8 billion were expensed through cost of products sold in 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. 

U.S. Government Contracts 

Contracting with the U.S. Government entails certain unique risks. U.S. Government contracts are subject to termination by the government, either for the convenience of the government or for default in the event of our failure to perform under the applicable contract. In the case of a termination for convenience, we would normally be entitled to reimbursement for our allowable costs incurred, plus termination costs and a reasonable profit. If terminated by the government as a result of our default, we could be liable for additional costs the government incurs in acquiring undelivered goods or services from another source and any other damages it suffers. Most of our U.S. Government sales are made under fixed-price type contracts, while approximately $1.5 billion or 3 percent of our total sales for 2015 were made under cost-reimbursement type contracts. 

Our contracts with the U.S. Government are also subject to audits. Like many defense contractors, we have received audit reports, which recommend that certain contract prices should be reduced, or that certain payments should be delayed or withheld, to comply with various government regulations, including reports alleging that cost or pricing data we submitted in negotiation of the contract prices or cost accounting practices may not have conformed to government regulations. Some of these audit reports involved substantial amounts. We have made voluntary refunds in those cases we believe appropriate, have settled some allegations and continue to litigate certain cases. For further discussion of risks related to government contracting, see the discussion in Item 1A, "Risk Factors" and Item 3, "Legal Proceedings," in this Form 10-K and Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in our 2015 &#32;Annual Report for further discussion. 

Compliance with Environmental and Other Government Regulations 

Our operations are subject to and affected by environmental regulation by federal, state and local authorities in the U.S. and regulatory authorities with jurisdiction over our foreign operations. We have incurred and will likely continue to incur liabilities under various government statutes for the cleanup of pollutants previously released into the environment. We do not anticipate that compliance with current provisions relating to the protection of the environment or that any payments we may be required to make for cleanup liabilities will have a material adverse effect upon our cash flows, competitive position, financial condition or results of operations. Environmental matters are further addressed in "Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and Notes 1 and 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in our 2015 &#32;Annual Report. 

Most of the U.S. laws governing environmental matters include criminal provisions. If we were convicted of a violation of the federal Clean Air Act or Clean Water Act, the facility or facilities involved in the violation would be ineligible to be used in performing any U.S. Government contract we are awarded until the Environmental Protection Agency thereafter certifies that the condition giving rise to the violation had been corrected. 

In addition, we could be affected by future laws or regulations imposed in response to concerns over climate change. Changes in climate change concerns, or in the regulation of such concerns, including greenhouse gas emissions, could subject us to additional costs and restrictions, including compliance costs and increased energy and raw materials costs. 

We conduct our businesses through subsidiaries and affiliates worldwide. Changes in legislation or government policies can affect our worldwide operations. For example, governmental regulation of refrigerants and energy efficiency standards and fire safety regulations are important to our UTC Climate, Controls &#38; Security businesses, and elevator safety codes are important to the businesses of Otis, while government safety and performance regulations, restrictions on aircraft engine noise and emissions and government procurement practices can impact our aerospace businesses. 

U.S. laws, regulations, orders, and other measures concerning the export or re-export of products, software, services and technology to, and other trade-related activities involving, non-U.S. countries and parties affect the operations of UTC and its affiliates. These measures include U.S. economic sanctions targeting Iran. 

Intellectual Property and Raw Materials and Supplies 

We maintain a portfolio of patents, trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets, licenses and franchises related to our businesses. While we believe we have taken reasonable measures to protect this portfolio, our efforts may not be sufficient. See Item 1A "Risk Factors" in this Form 10-K for further discussion of intellectual property matters. 

We believe we have adequate sources for our purchases of materials, components, services and supplies used in our manufacturing. We work continuously with our supply base to ensure an adequate source of supply and to reduce costs. We pursue cost reductions through a number of mechanisms, including consolidating our purchases, reducing the number of suppliers, strategic global sourcing and using bidding competitions among potential suppliers. In some instances, we depend upon a single source of supply or participate in commodity markets that may be subject to allocations of limited supplies by suppliers. Like other users in the U.S., we are largely dependent upon foreign sources for certain raw materials requirements such as cobalt, tantalum, chromium, rhenium and nickel. We have a number of ongoing programs to manage this dependence and the accompanying risk, including long-term agreements and the conservation of materials through scrap reclamation and new manufacturing processes. We believe that our supply management practices are based on an appropriate balancing of the foreseeable risks and the costs of alternative practices. Although at times high prices for some raw materials important to our businesses (for example, steel, copper, aluminum, titanium and nickel) have caused margin and cost pressures, we do not foresee near term unavailability of materials, components or supplies that would have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. For further discussion of the possible effects of the cost and availability of raw materials on our business, see Item 1A, "Risk Factors" in this Form 10-K. 

Employees and Employee Relations 

At December 31, 2015, our total number of employees was approximately 197,000, approximately 68 percent of which represents employees based outside the U.S. During 2015, we negotiated or concluded 12 domestic collective bargaining agreements, the largest of which covered certain workers at UTC Climate, Controls &#38; Security's Carrier facility in Collierville, Tennessee. In 2016, numerous collective bargaining agreements are subject to renegotiation, the largest of which covers certain workers at Pratt &#38; Whitney's Connecticut locations. Although some previous contract renegotiations have had a significant impact on our financial condition or results of operations, we do not anticipate that the renegotiation of these contracts in 2016 will have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, cash flows, financial condition or results of operations. For discussion of the effects of our restructuring actions on employment, see Item 1A, "Risk Factors" in this Form 10-K and under 

"Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in our 2015 &#32;Annual Report. 

For a discussion of other matters which may affect our competitive position, cash flows, financial condition or results of operations, including the risks of our international operations, see the further discussion under the headings "General" and "Description of Business by Segment" in this section, Item 1A, "Risk Factors" in this Form 10-K, and under "Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in our 2015 &#32;Annual Report. 

Cautionary Note Concerning Factors That May Affect Future Results 

This Form 10-K contains statements which, to the extent they are not statements of historical or present fact, constitute "forward-looking statements" under the securities laws. From time to time, oral or written forward-looking statements may also be included in other information released to the public. These forward-looking statements are intended to provide management&#8217;s current expectations or plans for our future operating and financial performance, based on assumptions currently believed to be valid. Forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of words such as "believe," "expect," "expectations," "plans," "strategy," "prospects," "estimate," "project," "target," "anticipate," "will," "should," "see," "guidance," "confident" and other words of similar meaning in connection with a discussion of future operating or financial performance. Forward-looking statements may include, among other things, statements relating to future sales, earnings, cash flow, results of operations, uses of cash, share repurchases and other measures of financial performance or potential future plans, strategies or transactions. All forward-looking statements involve risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. For those statements, we claim the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such risks, uncertainties and other factors include, without limitation: 

&#8226; 

the effect of economic conditions in the industries and markets in which we operate in the U.S. and globally and any changes therein, including financial market conditions, fluctuations in commodity prices, interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates, levels of end market demand in construction and in both the commercial and defense segments of the aerospace industry, levels of air travel, financial condition of commercial airlines, the impact of weather conditions and natural disasters and the financial condition of our customers and suppliers; 

&#8226; 

challenges in the development, production, delivery, support, performance and realization of the anticipated benefits of advanced technologies and new products and services; 

&#8226; 

future levels of indebtedness and capital spending and research and development spending; 

&#8226; 

future availability of credit and factors that may affect such availability, including credit market conditions and our capital structure; 

&#8226; 

delays and disruption in delivery of materials and services from suppliers; 

&#8226; 

customer- and Company- directed cost reduction efforts and restructuring costs and savings and other consequences thereof; 

&#8226; 

the scope, nature, impact or timing of acquisition and divestiture activity, including among other things integration of acquired businesses into our existing businesses and realization of synergies and opportunities for growth and innovation; 

&#8226; 

new business opportunities; 

&#8226; 

our ability to realize the intended benefits of organizational changes; 

&#8226; 

the anticipated benefits of diversification and balance of operations across product lines, regions and industries; 

&#8226; 

the timing and scope of future repurchases of our common stock; 

&#8226; 

the outcome of legal proceedings, investigations and other contingencies; 

&#8226; 

pension plan assumptions and future contributions; 

&#8226; 

the impact of the negotiation of collective bargaining agreements and labor disputes; 

&#8226; 

the effect of changes in political conditions in the U.S. and other countries in which we operate; and 

&#8226; 

the effect of changes in tax, environmental, regulatory (including among other things import/export) and other laws and regulations in the U.S. and other countries in which we operate. 

In addition, this Form 10-K includes important information as to risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. See the "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" under the heading "Note 17: Contingent Liabilities," the section titled "Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" under the headings "Business Overview," "Results of Operations," 

"Liquidity and Financial Condition," and "Critical Accounting Estimates," and the section titled "Risk Factors." This Form 10&#173;&#173;-K also includes important information as to these factors in the "Business" section under the headings "General," "Description of Business by Segment" and "Other Matters Relating to Our Business as a Whole," and in the "Legal Proceedings" section. Additional important information as to these factors is included in our 2015 &#32;Annual Report in the section titled "Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" under the headings "Restructuring Costs," "Environmental Matters" and "Governmental Matters." The forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this report or, in the case of any document incorporated by reference, the date of that document. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by applicable law. Additional information as to factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements is disclosed from time to time in our other filings with the SEC. 

