 ITEM 1&#151;BUSINESS 

ACNB CORPORATION 

ACNB Corporation (the Corporation or ACNB) is a $1.1 billion financial holding company headquartered in Gettysburg, Pennsylvania. Through its banking and nonbanking subsidiaries, ACNB 

provides a full range of banking and financial services to individuals and businesses, including commercial and retail banking, trust and investment management, and insurance. ACNB's banking operations are conducted through its primary operating subsidiary, ACNB Bank, with twenty-one retail banking offices in Adams, Cumberland, Franklin and York Counties, Pennsylvania, as well as one loan production office in York County, Pennsylvania, as of December 31, 2015. The Corporation was formed in 1982, then became the holding company for Adams County National Bank (now ACNB Bank) in 1983. 

ACNB's major source of operating funds is dividends that it receives from its subsidiaries. ACNB's expenses consist principally of losses from low-income housing investments and interest paid on a term loan used to purchase RIG. Dividends that ACNB pays to stockholders consist of dividends declared and paid to ACNB by the subsidiary bank. 

ACNB and its subsidiaries are not dependent upon a single customer or a small number of customers, the loss of which would have a material adverse effect on the Corporation. ACNB does not depend on foreign sources of funds, nor does it make foreign loans. 

The common stock of ACNB is listed on The NASDAQ Capital Market under the symbol ACNB. 

BANKING SUBSIDIARY 

ACNB Bank 

ACNB Bank is a full-service commercial bank operating under charter from the Pennsylvania Department of Banking and Securities. The Bank's principal market area is Adams County, Pennsylvania, which is located in southcentral Pennsylvania. Adams County depends on agriculture, industry and tourism to provide employment for its residents. No single sector dominates the county's economy. At December 31, 2015, ACNB Bank had total assets of $1,135,000,000, total gross loans of $853,000,000, total deposits of $918,000,000, and total equity capital of $96,000,000. In October 2010, the Bank converted from a national banking association to a Pennsylvania state-chartered bank and trust company. 

The main office of the Bank is located at 16 Lincoln Square, Gettysburg, Pennsylvania. In addition to its main office, as of December 31, 2015, the Bank had thirteen branches in Adams County, four branches in York County, one branch in Cumberland County, and two branches in Franklin County, as well as a loan production office in York County, Pennsylvania. ACNB Bank's service delivery channels for its customers also include the ATM network, Customer Contact Center, and Online, Telephone and Mobile Banking. The Bank is subject to regulation and periodic examination by the Pennsylvania Department of Banking and Securities and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC). The FDIC, as provided by law, insures the Bank's deposits. 

Commercial lending includes commercial mortgages, real estate development and construction loans, accounts receivable and inventory financing, and agricultural and governmental loans. Consumer lending programs include home equity loans and lines of credit, automobile and recreational vehicle loans, manufactured housing loans, and personal lines of credit. Mortgage lending programs include personal residential mortgages, residential construction loans, and investment mortgage loans. 

A trust is a legal fiduciary agreement whereby the ACNB Bank Trust Department is named as trustee of financial assets. As trustee, the Trust Department invests, protects, manages and distributes financial assets as defined in the agreement. Estate settlement governed by the last will and testament of an individual constitutes another part of the Trust Department business. One purpose of having a will is to name an executor to settle the estate. ACNB Bank has the knowledge and expertise to act as executor. Other services include, but are not limited to, those related to testamentary trusts, life insurance trusts, charitable remainder trusts, guardianships, powers of attorney, custodial accounts, and 

investment management and advisory accounts. Total trust assets under management were $178,000,000 at December 31, 2015. 

NONBANKING SUBSIDIARIES 

Russell Insurance Group, Inc. 

ACNB Corporation's wholly-owned subsidiary, Russell Insurance Group, Inc. (RIG), is a full-service insurance agency that offers a broad range of property and casualty, life, and health insurance to both commercial and individual clients. Based in Westminster, Maryland, RIG has served the needs of its clients since its founding as an independent insurance agency by Frank C. Russell, Jr. in 1978. RIG operates a second office location in Germantown, Maryland. Total assets of RIG as of December 31, 2015, were $9,819,000. 

RIG is managed separately from the banking and related financial services that the Corporation offers and is reported as a separate segment. Financial information on this segment is included in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note S&#151;"Segment and Related Information". 

BankersRe Insurance Group, SPC 

BankersRe Insurance Group, SPC (formerly Pennbanks Insurance Co., SPC) was organized in 2000 and held an unrestricted Class "B" Insurer's License under Cayman Islands Insurance Law. The segregated portfolio was novated to a third party during 2012. This entity was not material to ACNB's financial condition or results of operations. 

MARKET AREA ECONOMIC FEATURES AND CONDITIONS 

ACNB Corporation, headquartered in Gettysburg, Pennsylvania, is the financial holding company for the wholly-owned subsidiaries of ACNB Bank, Gettysburg, Pennsylvania, and Russell Insurance Group, Inc., Westminster, Maryland. ACNB Bank serves its marketplace via a network of twenty-one retail banking offices located throughout Adams County, Pennsylvania, as well as in Dillsburg, Hanover and Spring Grove, York County, Pennsylvania, in Newville, Cumberland County, Pennsylvania, and in Chambersburg, Franklin County, Pennsylvania. In addition, the Bank operates a loan office in York, York County, Pennsylvania. Russell Insurance Group, Inc. offers a broad range of commercial and personal insurance lines with licenses in 42 states, including Pennsylvania and Maryland, through offices in Westminster, Carroll County, and Germantown, Montgomery County, Maryland. Accordingly, ACNB Corporation's major operations are in the more rural areas of the Harrisburg-Carlisle MSA and the York-Hanover MSA, along with all of Adams County, Pennsylvania, and parts of Franklin County, Pennsylvania. Approximately 60% of the population resides in areas designated rural. Major types of employers include those focused on manufacturing, education, healthcare, agriculture, tourism, and transportation/warehousing, as well as local governments. A material amount of land surrounding Gettysburg is under the control of the National Park Service, limiting certain types of development. Unemployment figures in the bank's market recently, and historically, have been better than those for Pennsylvania and the United States. Per capita and household incomes are generally under Pennsylvania averages. 

COMPETITION 

The financial services industry in ACNB's market area is highly competitive, including competition for similar products and services from commercial banks, credit unions, finance and mortgage companies, and other nonbank providers of financial services. Several of ACNB's competitors have legal lending limits that exceed those of ACNB's subsidiary bank, as well as funding sources in the capital markets that exceed ACNB's availability. The high level of competition has resulted from changes in the legal and regulatory environment, as well as from the economic climate, customer 

expectations, and service alternatives via the Internet. There are 80 publicly-traded banks in Pennsylvania, 18 have higher market share than ACNB. In addition, there are 18 thrift institutions and numerous credit unions in Pennsylvania, some with higher market share. Banks, thrifts, credit unions, and other financial service providers in northern Maryland are also competition. 

SUPERVISION AND REGULATION 

Regulation of Bank Holding Company and Subsidiaries 

BANK HOLDING COMPANY ACT OF 1956&#151;ACNB is a financial holding company and is subject to the regulations of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956. Bank holding companies are required to file periodic reports with and are subject to examination by the Federal Reserve. The Federal Reserve has issued regulations under the Bank Holding Company Act that require a financial holding company to serve as a source of financial and managerial strength to its subsidiary bank. As a result, the Federal Reserve may require ACNB to stand ready to use its resources to provide adequate capital funds to the Bank during periods of financial stress or adversity. 

In addition, the Federal Reserve may require a financial holding company to end a nonbanking business if the nonbanking business constitutes a serious risk to the financial soundness and stability of any banking subsidiary of the financial holding company. 

The Bank Holding Company Act prohibits ACNB from acquiring direct or indirect control of more than 5% of the outstanding voting stock of any bank, or substantially all of the assets of any bank, or merging with another bank holding company, without the prior approval of the Federal Reserve. The Bank Holding Company Act allows interstate bank acquisitions and interstate branching by acquisition and consolidation in those states that had not elected to opt out by the required deadline. The Pennsylvania Department of Banking and Securities also must approve any similar consolidation. Pennsylvania law permits Pennsylvania financial holding companies to control an unlimited number of banks. 

Further, the Bank Holding Company Act restricts ACNB's nonbanking activities to those that are determined by the Federal Reserve Board to be financial in nature, incidental to such financial activity, or complementary to a financial activity. The Bank Holding Company Act does not place territorial restrictions on the activities of nonbanking subsidiaries of financial holding companies. 

GRAMM-LEACH-BLILEY ACT OF 1999 (GLBA)&#151;The Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999 eliminated many of the restrictions placed on the activities of bank holding companies that become financial holding companies. Among other things, the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act repealed certain Glass-Steagall Act restrictions on affiliations between banks and securities firms, and amended the Bank Holding Company Act to permit bank holding companies that are financial holding companies to engage in activities, and acquire companies engaged in activities, that are: financial in nature (including insurance underwriting, insurance company portfolio investment, financial advisory, securities underwriting, dealing and market-making, and merchant banking activities); incidental to financial activities; or, complementary to financial activities if the Federal Reserve determines that they pose no substantial risk to the safety or soundness of depository institutions or the financial system in general. 

REGULATION W&#151;Transactions between a bank and its "affiliates" are quantitatively and qualitatively restricted under the Federal Reserve Act. The Federal Deposit Insurance Act applies Sections 23A and 23B to insured nonmember banks in the same manner and to the same extent as if they were members of the Federal Reserve System. The Federal Reserve has also issued Regulation W, which codifies prior regulations under Sections 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act, and interpretative guidance with respect to affiliate transactions. Regulation W incorporates the exemption from the affiliate transaction rules, but expands the exemption to cover the purchase of any type of 

loan or extension of credit from an affiliate. Affiliates of a bank include, among other entities, the bank's holding company and companies that are under common control with the bank. ACNB Corporation and Russell Insurance Group, Inc. are considered to be affiliates of ACNB Bank. 

USA PATRIOT ACT OF 2001&#151;In October 2001, the USA Patriot Act of 2001 was enacted in response to the terrorist attacks in New York, Pennsylvania and Washington, D.C., which occurred on September 11, 2001. The Patriot Act is intended to strengthen U.S. law enforcement's and the intelligence communities' abilities to work cohesively to combat terrorism on a variety of fronts. The impact of the Patriot Act on financial institutions of all kinds is significant and wide ranging. The Patriot Act contains sweeping anti-money laundering and financial transparency laws and imposes various regulations, including standards for verifying client identification at account opening, and rules to promote cooperation among financial institutions, regulators and law enforcement entities in identifying parties that may be involved in terrorism or money laundering. 

SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 (SOA)&#151;In 2002, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 became law. The stated goals of the SOA are to increase corporate responsibility, to provide for enhanced penalties for accounting and auditing improprieties at publicly-traded companies, and to protect investors by improving the accuracy and reliability of corporate disclosures pursuant to the securities law. 

The SOA is the most far-reaching U.S. securities legislation enacted in some time. The SOA generally applies to all companies, both U.S. and non-U.S., that file or are required to file periodic reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or the Exchange Act. 

The SOA includes very specific additional disclosure requirements and corporate governance rules, as well as requires the SEC and securities exchanges to adopt extensive additional disclosure, corporate governance, and other related rules. The SOA represents significant federal involvement in matters traditionally left to state regulatory systems, such as the regulation of the accounting profession, and to state corporate law, such as the relationship between a board of directors and management and between a board of directors and its committees. 

The SOA addresses, among other matters: 

&#149; Audit committees for all reporting companies; &#149; Certification of financial statements by the chief executive officer and the chief financial officer; &#149; The forfeiture of bonuses or other incentive-based compensation and profits from the sale of an issuer's securities by directors and senior officers in the twelve-month period following initial publication of any financial statements that later require restatement; &#149; A prohibition on insider trading during pension plan blackout periods; &#149; Disclosure of off-balance sheet transactions; &#149; A prohibition on personal loans to directors and officers; &#149; Expedited filing requirements for SEC Forms 4; &#149; Disclosure of a code of ethics and filing an SEC Form 8-K for a change or waiver of such code; &#149; "Real time" filing of periodic reports; &#149; Formation of a public accounting oversight board; &#149; Auditor independence; and, &#149; Increased criminal penalties for violations of securities laws. 7 

The SEC has been delegated the task of enacting rules to implement various provisions of the SOA with respect to, among other matters, disclosure in periodic filings pursuant to the Exchange Act. 

AMERICAN JOBS CREATION ACT OF 2004&#151;In 2004, the American Jobs Creation Act was enacted as the first major corporate tax act in years. The act addresses a number of areas of corporate taxation including executive deferred compensation restrictions. The impact of the act on ACNB is not material. 

BANK SECRECY ACT (BSA)&#151;Under the Bank Secrecy Act, banks and other financial institutions are required to report to the Internal Revenue Service currency transactions of more than $10,000 or multiple transactions of which a bank is aware in any one day that aggregate in excess of $10,000 and to report suspicious transactions under specified criteria. Civil and criminal penalties are provided under the BSA for failure to file a required report, for failure to supply information required by the BSA, or for filing a false or fraudulent report. 

DODD-FRANK WALL STREET REFORM AND CONSUMER PROTECTION ACT (DODD-FRANK)&#151;In 2010, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act was signed into law. Dodd-Frank was intended to effect a fundamental restructuring of federal banking regulation. Among other things, Dodd-Frank created the Financial Stability Oversight Council to identify systemic risks in the financial system and gives federal regulators new authority to take control of and liquidate financial firms. Dodd-Frank additionally created a new independent federal regulator to administer federal consumer protection laws. Dodd-Frank has had and will continue to have a significant impact on ACNB's business operations as its provisions take effect. It is expected that, as various implementing rules and regulations are released, they will increase ACNB's operating and compliance costs and could increase the Bank's interest expense. Among the provisions that are likely to affect ACNB are the following: 

Holding Company Capital Requirements 

Dodd-Frank requires the Federal Reserve to apply consolidated capital requirements to bank holding companies that are no less stringent than those currently applied to depository institutions. Under these standards, trust preferred securities are excluded from Tier 1 capital unless such securities were issued prior to May 19, 2010, by a bank holding company with less than $15 billion in assets as of December 31, 2009. Dodd-Frank additionally requires that bank regulators issue countercyclical capital requirements so that the required amount of capital increases in times of economic expansion, consistent with safety and soundness. For further information, please refer to Regulatory Capital Changes in Management's Discussion and Analysis. 

Deposit Insurance 

Dodd-Frank permanently increased the maximum deposit insurance amount for banks, savings institutions and credit unions to $250,000 per depositor. Dodd-Frank also broadens the base for FDIC insurance assessments. Assessments are now based on the average consolidated total assets less tangible equity capital of a financial institution. Dodd-Frank requires the FDIC to increase the reserve ratio of the Deposit Insurance Fund from 1.15% to 1.35% of insured deposits by 2020 and eliminates the requirement that the FDIC pay dividends to insured depository institutions when the reserve ratio exceeds certain thresholds. Dodd-Frank also eliminated the federal statutory prohibition against the payment of interest on business checking accounts. 

Corporate Governance 

Dodd-Frank requires publicly-traded companies to give stockholders a non-binding vote on executive compensation at least every three years, a non-binding vote regarding the frequency of the vote on executive compensation at least every six years, and a non-binding vote on "golden parachute" 

payments in connection with approvals of mergers and acquisitions unless previously voted on by stockholders. The SEC has finalized the rules implementing these requirements which took effect on January 21, 2011. Additionally, Dodd-Frank directs the federal banking regulators to promulgate rules prohibiting excessive compensation paid to executives of depository institutions and their holding companies with assets in excess of $1.0 billion, regardless of whether the company is publicly traded. Dodd-Frank also gives the SEC authority to prohibit broker discretionary voting on elections of directors and executive compensation matters. 

Prohibition Against Charter Conversions of Troubled Institutions 

Dodd-Frank prohibits a depository institution from converting from a state to a federal charter, or vice versa, while it is the subject of a cease and desist order or other formal enforcement action or a memorandum of understanding with respect to a significant supervisory matter unless the appropriate federal banking agency gives notice of the conversion to the federal or state authority that issued the enforcement action and that agency does not object within 30 days. The notice must include a plan to address the significant supervisory matter. The converting institution must also file a copy of the conversion application with its current federal regulator, which must notify the resulting federal regulator of any ongoing supervisory or investigative proceedings that are likely to result in an enforcement action and provide access to all supervisory and investigative information relating thereto. 

Interstate Branching 

Dodd-Frank authorizes national and state banks to establish branches in other states to the same extent as a bank chartered by that state would be permitted. Previously, banks could only establish branches in other states if the host state expressly permitted out-of-state banks to establish branches in that state. Accordingly, banks are able to enter new markets more freely. 

Limits on Interstate Acquisitions and Mergers 

Dodd-Frank precludes a bank holding company from engaging in an interstate acquisition&#151;the acquisition of a bank outside its home state&#151;unless the bank holding company is both well capitalized and well managed. Furthermore, a bank may not engage in an interstate merger with another bank headquartered in another state unless the surviving institution will be well capitalized and well managed. The previous standard in both cases was adequately capitalized and adequately managed. 

Limits on Interchange Fees 

Dodd-Frank amended the Electronic Fund Transfer Act to, among other things, give the Federal Reserve the authority to establish rules regarding interchange fees charged for electronic debit transactions by payment card issuers having assets over $10 billion and to enforce a new statutory requirement that such fees be reasonable and proportional to the actual cost of a transaction to the issuer. 

Consumer Financial Protection Bureau 

Dodd-Frank created the independent federal agency called the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB), which is granted broad rulemaking, supervisory and enforcement powers under various federal consumer financial protection laws, including the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, Truth in Lending Act, Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act, Fair Credit Reporting Act, Fair Debt Collection Act, Consumer Financial Privacy provisions of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, and certain other statutes. The CFPB has examination and primary enforcement authority with respect to depository institutions with $10 billion or more in assets. Smaller institutions are subject to rules promulgated by the CFPB, but continue to be examined and supervised by federal banking regulators for consumer compliance 

purposes. The CFPB has authority to prevent unfair, deceptive or abusive practices in connection with the offering of consumer financial products. Dodd-Frank authorizes the CFPB to establish certain minimum standards for the origination of residential mortgages including a determination of the borrower's ability to repay. In addition, Dodd-Frank allows borrowers to raise certain defenses to foreclosure if they receive any loan other than a "qualified mortgage" as defined by the CFPB. Dodd-Frank permits states to adopt consumer protection laws and standards that are more stringent than those adopted at the federal level and, in certain circumstances, permits state attorneys general to enforce compliance with both the state and federal laws and regulations. 

ABILITY-TO-REPAY AND QUALIFIED MORTGAGE RULE&#151;Pursuant to Dodd-Frank as highlighted above, the CFPB issued a final rule on January 10, 2013 (effective on January 10, 2014), amending Regulation Z as implemented by the Truth in Lending Act, requiring mortgage lenders to make a reasonable and good faith determination based on verified and documented information that a consumer applying for a mortgage loan has a reasonable ability to repay the loan according to its terms. Mortgage lenders are required to determine the consumers' ability to repay in one of two ways. The first alternative requires the mortgage lender to consider the following eight underwriting factors when making the credit decision: (1) current or reasonably expected income or assets; (2) current employment status; (3) the monthly payment on the covered transaction; (4) the monthly payment on any simultaneous loan; (5) the monthly payment for mortgage-related obligations; (6) current debt obligations, alimony, and child support; (7) the monthly debt-to-income ratio or residual income; and, (8) credit history. Alternatively, the mortgage lender can originate "qualified mortgages", which are entitled to a presumption that the creditor making the loan satisfied the ability-to-repay requirements. In general, a "qualified mortgage" is a mortgage loan without negative amortization, interest-only payments, balloon payments, or terms exceeding 30 years. In addition, to be a qualified mortgage, the points and fees paid by a consumer cannot exceed 3% of the total loan amount. Loans which meet these criteria will be considered qualified mortgages and, as a result, generally protect lenders from fines or litigation in the event of foreclosure. Qualified mortgages that are "higher-priced" (e.g., subprime loans) garner a rebuttable presumption of compliance with the ability-to-repay rules, while qualified mortgages that are not "higher-priced" (e.g., prime loans) are given a safe harbor of compliance. The impact of the final rule, and the subsequent amendments thereto, on the Corporation's lending activities and the Corporation's statements of income or condition has had little or no impact; however, management will continue to monitor the implementation of the rule for any potential effects on the Corporation's business. 

FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORPORATION ACT OF 1991&#151;Under the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Act of 1991, any depository institution, including the subsidiary bank, is prohibited from paying any dividends, making other distributions or paying any management fees if, after such payment, it would fail to satisfy the minimum capital requirement. 

FEDERAL RESERVE ACT&#151;A subsidiary bank of a bank holding company is subject to certain restrictions and reporting requirements imposed by the Federal Reserve Act, including: 

&#149; Extensions of credit to the bank holding company, its subsidiaries, or principal shareholders; &#149; Investments in the stock or other securities of the bank holding company or its subsidiaries; and, &#149; Taking such stock or securities as collateral for loans. COMMUNITY REINVESTMENT ACT OF 1977 (CRA)&#151;Under the Community Reinvestment Act of 1977, the FDIC is required to assess the record of all financial institutions regulated by it to determine if these institutions are meeting the credit needs of the community, including low- and moderate-income neighborhoods, which they serve and to take this record into account in its evaluation of any application made by any of such institutions for, among other things, approval of a branch or other deposit facility, office relocation, merger, or acquisition of bank shares. The Financial Institutions 

Reform, Recovery and Enforcement Act of 1989 amended the CRA to require, among other things, that the FDIC make publicly available the evaluation of a bank's record of meeting the credit needs of its entire community, including low- and moderate-income neighborhoods. This evaluation includes a descriptive rating like "outstanding", "satisfactory", "needs to improve" or "substantial noncompliance" and a statement describing the basis for the rating. These ratings are publicly disclosed. 

FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORPORATION IMPROVEMENT ACT OF 1991 (FDICIA)&#151;The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act requires that institutions be classified, based on their risk-based capital ratios into one of five defined categories, as follows and as illustrated below: well capitalized, adequately capitalized, undercapitalized, significantly undercapitalized, or critically undercapitalized. 

&#160; &#160; Total Risk-Based Ratio &#160; Tier 1 Risk-Based Ratio &#160; Tier 1 Leverage Ratio &#160; Under a Capital Order or Directive Capital Category &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; Well capitalized &#160; &#160; &#179; 10.0 % &#160; &#179; 6.0 % &#160; &#179; 5.0 % NO Adequately capitalized &#160; &#160; &#179; 8.0 % &#160; &#179; 4.0 % &#160; &#179; 4.0 %* &#160; Undercapitalized &#160; &#160; &#60;8.0 % &#160; &#60;4.0 % &#160; &#60;4.0 %* &#160; Significantly undercapitalized &#160; &#160; &#60;6.0 % &#160; &#60;3.0 % &#160; &#60;3.0 % &#160; Critically undercapitalized &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#60;2.0 % &#160; 

* 3.0% for those banks having the highest available regulatory rating. 

In the event an institution's capital deteriorates to the undercapitalized category or below, FDICIA prescribes an increasing amount of regulatory intervention, including the institution of a capital restoration plan and a guarantee of the plan by a parent institution and the placement of a hold on increases in assets, number of branches, or lines of business. If capital reaches the significantly or critically undercapitalized levels, further material restrictions can be imposed, including restrictions on interest payable on accounts, dismissal of management, and, in critically undercapitalized situations, appointment of a receiver. For well capitalized institutions, FDICIA provides authority for regulatory intervention when the institution is deemed to be engaging in unsafe or unsound practices or receives a less than satisfactory examination report rating for asset quality, management, earnings or liquidity. All but well capitalized institutions are prohibited from accepting brokered deposits without prior regulatory approval. Under FDICIA, financial institutions are subject to increased regulatory scrutiny and must comply with certain operational, managerial and compensation standards established by Federal Reserve Board regulations. 

In July 2013, the federal banking agencies issued final rules to implement the Basel III regulatory capital reforms and changes required by Dodd-Frank. The phase-in period for community banking organizations began January 1, 2015, while larger institutions (generally those with assets of $250 billion or more) began compliance on January 1, 2014. The final rules call for the following capital requirements: 

&#149; A minimum ratio of common tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets of 4.5%. &#149; A minimum ratio of tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets of 6%. &#149; A minimum ratio of total capital to risk-weighted assets of 8%. &#149; A minimum leverage ratio of 4%. In addition, the final rules establish a common equity tier 1 capital conservation buffer of 2.5% of risk-weighted assets applicable to all banking organizations. If a banking organization fails to hold capital above the minimum capital ratios and the capital conservation buffer, it will be subject to 

certain restrictions on capital distributions and discretionary bonus payments. The phase-in period for the capital conservation and countercyclical capital buffers for all banking organizations will begin on January 1, 2016. 

A more in-depth discussion of how these new capital rules will affect ACNB Corporation appears under Item 7 (Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and results of Operations). 

JUMPSTART OUR BUSINESS STARTUPS (JOBS) ACT&#151;In 2012, the JOBS Act became law. The JOBS Act is aimed at facilitating capital raising by smaller companies and banks and bank holding companies by implementing the following changes: 

&#149; Raising the threshold requiring registration under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Exchange Act) for banks and bank holding companies from 500 to 2,000 holders of record; &#149; Raising the threshold for triggering deregistration under the Exchange Act for banks and bank holding companies from 300 to 1,200 holders of record; &#149; Raising the limit for Regulation A offerings from $5 million to $50 million per year and exempting some Regulation A offerings from state blue sky laws; &#149; Permitting advertising and general solicitation in Rule 506 and Rule 144A offerings; &#149; Allowing private companies to use "crowd funding" to raise up to $1 million in any 12-month period, subject to certain conditions; and, &#149; Creating a new category of issuer, called an "Emerging Growth Company", for companies with less than $1 billion in annual gross revenue, which will benefit from certain changes that reduce the cost and burden of carrying out an equity initial public offering (IPO) and complying with public company reporting obligations for up to five years. While the JOBS Act was not expected to have any immediate application to the Corporation, and since 2012 has had no material impact, management will continue to monitor the implementation rules for potential effects which might benefit the Corporation. 

Dividends 

ACNB is a legal entity separate and distinct from its subsidiary bank. ACNB's revenues, on a parent company only basis, result primarily from dividends paid to the Corporation by its subsidiaries. Federal and state laws regulate the payment of dividends by ACNB's subsidiary bank. For further information, please refer to Regulation of Bank below. 

Regulation of Bank 

The operations of the subsidiary bank are subject to statutes applicable to banks chartered under the banking laws of Pennsylvania, to state nonmember banks of the Federal Reserve, and to banks whose deposits are insured by the FDIC. The subsidiary bank's operations are also subject to regulations of the Pennsylvania Department of Banking and Securities, Federal Reserve, and FDIC. 

The Pennsylvania Department of Banking and Securities, which has primary supervisory authority over banks chartered in Pennsylvania, regularly examines banks in such areas as reserves, loans, investments, management practices, and other aspects of operations. The subsidiary bank is also subject to examination by the FDIC for safety and soundness, as well as consumer compliance. These examinations are designed for the protection of the subsidiary bank's depositors rather than ACNB's stockholders. The subsidiary bank must file quarterly and annual reports to the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council, or FFIEC. 

Monetary and Fiscal Policy 

ACNB and its subsidiary bank are affected by the monetary and fiscal policies of government agencies, including the Federal Reserve and FDIC. Through open market securities transactions and changes in its discount rate and reserve requirements, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve exerts considerable influence over the cost and availability of funds for lending and investment. The nature and impact of monetary and fiscal policies on future business and earnings of ACNB cannot be predicted at this time. From time to time, various federal and state legislation is proposed that could result in additional regulation of, and restrictions on, the business of ACNB and the subsidiary bank, or otherwise change the business environment. Management cannot predict whether any of this legislation will have a material effect on the business of ACNB. 

ACCOUNTING POLICY DISCLOSURE 

Disclosure of the Corporation's significant accounting policies is included in Note A&#151;"Summary of Significant Accounting Policies" in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Some of these policies are particularly sensitive requiring significant judgments, estimates and assumptions to be made by management. Additional information is contained in Management's Discussion and Analysis for the most sensitive of these issues, including the provision and allowance for loan losses which is located in Note D&#151;"Loans" in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Management, in determining the allowance for loan losses, makes significant judgments. Consideration is given to a variety of factors in establishing this estimate. In estimating the allowance for loan losses, management considers current economic conditions, diversification of the loan portfolio, delinquency statistics, results of internal loan review, financial and managerial strengths of borrowers, adequacy of collateral if collateral dependent or present value of future cash flows, and other relevant factors. 

STATISTICAL DISCLOSURES 

The following statistical disclosures are included in Management's Discussion and Analysis, Item 7 hereof, and are incorporated by reference in this Item 1: 

&#149; Interest Rate Sensitivity Analysis &#149; Interest Income and Expense, Volume and Rate Analysis &#149; Investment Portfolio &#149; Loan Maturity and Interest Rate Sensitivity &#149; Loan Portfolio &#149; Allocation of Allowance for Loan Losses &#149; Deposits &#149; Short-Term Borrowings AVAILABLE INFORMATION 

The Corporation's reports, proxy statements, and other information are available for inspection and copying at the SEC Office of Investor Education and Advocacy at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, DC 20549, at prescribed rates. The public may obtain information from the Office of Investor Education and Advocacy by calling the Commission at 1-800-SEC-0330. The Corporation is an electronic filer with the Commission. The Commission maintains a website that contains reports, proxy 

and information statements, and other information regarding registrants that file electronically with the Commission. The address of the Commission's website is http://www.sec.gov. 

Upon a shareholder's written request, a copy of the Corporation's Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, and Current Reports on Form 8-K, as required to be filed with the SEC pursuant to Securities Exchange Act Rule 13a-1, may be obtained, without charge, from Lynda L. Glass, Executive Vice President, Secretary &#38; Chief Governance Officer, ACNB Corporation, 16 Lincoln Square, P.O. Box 3129, Gettysburg, PA 17325, or visit our website at http://www.acnb.com and click on "ACNB Corporation". 

EMPLOYEES 

As of December 31, 2015, ACNB had 296 full-time equivalent employees. None of these employees are represented by a collective bargaining agreement, and ACNB believes it enjoys good relations with its personnel. 

