 Item 1. Business 

This annual report contains forward-looking statements. These statements relate to future events or our future financial performance. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by terminology such as &#147;may&#148;, &#147;should&#148;, &#147;expects&#148;, &#147;plans&#148;, &#147;anticipates&#148;, &#147;believes&#148;, &#147;estimates&#148;, &#147;predicts&#148;, &#147;potential&#148; or &#147;continue&#148; or the negative of these terms or other comparable terminology. These statements are only predictions and involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, including the risks in the section entitled &#147;Risk Factors&#148; that may cause our or our industry&#146;s actual results, levels of activity, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements.

Although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot guarantee future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements. Except as required by applicable law, including the securities laws of the United States, we do not intend to update any of the forward-looking statements to conform these statements to actual results.

Our financial statements are stated in United States Dollars (US$) and are prepared in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles.

In this annual report, unless otherwise specified, all dollar amounts are expressed in United States Dollars and all references to &#147;common shares&#148; refer to the common shares in our capital stock.

As used in this annual report, the terms &#147;we&#148;, &#147;us&#148;, &#147;our company&#148;, &#147;Wolverine&#148;, mean Wolverine Technologies Corp., a Nevada corporation, unless otherwise indicated. 

Corporate History 

Our company was incorporated in the State of Nevada on February 23, 2006 and is quoted on the OTC Pink under the symbol WOLV.

Since we began operations in 2006, the Company has been focused primarily on the exploration for and development of base and precious metal properties located in North America. In February, 2007, we acquired a right to earn a 90% interest in approximately 520 claims through a combination of an upfront cash payment of $34,000.00, an upfront share payment of 34,000,000 common shares of Wolverine, and by making exploration expenditure commitments totaling $600,000.00 over three years. From 2007 to the present, we spent approximately US$710,757 to earn our 90% interest in the Cache River Property; Shenin Resources Inc. maintains a 10% carried interest in the project. 

We have not yet determined whether the Cache River Property contain mineral reserves that are economically recoverable. 

Enigma Mobil Transaction 

In the fall of 2013, due to ongoing stagnation in the commodities sector, our management began identifying opportunities to increase shareholder value through merger and acquisition. On September 5, 2013 Wolverine entered into a Letter of Intent with the cyber security corporation ENIGMAMobil Inc. (&#147;Enigma&#148;) to acquire a 25% interest in Enigma for a cash payment of $10,000,000, however the transaction was not completed. On January 22, 2014, we entered into an Amended Letter of Intent with Enigma to acquire a 25% interest in Enigma for the purchase price of $5,000,000 to be paid with $3,000,000 shares of our common stock at a deemed price of $0.01 per share and $2,000,000 in cash. The LOI expired on June 30, 2014. 

On April 14, 2015 Wolverine entered into a Share Exchange and Royalty Agreement with Enigma and Dr. David Chalk pursuant to which Wolverine is seeking to acquire from Dr. Chalk 25% of the issued and outstanding securities of Enigma. for the purchase price of USD $3,000,000, to be paid by the issuance of 300,000,000 common shares of Wolverine at a deemed price of USD$0.01 per share. Dr. Chalk is a Director of Enigma.

Enigma is a private corporation incorporated in the Province of Alberta on September 6, 2013. Enigma&#146;s operations are based in Vancouver, British Columbia. Enigma is engaged in the business of developing security applications for cyber systems focusing on the mobile smartphone markets. Under the terms of the Share Exchange and Royalty Agreement, Wolverine will also receive a royalty equal to 25% of gross revenue received by Enigma from the exploitation of Enigma&#146;s planned Enigma&#153; SECURE mobile security application for the protection against unauthorized computer intrusion and fraud on wireless devices and mobile smartphones.

The closing of the Share Exchange and Royalty Agreement is subject to Enigma completing a financing of USD$2,500,000, and to Wolverine increasing its authorized capital of common stock to allow for the issuance of the 300,000,000 consideration shares. As at the date of this 10-K, neither the contemplated financing nor the authorized capital increase has been completed, and the Share Exchange and Royalty Agreement has not closed. However, if the agreement were to close, based on the number of the Company&#146;s current issued and outstanding shares, Enigma would acquire in excess of 51% of the Company&#146;s voting securities, resulting in Wolverine becoming a majority owned subsidiary of Enigma.

The Enigma&#153; SECURE application is not yet commercially available and remains in development. The application is built using proprietary, patent protected fifth generation programming language (5GL) and is compatible with Apple iOS, Android and Blackberry operating systems. As of the date of this 10-K, third party testing of the application has been completed and Wolverine anticipates that the application will be available for commercial download within 10 months following completion of the USD$2,500,000 private placement contemplated by the Share Exchange and Royalty Agreement. 

The Share Exchange and Royalty Agreement may be terminated if the transaction does not close by December 31, 2016, unless extended by mutual agreement of the parties.

Significant Acquisitions and Dispositions 

Eureka Project Claims 

On June 11, 2013, we entered into an Agreement with 0969015 B.C. Ltd (&#147;0969015&#148;) to acquire the Eureka Project Claims located in the. Under the terms of the Agreement Wolverine issued 35,000,000 shares of common stock to 0969015 at a fair value of $0.01 per share as full consideration for the acquisition of the Eureka Project Claims.

We have been unable to complete any exploration on the Eureka Project Claims other than a prospecting program conducted in August of 2013. As a result all of the claims have lapsed. 

On August 9, 2014 a total of 17,500,000 common shares issued pursuant to the acquisition of the Eureka Project Claims were cancelled. 

Cache River Property 

On February 28, 2007, we entered into a vend-in agreement with Shenin Resources Inc.(&#147;Shenin&#148;), a private Canadian corporation, for the purchase of a 90% interest 516 mineral claims located in Labrador Canada. The purchase price paid to Shenin was $374,000 satisfied by the issuance of 34,000,000 shares of our common stock at a fair value of $0.01 per share and a note payable of $34,000. Under the terms of the vend-in agreement we are required to incur the following expenditures on the claims: (i) CDN $150,000 on or before March 1, 2008; (ii) CDN $200,000 on or before March 1, 2009, and (iii) CDN $250,000 on or before March 1, 2010; provided that (iv) any excess amount spent in one year may be carried forward and applied towards fulfillment of the expenditure required in the later year. Shenin has also granted our company a first right of refusal to purchase a 90% interest in all further property in Labrador Canada that Shenin may obtain an interest in from time to time.

On May 17, 2007, we acquired six mineral claims which are contiguous to the Shenin Claims for $321 from Richard Haderer, a consultant of Wolverine. 

Subsequent to the vend-in agreement, Richard Haderer, a consultant of Wolverine, staked twenty-four (24) additional mineral claims on behalf of Wolverine. The staking costs for these additional claims was Cdn $1,440 and the additional claims are contiguous to the 516 claims acquired pursuant to the vend-in agreement. 

On August 27, 2009 we signed an amending agreement with Shenin which waives all of the remaining work commitments required under the vend-in agreement subject to us incurring sufficient exploration expenditures on the claims to keep them in good standing with the Province of Newfoundland and Labrador. From 2007 to the present, we spent approximately US$710,757 to earn our 90% interest in the Cache Creek Property 

In March of 2010, as a result of the exploration carried out to date, Wolverine reduced the number of claims by 128 in order to concentrate its exploration efforts on the claims with anomalous mineralization. 

In June of 2010, Ed Montague, transferred 37 claims to Wolverine which had been staked on behalf of Wolverine. 

We subsequently downsized the consolidated Cache River claims to a single mineral license 013472M comprising 6 claims or 150 hectares.

Our Current Business 

We are an exploration stage mining company engaged in the identification, acquisition, and exploration of metals and minerals with a focus on base and precious metals. Our current operational focus is to raise sufficient funds to continue exploration activities on our property in Labrador, Canada, known as the Cache River Property. We expect to review other potential exploration projects from time to time as they are presented to us. 

Concurrent with our exploration activities we will continue to evaluate opportunities to diversify our business through merger or acquisition, and to assist Enigma to raise the $2,500,000 in financing required to complete our reverse acquisition pursuant to the Share Exchange and Royalty Agreement.

Our business is conducted by independent contractors which include our officers and directors, among others. As of May 31, 2016 the company had three consultants (PubCo Services Inc. (Richard Haderer), Texada Consulting Inc. (Bruce Costerd), and David Chalk engaged on a non-exclusive, part time basis, and several other IR, administrative, and accounting consultants who are engaged on an intermittent, as needed basis. Our business plan does not anticipate that we will hire a large number of employees or that we will require extensive office space. We have to date, and plan to continue to acquire most of the industry and geological expertise we require through third party contractual relationships with other companies, which will act as operators of our various interests. Although this exposes us to certain risks on behalf of those operators, it also allows us to participate in the often unique experience and knowledge that local persons have related to certain properties.

The Company&#146;s objectives for the next twelve months include:

with respect to the Cache River Property, a program of prospecting, followed by trenching (if warranted) is recommended to field check all remaining IP anomalies prior to outlining additional diamond drill holes; 

Investigation of joint venture opportunities or other financing mechanisms to provide funding for continuing exploration of our mineral properties and for our transaction with Enigma. 

We have suffered recurring losses from operations and anticipate generating loses for the foreseeable future. The continuation of our business is dependent upon obtaining further financing, completing a successful program of exploration and/or development, and, finally, achieving a profitable level of operations. The issuance of additional equity securities by us could result in a significant dilution in the equity interests of our current stockholders. Obtaining commercial loans, assuming those loans would be available, will increase our liabilities and future cash commitments. 

There are no assurances that we will be able to obtain further funds required for our continued operations. As noted herein, we are pursuing various financing alternatives to meet our immediate and long-term financial requirements. There can be no assurance that additional financing will be available to us when needed or, if available, that it can be obtained on commercially reasonable terms. If we are not able to obtain the additional financing on a timely basis, we will be unable to conduct our operations as planned, and we will not be able to meet our other obligations as they become due. In such event, we will be forced to scale down or perhaps even cease our operations. 

Mineral Properties 

Summary 

The Company has one current mineral project known as the Cache River Property. We have not yet determined if the Cache River Property contains mineral reserves that are economically recoverable. 

Cache River Property &#150;Labrador, Canada 

Technical Report 

Wolverine commissioned G Timothy Froude, B.Sc., P. Geo.., a licensed member of the Professional Engineers and Geoscientists of Newfoundland and Labrador to complete a Technical Report on the Cache River Property. The Technical Report, a report compliant with National Instrument 43-101, is dated March 18, 2015 and has been filed on SEDAR at www.sedar.com in conjunction with this Prospectus. The following information concerning the Cache River Property is derived from the Technical Report. The scientific and technical information contained in this 10-K relating to the Cache River Property is supported by the Technical Report, which is subject to certain assumptions, qualifications, and procedures described therein.

Property Description and Location 

The Cache River Property is located about 120 kilometres (75 miles) west of Goose Bay, Labrador, a small town of 9,000 people on the Atlantic Coast of northern Canada. It takes approximately one and a half to two hours to drive to the Cache River Property from Goose Bay.

The Cache River Property lie within NTS map sheets 13E/01 and 13F/04 and extends approximately from 53o 11&#146; 08&#146;&#146; N latitude and 62o 11&#146; 56&#146;&#146; W longitude to 53o 06&#146; 34&#146;&#146; N latitude and 61o 57&#146; 02&#146;&#146; W longitude. 

Goose Bay features an international airport. From there, the Cache River Property can be accessed directly from the Trans-Labrador Highway. The Cache River Property are easily accessible by the Trans-Labrador Highway, which runs through the central portion of the Cache River Property. The Trans-Labrador Highway is a well maintained Provincial Highway with a gravel surface. There are no gas stations between Goose Bay and Churchill Falls, the next major community located 290 kilometres (180 miles) to the west of Goose Bay and 160 kilometres (105 miles) to the west of the Labrador Claims. 

Access to the Cache River Property is possible for most of the year given the proximity to Goose Bay and the fact that the highway is well maintained. Airborne geophysical surveys are best performed either in late winter (March-April) or during the summer (June-August). Ground geophysical surveys should be scheduled to avoid freeze-up (November-December) and breakup (late April to early June). Ground geological surveys are best conducted with no snow cover (mid June to mid November). 

Figure 1. Cache River Property Location 

Description of Claims 

The Cache River Property consists of a total of 6 mineral claims held under a single Licence (13472M) as described in Table 1 below. A layout of the claims is shown in Figure 2 below. 

Table 1. Summary of the Claims. &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; Number # of Claims NTS Area Good to Date &#160; &#160; &#160; (hectares) &#160; 013472M 6 13F/04 150 05-17-2017 

In the Province of Newfoundland and Labrador a mineral claim consists of a 25 hectare square measuring 500 meters per side. A single license can contain from one to 256 claims. The claims are unencumbered and in good standing and there are no third party conditions which affect the claims other than conditions defined by the Province of Newfoundland and Labrador described below. The claims together make up an aggregate area of 2,825 hectares. We have no insurance covering the claims. Management believes that no insurance is necessary since the claims are unimproved and contain no buildings or improvements. 

Figure 2 Cache River Property Claims Location 

There is no assurance that a commercially viable mineral deposit exists on the Cache River Property. Further exploration will be required before an evaluation as to the economic feasibility of the Cache River Property is determined. Our consulting geophysicist has written a report and provided us with recommendations of how we should explore the property. Until management can validate otherwise, the property is without known reserves. 

Conditions to Retain Title to the Cache River Property 

The claims are currently in good standing with the Department of Natural Resources and no exploration expenditures are required until May 17, 2020. The ten year renewal fee of $50.00 per claim is due on May 17, 2017. 

History of Labrador and the Cache River Property 

According to the report prepared by our consulting geophysicist, the geologic setting is based on information available from the Geological Survey of Canada (DNR Open File 013F/0055) and the Government of Newfoundland and Labrador (Open File 013F/0061). The regional geology as described by both government reports contains very little detail because the Trans-Labrador Highway was under construction during much of the mapping initiative, opening in 1992. 

Also, the area has seen only limited geologic mapping on a regional scale, in part due to the remoteness of the area and the timing of the Federal and Provincial mapping initiatives that preceded construction of the Trans-Labrador Highway. The mapped geology within the area is part of a regional 1:500,000 compilation undertaken by the Newfoundland and Labrador Provincial Government during the early 1990&#146;s. The survey area is located outside of the area of detailed mapping, in which case geologic mapping has been taken from previous publications, most notably a Federal Government regional mapping program from 1990-1994. During the period 1990 to 1994 the area was regionally mapped by the Geological Survey of Canada and by the Mines and Energy Branch of the Newfoundland and Labrador Government. Geologic mapping was performed on a very regional scale, due in part to the remoteness of the area (away from the Trans-Labrador Highway) and the lack of outcrop. In summary there is very little geological mapping within the survey area and there has never been a detailed mapping program. 

Exploration History 

In October, 2007 we completed an airborne survey of the Cache River Property. The airborne survey identified 8 conductive targets which warranted ground follow-up. 

In the fall of 2009 we carried out geological reconnaissance along with prospecting and sampling on three of our eleven licenses on the Cache River Property. Some, but not all of the known mineralized zones were sampled as this was more of a reconnaissance exercise until a more systematic program is put in place. In addition, to the usual base metal sampling, scintillometer surveys were done on the exposed rock cuts along the highway and selected areas of the southern portions of the three licenses. 

Work on the property during June of 2010 consisted of prospecting, sampling and geological reconnaissance on and around electro-magnetic and radiometric anomalies that were identified during the 2007 airborne survey. Earlier sampling on rock cuts along the highway had shown copper and gold values that warranted further exploration. 

Continued prospecting during July 2010 on other areas of the property has revealed additional outcrops containing malachite alteration on the western end of the property near anomaly number one. 

In August and September 2010 a follow up program of diamond drilling was contracted to an Ontario, Canada, drilling company and a total of 522.5 meters was drilled in 6 holes. 

In November and December 2010 an induced polarization (IP) Survey was completed on two grids located on the property. Grid 1 consisted of 19, 1.6 km lines oriented at 360 degrees. 5 of those lines were cut short (1.2 km) due to a large lake that was not completely frozen at the time of the survey and was considered unsafe. A 1.8 km base line oriented at 090 Degrees crossed the centre of the grid. Grid 2 consisted of 13 lines that varied from ~750 m, in the south to 1500 m in the north. The lines were oriented at 090 degrees with a baseline 1.2 km long, oriented at 360 Degrees. 

In June of 2011 we conducted a prospecting program which marked the eleven drill locations in the anomalous areas which were identified by the Induced Polarization Survey completed in late 2010. 

In the fall of 2011 a follow up program of diamond drilling was contracted to an Ontario, Canada drilling company and a total of 271 meters was drilled in 4 holes. 

In the fall of 2012 a follow up program of diamond drilling consisting of two holes was drilled by Innu-Cartwright Drilling Limited Partnership. 

Exploration Results 

Disseminated mineralization consisting mainly of pyrite, pyrrhotite and chalcopyrite were detected in several areas of the property. Mineralization was first noted in roadside rock cuts, samples were taken but the GPS location was not recorded as none were available, only a generalized location within several metres was given to the geologist. 

After we acquired the property an airborne survey was completed and several anomalies were detected. Wolverine then engaged a geologist to supervise the prospecting, trenching and drilling program. Prospecting revealed other zones of disseminated mineralization, mainly in rock cuts along the highway which had the best exposure as most of the property is covered by marsh and forested overburden. 

Diamond drilling on two airborne anomalous areas revealed disseminated mineralization in four of the six drill holes. 

We then conducted an induced polarization (IP) survey on two selected areas that detected 23 anomalous zones. Plans are underway to conduct an additional drill program to test the strongest areas later this spring. 

Of the four holes drilled in the fall of 2011, two had minor indications of sulphide mineralization with magnetite while one contained disseminated mineralization consisting of blebs of chalcopyrite and pyrite for approximately 37 metres (121 feet). 

The two anomalies drilled in the fall of 2012 at approximately 50 degree angles did not intersect sufficient amounts of mineralization to account for the magnitude of that picked up by the IP survey. There are very minor amounts of pyrite and the rock is slightly magnetic with only background radioactivity. 

Quality Assurance/Quality Control 

All drill core samples were cut lengthwise with a rock saw. Half of the sample was retained for future reference and the other was sent by Canada Post, insured and delivered to the laboratory. Sample sections were measured by depth markers in the core boxes and confirmed by the geologist. Results were mailed back to the geologist and confirmed by the chief chemist&#146;s signature. A portion of the laboratory sample was retained at the laboratory for a period of one year. 

Surface bedrock sample sites were selected by geologists and prospectors. GPS readings recorded the locations. Samples were stored in new industrial plastic sample bags with the sample number which was also recorded in note books. Samples were again sent by Canada Post with the same procedure noted above. 

Present Condition of the Cache River Property 

The mineralization found to date on the Cache River Property consists primarily of copper and gold mineralization in sulphide with associated pyrite (a non-economic sulphide mineral). There are also a number of malachite veins (and malachite stained outcrops). 

The country rocks have been identified as meta-sedimentary gneiss. Locally, gabbros and diorites have been identified by surface prospecting. 

Based on the mineralization and the known geologic rock types, there appear to be three possible deposit types that could host mineralization within the Cache River Property; 1) porphyry copper-gold in sulphide, 2) volcanogenic (Cu-Pb-Zn) massive sulphide, or 3) magmatic nickel-copper sulphide.

Copper-gold (Cu-Au) deposits occur within sedimentary rocks when a stock intrudes into the sediments and heats up the ground water. The heated fluids pick up copper and other metals as they percolate through fractures opened up within the sediments. Mineralization is mostly disseminated, but significant veins of chalcopyrite, rich in gold, are also present. The presence of chalcopyrite in meta-sediment and malachite staining are excellent indicators for a copper-gold system. 

VMS deposits are commonly formed by deposition of hot metals into seawater from volcanic vents on the seafloor. The main metals include copper, zinc, lead, gold and silver. Within the Cache River Property there are no mapped volcanic rocks, although the known mineralization has been found within gabbro and diorite. 

Magmatic nickel-copper sulphide deposits are hosted in mafic to ultramafic rocks such as gabbro, norite, and troctolite. Other rock types commonly associated with these host rocks are diorites and anorthosites. Within the Cache River Property chalcopyrite mineralization was identified in a gabbro and separately associated with a diorite dyke. 

The Cache River Property are almost completely covered by overburden and tree cover. Rock outcrops are best observed along the highway where they have been uncovered. 

The climate within the area is typically northern with short hot summers and long cold winters. Winter temperatures can range from -15 o C to -35 o C and occasionally fall to below -42 o C. 

There is no equipment, infrastructure or electricity currently on the property. 

There have been no previous airborne surveys in this area that are within 35 kilometers (22 miles) of the Cache River Property. The area would have been covered as part of the Federal Government regional airborne magnetic survey, but this survey would not have the sufficient resolution to identify magnetic units less than 1 kilometer in size and could not detect any conductive mineralization. 

Geology of the Cache River Property 

Geologically the area is mapped as early to late Proterozoic meta-sediments that have been metamorphosed to gneisses. Major gabbroic and anorthositic intrusives have intruded the gneisses several kilometers to the east and local gabbros and diorites occur throughout the area along with several quartz veins. Large tourmaline crystals have also been identified on the property. The area has little outcrop and is covered by overburden, generally sand and gravel. Spruces trees are abundant but are not very tall. 

The presence of several copper showings and malachite staining in the limited outcrop suggests that a mineralizing event of copper and gold has intruded into the meta-sedimentary rocks. The nature of the mineralization is likely to be copper veins and disseminations with associated gold. It is also possible that magmatic nickel and copper mineralization could be present with associated platinum group elements within gabbros. 

Environmental Liabilities 

Management is not aware of any environmental liabilities, which may have effect on the Company. The Company intends to fully comply with all environmental regulations.

Recommendations 

The work completed to date on the Cache River Property has identified an area that could host significant copper and gold mineralization in a previously unexplored area. A program of prospecting, followed by trenching (if warranted) is recommended to field check all remaining IP anomalies prior to outlining additional diamond drill holes. A budget estimate of $30,000 should suffice to complete the recommended prospecting and assaying of samples as well as a limited trenching program if required. This budget would also cover costs associated with the required site visit. Further diamond drilling will be dependent on results of the recommended work program.

Phase 1 Program Proposed Expenditures $CDN Project Management/Staff Costs 3,500 Geologists/technicians (mapping, prospecting compilation, reporting) 8,000 8,000 Geochemistry - Assaying rock (approx. 100 samples) 3,000 Field Costs (transportation, accommodation, fuel, etc.) 3,500 Trenching 8,500 Subtotal: 26,500 Contingency ~ 15% 3,500 Phase 1 Total 30,000 

Subsidiaries 

We do not have any subsidiaries. 

Intellectual Property 

We do not own, either legally or beneficially, any patent or trademark. 

REPORTS TO SECURITY HOLDERS 

We are not required to deliver an annual report to our stockholders but will voluntarily send an annual report, together with our annual audited financial statements upon request. We are required to file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements, and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Our Securities and Exchange Commission filings are available to the public over the Internet at the SEC&#146;s website at http://www.sec.gov . 

The public may read and copy any materials filed by us with the SEC at the SEC&#146;s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. We are an electronic filer. The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. The Internet address of the site is http://www.sec.gov . 

