 ITEM 1 &#8211; BUSINESS 

In 1969, Oil-Dri Corporation of America was incorporated in Delaware as the successor to an Illinois corporation incorporated in 1946; the Illinois corporation was the successor to a partnership that commenced business in 1941. Except as otherwise indicated herein or as the context otherwise requires, references to &#8220;Oil-Dri,&#8221; the &#8220;Company,&#8221; &#8220;we,&#8221; &#8220;us&#8221; or &#8220;our&#8221; refer to Oil-Dri Corporation of America and its subsidiaries. 

G ENERAL &#32; B USINESS &#32; D EVELOPMENTS 

Increased net sales for fiscal year 2016 were driven by our fluid purification and animal health products in global markets, as well as by domestic sales of our agriculture products. Net sales of our cat litter products were challenged by the weakening of the coarse litter segment of the market and our decision not to pursue continued business with two major low margin customers. Instead, we focused our resources to gain sales of our lightweight scoopable cat litter in this growing and competitive segment of the market. We launched an integrated marketing campaign to promote our lightweight cat litter in fiscal year 2016 and incurred significantly higher advertising expense compared to fiscal 2015. 

Our greatly improved gross profit during fiscal year 2016 reflected a shift in sales to more value-added products in both operating segments and lower commodity costs. Also contributing to our net income growth was a lower effective tax rate on earnings due to the full release of a previously established valuation allowance associated with the deferred tax asset for domestic Alternative Minimum Tax ( &#8220; AMT &#8221; ) credits. 

Our balance sheet at fiscal year-end 2016 remained strong. Total cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments increased from fiscal year-end 2015 even as we spent heavily for advertising, invested in capital at our plants, paid higher dividends and reduced our notes payable. 

P RINCIPAL &#32; P RODUCTS 

We are a leader in developing, manufacturing and/or marketing sorbent products. Our sorbent products are principally produced from clay minerals, primarily consisting of montmorillonite and attapulgite and, to a lesser extent, other clay-like sorbent materials, such as Antelope shale, which we refer to collectively as our &#8220;clay&#8221; or our &#8220;minerals.&#8221; Our sorbent technologies include absorbent and adsorbent products. Absorbents, like sponges, draw liquids up into their many pores. Examples of our absorbent clay products are Cat&#8217;s Pride and Jonny Cat branded premium cat litter, as well as other private label cat litters. We also produce Oil-Dri branded floor absorbents, Amlan branded animal health and nutrition solutions for livestock, and Agsorb and Verge agricultural chemical carriers. Adsorbent products attract impurities in liquids, such as metals and surfactants, and form low-level chemical bonds. Examples of our adsorbent products are Pure-Flo, Perform and Select bleaching clay products, which act as a filtration media for edible oils, fats and tallows. Also, our Ultra-Clear product serves as a purification aid for petroleum-based oils and by-products. We also sell some nonclay-based products, such as our Oil-Dri synthetic sorbents used for industrial cleanup. Our principal products are described in more detail below. 

Agricultural and Horticultural Products 

We produce a wide range of granular and powdered mineral absorbent products that are used for crop protection chemical carriers, drying agents, bulk processing aids, growing media components and seed enhancement media. Our brands include: Agsorb, an agricultural chemical carrier and drying agent; Verge, an engineered granule agricultural chemical carrier; Flo-Fre, a highly absorbent microgranule flowability aid; and Terra-Green, a growing media supplement. 

Agsorb and Verge carriers are used as an alternative to agricultural sprays. The clay granules absorb active ingredients and are then delivered directly into, or on top of, the ground providing a more precise application than chemical sprays. Verge carriers are spherical, uniform-sized granules with very low dust. Agsorb drying agent is blended into fertilizer-pesticide blends applied by farmers to absorb moisture and improve flowability. Agsorb also acts as a flowability aid for fertilizers and chemicals used in the lawn and garden market. Flo-Fre microgranules are used by grain processors and other large handlers of bulk products to soak up excess moisture, which prevents caking. We employ technical sales people to market these products in the United States. 

&#32;5 

Animal Health and Nutrition Products 

We produce, or use contract processors to produce, Amlan brand name and private label products that are used in various livestock feed industries, such as swine, poultry, shrimp and dairy cattle. Our Calibrin and ConditionAde products are used in animal feed and have different attributes that improve animal health and development, such as adsorbing naturally occurring mycotoxins or managing intestinal bacterial and fungal biotoxins. Our new Varium product was introduced in fiscal year 2016 to promote intestinal health in poultry. Our MD-09 moisture manager product is another feed additive for the reduction of wet droppings in poultry. In addition, our Pel-Unite and Pel-Unite Plus products are specialized animal feed pellet binders. 

Our animal health and nutrition products are sold primarily through a network of distributors to livestock producers, feed mill operators, nutritionists and veterinarians in the United States, Latin America, Africa, the Middle East and Asia. The sales force for our subsidiary located in Shenzhen, China also sells these products, as further described in Foreign Operations below. 

Bleaching Clay and Purification Aid Products 

We produce an array of bleaching, purification and filtration applications used by edible oil, jet fuel and other petroleum-based product processors around the world. Bleaching clays are used by edible oil processors to adsorb soluble contaminants that create oxidation problems. Our Pure-Flo and Perform bleaching clays remove impurities, such as trace metals, chlorophyll and color bodies, in various types of edible oils. Perform products provide increased activity for hard-to-bleach oils. Our Select adsorbents are used to remove contaminants in vegetable oil processing and can be used to prepare oil prior to the creation of biodiesel fuel. Our Ultra-Clear product is used as a filtration and purification medium for jet fuel and other petroleum-based products. These products are sold in the United States and in international markets by our team of technical sales employees, distributors and sales agents. 

Cat Litter Products 

Branded products . We produce two types of mineral-based cat litter products, traditional coarse and scoopable, both of which have absorbent and odor controlling characteristics. Scoopable litters have the additional characteristic of clumping when exposed to moisture, allowing the consumer to selectively dispose of the used portion of the litter. Our coarse and scoopable products are sold under our Cat&#8217;s Pride and Jonny Cat brand names. Our Cat's Pride Fresh &#38; Light product line offers superior performance with the added convenience of being lighter to carry and pour. These products created the lightweight scoopable litter segment, which experienced the highest growth rate in the cat litter market during fiscal year 2016. In addition, we offer our coarse litter in a pre-packaged, disposable tray under the Cat&#8217;s Pride KatKit and Jonny Cat brands. Moreover, we offer litter box liners under the Cat's Pride and Jonny Cat product lines. These products are sold through independent food brokers and by our sales force to major grocery, drug, dollar store, mass-merchandiser and pet outlets. 

Private label products. &#32;We also produce private label traditional coarse and scoopable cat litters for certain customers. We added scoopable lightweight cat litters to our private label offerings during fiscal year 2015. 

Co-packaged products. &#32;We have two long-term supply arrangements (one of which is material to our business) under which we manufacture branded traditional litters for other marketers. Under these co-manufacturing relationships, the marketer controls all aspects of sales, marketing, and distribution, as well as the odor control formula, and we are responsible for manufacturing. The long-term supply agreement that is material to our business is with Clorox, under which we have the exclusive right to supply Clorox&#8217;s requirements for Fresh Step coarse cat litter up to certain levels. 

Industrial and Automotive Products 

We manufacture and/or sell products made from clay, polypropylene and recycled cotton materials that absorb oil, grease, water and other types of spills. These products are used in industrial, home and automotive environments. Our clay-based sorbent products, such as Oil-Dri branded and private label floor absorbents, are used for floor maintenance in industrial applications to provide a non-slip and non-flammable surface for workers. These floor absorbents are also used in automotive repair facilities, car dealerships and other industrial applications, as well as for home use in garages and driveways. Our Oil-Dri branded polypropylene-based and cotton-based products are sold in various forms, such as pads, rolls, socks, booms and spill kits. Snow &#38; Go, a product made with a combination of clay and salt, serves as a winter traction aid that melts snow and ice and then absorbs the melted water before it can re-freeze. 

Industrial and automotive sorbent products are sold through a distribution network that includes industrial, auto parts, safety, sanitary supply, chemical and paper distributors. These products are also sold through environmental service companies, mass-merchandisers, catalogs and the Internet. 

&#32;6 

Sports Products 

We manufacture and sell both branded and private label sports products. Pro&#8217;s Choice Sports Field Products are used on baseball, softball, football and soccer fields. Pro&#8217;s Choice soil conditioners are used in field construction or as top dressing to absorb moisture, suppress dust and improve field performance. Pro Mound packing clay is used to construct pitcher&#8217;s mounds and batter&#8217;s boxes. Rapid Dry drying agent is used to dry up puddles and slick spots after rain. Sports products are used at all levels of play, including professional, college and high school and on municipal fields. These products are sold through a network of distributors specializing in sports turf products. 

B USINESS &#32; S EGMENTS 

We have two reportable operating segments for financial reporting derived from the different characteristics of our two major customer groups: Retail and Wholesale Products Group and Business to Business Products Group. The Retail and Wholesale Products Group customers include mass merchandisers, wholesale clubs, drugstore chains, pet specialty retail outlets, dollar stores, retail grocery stores, distributors of industrial cleanup and automotive products, environmental service companies and sports field product users. The Business to Business Products Group customers include: processors and refiners of edible oils, petroleum-based oils and biodiesel fuel; manufacturers of animal feed and agricultural chemicals; distributors of animal health and nutrition products; and marketers of consumer products. Certain financial information on both segments is contained in Note 3 &#32;of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements and is incorporated herein by reference. 

&#160; 

We do not manage our business, allocate resources or generate revenue data by product line. Any of our products may be sold in one or both of our operating segments. Information concerning total revenue of classes of similar products accounting for more than 10% of consolidated revenues in any of the last three fiscal years is not separately provided because it would be impracticable to do so. 

F OREIGN &#32; O PERATIONS 

Our wholly-owned subsidiary, Amlan Trading (Shenzhen) Company, Ltd., located in Shenzhen, China, is dedicated to animal health and provides natural disease management solutions for livestock. This subsidiary sells animal health and nutrition products under our Amlan brand name and under private label arrangements. 

Our wholly-owned subsidiary, Oil-Dri Canada ULC, is a manufacturer, distributor and marketer of branded and private label cat litter in the Canadian marketplace. Among its leading brands are Saular, Cat&#8217;s Pride and Jonny Cat. Our Canadian business also manufactures or purchases and sells industrial granule floor absorbents, synthetic polypropylene sorbent materials and agricultural chemical carriers. 

Our wholly-owned subsidiary, Oil-Dri (U.K.) Limited, is a manufacturer, distributor and marketer of industrial floor absorbents, bleaching earth and cat litter. These products are marketed in the United Kingdom and Western Europe. Oil-Dri (U.K.) Limited also sells synthetic polypropylene sorbent materials, filtration units and plastic containment products. 

Our wholly-owned subsidiary, Oil-Dri SARL, is a Swiss company that performs various management, customer service and administrative functions for some of the international customers of our domestic operations. 

Our foreign operations are subject to the normal risks of doing business overseas, such as currency fluctuations, restrictions on the transfer of funds and import/export duties. Our operating results have not historically been materially impacted by these foreign currency fluctuations; however, they did have some bearing on our fiscal year 2015 results. See Item 7A &#8220;Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk&#8221; for further information about our foreign markets risks. Certain financial information about our foreign operations is contained in Note 3 &#32;of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements and is incorporated herein by reference. 

C USTOMERS 

Sales to Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. (&#8220;Walmart&#8221;) and its affiliates accounted for approximately 19% , 18% &#32;and 19% &#32;of our total net sales for fiscal years 2016 , 2015 &#32;and 2014 , respectively. Walmart is a customer in our Retail and Wholesale Products Group. There are no customers in the Business to Business Products Group with sales equal to or greater than 10% of our total sales; however, sales to Clorox (a customer in our Business to Business Products Group) and its affiliates accounted for approximately 6% of total net sales for each of fiscal years 2016 , 2015 &#32;and 2014 . The degree of margin contribution of our significant customers in the Business to Business Products Group varies, with certain customers having a greater effect on our operating results . The 

&#32;7 

loss of any customer other than those described in this paragraph would not be expected to have a material adverse effect on our business. 

C OMPETITION 

Product performance, price, brand recognition, customer service, technical support, and distribution resources are the principal methods of competition in our markets and competition historically has been very vigorous. Advertising, promotion, merchandising and packaging also have a significant impact on retail consumer purchasing decisions, which primarily affects our Retail and Wholesale Products Group. Most of the principal competitors for our Retail and Wholesale Products Group have substantially greater financial resources or market presence than we do and have established brands. These competitors may be able to spend more aggressively on advertising and promotional activities, introduce competing products more quickly and respond more effectively to changing business and economic conditions than us. 

In our Retail and Wholesale Products Group, we have five principal competitors, including one which is also our customer. The overall cat litter market has been relatively stable in recent years. The overwhelming majority of all cat litter is mineral based, including both scoopable and traditional coarse litters. Cat litters based on alternative strata such as paper, various agricultural waste products and silica gels have niche positions. Scoopable products have a majority of the cat litter market share followed by traditional coarse products. The growing market share for lightweight scoopable cat litter has primarily offset the declining share for coarse products. There is significant competition to attract consumers of cat litter across multi-outlet channels, including grocery, mass-merchandisers, dollar, pet and drug stores. Competition for the lightweight scoopable litter market has been particularly intense with increased advertising and promotions by our competitors and by us. During fiscal year 2016, we launched an integrated marketing campaign to promote our Cat's Pride Fresh &#38; Light Ultimate Care lightweight scoopable cat litter products. We further differentiate ourselves through product innovation, our operations with a nation-wide distribution network and strong customer service. World class sales and research and development teams give us a potential advantage over smaller and regional manufacturers. 

In the Business to Business Products Group, we have ten principal competitors. Our bleaching clay and fluid purification products are sold in a highly cost competitive global marketplace. Performance is a primary competitive factor for these products. The animal health portion of this segment also operates in a global marketplace with price and performance competition from multi-national and local competitors. Competition for our crop protection products is primarily based on price, but competitor differentiation also exists in the ability to meet customer product specifications and enhancements in engineered granule technologies. 

P ATENTS 

U.S. patents are currently granted for a term of 20 years from the date the patent application is filed. We have obtained or applied for patents for certain of our processes and products sold to customers in both the Retail and Wholesale Products Group and the Business to Business Products Group. Our patents are highly important to our business and we vigorously protect them from apparent infringement, although no single patent is considered material to the business as a whole. See Item 3 &#8220; Legal Proceedings &#8221; &#32;for more information about specific legal matters related to our patents. 

B ACKLOG ; S EASONALITY 

As of July 31, 2016 , 2015 &#32;and 2014 , our backlog of orders were valued at approximately $8,735,000, $9,617,000 and $7,401,000, respectively. The value of backlog orders was determined by the number of tons on backlog order and the net selling prices. All backlog orders are expected to be filled within the next 12 months. We consider our business, taken as a whole, to be moderately seasonal; however, business activities of certain customers (such as agricultural chemical manufacturers) are subject to such seasonal factors as crop acreage planted, product formulation cycles and weather conditions. 

E FFECTS OF &#32;I NFLATION 

Inflation generally affects us by increasing the cost of employee wages and benefits, transportation, processing equipment, purchased raw materials and packaging, energy and borrowings under our credit facility. See Item 7 &#8220;Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations&#8221; and Item 7A &#8220;Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk&#8221; below. 

&#32;8 

R ESERVES 

We mine our clay on leased or owned land near our manufacturing facilities in Mississippi, Georgia, Illinois and California; we also have reserves in Nevada, Oregon and Tennessee. We estimate that our proven mineral reserves at July 31, 2016 &#32;are approximately 143,819,000 &#32;tons in aggregate and our probable reserves are approximately 134,622,000 &#32;tons in aggregate, for a total of 278,441,000 &#32;tons of mineral reserves. Based on our rate of consumption during fiscal year 2016 , and without regard to any of our reserves in Nevada, Oregon and Tennessee, we consider our proven reserves adequate to supply our needs for over 40 years. Although we consider these reserves to be extremely valuable to our business, only a small portion of the reserves, those which were acquired in acquisitions, was reflected at cost on our balance sheet. 

&#160; 

It is our policy to attempt to add to reserves in most years, but not necessarily in every year, an amount at least equal to the amount of reserves consumed in that year. We have a program of exploration for additional reserves and, although reserves have been acquired, we cannot assure that additional reserves will continue to become available. Our use of these reserves, and our ability to explore for additional reserves, are subject to compliance with existing and future federal and state statutes and regulations regarding mining and environmental compliance. During fiscal year 2016 , we utilized these reserves to produce a majority of the sorbent products that we sold. 

Proven reserves are those reserves for which (a) quantity is computed from dimensions revealed in outcrops, trenches, workings or drill holes; grade and/or quality are computed from results of detailed sampling, and (b) the sites for inspection, sampling and measurement are spaced so closely and the geologic character is so well defined that size, shape, depth and mineral content of reserves are well established. Probable reserves are computed from information similar to that used for proven reserves, but the sites for inspection, sampling and measurement are farther apart or are otherwise less adequately spaced. The degree of assurance, although lower than that for proven reserves, is high enough to assume continuity between points of observation. We employ geologists and mineral specialists who estimate and evaluate existing and potential reserves in terms of quality, quantity and availability. 

M INING &#32; O PERATIONS 

We have conducted mining operations in Ripley, Mississippi since 1963, in Ochlocknee, Georgia since 1968, in Blue Mountain, Mississippi since 1989, in Mounds, Illinois since 1998 and in Taft, California since 2002. Our clay is surface mined on a year-round basis, generally using large earth moving scrapers, bulldozers, or excavators and off-road trucks to remove overburden (non-usable material), and then loaded into dump trucks with backhoes or front end loaders for movement to the processing facilities. The mining and hauling of our clay is performed by us and by independent contractors. Our current operating mines range in distance from immediately adjacent to approximately 13 miles from the related processing plants. Processing facilities are generally accessed from the mining areas by private roads and in some instances by public highways. Each of our processing facilities maintains inventories of unprocessed clay of approximately one week of production requirements. See Item 2 &#8220;Properties&#8221; below for additional information regarding our mining properties and operations. 

The following schedule summarizes the net book value of land and other plant and equipment for each of our manufacturing facilities at July 31, 2016 &#32;(in thousands): 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Land &#38; Mineral Rights 

&#160; 

Plant and 

Equipment 

Ochlocknee, Georgia 

&#160; 

$ 

8,876 

&#160; 

$ 

31,480 

Ripley, Mississippi 

&#160; 

$ 

1,804 

&#160; 

$ 

11,410 

Mounds, Illinois 

&#160; 

$ 

1,803 

&#160; 

$ 

1,796 

Blue Mountain, Mississippi 

&#160; 

$ 

&#160; 

$ 

10,905 

Taft, California 

&#160; 

$ 

1,506 

&#160; 

$ 

3,685 

E MPLOYEES 

During fiscal year 2016 , we employed approximately 767 persons, 42 of whom were employed by our foreign subsidiaries. We believe our corporate offices, research and development center and manufacturing facilities are adequately staffed and no material labor shortages are anticipated. Approximately 55 of our employees in the U.S. and approximately 18 of our employees in Canada are represented by labor unions, with whom we have entered into separate collective bargaining agreements. We consider our employee relations to be satisfactory. 

&#32;9 

E NVIRONMENTAL &#32; C OMPLIANCE 

Our mining and manufacturing operations and facilities in Georgia, Mississippi, California and Illinois are required to comply with state surface mining and environmental protection statutes. These domestic locations and our Canadian operations are subject to various federal, state and local statutes, regulations and ordinances which govern the discharge of materials, water and waste into the environment or otherwise regulate our operations. In recent years, environmental regulation has grown increasingly stringent, a trend that we expect will continue. We endeavor to be in compliance at all times and in all material respects with all applicable environmental controls and regulations. As a result, expenditures relating to environmental compliance have increased over the years; however, these expenditures have not been material. As part of our ongoing environmental compliance activities, we incur expenses in connection with reclaiming mining sites. Historically, reclamation expenses have not had a material effect on our cost of sales. 

In addition to the environmental requirements related to our mining and manufacturing operations and facilities, there has been increased federal and state regulation with respect to the content, labeling, use, and disposal after use of various products that we sell. We endeavor to be in compliance at all times and in all material respects with those regulations and to assist our customers in that compliance. 

We cannot assure that, despite all commercially reasonable efforts, we will always be in compliance in all material respects with all applicable environmental regulations or with requirements regarding the content, labeling, use, and disposal after use of our products; nor can we assure that from time to time enforcement of such requirements will not have a material adverse effect on our business. See Item 1A &#8220;Risk Factors&#8221; below for a discussion of these and other risks to our business. 

E NERGY 

We primarily used natural gas in the processing of our clay products during fiscal year 2016 . We have the ability to switch among various energy sources, including natural gas, recycled oil and coal as permitted. See Item 7A &#8220;Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk&#8221; below for more information about commodity risk with respect to our energy use. 

R ESEARCH AND &#32; D EVELOPMENT 

At our research and development facility in Vernon Hills, Illinois, we develop new products and applications and improve existing products. The facility&#8217;s staff (and various consultants they engage from time to time) may consist of geologists, mineralogists, chemists and doctors of veterinary medicine. In the past several years, our research efforts have resulted in a number of new sorbent products and processes. The facility produces prototype samples and tests new products for customer trial and evaluation. No significant research and development was customer sponsored, and all research and development costs are expensed in the period in which incurred. See Note 1 &#32;of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information about research and development expenses. 

A VAILABLE &#32; I NFORMATION 

This Annual Report on Form 10-K, as well as our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to all of the foregoing reports, are made available free of charge on or through the &#8220;Investor Information&#8221; section of our website at www.oildri.com as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. 

Information related to corporate governance at Oil-Dri, including its Code of Ethics and Business Conduct, information concerning executive officers, directors and Board committees, and transactions in Oil-Dri securities by directors and executive officers, is available free of charge on or through the &#8220;Investor Information&#8221; section of our website at www.oildri.com. The information on our website in not included as a part of, nor incorporated by reference into, this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

&#32;10 

