 ITEM 1. BUSINESS The Trust is an express trust created under the laws of the state of Texas by the San Juan Basin Royalty Trust Indenture entered into on November 1, 1980, between Southland Royalty Company (&#147;Southland&#148;) and The Fort Worth National Bank. Effective as of September 30, 2002, the original indenture was amended and restated and, effective as of December 12, 2007, the restated indenture was amended and restated, which we refer to as the &#147;Indenture.&#148; As a result of a series of mergers and other transactions, the current Trustee of the Trust is Compass Bank (the &#147;Trustee&#148;), which is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria, S.A. 

The Conveyance and the Royalty 

Pursuant to the Net Overriding Royalty Conveyance (the &#147;Conveyance&#148;) effective November 1, 1980, Southland conveyed to the Trust a 75% net overriding royalty interest (the &#147;Royalty&#148;) that burdens certain of Southland&#146;s oil and natural gas interests (the &#147;Underlying Properties&#148;) in properties located in the San Juan Basin of northwestern New Mexico. Subsequent to the Conveyance of the Royalty, through a series of assignments and mergers, Southland&#146;s successor became Burlington Resources Oil &#38; Gas Company LP (&#147;Burlington&#148;). Burlington is an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of ConocoPhillips. 

The Royalty functions generally as a net profits interest. Under the terms of the Conveyance, the Trust receives 75% of net proceeds from the Underlying Properties. The term &#147;net proceeds,&#148; as used in the Conveyance, means the excess of gross proceeds received by Burlington during a particular period over production costs for such period. &#147;Gross proceeds&#148; means the amount received by Burlington (or any subsequent owner of the Underlying Properties) from the sale of the production attributable to the Underlying Properties, subject to certain adjustments. &#147;Production costs&#148; generally means costs incurred on an accrual basis by Burlington in operating the Underlying Properties, including both capital and non-capital costs. For example, these costs include development drilling, production and processing costs, applicable taxes and operating charges. If production costs exceed gross proceeds in any month, the excess is recovered out of future gross proceeds prior to the making of further payment to the Trust, but the Trust is not otherwise liable for any production costs or other costs or liabilities attributable to the Underlying Properties or the minerals produced therefrom. If at any time the Trust receives more than the amount due under the Royalty, it is not obligated to return such overpayment, but the amounts payable to it for any subsequent period are reduced by such amount, plus interest, at a rate specified in the Conveyance. 

The Royalty constitutes the principal asset of the Trust. The beneficial interest in the Royalty is divided into 46,608,796 units (the &#147;Units&#148;) representing undivided fractional interests in the beneficial interest of the Trust equal to the number of shares of the common stock of Southland outstanding as of the close of business on November 3, 1980. Each stockholder of Southland of record at the close of business on November 3, 1980 received one freely tradable Unit for each share of the common stock of Southland then held. Holders of Units are referred to herein as &#147;Unit Holders.&#148; 

As of December 31, 2015, 96% of the Trust&#146;s estimated proved reserves consisted of natural gas reserves, and 96% of the gross proceeds from the Underlying Properties in 2015 were attributable to the production and sale by Burlington of natural gas. Accordingly, the market price for natural gas produced and sold from the San Juan Basin heavily influences the amount of Trust income available for distribution to the Unit Holders by the Trust and, by extension, the price of the Units. Normally there is greater demand for natural gas used for heating or air conditioning purposes in the summer and winter months than during the rest of the year. 

The Trustee 

The primary function of the Trustee is to collect the net proceeds attributable to the Royalty (&#147;Royalty Income&#148;), to pay all expenses and charges of the Trust and to distribute the remaining available income to the Unit Holders. The Trust received approximately $19.4 million, $61.5 million and $38.0 million in Royalty 

&#160; 

Income from Burlington in each of the fiscal years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. After deducting administrative expenses and accounting for interest income and any change in cash reserves, the Trust distributed approximately $17.0 million, $59.9 million, and $36.5 million to Unit Holders in each of the fiscal years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. The Trust&#146;s corpus was approximately $8.7 million, $9.4 million, and $11.0 million as of December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. 

Proceeds from production in the first month are generally received by Burlington in the second month, the net proceeds attributable to the Royalty are paid by Burlington to the Trustee in the third month, and distribution by the Trustee to the Unit Holders is made in the fourth month. Unit Holders of record as of the last business day of each month (the &#147;monthly record date&#148;) will be entitled to receive the calculated monthly distribution amount for such month on or before ten business days after the monthly record date. The amount of each monthly distribution will generally be determined and announced ten days before the monthly record date. The aggregate monthly distribution amount is the excess of (i) the net proceeds attributable to the Royalty paid to the Trustee, plus any decrease in cash reserves previously established for liabilities and contingencies of the Trust, over (ii) the expenses and payments of liabilities of the Trust, plus any net increase in cash reserves. 

The Trustee may, in its sole discretion, establish a cash reserve for payment of Trust liabilities that are contingent or uncertain or otherwise not currently due and payable. As of December 31, 2015 and 2014, the Trustee had established cash reserves of $0.5 million and $0.2 million, respectively. Because a prolonged decline in natural gas prices may reduce Royalty Income, the Trustee has increased the amount of cash reserves during 2016 by $150,000 as of February 29, 2016 and expects to further increase the total amount of cash reserves to approximately $1.0 million during the year. 

Cash being held by the Trustee as cash reserves or pending distribution may be placed, in the Trustee&#146;s discretion, in obligations issued by (or unconditionally guaranteed by) the United States or any agency thereof, repurchase agreements secured by obligations issued by the United States or any agency thereof, certificates of deposit of banks having capital, surplus and undivided profits in excess of $50 million or money market funds that have been rated at least AAm by Standard &#38; Poor&#146;s and at least Aa by Moody&#146;s, subject, in each case, to certain other qualifying conditions. Currently, such funds are placed in interest-bearing negotiable order of withdrawal accounts whose funds are either insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation or secured by other assets of BBVA Compass Bank. 

The other powers and duties of the Trustee are set forth in the Indenture and include the prosecution and defense of claims by and against the Trust, the engagement of consultants and professionals and the payment of Trust liabilities. If the Trustee determines that the Trust does not have sufficient funds to pay its liabilities, the Trustee may borrow funds on behalf of the Trust, in which case no distributions will be made to Unit Holders until such borrowings are repaid in full. The Trustee may not sell or dispose of any part of the assets of the trust without the affirmative vote the Unit Holders of 75% of all of the Units outstanding; however, the Trustee may sell up to 1% of the value of the Royalty (as determined pursuant to the Indenture) during any 12-month period without the consent of the Unit Holders if it determines such a sale is in the best interest of the Unit Holders. The Trust does not operate the Underlying Properties and is not empowered to carry on any business activity. The Trust has no employees, officers or directors. All administrative functions of the Trust are performed by the Trustee. 

Under the Indenture, the Trustee may act in its discretion in carrying out its powers and performing its duties and is liable only for fraud or for acts and omissions in bad faith. The Trustee is not liable for any act or omission of its agents or employees unless the Trustee acted in bad faith in its selection and retention of such agents or employees. The Indenture provides that the Trustee and its officers, agents and employees must be indemnified and receive reimbursement of expenses from the assets of the Trust for liabilities and claims incurred in the administration of the Trust, except for liabilities and claims arising from the Trustee&#146;s fraud or bad faith. 

&#160; 

Duration of the Trust 

The Trust will terminate if (a) its gross revenue for each of two successive years is less than $1 million per year or, if earlier, (b) the Unit Holders of at least 75% of all of the Units outstanding vote in favor of termination. Upon termination of the Trust, the Trustee must sell the Royalty and distribute the proceeds to Unit Holders after satisfying or establishing reserves to satisfy the liabilities of the Trust. 

Burlington 

Burlington and other affiliates of ConocoPhillips are the principal operators of the majority of the Underlying Properties. As an operator, Burlington has the obligation under the Conveyance to conduct its operations in accordance with reasonable and prudent business judgment and good oil and natural gas field practices. Burlington has the right to abandon any well when, in its opinion, such well ceases to produce or is not capable of producing oil and natural gas in paying quantities. Burlington reserves the right to not participate in operations on the Underlying Properties when it has a right to do so under the applicable operating or similar agreement. Burlington also is responsible, subject to the terms of an agreement with the Trust, for marketing the production from such properties, either under existing sales contracts or under future arrangements, at the best prices and on the best terms it shall deem reasonably obtainable in the circumstances. Additionally, Burlington is obligated under the Conveyance to maintain books and records sufficient to determine the amounts payable to the Trustee. 

Additional Information 

The principal office of the Trust is located at 300 West 7 th Street, Suite B, Fort Worth, Texas 76102 (toll-free telephone number (866) 809-4553). The Trust makes available (free of charge) its annual, quarterly and current reports (and any amendments thereto) filed with the SEC through its website at www.sjbrt.com as soon as reasonably practicable after electronically filing or furnishing such material with or to the SEC. The Trust&#146;s materials filed with the SEC are also available at the SEC&#146;s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549 or by calling the Public Reference Room of the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC also maintains the internet site of www.sec.gov . This site contains reports and, as applicable, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding the Trust and other issuers that file electronically with the SEC. 

The Trust is a widely held fixed investment trust (&#147;WHFIT&#148;) classified as a non-mortgage widely held fixed investment trust (&#147;NMWHFIT&#148;) for federal income tax purposes. The Trustee, 300 West 7 th Street, Suite B, Fort Worth, Texas 76102 (toll-free telephone number (866) 809-4553, email address: sjt.us@bbva.com ), is the representative of the Trust that will provide tax information in accordance with the applicable U.S. Treasury Regulations governing the information reporting requirements of the Trust as a WHFIT and a NMWHFIT. The tax information is generally posted by the Trustee on the Trust&#146;s website: www.sjbrt.com . 

&#160;

