 ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

We are a Delaware corporation whose principal office is located at 60 E. 42nd Street, 46th Floor, New York, NY. Unless the context otherwise requires, the terms &#147;we&#148;, &#147;us&#148;, &#147;our&#148;, or &#147;the Company&#148; as used herein refer to Receivable Acquisition &#38; Management Corporation and our subsidiaries, Cornerstone Program Advisors LLC and Sustainable Energy Industries, Inc. (&#147;Sustainable&#148;). The Company does business as Cornerstone Sustainable Energy.

Description of the Business 

The Company specializes in delivering energy infrastructure and alternative energy solutions to a wide range of commercial customers and institutions such as hospitals and universities. The Company has begun to expand and transform its business to take advantage of opportunities in the alternative energy and clean energy arenas.

The Company has two major business components. The first business component is the management of infrastructure projects for commercial and institutional customers. These projects typically involve some combination of energy infrastructure components, including electrical power generation, steam production, or chilled water production, as well as the infrastructure to distribute these services. Generally, the Company acts as the representative of the customer in overseeing and managing an infrastructure project, or can take the role of project developer under an agreement with the customer. The Company has competitors, some of which are very large and well-recognized, but, in the non-profit hospital and university market in its geographical scope of operation, has developed a reputation for excellence and an established market position. The Company operates in this first business component under its subsidiary, Cornerstone Program Advisors LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (&#147;Cornerstone&#148;), which it acquired in a merger on May 15, 2013 (the &#147;Merger&#148;). As part of this component, the Company offers to arrange leasing and other financing arrangements for projects and equipment, and participations in power purchase agreements from developed projects, for fees and financial participations. The Company has the capability of arranging very favorable financing for projects involving non-profits.

The second business component is the anticipated commercialization of engine technology which converts low-grade heat to mechanical energy. The Company is actively marketing the technology particularly for power generation. While the Company has not yet manufactured or deployed an engine specifically configured for power generation, significant progress has been made on the engineering of such an engine, and has existing engines it is using for testing and demonstration purposes. The technology is non-polluting and entirely &#147;green,&#148; and Management believes, based on its knowledge of the industry, is arguably superior to all other lower-temperature engine technologies, such as those utilizing the organic Rankine physical cycle, and operates at lower temperature ranges and heat flow volume than any others in the market. The engines in this configuration promise to deliver substantial cost savings in most client applications, and are not unusually costly as compared to competing technologies. Although the engine is readily built to order of common parts and components, a material investment may be required by the Company. The Company has not yet generated any revenues through this business component. 

The Company&#146;s primary markets are (i) large domestic non-profit institutions and organizations, particularly where electricity rates are high, and currently localized in the Northeast; (ii) the waste-heat-to-energy and geothermal marketplace primarily in the Western Hemisphere, typically power generation; and (iii) the independent power producer market, primarily domestic but extending through the Western Hemisphere. All of these markets are large and multifaceted with no dominant customers.

Cornerstone is an energy infrastructure project management company focused on healthcare and higher learning institutions. Sustainable is focused on the alternative energy business, with an emphasis on its licensed &#147;green&#148; engine technology. 

Prior to 2013, the Company was in the business of acquiring and collecting portfolios of performing, sub-performing and non-performing consumer and commercial receivables. The Company is no longer in this business.

Strategy 

The Company is pursuing 3 growth initiatives: 

(1) Acquiring and applying &#147;cleantech solutions&#148; - technology, equipment and methods to solve client needs and provide a competitive advantage, such as cleantech engine technology. In the first such acquisition, the Company merged with the holder of manufacturing and sales rights for the engine technology described above. The Company has also finalized an exclusive manufacturing agreement for this engine with one of the country&#146;s premier engineering and engine manufacturing companies. 

(2) Making strategic acquisitions and entering into strategic joint ventures in and around its core areas of expertise. The first of these was in cleantech, described directly above. Other potential acquisition or merger targets are continually under review. They must meet rigorous financial and growth criteria, offer a strategic fit, and expand the market or competitive position of the Company. Targets include those in the clean water, bio incineration, waste heat recovery, and clean engine technologies.

(3) Establishing and leveraging alliances, a number of which are established or in some level of development. We also intend to source business by helping companies offer a uniquely competitive financing and development platform to existing and prospective non-profit clients such as universities, hospitals and municipalities.

For the most part, power technologies are well known and widely available. The Company is focused on selecting the right technology or technologies for each project, and maintaining a constant focus on both cost effectiveness for the client and financial returns to the Company. To enhance its competitive position, however, the Company will focus on obtaining exclusive market positions and enhancing its technological strengths.

Industry Overview 

The general marketplace for the Company&#146;s offerings is composed of large consumers and producers of power which have an interest in (a) reducing energy consumption, (b) reducing the cost of energy, (c) improving the environmental profile of their energy production, or (d) some combination of these. The Company is engaged in this overall energy infrastructure industry at two separate points. These sub-industries, or markets, are relatively distinct, albeit related, so each will be described separately.

One market is the component composed of consumers of large amounts of energy, including large hospitals, colleges and universities. These institutions often operate large, and frequently aging, centralized utility plant and infrastructure installations which provide heat (typically steam), cooling (chilled water), and power to a sizeable campus of buildings. Energy infrastructure upgrades and improvements are often required to provide for expansion of campus facilities, replace aging equipment, and reduce the cost and/or the amount of their energy consumption. The Company, acting as the client&#146;s representative, helps design and develop upgrades to or replacements of such facilities, and then oversees the implementation projects for these institutions. The Company may act as project developer or co-developer, and offers to arrange or assist in the project financing. Projects are typically multi-year commitments and often complex. 

The other market is the waste-heat-to-energy industry. The industry involves technologies for converting wasted heat or geothermal heat to power production. One example is the enormous and largely unexploited low-grade geothermal market. Vast geothermal resources are currently untapped because earlier technologies were incapable of converting low-grade heat and low volume heat flows into power. The Company has a technology that can be utilized to convert this enormous natural resource into baseload power. 

This market, typical of the power production industry, relies heavily on experience, and the Company&#146;s technology is relatively new and has little track record. However, the scale of the available resource is so sizeable that there is a great deal of interest in developing it. The market potential has not been accurately measured because no technology existed to develop it. However, it is estimated that the energy available from lower temperature geothermal resources is a multiple of the energy tapped at higher temperature levels. The geothermal market in the U.S. alone has approximately 3200MW of installed capacity. Almost all the added capacity increase in the past two decades has utilized lower temperature resources, yet not as low as those at which the Company&#146;s technology can operate.

Currently, an additional 4300MW is in some stage of development, representing an anticipated investment of some $13-$17 billion. Although the Company&#146;s technology can be configured to operate in the entire range of temperatures, its prime market is in these untapped lower temperature resources. This is in addition to a related market opportunity for adding this technology to capture waste heat from existing higher-temperature geothermal plants in a &#147;bottoming cycle&#148;, enabling them to increase output from an already-tapped resource.

The Company's technology is also well suited to the waste heat recovery market as related to industries that create wasted heat as a result of their manufacturing or production processes. This market is well defined and, according to a recent report published by the U.S. Department of Energy, &#147;The United States industrial sector accounts for approximately one third of all energy used in the United States, consuming approximately 32 quadrillion (a million billion) BTUs of energy annually and emitting about 1,680 million metric tons of carbon dioxide associated with this energy use.&#148; The opportunity in the waste heat recovery market is substantial. The report continues, &#147;A valuable alternative approach to improving overall energy efficiency is to capture and reuse the lost or &#145;waste heat&#146; that is intrinsic to all industrial manufacturing. During these manufacturing processes, as much as 20% to 50% of the energy consumed is ultimately lost via waste heat contained in streams of hot exhaust gases and liquids, as well as through heat conduction, convection, and radiation from hot equipment surfaces and from heated product streams. In some cases, such as industrial furnaces, waste heat recovery can improve energy efficiency by 10% to as much as 50%.&#148; 

The advantage of recapturing and utilizing waste heat is that it typically replaces purchased electric power, much of which does and will continue to require burning fossil fuels, or directly replaces fuels which must be purchased and combusted. Thus it actually can directly reduce emissions and eliminate transmission losses. Projections of market potential are truly enormous, with unrecovered waste heat in industrial processes estimated at half a quintillion (a billion billion) BTUs. 

Employees 

As of December 31, 2015, the Company had four full-time consultants as officers under consulting agreements with Tom Telegades, the CEO and interim CFO; Peter Fazio, the COO; Wallace Baker, the Chief Administrative Officer; and James Valentino, the non-executive Chairman; and no part-time employees. See Item 11 &#147;Executive Compensation&#148; below. Carefully selected contractors are used for managing infrastructure projects, matched to the needs of these clients. Their staffing levels vary depending on the number and size of infrastructure projects underway. The Company prefers to outsource non-core, non-critical activities wherever possible, including manufacturing activities.

