 ITEM 1. BUSINESS.

Overview

Retrospettiva, Inc. was organized under the laws of the State of California in November, 1990 for the purpose of manufacturing and importing textile products, including finished garments and fabrics. Our manufacturing facilities and inventories were primarily located in Europe. Our European operations were based in and around Macedonia. On July 2, 2001, we announced that the civil war in Macedonia rendered it impossible to continue operations. We ceased operations and liquidated all of our assets.

From 2002 until 2006, the Company was dormant. Effective October 11, 2006 (commencement of new development stage), the Company commenced activities to become current in reporting with the SEC with the intention to become a publicly traded company. Retrospettiva intends to evaluate, structure and complete a merger with, or acquisition of, one or a small number of private companies, partnerships or sole proprietorships. Retrospettiva may seek to acquire a controlling interest in one or more private companies in contemplation of later completing an acquisition.

Retrospettiva believes that there is a demand by non-public corporations for shell corporations that have a public distribution of securities, such as Retrospettiva. Retrospettiva believes that demand for shell corporations has increased dramatically since the Securities and Exchange Commission, (SEC), imposed additional requirements upon "blank check" companies pursuant to Reg. 419 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. According to the SEC, Rule 419 was designed to strengthen regulation of securities offerings by blank check companies, which Congress has found to have been a common vehicle for fraud and manipulation in the penny stock market. See Securities Act Releases No. 6891 (April 17, 1991), 48 SEC Docket 1131 and No. 6932 (April 13, 1992) 51 Docket 0382, SEC Docket 0382. The foregoing regulation has substantially decreased the number of "blank check" offerings filed with the SEC, and as a result has stimulated an increased demand for shell corporations. While Retrospettiva has made the foregoing assumption, there is no assurance that the same is accurate or correct and, accordingly, no assurance that Retrospettiva will merge with or acquire an existing private entity.

General

Retrospettiva proposes to seek, investigate and, if warranted, acquire an interest in one or more business opportunity ventures. As of the date hereof, Retrospettiva has no business opportunities or ventures under contemplation for acquisition or merger but proposes to investigate potential opportunities with investors or entrepreneurs with a concept which has not yet been placed in operation, or with firms which are developing companies. Retrospettiva may seek established businesses which may be experiencing financial or operational difficulties and are in need of the limited additional capital Retrospettiva could provide. After Retrospettiva has completed a merger or acquisition, the surviving entity would be Retrospettiva; however, management from the acquired entity would in all likelihood be retained to operate Retrospettiva. Due to the absence of capital available for investment by Retrospettiva, the types of business seeking to be acquired by Retrospettiva will invariably be small and high risk types of businesses. In all likelihood, a business opportunity will involve the acquisition of or merger with a corporation which does not need additional cash but which desires to establish a public trading market for its common stock.

&#160;

&#160;

Retrospettiva does not propose to restrict its search for investment opportunities to any particular industry or geographical location and may, therefore, engage in essentially any business, anywhere, to the extent of its limited resources.

It is anticipated that business opportunities will be available to Retrospettiva and sought by Retrospettiva from various sources throughout the United States, including its officers and directors, professional advisors such as attorneys and accountants, securities broker dealers, venture capitalists, members of the financial community, other businesses and others who may present solicited and unsolicited proposals. Management believes that business opportunities and ventures will become available to it due to a number of factors, including, among others: (1) management's willingness to enter into unproven, speculative ventures; (2) management's contacts and acquaintances; and (3) Retrospettiva's flexibility with respect to the manner in which it may structure potential financing, mergers or acquisitions. However, there is no assurance that Retrospettiva will be able to structure, finance, merge with or acquire any business opportunity or venture.

Operation of Retrospettiva

Retrospettiva intends to search throughout the United States for a merger or acquisition candidate; however, because of its lack of capital, Retrospettiva believes that the merger or acquisition candidate will be conducting business within limited geographical area.

Retrospettiva's executive officers will seek acquisition/merger candidates or orally contact individuals or broker dealers and advise them of the availability of Retrospettiva as an acquisition candidate. Retrospettiva's executive officers will review material furnished to them by the proposed merger or acquisition candidates and will ultimately decide if a merger or acquisition is in the best interests of Retrospettiva and its shareholders.

Retrospettiva may employ outside consultants until a merger or acquisition candidate has been targeted by Retrospettiva, however, management believes that it is impossible to consider the criteria that will be used to hire such consultants. While Retrospettiva may hire independent consultants, it has not considered any criteria regarding their experience, the services to be provided, or the term of service. As of the date hereof, Retrospettiva has not had any discussions with any consultants and there are no agreements or understandings with any consultants. Other than as disclosed herein, there are no other plans for accomplishing the business purpose of Retrospettiva.

Selection of Opportunities

The analysis of new business opportunities will be undertaken by or under the supervision of Retrospettiva's executive officers and directors who are not professional business analysts and have had little previous training or experience in business analysis. In as much as Retrospettiva will have no funds available to it in its search for business opportunities and ventures, Retrospettiva will not be able to expend significant funds on a complete and exhaustive investigation of such business or opportunity. Retrospettiva will, however, investigate, to the extent believed reasonable by its management, such potential business opportunities or ventures.

As part of Retrospettiva's investigation, representatives of Retrospettiva will meet personally with management and key personnel of the firm sponsoring the business opportunity, visit and inspect plants and facilities, obtain independent analysis or verification of certain information provided, check references of management and key personnel, and conduct other reasonable measures, to the extent of Retrospettiva's limited financial resources and management and technical expertise.

&#160;

&#160;

Prior to making a decision to recommend to shareholders participation in a business opportunity or venture, Retrospettiva will generally request that it be provided with written materials regarding the business opportunity containing such items as a description of products, services and company history, management resumes, financial information, available projections with related assumptions upon which they are based, evidence of existing patents, trademarks or service marks or rights thereto, current and proposed forms of compensation to management, a description of transactions between the prospective entity and its affiliates during relevant periods, a description of current and required facilities, an analysis of risks and competitive conditions, and other information deemed relevant.

It is anticipated that the investigation of specific business opportunities and the negotiation, drafting and execution of relevant agreements, disclosure documents and other instruments will require substantial management time and attention and costs for accountants, attorneys and others. Retrospettiva's executive officers anticipate funding Retrospettiva's operations, including providing funds necessary to search for acquisition candidates, until an acquisition candidate is found, without regard to the amount involved. Accordingly, no alternative cash resources have been explored.

Retrospettiva will have unrestricted flexibility in seeking, analyzing and participating in business opportunities. In its efforts, Retrospettiva will consider the following kinds of factors:

&#183;

Potential for growth, indicated by new technology, anticipated market expansion or new products;

&#183;

Competitive position as compared to other firms engaged in similar activities;

&#183;

Strength of management;

&#183;

Capital requirements and anticipated availability of required funds from future operations, through the sale of additional securities, through joint ventures or similar arrangements or from other sources; and

&#183;

Other relevant factors.

Potentially available business opportunities may occur in many different industries and at various stages of development, all of which will make the task of comparative investigation and analysis of such business opportunities extremely difficult and complex. Potential investors must recognize that due to Retrospettiva's limited capital available for investigation and management's limited experience in business analysis, Retrospettiva may not discover or adequately evaluate adverse facts about the opportunity to be acquired.

Retrospettiva is unable to predict when it may participate in a business opportunity. It expects, however, that the analysis of specific proposals and the selection of a business opportunity may take several months or more. Retrospettiva does not plan to raise any capital at the present time, by private placements; public offerings, pursuant to Regulation S promulgated under the Securities Act, or by any means whatsoever. Further, there are no plans, proposals, arrangements or understandings with respect to the sale or issuance of additional securities prior to the identification of an acquisition or merger candidate.

&#160;

Form of Merger or Acquisition

The manner in which Retrospettiva participates in an opportunity will depend upon the nature of the opportunity, the respective needs and desires of Retrospettiva and the merger or acquisition candidate, and the relative negotiating strength of Retrospettiva and such merger or acquisition candidate. The exact form or structure of Retrospettiva's participation in a business opportunity or venture will be dependent upon the needs of the particular situation. Retrospettiva's participation may be structured as an asset purchase, a lease, a license, a joint venture, a partnership, a merger or an acquisition of securities.

As set forth above, Retrospettiva may acquire its participation in a business opportunity through the issuance of common stock or other securities in Retrospettiva. Although the terms of any such transaction cannot be predicted, it should be noted that in certain circumstances the criteria for determining whether or not an acquisition is a so-called "tax free" reorganization under Section 368(a)(1) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954, as amended, may depend upon the issuance to the shareholders of the acquired company of at least 80% of the common stock of the combined entities immediately following the reorganization. If a transaction were structured to take advantage of these provisions rather than other "tax free" provisions provided under the Internal Revenue Code, all prior shareholders may, in such circumstances, retain 20% or less of the total issued and outstanding common stock. If such a transaction were available to Retrospettiva, it will be necessary to obtain shareholder approval to effectuate a reverse stock split or to authorize additional shares of common stock prior to completing such acquisition. This could result in substantial additional dilution to the equity of those who were shareholders of Retrospettiva prior to such reorganization. Further, extreme caution should be exercised by any investor relying upon any tax benefits in light of the proposed new tax laws. It is possible that no tax benefits will exist at all. Prospective investors should consult their own legal, financial and other business advisors.

The present management and shareholders of Retrospettiva will in all likelihood not have control of a majority of the voting shares of Retrospettiva following a reorganization transaction. In fact, it is probable that the shareholders of the acquired entity will gain control of Retrospettiva. The terms of sale of the shares presently held by management of Retrospettiva may not be afforded to other shareholders of Retrospettiva. As part of any transaction, Retrospettiva's directors may resign and new directors may be appointed without any vote by the shareholders.

Retrospettiva has an unwritten policy that it will not acquire or merge with a business or company in which Retrospettiva's management or their affiliates or associates directly or indirectly have an ownership interest. Management is not aware of any circumstances under which the foregoing policy will be changed and management, through their own initiative, will not change said policy.

Pursuant to regulations promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of1934, as amended, Retrospettiva will be required to obtain and file with the SEC audited financial statements of an acquisition candidate not later than 71 days from the date the Form 8-K is due at the SEC disclosing the merger or acquisition.

Rights of Dissenting Shareholders

Under the Colorado Business Corporation Act, a business combination typically requires the approval of a majority of the outstanding shares of both participating companies. Shareholders who vote against any business combination in certain instances may be entitled to dissent and to obtain payment for their shares pursuant to Sections 7-113-102 and 7-113-103 of the Colorado Business Corporation Act. The requirement of approval of Retrospettiva's shareholders in any business combination is limited to those transactions identified as a merger or a consolidation. A business combination identified as a share exchange under which Retrospettiva would be the survivor does not require the approval of Retrospettiva's shareholders, nor does it entitle shareholders to dissent and obtain payment for their shares. Accordingly, unless the acquisition is a statutory merger, requiring shareholder approval, Retrospettiva will not provide shareholders with a disclosure document containing audited or unaudited financial statements, prior to such acquisition.

&#160;

&#160;

Prior to any business combination for which shareholder approval is required, Retrospettiva intends to provide its shareholders complete disclosure documentation concerning the business opportunity or target company and its business. Such disclosure will in all likelihood be in the form of a proxy statement which will be distributed to shareholders at least 20 days prior to any shareholder meeting.

None of Retrospettiva's officers, directors, promoters, their affiliates or associates have had any preliminary contact or discussions with, and there are no present plans, proposals, arrangements or understandings with, any representatives of the owners of any business or company regarding the possibility of an acquisition or merger transaction contemplated in this report.

Not an "Investment Adviser"

Retrospettiva is not an "investment adviser" under the Federal Investment Advisers Act of 1940, which classification would involve a number of negative considerations. Accordingly, Retrospettiva will not furnish or distribute advice, counsel, publications, writings, analysis or reports to anyone relating to the purchase or sale of any securities within the language, meaning and intent of Section 2(a)(11) of the Investment Advisers Act (15 U.S.C. 80b2(a)(11)).

Not an "Investment Company"

Retrospettiva may become involved in a business opportunity through purchasing or exchanging the securities of such business. Retrospettiva does not intend, however, to engage primarily in such activities and is not registered as an "investment company" under the Federal Investment Company Act of 1940. Retrospettiva believes such registration is not required.

Retrospettiva must conduct its activities so as to avoid becoming inadvertently classified as a transient "investment company" under the Federal Investment Company Act, which classification would affect Retrospettiva adversely in a number of respects. Section 3(a) of the Investment Company Act provides the definition of an "investment company" which excludes an entity which does not engage primarily in the business of investing, reinvesting or trading in securities, or which does not engage in the business of investing, owning, holding or trading &#8220;investment securities" (defined as "all securities other than United States government securities or securities of majority-owned subsidiaries",) the value of which exceeds 40% of the value of its total assets (excluding government securities, cash or cash items). Retrospettiva intends to implement its business plan in a manner which will result in the availability of this exemption from the definition of "investment company." Retrospettiva proposes to engage solely in seeking an interest in one or more business opportunities or ventures.

Effective January 14, 1981, the SEC adopted Rule 3a-2 which deems that an issuer is not engaged in the business of investing, reinvesting, owning, holding or trading in securities for purposes of Section 3(a)(1) cited above if, during period of time not exceeding one year, the issuer has a bona fide intent to be engaged primarily, or as soon as reasonably possible (in any event by the termination of a one year period of time), in a business other than that of investing, reinvesting, owning, holding or trading in securities and such intent is evidenced by Retrospettiva's business activities and appropriate resolution of Retrospettiva's Board of Directors duly adopted and duly recorded in the minute book of Retrospettiva. The Rule 3a-2 "safe harbor" may not be relied on more than one single time.

&#160;

&#160;

Reports to Security Holders.

Retrospettiva is subject to reporting obligations under the Exchange Act. These obligations include an annual report under cover of Form 10-K, with audited financial statements, unaudited quarterly reports and the requisite proxy statements with regard to annual shareholder meetings. The public may read and copy any materials Retrospettiva files with the SEC at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information of the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0030.The SEC maintains an Internet site (http://www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC.

Office

Our principal executive offices are located at 1251 Point View Street, Los Angeles, CA 90035, and our telephone number is (213) 623-9216. We share office space with our President. Our office needs are minimal and we do not pay rent for the shared office space. We expect to share office space with our officers or directors until we complete a business combination. 

Employees

We currently have no salaried employees and none of our officers, directors or principle stockholders are currently receiving any compensation for their services. Management expects to use consultants, attorneys and accountants as necessary, and does not anticipate a need to engage any full-time employees so long as it is seeking and evaluating business opportunities. The need for employees and their availability will be addressed in connection with the decision whether or not to acquire or participate in a specific business opportunity.

