 Item 1. Business 

Overview 

MoSys, Inc., together with its subsidiaries (" MoSys ," the " Company ," " we ," " our " or "us"), is a fabless semiconductor company focused on the development and sale of integrated circuits, or ICs, for the high-speed networking, communications, storage and computing markets. Our solutions deliver time-to-market, performance, signal integrity, power, area and economic benefits for system original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs. We have developed two IC product lines under the Bandwidth Engine and LineSpeed product names. Bandwidth Engine ICs integrate our proprietary 1T-SRAM high-density embedded memory with our integrated macro function technology and a highly efficient serial interface protocol resulting in a monolithic memory IC solution optimized for transaction performance. As the bandwidth requirements and amount of processing per packet increase in high-speed networking systems, critical memory access bottlenecks occur. Our Bandwidth Engine IC, with its combination of serial I/O, high-speed memory, offload functions and efficient, intelligent access, drastically increases memory accesses per second, removing these bottlenecks. In addition, the serial interface and high memory capacity reduce the board footprint, number of pins and complexity using less power. The LineSpeed IC product line, which we announced in March 2013, is comprised of non-memory, high-speed serialization-deserialization, or SerDes, I/O physical layer, or PHY, devices that ensure signal integrity between interfaces commonly referred to as clock data recovery, or CDR, or retimer functionality, which perform multiplexing to transition from one speed to another, commonly referred to as Gearbox functionality. These PHY devices reside within optical modules and networking equipment line cards designed for next-generation Ethernet and optical transport network applications. 

We are currently supporting existing design win customers, primarily for Bandwidth Engine, and actively pursuing additional design wins for the use of our ICs in networking communications and data center equipment. We have established initial pricing of our IC products ordered to date, but longer-term volume prices will be subject to negotiations with our customers and may vary substantially from these initial prices. 

Historically, our primary business was the design, development, marketing, sale and support of differentiated intellectual property, or IP, including embedded memory and high-speed parallel and serial I/O used in advanced systems-on-chips, or SoCs. Currently, we are focused on developing differentiated IP-rich IC products and are dedicating all our research and development, marketing and sales budget to these IC products. Royalty and other revenue generated from our existing IP 

agreements represented 58% of our total revenue in 2014 and 45% in 2015. We expect royalty and other revenue to continue to decline in 2016 both in absolute dollars and as a percentage of revenues. 

Our future success and ability to achieve and maintain profitability are dependent on the marketing and sales of our IC products into networking, communications and other markets. Since the beginning of 2010, we have invested substantially all of our of our research and development resources toward development of our ICs, and, as of the end of 2012, had ceased our efforts to actively market our IP and establish license agreements for customers' new SoC development projects. 

Industry Background 

The amount of data being transferred by networking, storage and computing systems is increasing rapidly, primarily driven by the growth of the Internet and demand for real-time processing of bandwidth intensive applications, such as video-on-demand, Internet protocol TV, peer-to-peer and cloud computing, web2.0 applications, 4G/LTE wireless, voice-over-Internet protocol, and many others. In order to meet these demands, the network backbone, access, storage and data center infrastructure must scale in bandwidth and processing capability. In addition, system designers face the challenge of increasing the throughput of all subsystems for a variety of applications, such as video games, medical record and imaging transfers, and file sharing. These increased demands strain communication between onboard IC devices, limiting the data throughput in network switches and routers and the network backbone. 

To meet these demands, carrier and enterprise networks are undergoing significant changes and, most significantly, are migrating to packet-based Ethernet networks that enable higher throughput, lower cost and uniform technology across access, core and metro network infrastructure. These networks are now being designed to deliver voice, video and high-speed Internet access on one converged, efficient and flexible network. These trends require networking systems, especially the high-speed switches and routers that primarily comprise these networks, to comply with evolving market requirements and be capable of providing new services and better quality of service while supporting new protocols and standards. To support these trends, OEM network and telecommunications equipment manufacturers, such as Alcatel-Lucent (a subsidiary of Nokia Corporation), Brocade Communications Systems, Inc., Cisco Systems, Inc., Tel. LM Ericsson, Fujitsu Ltd., Hitachi Ltd., Huawei Technologies, Juniper Networks, Inc., Nokia Corporation, and ZTE Corporation, must offer higher levels of packet forwarding rates, bandwidth density and be optimized to enable higher-density, lower power data path connectivity in the next generations of their networking systems. 

Networking and telecommunications systems throughout the network must operate at higher speed and performance levels and so require new generations of packet processors and improved memory subsystems, as well as new physical interface products, to enable system performance. These systems and their component line cards generally need to support aggregate rates of 100 gigabits per second, or Gbps, and above to meet the continued growth in network traffic. Cloud services have accelerated this transition with applications such as security. Data centers and access equipment that were previously aggregating slower traffic such at 1Gbps to 10Gbps, and 40Gbps, now are being designed to aggregate traffic at 10Gbps to 100Gbps, or more. The transition to 100 Gbps networks has begun, and 100 Gbps networks are expected to grow rapidly over the coming years. 

Several types of semiconductors are included on each line card, including PHY, one or more packet processors and multiple memory chips. Packet processors are complex ICs or IC chipsets that perform high speed processing for functions, such as traffic routing, shaping, metering, billing, statistics, detection and steering. The line cards use various types of memory ICs to facilitate temporary packet storage and assist in the analysis and tracking of information embedded within each packet flowing through the processors. After a packet enters the line card through a PHY, a packet or data processor helps separate the packet into smaller pieces for rapid analysis. Typically, the data is broken up into the packet header, which contains vital information on packet destination and type, such as the Internet 

protocol address, and the payload, which contains the data being sent. Generally, the line card operations must occur at full data rates and typically require accessing memory ICs many times. Simultaneously, the packet's payload, which may be substantially larger than the packet header, is also stored in memory ICs until processing is complete and the packet can re-combine and be sent to its next system destination. Within the line card, communication between the packet processor and memory ICs occurs through an interface consisting of combinations of physical pins on each type of chip. These pins are grouped together in a parallel or a serial architecture to form a pathway, called a bus, through which information is transferred from one IC to the next. 

Today, the majority of physical buses that connect networking equipment and components use a parallel architecture to communicate between processors and memory ICs, which means information can travel only in one direction and in one instance at a time. As processing speeds increase, the number of pins required and the speed of the bus in a parallel architecture become a limitation on system performance and capability. In contrast, the number of connections is reduced substantially across fewer, higher-rate pins in a serial architecture, and data is transferred simultaneously in both directions. Data transfer rates with high-speed serial bus architectures and more advanced I/O protocols are limited by the capabilities of the various ICs included on the line card, thus leading to bottlenecks when these ICs perform inadequately. In order to remove these bottlenecks and meet next-generation bandwidth requirements, the line card ICs must support high-speed serial bus architectures and these more advanced I/O protocols. 

Most networking and communication systems sold and in operation today include line cards that process data at speeds ranging from 10 Gbps, to 100 Gbps, and support many aggregated slower ports. To accommodate the substantial and growing increase in demand for networking communications and applications, networking systems manufacturers are developing and bringing to market next-generation systems that run at aggregate speeds of 100 to 400 Gbps or more with developments underway to scale to thousands of Gbps, or terabits, per second. However, although processor performance in applications such as computing and networking has continued to double nearly every 18 months, or even sooner, the performance of memory technology has generally been able to double only once every 10 years. Existing memory IC solutions based on parallel I/O architecture easily support speeds up to 40 Gbps, but are not optimal for meeting speeds of 100 Gbps and beyond due to system-level limitations for pin counts, power and performance. These networking and communications systems are generally comprised of a chassis populated by four to 16 line cards. Often, these systems are shipped to customers with only a portion of the line card slots populated, and the customer will add additional line cards subsequently to increase system performance and capacity. 

Each line card requires a significant amount of memory to support its processing capabilities. Traditional external memory IC solutions currently used on line cards include both dynamic random access memory, or DRAM, and static random access memory, or SRAM. Line cards in networking systems use both specialized, high-performance DRAM ICs, such as reduced-latency DRAM, or RLDRAM, low-latency DRAM, or LLDRAM, and commodity DRAM, such as double data rate, or DDR ICs. In addition, networking systems use higher-performance SRAM ICs such as quad data rate, or QDR SRAM. Substantially all of these traditional memory IC solutions use parallel interfaces, which are slower than serial interfaces, so we believe they will be increasingly challenged to meet the performance, pin count, area and power requirements as networking systems expand beyond 100 Gbps. The result is a gap between processor and memory performance. To meet the higher performance requirements being demanded by the industry, while using current components and architectural approaches, system designers must add more discrete memory ICs to the line cards and/or add more embedded memory on the packet processor. This results in higher cost and power consumption, the use of more space on the line cards and additional communication interference between the ICs, which in turn results in additional bandwidth limitation problems. We believe our Bandwidth Engine family of products is well suited to address these challenges and replace these traditional memory solutions. 

In addition, each line card requires PHY products to provide interoperability and signal integrity functions. As network speeds increase beyond 100Gbps, the serial data rates are transitioning from 10Gbps to 25Gbps. This means that the signal integrity challenges (maintaining the quality of the electrical signals) of moving these high speed signals around within line cards, or between line cards and systems using fiber optic or copper cable, increase as data rates increase. These networking systems often use copper or optical modules to modify signals for transmission over longer distances ranging from tens of meters to thousands of kilometers. Optical modules convert electrical signals to optical signals for transportation over longer distances from one system to another system. Because of the challenges arising from the increase in network speeds, new 100Gbps standards have emerged that specify a CDR or retimed interface on optical modules, which was not the case at 10Gbps based interfaces. Each 100Gbps module and above using 25Gbps per lane will require a CDR/retimer function inside the module to meet these requirements. In addition, the systems themselves also require additional support to move signals between the module and the system, and these challenges become more acute as the distance increases. Our LineSpeed products address these new line card and optical module challenges by providing unique signal integrity and feature sets that align with the industry standards, as well as provide backward compatibility for the previous data rates. We believe our LineSpeed PHY products are well suited ensure the quality of signals and/or increase the transmission distance for both short reach (e.g., between ICs on a line card) or long-reach (e.g., between line cards or systems). 

We have developed our Bandwidth Engine and LineSpeed families of ICs to synergistically address the need for high-speed data access and throughput currently confronting networking system designers. We expect our IC products to meet the increasing demands placed on conventional memory technology used on the line cards in high-bandwidth networking systems. We believe that our products and technology are well positioned as replacements for existing IC solutions in order to meet the needs of the next-generation networking systems that will require a large number of packet lookups and to support aggregated rates greater than 100 Gbps. 

Our Approach 

Our historical business was focused on the licensing of our proprietary 1T-SRAM and SerDes I/O technologies. We have leveraged our proprietary IP to design our Bandwidth Engine and LineSpeed IC product families to help networking OEMs address the growing bottlenecks in system performance. We have incorporated critical features into our product families to accomplish this objective. 

On-chip Functionality 

One significant performance bottleneck in any network line card is the need to transfer data between discrete ICs. Many of these data-transfer operations are iterative in nature, requiring subsequent, back-to-back accesses of the memory IC by the processor IC. Our Bandwidth Engine ICs include an arithmetic logic unit, or ALU, which enables the Bandwidth Engine IC to perform mathematical operations on data. Moving certain processing functions from the processor IC to the Bandwidth Engine IC through the use of this embedded ALU, reduces the number of I/O transactions and frees the processor IC to perform other important networking or micro-processing functions. 

High-Performance Interface 

High-speed, efficient interface I/Os are critical building blocks to meet high data transfer rate requirements for communication between ICs on network line cards. We believe that current networking system requirements necessitate an industry transition from parallel to serial I/O. As a result, semiconductor companies are increasingly turning to serial I/O architectures to achieve needed system performance. For example, high-performance ICs that are sold into wide markets, such as field programmable gate arrays, or FPGAs, and network processing units, NPUs, are using serial I/Os to ensure they can compete with custom designed application specific ICs, or ASICs, by matching their 

performance. Using serial I/O, IC developers also are able to reduce pin count (the wired electrical pins that connect an IC to the network line card on which it is mounted) on the IC. With reducing geometries, the size of most high-performance ICs is dictated by the number of pins required, rather than the amount of logic and memory embedded in the chip. As a result, using serial I/O facilitates cost reduction and reduced system power consumption, while improving the performance of both the IC itself and the overall system. While SerDes I/Os provide significantly enhanced performance over parallel I/Os, SerDes I/Os traditionally have had higher power consumption, which is a challenge for IC designers. Our SerDes I/Os, however, are tuned for low power consumption to meet our customers' stringent power consumption requirements. 

We make our I/O technologies compliant with industry standards so that they can interoperate with interfaces on existing ICs. In addition, we make them programmable to support multiple data rates, which allows for greater flexibility for the system designer, while lowering their development and validation costs. Interoperability reduces development time, thereby reducing the overall time to market of our customers' systems. 

Analog Design Capabilities 

We have invested in personnel needed to define, design and market high-performance analog IC products. We have built a team of experienced engineers who combine industry expertise with advanced semiconductor design expertise to meet customer requirements and develop new products to bring to market. We intend to leverage these capabilities to achieve new levels of integration, power reduction and performance, enabling our customers to achieve differentiation in their end systems. We initially developed our team of analog engineers to develop the SerDes I/O used in our Bandwidth Engine families of products. We leveraged the capabilities of this team to produce our LineSpeed IC products, which are primarily comprised of analog circuitry. 

GigaChip Interface Protocol 

In addition to the physical characteristics of the serial I/O, the protocol used to transmit data is also an important element that impacts speed and performance. To address this and complement our Bandwidth Engine devices, we have developed the GigaChip Interface&#174;, or GCI, which is an open-interface transport protocol optimized for efficient chip-to-chip communications. The GCI electrical interface is compatible with the current industry standard (Common Electrical Interface, release #11, or CEI-11G-SR and XFI) to simplify electrical interoperability between devices. GCI can enable highly efficient serial chip-to-chip communications, and its transport efficiency averages 90% for the data transfers it handles. GCI is included in our Bandwidth Engine ICs, and is offered to customers and prospective partners on terms intended to encourage widespread adoption. 

High-Performance and High-Density Memory Architecture 

The high-density of our proprietary 1T-SRAM technologies stems from the use of a single-transistor, or 1T, which is similar to DRAM, with a storage cell for each bit of information. Embedded memory utilizing our 1T-SRAM technologies is typically two to three times denser than the six-transistor storage cells used by traditional SRAM, or 6T-SRAM. Embedded memory utilizing our 1T-SRAM technologies typically provides speeds essentially equal to or greater than the speeds of traditional SRAM and DRAM, particularly for larger memory sizes. Our 1T-SRAM memory designs can sustain random access cycle times of less than three nanoseconds, significantly faster than embedded 6T-SRAM technology. Embedded memory utilizing our 1T-SRAM technologies can consume as little as one-half the active power and generate less heat than traditional SRAM when operating at the same speed. This reduces system level heat dissipation and enables reliable operation using lower cost packaging. 

Our Strategy 

Our primary business objective is to be an IP-rich fabless semiconductor company offering ICs that deliver unparalleled memory bandwidth performance for packet processing and improved signal integrity performance for networking, security and data center systems. The key components of the expansion of our strategic plan to become an IC supplier include the following strategies: 

Target Large and Growing Markets 

Our initial strategy is to target the multi-billion dollar networking telecommunications, security and data center OEM equipment markets, and we have developed products to support the growth in 100 Gbps and higher networking speeds. We are currently supporting approximately 25 existing customers, with whom we have achieved over 85 design wins, which reflects broadening acceptance of our products. We define a design win as the point at which a customer has made a commitment to build a board against the fixed schematic for his system, and this board will utilize our IC products. We continue to actively pursue additional design wins for the use of our ICs in our target markets. We believe our design wins represent the potential for significant future revenues. With limited history to date, however, we cannot estimate how much revenue each design win is likely to generate, or how much revenue all of these (and future design wins) are likely to generate. For example, our first design wins from 2012 and 2013 are starting to ramp into production, and, while we cannot predict how steep these ramps might be, we expect our revenues from them to grow in successive periods over the next few years. There is no assurance that these customer designs will be shipped in large volume by our customers to their customers, however. 

Leverage Technologies to Create New Products 

Our strategy is to combine our proprietary IP and design and applications expertise to address the needs of several upcoming generations of advanced networking systems. We believe an IC combining our 1T-SRAM and serial I/O with logic, such as in an ALU, and other functions can provide a system-level solution and significantly improve overall system performance at lower cost while using less power. We also seek to leverage our high-speed serial I/O to create non-memory denominated ICs, such as our LineSpeed products. Our initial LineSpeed products targeted the line card and the same customers as our Bandwidth Engine products. This has given us the opportunity to provide both memory and PHY solutions during the sale process. In 2013, we introduced our first LineSpeed products to address the requirements new industry standards were placing on optical modules, as well as line cards. 

Expand Adoption of the GigaChip Interface Protocol 

We have provided our GCI interface protocol as an open industry standard that may be designed into other ICs in the system, as we believe this will further enable serial communication on network line cards and encourage adoption of our Bandwidth Engine IC products. A number of IC providers and partners have publicly announced their support of GCI and Bandwidth Engine, including the largest FPGA providers, Altera Corporation (a subsidiary of Intel Corporation), Xilinx, Inc., and EZchip Semiconductor Ltd. (a subsidiary of Mellanox Technologies Ltd.), with whom we work closely to support common customers. In addition, multiple networking systems companies, including actual and prospective customers, have adopted GCI. 

Build Long-Term Relationships with Suppliers of Packet Processors 

We believe that having long-term relationships with packet processor providers is critical to our success, as such relationships may enable us to reduce our time-to-market, provide us with a competitive advantage and expand our target markets. A key consideration of network system designers is to demonstrate interoperability between our Bandwidth Engine IC and the packet processors utilized in their systems. To obtain design wins for our Bandwidth Engine IC, we must demonstrate this interoperability, and also show that our IC works optimally with the packet processor to achieve the 

performance requirements. In addition, our current strategy requires packet processor suppliers to adopt our GCI interface. To that end, we have been working closely with FPGA, ASIC and NPU providers, to enable interoperability between our Bandwidth Engine IC products and their high-performance products. To facilitate the acceptance of our Bandwidth Engine ICs, we have made available development and characterization kits for system designers to evaluate and develop code for next-generation networking systems. Our characterization kits are fully-functional hardware platforms that allow FPGA and ASIC providers, and their customers, to demonstrate interoperability of the Bandwidth Engine IC with the ASIC or FPGA the designers use within their networking systems. Our recent announcement of the third-generation Bandwidth Engine Z30 device, designed for interoperability with the EZ-chip NPS-400, is an example and direct result of this strategy. 

Our Products 

Bandwidth Engine 

The Bandwidth Engine is a memory-dominated IC that has been designed to be a high-performance companion IC to packet processors. While the Bandwidth Engine primarily functions as a memory device with a high-performance and high-efficiency interface, it also can accelerate certain processing operations by serving as a co-processor element. Our Bandwidth Engine ICs combine: (1) our proprietary high-density, high-speed, low latency embedded memory, (2) our high-speed serial interface technology, or SerDes, (3) an open-standard interface protocol and (4) intelligent access technology. We believe an IC combining our 1T-SRAM memory and serial I/O with logic and other intelligence functions provides a system-level solution and significantly improves overall system performance at lower cost, size and power consumption. Our Bandwidth Engine ICs can provide up to and over 4.5 billion memory accesses per second, which is more than twice the performance of current memory-based solutions. They also can enable system designers to significantly narrow the gap between processor and memory IC performance. Customers that design Bandwidth Engine ICs onto the line cards in their networking systems will re-architect their systems at the line-card level and use our product to replace traditional memory solutions. When compared with existing commercially available solutions, our Bandwidth Engine ICs may: 

&#149; provide up to four times the performance; &#149; reduce power by approximately 50%; &#149; reduce cost by greater than 50%; and &#149; result in a dramatic reduction in IC pin counts on the line card. Our first generation Bandwidth Engine IC products contain 576 megabytes, or MB, of memory and use a serial I/O with up to 16 lanes operating at up to 10.3 Gbps per lane. Variations of this IC can have up to two interface ports, with up to eight serial receiver and eight serial transmitter lanes per port for a total of 16 lanes of 10.3 Gbps SerDes interface. These ICs include an ALU, which can perform read-modify-write operations. We have been shipping our initial Bandwidth Engine products since 2012. 

Our second generation Bandwidth Engine IC products contain 576 MB of memory and use serial I/O with up to 16 lanes operating at up to 15 Gbps per lane. In addition to a speed improvement of up to 50%, the architecture will enable several family member parts with added specialized features. To date, we have announced three unique devices in this product family: 

&#149; MSR620 with burst features optimized for oversubscription buffer applications; &#149; MSR720 with a write cache and memory coherency capability that allows for deterministic look-ups optimized for state and queue type applications; and &#149; MSR820 with increased intelligence for lookup, metering and statistics applications by adding dual counters, atomic and extensive metering functions. 9 

We have been shipping our Bandwidth Engine 2 IC products since 2013. 

Our third generation Bandwidth Engine IC products contain 1152 MB of memory and use serial I/O with up to 16 lanes operating at up to 30 Gbps per lane. Bandwidth Engine 3 targets support for packet-processing applications with up to five billion memory single word accesses per second, as well as burst mode to enable full duplex buffering up to 400Gbps for ingress, egress and oversubscription applications. To date, we have announced three unique devices in this product family: 

&#149; MSR630 enables high rate lookup or high-performance buffer capabilities; and &#149; MSR830 offers additional offload capabilities for functions such as statistics and metering to increase performance and add features for next-generation networking and communications equipment; and &#149; MSRZ30 builds upon the capabilities and performance of the MSR830, with data rates, interface protocol and data structures that are optimized for the EZchip NPS-400 network processing unit, or NPU, and can increase memory bandwidth by up to 50%. We commenced sampling of these products in the first quarter of 2016. 

The devices provide benefits of size, power, pin count and cost savings to our customers. 

LineSpeed 

Our first generation LineSpeed products consist of single-chip PHY ICs, including a 100G multi-mode gearbox and a 100G quad retimer. These devices are designed to support 10, 40 and 100Gbps standards for high-density line cards or modules for next generation ethernet and optical transport network applications. These devices are capable of supporting both short and long reach connections across different specifications. We have developed these PHY ICs to provide the CDR function and to provide signal conversion from lower rates to higher rates both on the line card and within the optical module. We have defined performance and form factor (sizes) for specific devices for optimization of features and performance to solve challenges on the line card and in the optical module. We introduced and began sampling these devises in 2013. 

Our second generation of LineSpeed products consists of our 100G low power retimer, which is optimized for ultra low power consumption, integrated test features and small size. The low-power retimer is primarily targeting opportunities in 100G CFP2, CFP4 and QSFP28 optical modules and active copper cables. We introduced and began sampling this product in 2014. 

We announced our third generation of our LineSpeed products, the Flex family of 100G PHYs, and sampled first devices in the second half of 2015. These PHY devices are designed to support the latest industry standards and include gearbox, Multi-Link Gearbox, or MLG, and high density CDR/retimer devices designed to enable existing and next generation Ethernet and OTN line card applications to support the latest high-density electrical and optical interfaces. To date, we have announced four unique devices in this product family: 

&#149; MSH320, a 100Gbps Gearbox with RS-FEC: For adapting 10x10 to 4x25 from 100Gbps optical standards to a host ASIC, MAC/Framer, NPU or FPGA with 10x10G interfaces. The MSH320 includes an integrated Reed-Solomon forward error correction, or RS-FEC, option to enable systems to also support new electrical and optical standards. The device also includes a 10x10Gbps retimer to allow seamless support of 10 and 40Gbps interfaces; &#149; MSH225, a 10 Lane Full-Duplex Retimer: For high-density retiming applications where the line rates may be up to 28Gbps per lane and connect to host ASIC, framer, NPU or FPGA ICs equipped with 25Gbps interfaces. Each one of the 20 total independent lanes can be configured to support 10, 25, 40 or 100Gbps standards. The MSH225 integrates optional 100Gbps RS-FEC capability and includes a unique redundant link mode feature to support redundancy, scaling or monitoring features; 10 

&#149; MSH322, a 100Gbps Multi-Link Gearbox for Line Cards for support of high-density, independent 10GE and 40GE interfaces multiplexed into a 100GE (4x25Gbps) host interface, while supporting the latest optical industry standards. The device enables line cards with high-density switches based on 25Gbps interfaces to support two times the density of 10 and 40Gbps ports; and &#149; MSH321, a derivative Multi-Link Gearbox built into a highly compact package and optimized layout to support the MLG function in module and compact daughter card applications. We do not anticipate significant revenues from our LineSpeed ICs until 2017 or later. While we have a robust pipeline of design win opportunities, to date, less than 10% of our design wins claimed are for our LineSpeed products, and we expect these customers to take a minimum of 18 months to commence production. 

IP Licensing and Distribution 

Historically, we have offered our memory and I/O technologies on a worldwide basis to semiconductor companies, electronic product manufacturers, foundries, intellectual property companies and design companies through product development, technology licensing and joint marketing relationships. We licensed our IP technology to semiconductor companies who incorporated our technology into ICs that they sold to their customers. As a result of the change in our corporate strategy, since early 2012, our IP licensing activities have been limited, and we expect this to continue. However, during 2015, 45% of our total revenues were generated from royalties related to our existing licensing arrangements, as we continue to collect royalties from 1T- SRAM licensees. Licensing and royalty revenues have been declining since 2010, and we expect continued decline in 2016. 

Research and Development 

Our ability to compete in the future depends on successfully improving our technology to meet the market's increasing demand for higher performance and lower cost requirements. We have assembled a team of highly skilled engineers whose activities are focused on developing higher density, higher bandwidth, higher speed and lower cost next generation IC products. Development of our IC products requires specialized chip design and product engineers, as well as significant fabrication and testing costs, including mask costs, as we bring these products to market. We expect our significant future research and development activities to include: 

&#149; designing next generation ICs with larger memory blocks and higher-speed SerDes; &#149; developing versions of our Bandwidth Engine ICs with alternative features, such as lower-speed SerDes, increased chip-level intelligence or smaller memory blocks to allow us to serve a broader range of applications and systems; &#149; developing derivative versions of our LineSpeed ICs to meet customer demands; and &#149; developing new products that can leverage our proprietary IP portfolio and expand our market opportunity. No development efforts are being dedicated to creating new or enhanced technology solely for use in licensing offerings. 

Sales and Marketing 

We believe that networking and communications systems OEMs typically prefer to extend the use of traditional memory solutions and their parallel interfaces, despite performance and costs challenges and are reluctant to change their technology platforms and adopt new designs and technologies, such as serial interfaces, which are an integral part of our product solutions. Therefore, our principal selling and marketing activities to date have been focused on persuading these OEMs and key component suppliers that our solutions provide critical performance advantages, as well as on securing design wins with them. 

Our sales and marketing personnel are located in the United States, Japan and China. In addition to our direct sales team, we sell through sales representatives and distributors in the United States and Asia. We also have eight applications engineers who support our customer engagements and work closely with our engineering team on product definition. For our products, our applications engineers must engage with the customers' system architects and designers to propose our IC and IP solutions such as the GCI Interface, to address their systems challenges. 

In the markets we serve, the time from initial customer engagement to design win to production volume shipments can range from 18-36 months. Networking and communications systems can have a product life from a few years to over 10 years once a product like ours has been designed into the system. 

Our revenue has been highly concentrated, with a few customers accounting for a significant percentage of our total revenue. For the year ended December 31, 2015, Alcatel-Lucent, Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co., Ltd., or TSMC and Kogent, Inc., our Japanese IC distributor, represented 34%, 31% and 12% of total revenue, respectively. For the year ended December 31, 2014, TSMC, Kogent, Inc. and Broadcom Ltd., represented 34%, 31% and 11% of total revenue, respectively. For the year ended December 31, 2013, TSMC and Broadcom Ltd., licensees of our memory IP, represented 41% and 13% of total revenue, respectively. 

Customers in North America accounted for 51%, 28% and 30% of our revenues for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. Customers in Japan accounted for 15%, 36% and 27% of our revenues for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. Customers in Taiwan accounted for 32%, 35% and 42% of our revenues for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. Our remaining revenues were primarily from customers in the rest of Asia and in Europe. 

Intellectual Property 

We regard our patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets and similar intellectual property as critical to our success, and rely on a combination of patent, trademark, copyright, and trade secret laws to protect our proprietary rights. 

As of December 31, 2015, we held approximately 67 U.S. and 30 foreign patents on various aspects of our technology, with expiration dates ranging from 2016 to 2035. We currently have approximately 29 pending patent applications in the U.S. and abroad. There can be no assurance that others will not independently develop or patent similar or competing technology or design around any patents that may be issued to us, or that we will be able to successfully enforce our patents against infringement by others. 

In December 2011, we sold 43 United States and 30 related foreign memory technology patents for $35 million in cash pursuant to a patent purchase agreement. Under the agreement, we retained a license to all of the sold patents that is unlimited with respect to our development, manufacturing and distribution of our Bandwidth Engine IC product line and any other proprietary products that we develop as long as they are not DRAM ICs. We also retained the rights necessary to renew existing 

1T-SRAM licenses and to grant licenses similar in scope to identified foundries. We also retained rights to grant licenses for our second source purposes, to enable certain kinds of technology development and, to a limited extent, for certain ASIC products that incorporate one of our technology macros. However, the patent purchase agreement limits our rights to grant licenses under the sold patents outside the scope of our retained license and, in particular, limits the number of future licenses of 1T-SRAM memory technology that we can grant to developers of SoCs, which used to be the principal focus of our 1T-SRAM licensing activities. 

The semiconductor industry is characterized by frequent litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. Our licensees or we might, from time to time, receive notice of claims that we have infringed patents or other intellectual property rights owned by others. Our successful protection of our patents and other intellectual property rights and our ability to make, use, import, offer to sell, and sell products free from the intellectual property rights of others are subject to a number of factors, particularly those described in Part I, Item 1A, "Risk Factors." 

Competition 

The markets for our products are highly competitive. We believe that the principal competitive factors are: 

&#149; processing speed and performance; &#149; density and cost; &#149; power consumption; &#149; reliability; &#149; interface requirements; &#149; ease with which technology can be customized for and incorporated into customers' products; and &#149; level of technical support provided. We believe that we can compete favorably with respect to each of these criteria. Our proprietary 1T-SRAM embedded memory and high-speed serial I/O IP can provide our Bandwidth Engine ICs with a competitive advantage over alternative devices. Alternative solutions are either DRAM or SRAM-based and can support either the memory size or speed requirements of high-performance networking systems, but generally not both. DRAM solutions provide a significant amount of memory at competitive cost, but DRAM solutions do not have the required fast access and cycle times to enable high-performance. The DRAM solutions currently used in networking systems include RLDRAM from Micron Technology, Inc., or Micron, and Integrated Silicon Solutions, Inc., LLDRAM from Renesas and DDR from Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd., Micron and others. In addition, Micron has a hybrid memory cube DRAM product, which consists of multiple DRAMs connected with a serial interface. SRAM solutions can meet high-speed performance requirements, but often lack adequate memory size. The SRAM solutions currently used in networking systems primarily include QDR or similar SRAM products from Cypress Semiconductor Corporation and GSI Technology, Inc. The majority of the currently available SRAM and DRAM solutions use a parallel, rather than a serial I/O. To offset these drawbacks, system designers generally must use more discrete memory ICs, resulting in higher power consumption and greater utilization of space on the line card. 

Our competitors include established semiconductor companies with significantly longer operating histories, greater name recognition and reputation, large customer bases, dedicated manufacturing facilities and greater financial, technical, sales and marketing resources. This may allow them to respond more quickly than us to new or emerging technologies or changes in customer requirements. 

Many of our competitors also have significant influence in the semiconductor industry. They may be able to introduce new technologies or devote greater resources to the development, marketing and sales of their products than we can. Furthermore, in the event of a manufacturing capacity shortage, these competitors may be able to manufacture products when we are unable to do so. 

Our Bandwidth Engine ICs compete with embedded memory solutions, stand-alone memory ICs, including both DRAM and SRAM ICs, and ASICs designed by customers in-house to meet their system requirements. Our prospective customers may be unwilling to adopt and design-in our ICs due to the uncertainties and risks surrounding designing a new IC into their systems and relying on a supplier that has limited history of manufacturing such ICs. In addition, Bandwidth Engine ICs require the customer and its other IC suppliers to implement our chip-to-chip communication protocol, the GCI interface. These parties may be unwilling to do this if they believe it could adversely impact their own future product developments or competitive advantages, or, if they believe it might complicate their development process or increase the cost of their products. In order to remain competitive, we believe we must provide unparalleled memory IC solutions with the highest bandwidth capability for our target markets, which solutions are engineered and built for high-reliability carrier and enterprise applications. 

Our LineSpeed ICs compete with solutions offered by Broadcom Ltd., Inphi Corporation, M/A-COM Technology Solutions Holdings, Inc. and Semtech Corp., as well as other smaller analog signal processing companies. We also may compete with ASICs designed by customers in-house to meet their system requirements, as well as by optical module OEMs. The market for our LineSpeed products is highly competitive, and customers have a number of suppliers they can choose from. We must provide differentiated features with a reasonable IC power budget, while offering competitive pricing. 

Manufacturing 

We depend on third-party vendors to manufacture, package, assemble and test our IC products, as we do not own or operate a semiconductor fabrication, packaging or production testing facility for boards and system assembly. By outsourcing manufacturing, we are able to avoid the high cost associated with owning and operating our own facilities, allowing us to focus our efforts on the design and marketing of our products. 

We perform an ongoing review of product manufacturing and testing processes. Our IC products are subjected to extensive testing to assess whether their performance meets design specifications. Our test vendors provide us with immediate test data and the ability to generate characterization reports that are made available to our customers. We have achieved ISO 9001:2008 certification, and all of our manufacturing vendors have also achieved ISO 9001 certification. 

Employees 

As of December 31, 2015, we had 104 employees, consisting of 75 in research and development, 8 in sales and marketing, 11 in manufacturing operations and 10 in finance and administration. By location, we had 81 employees in the United States, 21 in our development center in India and 2 sales and marketing employees in Asia. In January 2016, we committed to effect a reduction in our workforce and associated operating expenses, net loss and cash burn and to realign resources, as we have substantially concluded development of new products, including our third generation Bandwidth Engine IC product family, and expect to bring these products to market in 2016. We have reduced United States headcount by approximately 13 people and will cease operations at our subsidiary in Hyderabad, India in the first half of 2016. 

Available Information 

We were founded in 1991 and reincorporated in Delaware in September 2000. Our website address is www.mosys.com. The information in our website is not incorporated by reference into this report. Through a link on the Investor section of our website, we make available our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC. You can also read and obtain copies of any materials we file with the SEC, at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 450 Fifth Street, NW, Washington, DC 20549. You can obtain additional information about the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1.800.SEC.0330. In addition, the SEC maintains a website (www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC, including us. 

Executive Officers 

The names of our executive officers and certain information about them are set forth below: 

Name 

&#160; Age &#160; Position(s) with the Company Leonard Perham &#160; &#160; 72 &#160; President and Chief Executive Officer James W. Sullivan &#160; &#160; 47 &#160; Vice President of Finance and Chief Financial Officer Thomas Riordan &#160; &#160; 59 &#160; Chief Operating Officer and Executive Vice President John Monson &#160; &#160; 53 &#160; Vice President of Marketing and Sales 

&#160; Leonard Perham. Mr. Perham was appointed President and Chief Executive Officer in November 2007. Mr. Perham was one of the original investors in MoSys and served on our Board of Directors from 1991 to 1997. In 2000, Mr. Perham retired from Integrated Device Technology, Inc., or IDT, where he served as Chief Executive Officer from 1991 and President and board member from 1986. From March 2000 to February 2012, Mr. Perham served as a member of or chairman of the board of directors of NetLogic Microsystems, a fabless semiconductor company. Prior to joining IDT, Mr. Perham was President and CEO of Optical Information Systems, Inc., a division of Exxon Enterprises. He was also a member of the founding team at Zilog, Inc. and held management positions at Advanced Micro Devices and Western Digital. Mr. Perham received a Bachelor of Science degree in Electrical Engineering from Northeastern University. 

&#160; James W. Sullivan. Mr. Sullivan became our Vice President of Finance and Chief Financial Officer in January 2008. From July 2006 until January 2008, Mr. Sullivan served as Vice President of Finance and Chief Financial Officer at Apptera, Inc., a venture-backed company providing software for mobile advertising, search and commerce. From July 2002 until June 2006, Mr. Sullivan was the Chief Financial Officer at 8x8, Inc., a provider of voice over internet protocol communication services. Mr. Sullivan's prior experience includes various positions at 8x8, Inc. and PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP. He received a Bachelor of Science degree in Accounting from New York University and is a Certified Public Accountant. 

&#160; Thomas Riordan. Mr. Riordan became our Chief Operating Officer and Executive Vice President in May 2011. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Riordan was President and Chief Executive Officer of Exclara, a fabless semiconductor supplier of ICs for solid-state lighting from 2006 until 2010. From 2000 to 2004, Mr. Riordan served as Vice President of PMC-Sierra's microprocessor division. Mr. Riordan joined PMC-Sierra in August 2000 when it purchased Quantum Effects Devices, which he had co founded and served as President and Chief Executive Officer. Mr. Riordan serves on the board of directors of Mellanox Technologies. Mr. Riordan holds Bachelor of Science and Master of Science degrees in Electrical Engineering as well as a Bachelor of Arts degree in Government from the 

University of Central Florida and has done post-graduate work in Electrical Engineering at Stanford University. 

&#160; John Monson. Mr. Monson became our Vice President of Marketing in February 2012. In early 2014, he assumed, on a permanent basis, additional responsibilities for our sales and business development activities and became our Vice President of Marketing and Sales. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Monson was Vice President of Marketing for Mellanox Technologies, a supplier of interconnect solutions and services, from 2009 to 2012. From 2007 to 2008, Mr. Monson was Vice President of the EDC/PhyOptik business line at Inphi Corporation. He joined Inphi Corporation through a business unit acquisition of Scintera Networks, where he was Vice President of Sales and Marketing from 2005 to 2007. Previously, he held various management positions at PMC-Sierra, Inc., Lucent Technologies and AT&#38;T Microelectronics. Mr. Monson received a Bachelor of Science degree in Electrical Engineering from the University of Minnesota. 

