 ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

KokiCare, Inc. was incorporated on April 24, 2015 under the laws of the State of Delaware.

Current Status 

The Company is in the discovery and planning phase to develop a real-time, SaaS-based enterprise software application to manage the integration, planning, tracking and management of healthcare assets, which include, people, supplies, clinical data, relationships, and financial resources of healthcare organizations.

With increased regulatory requirements and technology improvements in the healthcare industry, companies are inundated with greater volumes of data than ever before. We aim to provide technology for healthcare organizations to store, manage and access their data in meaningful ways, improving patient care and financial performance.

The Company is led by Mr. Jason Lane, who has served in various capacities in the public, private, and non-profit sectors with over 20 years of sales, marketing, finance, management, manufacturing and leadership experience. Mr. Lane obtained his MBA in 2005 and is the Director of Sales, North America &#150; West Region for ClearStructure Financial Technology, a software and technology firm catering to the investment management industry. Mr. Lane has worked in various sales, business development, and relationship management roles in the financial technology, private wealth management, legal, manufacturing and education spaces. Mr. Lane also serves on the board of two non-profit organizations, Single Mothers Outreach of Santa Clarita and the Boys and Girls Club of Santa Clarita. He is also an advisor to KaleidoEye, a youth leadership program. Mr. Lane resides in Valencia, CA and is married to a wife with 20 years of experience as an RN in Critical Care.

There is significant risk in our ability to successfully (i) complete the discovery and planning phase and begin the design phase, (ii) raise the required capital to hire engineers to begin the implementation phase, (iii) successfully implement and release the software application with all requirements, (iv) contract one or more customers to use the software application, and (v) price the application so that we receive revenues sufficient to cover the operating expenses of the Company, including the cost of maintaining, supporting and improving the software application.

Complete Control Over the Company 

Our majority shareholder, Jason Lane owns 9,000,000 common shares, approximately 87.21%, of our common stock. Therefore, Mr. Lane is able to exercise control over all matters requiring shareholder approval, including the election of directors, amendment of our Certificate of Incorporation and approval of significant corporate transactions. He also has significant control over our management and policies. The directors elected thereof will be able to significantly influence decisions affecting our capital structure. This control may have the effect of delaying or preventing changes in control or changes in management, or limiting the ability of our other shareholders to approve transactions that they may deem to be in their best interest.

Competition 

The healthcare software industry includes numerous companies that market to healthcare organizations, many of which have significantly greater resources and name recognition than do we, including significantly more financial resources. We plan on competing by utilizing the knowledge, experience and contacts of our founder Mr. Jason Lane. We cannot provide any assurances as to the likelihood of our success in this regard.

Shell Company 

KokiCare, Inc. is a shell company as defined in Rule 405, because it is a company with nominal operations and it has assets consisting solely of cash and cash equivalents.

Use of Form S-8 Prohibited by Shell Companies 

The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission prohibits reporting shell companies from using Form S-8, the form public companies use to register securities in connection with employee benefit plans under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, until sixty days after such companies cease to be shell companies and file required information.

Additionally, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission requires reporting shell companies (other than foreign private issuers, which the Company is not) to report on Form 8-K when they cease to be shell companies and to include in that report the information that would otherwise be required in a registration statement to register a class of securities under Section 12 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.

Definition of a Shell Company 

A public shell company is a non-operating public company, which means a company registered, and filing periodic reports under, the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Typically, shell companies are listed on the Nasdaq Small Cap Market, the Nasdaq Bulletin Board or the Pink Sheets. Shell companies can exist in three possible forms:

1.

A start-up company that has never achieved significant revenues and normally these companies have a rather short business history and have never acquired or managed substantial assets.

&#160;

2.

A former operating company that went out of business or sold all of its operations but the company's Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, registration is still active. Normally, these companies have a long business history and have owned substantial assets at some point in their history.

&#160;

3.

A company that was specifically formed and registered for the purpose of being sold in a reverse shell merger (also referred to as &#34;Blank Check Company&#34;). These companies have normally no business history and have never acquired any assets.

Intellectual Property 

We do not hold any patents, trademarks or other registered intellectual property on services or processes relating to our business at this time. With the exception of the domain name KokiCare.com and software applications to be developed in the future, we do not consider the grant of patents, trademarks or other registered intellectual property essential to the success of our business.

Employees 

We have one employee, our CEO and president, Mr. Jason Lane, who devotes part-time services to the Company. There is no written employment contract or agreement with Mr. Jason Lane. Additionally, Mr. Jason Lane receives no compensation from the Company.

