 ITEM 1. BUSINESS. 

General 

We are one of the largest health benefits companies in terms of medical membership in the United States, serving 38.6 million &#32; medical members through our affiliated health plans as of December 31, 2015 . We are an independent licensee of the Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association, or BCBSA, an association of independent health benefit plans. We serve our members as the Blue Cross licensee for California and as the Blue Cross and Blue Shield, or BCBS, licensee for Colorado, Connecticut, Georgia, Indiana, Kentucky, Maine, Missouri (excluding 30 &#32;counties in the Kansas City area), Nevada, New Hampshire, New York (as BCBS in 10 &#32;New York City metropolitan and surrounding counties, and as Blue Cross or BCBS in selected upstate counties only), Ohio, Virginia (excluding the Northern Virginia suburbs of Washington, D.C.) and Wisconsin. In a majority of these service areas we do business as Anthem Blue Cross, Anthem Blue Cross and Blue Shield, Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Georgia, and Empire Blue Cross Blue Shield, or Empire Blue Cross (in our New York service areas). We also conduct business through an arrangement with another BCBS licensee in South Carolina. We conduct business through our AMERIGROUP Corporation, or Amerigroup, subsidiary, in Florida, Georgia, Kansas, Louisiana, Maryland, Nevada, New Jersey, New Mexico, New York, Tennessee, Texas, Washington and effective January 1, 2016, in Iowa. In addition, we conduct business through our recently acquired Simply Healthcare Holdings, Inc., or Simply Healthcare, subsidiary in Florida. We also serve customers throughout the country as HealthLink, UniCare (including a non-risk arrangement with Massachusetts), and in certain Arizona, California, Nevada and Virginia markets through our CareMore Health Group, Inc., or CareMore, subsidiary. We are licensed to conduct insurance operations in all 50 states through our subsidiaries. &#32; 

On July 24, 2015, we and Cigna Corporation, or Cigna, announced that we entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger, or Merger Agreement, dated as of July 23, 2015, by and among Anthem, Cigna and Anthem Merger Sub Corp., a Delaware corporation and our direct wholly-owned subsidiary, pursuant to which we will acquire all outstanding shares of Cigna, or the Acquisition. The Acquisition will further our goal of creating a premier health benefits company with critical diversification and scale to lead the transformation of health care delivery for consumers. Cigna is a global health services organization that delivers affordable and personalized products and services to customers through employer-based, government-sponsored and individual coverage arrangements. All of Cigna's products and services are provided exclusively by or through its operating subsidiaries, including Connecticut General Life Insurance Company, Cigna Health and Life Insurance Company, Life Insurance Company of North America and Cigna Life Insurance Company of New York. Such products and services include an integrated suite of health services, such as medical, dental, behavioral health, pharmacy, vision, supplemental benefits, and other related products including group life, accident and disability insurance. Cigna maintains sales capability in 30 countries and jurisdictions. 

Under the terms of the Merger Agreement, Cigna&#8217;s shareholders will receive $103.40 in cash and 0.5152 shares of our common stock for each Cigna common share outstanding. The value of the transaction is estimated to be approximately $53.0 billion based on the closing price of our common stock on the New York Stock Exchange on July 23, 2015. The final purchase price will be determined based on our closing stock price on the date of closing of the Acquisition. The combined company will reflect a pro forma equity ownership comprised of approximately 67% Anthem shareholders and approximately 33% Cigna shareholders. On December 3, 2015, both our and Cigna's shareholders approved the proposals necessary to proceed with the Acquisition. 

We expect to finance the cash portion of the Acquisition through available cash on hand and the issuance of new debt. The Acquisition is expected to close in the second half of 2016 and is subject to certain state regulatory approvals, other standard closing conditions and customary approvals required under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act. For additional information, see "Risk Factors" included in Part I, Item 1A; "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Overview" included in Part II, Item 7; and Note 3, &#8220;Business Acquisitions and Divestiture - Pending Acquisition of Cigna Corporation " included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

In February 2015, we reported that we were the target of a sophisticated external cyber attack. The attackers gained unauthorized access to certain of our information technology systems and obtained personal information related to many individuals and employees. We have continued to implement security enhancements since this incident and are supporting federal law enforcement efforts to identify the responsible parties. For additional information about the cyber attack, see Note 

- 3 - 

13, &#8220;Commitments and Contingencies - Cyber Attack Incident ,&#8221; to our audited consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. &#32; 

On February 17, 2015, we completed our acquisition of Simply Healthcare, a leading managed care company for people enrolled in Medicaid and Medicare programs in Florida. This acquisition aligns with our strategy for continued growth in our Government Business segment. As a result, we serve more than six hundred thousand members in Florida through our affiliated Amerigroup and Simply Healthcare Medicaid and Medicare plans. &#32;For additional information, see Note 3, &#8220;Business Acquisitions and Divestiture - Acquisition of Simply Healthcare " included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

We have a vision of becoming America's valued health partner. Together we are transforming health care with trusted and caring solutions and as a result, we focus on delivering quality products and services that give members access to the care they need. With an unyielding commitment to meeting the needs of our diverse customers, we are guided by the following values: 

&#8226; Accountable 

&#8226; Caring 

&#8226; Easy to do business with 

&#8226; Innovative 

&#8226; Trustworthy 

We offer a broad spectrum of network-based managed care plans to large and small employer, individual, Medicaid and Medicare markets. Our managed care plans include: preferred provider organizations, or PPOs; health maintenance organizations, or HMOs; point-of-service, or POS, plans; traditional indemnity plans and other hybrid plans, including consumer-driven health plans, or CDHPs; and hospital only and limited benefit products. In addition, we provide a broad array of managed care services to self-funded customers, including claims processing, underwriting, stop loss insurance, actuarial services, provider network access, medical cost management, disease management, wellness programs and other administrative services. We provide an array of specialty and other insurance products and services such as dental, vision, life and disability insurance benefits, radiology benefit management and analytics-driven personal health care. We also provide services to the federal government in connection with the Federal Employee Program, or FEP. 

The increased focus on health care costs by employers, the government and consumers has continued to drive the growth of alternatives to traditional indemnity health insurance. HMO, PPO and hybrid plans, such as POS plans and CDHPs, are among the various forms of managed care products that have been developed. Through these types of products, insurers attempt to contain the cost of health care by negotiating contracts with hospitals, physicians and other providers to deliver high quality health care to members at favorable rates. These products usually feature medical management and other quality and cost optimization measures such as pre-admission review and approval for certain non-emergency services, pre-authorization of outpatient surgical procedures, network credentialing to determine that network doctors and hospitals have the required certifications and expertise, and various levels of care management programs to help members better understand and navigate the health care system. In addition, providers may have incentives to achieve certain quality measures, may share medical cost risk or may have other incentives to deliver quality medical services in a cost-effective manner. Also, certain plans offer members incentives for healthy behaviors, such as smoking cessation and weight management. Members are charged periodic, prepaid premiums and generally pay co-payments, coinsurance and/or deductibles when they receive services. While the distinctions between the various types of plans have lessened over recent years, PPO, POS and CDHP products generally provide reduced benefits for out-of-network services, while traditional HMO products generally provide little to no reimbursement for non-emergency out-of-network utilization, but often offer more generous benefit coverage. An HMO plan may also require members to select one of the network primary care physicians, or PCPs, to coordinate their care and approve any specialist or other services. 

Economic factors, greater consumer and employer sophistication, and accountability have resulted in an increased demand for choice in both product/benefit designs and provider network configurations. As a result we continue to offer our broad access PPO networks with multiple benefit designs, but are also focused on leveraging our emerging provider collaboration initiatives with our Accountable Care Organization, or ACO, partnerships to develop both narrow and tiered network offerings. This array of network and product configurations allows both the employer and the employee to design 

- 4 - 

and select the combination of benefit designs (e.g., traditional PPOs, high deductibles, HRAs, HSAs, PCP based products, tiered copays) and networks (e.g., broad, narrow, tiered, closed and open) that optimize choice, quality and price at the consumer, employer and market level. We believe we are well-positioned in each of our states to respond to these market preferences. 

For our fully-insured products, we charge a premium and assume all of the health care risk. Under self-funded and partially-insured products, we charge a fee for services, and the employer or plan sponsor reimburses us for all or most of the health care costs. In addition, we charge a premium to provide administrative services to Large Group and National Account employers that maintain self-funded health plans and we underwrite stop loss insurance for self-funded plans. 

Our medical membership includes seven different customer types: Local Group, Individual, National Accounts, BlueCard &#174; , Medicare, Medicaid and FEP. 

BCBS-branded business generally refers to members in our service areas licensed by the BCBSA. Non-BCBS-branded business refers to members in our non-BCBS-branded Amerigroup, CareMore and Simply Healthcare plans, as well as HealthLink and UniCare members. In addition to the above medical membership, we also serve customers who purchase one or more of our other products or services that are often ancillary to our health business. 

Our products are generally developed and marketed with an emphasis on the differing needs of our customers. In particular, our product development and marketing efforts take into account the differing characteristics between the various customers served by us, as well as the unique needs of educational and public entities, labor groups, federal employee health and benefit programs, national employers and state-run programs servicing low-income, high-risk and under-served markets. Each business unit is responsible for product design, pricing, enrolling, underwriting and servicing customers in specific customer types. Overall, we seek to establish pricing and product designs to provide value for our customers while achieving an appropriate level of profitability for each of our customer categories balanced with the competitive objective to grow market share. We believe that one of the keys to our success has been our focus on these distinct customer types, which better enables us to develop benefit plans and services that meet our customers&#8217; unique needs. 

We market our products through direct marketing activities and an extensive network of independent agents, brokers and retail partnerships for Individual and Medicare customers, and for certain Local Group customers with a smaller employee base. Products for National Accounts and Local Group customers with a larger employee base are generally sold through independent brokers or consultants retained by the customer and working with industry specialists from our in-house sales force. In the Individual and Small Group markets, we offer on-exchange products through state or federally facilitated marketplaces, referred to as public exchanges, and off-exchange products. Federal premium subsidies are available only for certain members who purchase certain public exchange products. &#32; 

Being a member of the BCBS companies, of which there were 36 independent primary licensees as of December 31, 2015 , creates significant market advantages, especially when competing for very large multi-state employer groups. For example, each BCBS member company is able to take advantage of other BCBS licensees&#8217; substantial provider networks and discounts when any BCBS member works or travels outside of the state in which their policy is written. This program is referred to as BlueCard&#174; and is a source of revenue when we provide member services in the states where we are the BCBS licensee to individuals who are customers of BCBS plans not affiliated with us. This program also provides a national provider network for our members when they travel to other states. 

For additional information describing each of our customer types, detailed marketing efforts and changes in medical membership over the last three years, see &#8220;Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations&#8221; included in Part II, Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Our results of operations depend in large part on accurately predicting health care costs and our ability to manage future health care costs through adequate product pricing, medical management, product design and negotiation of favorable provider contracts. 

Advances in medical technology, increases in specialty drug costs, the aging of the population and other demographic characteristics continue to contribute to rising health care costs. Our managed care plans and products are designed to encourage providers and members to participate in quality, cost-effective health benefit programs by using the full range of our innovative medical management services, quality initiatives and financial incentives. Our significant market share and 

- 5 - 

high business retention rates enable us to realize the long-term benefits of investing in preventive and early detection programs. Our ability to provide cost-effective health benefits products and services is enhanced through a disciplined approach to internal cost containment, prudent management of our risk exposure and successful integration of acquired businesses. In addition, our ability to manage selling, general and administrative costs continues to be a driver of our overall profitability. 

Our future results of operations will also be impacted by certain external forces and resulting changes in our business model and strategy. In 2010, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, or ACA, as well as the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010, or collectively, Health Care Reform, became law, causing significant changes to the U.S. health care system. Since then, significant regulations have been enacted by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, or HHS, the Department of Labor and the Department of the Treasury. &#32;The legislation and regulations are far-reaching and are intended to expand access to health insurance coverage over time by mandating that most individuals obtain health insurance coverage, increasing the eligibility thresholds for most state Medicaid programs and providing certain other individuals and small businesses with tax credits to subsidize a portion of the cost of health insurance coverage. &#32;As a result of the complexity of the law, its impact on health care in the United States and the continuing modification and interpretation of Health Care Reform rules, we continue to analyze and refine our estimates of the ultimate impact of Health Care Reform on our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. Health Care Reform presents us with new growth opportunities, but also introduces new risks, regulatory challenges and uncertainties, and required changes in the way products are designed, underwritten, priced, distributed and administered. &#32;For additional discussion, see &#8220;Regulation,&#8221; herein and Part I, Item 1A &#8220;Risk Factors&#8221; in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

In addition to the external forces discussed in the preceding &#32;paragraph, our results of operations are impacted by levels and mix of membership. In recent years, we have experienced membership growth due to the quality and pricing of our health benefits products and services, improved economic conditions, decreases in unemployment, acquisitions, entry into new markets and expansions in existing markets. In addition, we believe the self-insured portion of our group membership base will continue to increase as a percentage of total group membership. &#32;However, these membership trends could be negatively impacted by various factors that could have a material adverse effect on our future results of operations such as general economic downturns that result in business failures, failure to obtain new customers or retain existing customers, premium increases, benefit changes or our exit from a specific market. &#32;See Part I, Item 1A &#8220;Risk Factors&#8221; and Part II, Item 7 &#8220;Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations&#8221; included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Private exchanges have gained visibility in the marketplace based on the promise of helping employers reduce costs, increase consumer engagement and manage the complexities created by the ACA and other market forces. While private exchanges have been a distribution channel in the Medicare and Individual markets for some time, the heightened level of activity and investment among the consulting and broker communities and other health insurance carriers has generated an increasing level of interest among employers in the Commercial market. To date, adoption levels have been lower than analyst predictions. While the ultimate volume, pace of growth and winning business models remain highly uncertain, we believe private exchanges will provide opportunities for growth. &#32; 

Our approach to the private exchange market has been broad-based and we believe we are well-positioned to adapt with the market as it evolves. In 2011, we jointly acquired Bloom Health with Health Care Service Corporation and Blue Cross Blue Shield of Michigan, and today it offers an advanced consumer experience platform to employers as Anthem Health Marketplace. We also currently participate in four large national consultant-led exchanges, several regional broker-led exchanges and various individual, commercial and Medicare exchanges. We will continue to assess this highly dynamic market, build out internal capabilities and enhance partnerships to ensure we are best positioned to capitalize on future growth. 

We continue to believe health care is local and that we have the strong local presence required to understand and meet local customer needs. We believe we are well-positioned to deliver what customers want: innovative, choice-based and affordable products; distinctive service; simplified transactions; and better access to information for quality care. Our local presence, combined with our national expertise, has created opportunities for collaborative programs that reward physicians and hospitals for clinical quality and excellence. We feel that our commitment to health improvement and care management provides added value to customers and health care professionals. We believe that an essential ingredient for practical and sustainable improvements in health care is raising health care quality while managing costs for total cost affordability. We 

- 6 - 

have identified initiatives that we believe will deliver better health care while reducing costs. These include driving innovation in paying and partnering with providers to compel improved cost, quality and health along with finding new, effective ways to manage risk and engage the member as a consumer. In addition, we seek to achieve efficiencies from our national scale while optimizing service performance for our customers. Finally, we seek to continue to rationalize our portfolio of businesses and products, and align our investments to capitalize on new opportunities to drive growth in both our existing and new markets in the future. 

We continue to enhance interactions with customers, providers, brokers, agents, employees and other stakeholders through web-enabled technology and improving internal operations. Our approach includes not only sales and distribution of health benefits products on the Internet, but also implementation of advanced capabilities that improve services benefiting customers, agents, brokers, and providers while optimizing administrative costs. These enhancements can also help improve the quality, coordination and safety of health care through increased communications between patients and their physicians. 

We intend to continue pursuing our vision of becoming America's valued health partner by transforming health care with trusted and caring solutions and by delivering quality products and services that give members access to the care they need. At the same time, we will focus on earnings per share, or EPS, growth through organic membership gains, improvements in our operating cost structure, strategic acquisitions and the efficient use of capital. 

Significant Transactions 

While Health Care Reform has caused significant changes to the U.S. health care system in recent years, the more significant transactions that have occurred over the last five years that have impacted or will impact our capital structure or that have or will influence how we conduct our business operations include: 

&#8226; 

Pending acquisition of Cigna expected to close in the second half of 2016; 

&#8226; 

Acquisition of Simply Healthcare (2015); 

&#8226; 

Use of Capital&#8212;Board of Directors declaration of dividends on common stock (2011 through February 2016) and an increase in the quarterly dividend to $0.6500 per share (February 2016); authorization for repurchases of our common stock (2015 and prior); and debt repurchases and new debt issuance (2015 and prior); 

&#8226; Acquisition of Amerigroup and the related debt issuance (2012); 

&#8226; Acquisition of 1-800 CONTACTS (2012) and subsequent divestiture (2014); and 

&#8226; 

Acquisition of CareMore (2011). 

For additional information regarding certain of these transactions, see Note 3, &#8220;Business Acquisitions and Divestiture,&#8221; Note 12, &#8220;Debt,&#8221; and Note 14, &#8220;Capital Stock,&#8221; to our audited consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Competition 

The managed care industry is highly competitive, both nationally and in our local markets. Competition continues to be intense due to aggressive marketing and pricing, business consolidations, a proliferation of new products, the impact of Health Care Reform, and increased quality awareness and price sensitivity among customers. 

We believe that participants in the managed care industry compete for customers based on quality of service, price, access to provider networks, access to care management and wellness programs (including health information), innovation, breadth and flexibility of products and benefits, reputation (including National Committee on Quality Assurance, or NCQA, accreditation status), brand recognition and financial stability. Our ability to attract and retain customers is substantially tied to our ability to distinguish ourselves from our competitors in these areas. 

Also, a health plan&#8217;s ability to interact with employers, members and other third parties (including health care professionals) via the Internet has become a more important competitive factor, and we have made significant investments in technology to enhance our electronic interaction with providers, employers, members and third parties. 

- 7 - 

We believe our exclusive right to market products under the most recognized brand in the industry, BCBS, in our most significant markets provides us with an advantage over our competition. Our provider networks in our markets enable us to achieve efficiencies and distinctive service levels enabling us to offer a broad range of health benefits to our customers on a more cost-effective basis than many of our competitors. We strive to distinguish our products through provider access, service, care management, product value and brand recognition. 

Pricing in our Commercial and Specialty Business segment &#32;(defined below), &#32;including our Individual and Small Group lines of business, remains competitive and we strive to price our health care benefit products consistent with anticipated underlying medical trends. We believe our pricing strategy, based on predictive modeling, proprietary research and data-driven processes, as well as our overall investments for Health Care Reform, have positioned us to benefit from the potential growth opportunities available in fully-insured commercial products as a result of Health Care Reform. &#32; The public exchanges have increased the risk that our products will be selected by individuals who have a higher risk profile or utilization rate than the pool of participants we anticipated when we established the pricing for these public exchange products. We believe that our pricing strategy, brand name and network quality will provide a strong foundation for commercial risk membership growth opportunities in the future. &#32; 

To build our provider networks, we compete with other health benefits plans for the best contracts with hospitals, physicians and other providers. We believe that physicians and other providers primarily consider member volume, reimbursement rates, timeliness of reimbursement and administrative service capabilities along with the reduction of non-value added administrative tasks when deciding whether to contract with a health benefits plan. 

At the sales and distribution level, we compete for qualified agents and brokers to recommend and distribute our products. Strong competition exists among insurance companies and health benefits plans for agents and brokers with demonstrated ability to secure new business and maintain existing accounts. We believe that the quality and price of our products, support services, reputation and prior relationships, along with a reasonable commission structure are the factors agents and brokers consider in choosing whether to market our products. We believe that we have good relationships with our agents and brokers, and that our products, support services and commission structure compare favorably to those of our competitors in all of our markets. Typically, we are the largest competitor in each of our Blue-branded markets and, thus, are a closely watched target by other insurance competitors. 

Reportable Segments 

We manage our operations through three reportable segments: Commercial and Specialty Business, Government Business and Other. We regularly evaluate the appropriateness of our reportable segments, particularly in light of organizational changes, merger and acquisition activity and changing laws and regulations. Therefore, these reportable segments may change in the future. &#32; 

Our Commercial and Specialty Business and Government Business segments both offer a diversified mix of managed care products, including PPOs, HMOs, traditional indemnity benefits and POS plans, as well as a variety of hybrid benefit plans including CDHPs, hospital only and limited benefit products. 

Our Commercial and Specialty Business segment includes our Local Group, National Accounts, Individual and Specialty businesses. Business units in the Commercial and Specialty Business segment offer fully-insured health products; provide a broad array of managed care services to self-funded customers including claims processing, underwriting, stop loss insurance, actuarial services, provider network access, medical cost management, disease management, wellness programs and other administrative services; and provide an array of specialty and other insurance products and services such as dental, vision, life and disability insurance benefits, radiology benefit management and analytics-driven personal health care guidance. 

Our Government Business segment includes Medicare and Medicaid businesses, National Government Services, or NGS, and services provided to the federal government in connection with &#32;FEP. Medicare business includes services such as Medicare Advantage, Medicare Part D, and Medicare Supplement. Medicaid business includes our managed care alternatives through publicly funded health care programs, including Medicaid ; Temporary Assistance for Needy Family &#32;programs, or TANF; programs for seniors and people with disabilities , or SPD; programs for long-term services and support , or LTSS; Children&#8217;s Health Insurance Programs , or CHIP; &#32;and ACA-related Medicaid expansion programs. NGS acts as a Medicare contractor for the federal government in several regions across the nation. 

- 8 - 

Our Other segment includes other businesses that do not meet the quantitative thresholds for an operating segment as defined by Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, &#32;guidance, as well as corporate expenses not allocated to the other reportable segments. 

Through our participation in various federal government programs, we generated approximately 18.8% , 21.0% &#32;and 20.3% &#32;of our total consolidated revenues from agencies of the U.S. government for the years ended December 31, 2015 , 2014 &#32;and 2013 , respectively. These revenues are contained in the Government Business segment. An immaterial amount of our total consolidated revenues is derived from activities outside of the U.S. 

For additional information regarding the operating results of our segments, see Part II, Item 7 &#8220;Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations&#8221; and Note 19, &#8220;Segment Information,&#8221; to our audited consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

&#160; Products and Services 

A general description of our products and services is provided below: 

Preferred Provider Organization: PPO products offer the member an option to select any health care provider, with benefits reimbursed by us at a higher level when care is received from a participating network provider. Coverage is subject to co-payments or deductibles and coinsurance, with member cost sharing usually limited by out-of-pocket maximums. 

Consumer-Driven Health Plans: CDHPs provide consumers with increased financial responsibility, choice and control regarding how their health care dollars are spent. Generally, CDHPs combine a high-deductible PPO plan with an employer-funded and/or employee-funded personal care account, which may result in tax benefits to the employee. Some or all of the dollars remaining in the personal care account at year-end can be rolled over to the next year for future health care needs. 

Traditional Indemnity: Indemnity products offer the member an option to select any health care provider for covered services. Coverage is subject to deductibles and coinsurance, with member cost sharing usually limited by out-of-pocket maximums. 

Health Maintenance Organization: HMO products include comprehensive managed care benefits, generally through a participating network of physicians, hospitals and other providers. A member in one of our HMOs must typically select a PCP from our network. PCPs generally are family practitioners, internists or pediatricians who provide necessary preventive and primary medical care, and are generally responsible for coordinating other necessary health care services. We offer HMO plans with varying levels of co-payments, which result in different levels of premium rates. 

&#160; Point-of-Service: POS products blend the characteristics of HMO, PPO and indemnity plans. Members can have comprehensive HMO-style benefits through participating network providers with minimum out-of-pocket expenses (co-payments) and also can go directly, without a referral, to any provider they choose, subject to, among other things, certain deductibles and coinsurance. Member cost sharing is limited by out-of-pocket maximums. 

ACA Public Exchange and Off-Exchange Products: &#32;&#32;&#32;The ACA required the modification of existing products and development of new products to meet the requirements of the legislation, subject to certain transitional relief. Individual and Small Group products cover essential health benefits as defined in the ACA along with many other requirements and cost sharing features. Individual and Small Group products offered on and off the public exchanges meet the definition of the &#8220;metal&#8221; product requirements (bronze, silver, gold and platinum) and each metal product must satisfy a specific actuarial value. Health insurers participating on the public exchanges must offer at least one silver and one gold product. 

In our Individual markets we offer bronze, silver and gold products, both on and off the public exchanges, in California, Colorado, Connecticut, Georgia, Indiana, Kentucky, Maine, Missouri, Nevada, New Hampshire, New York, Ohio, Virginia and Wisconsin. Additionally, we offer platinum products, both on and off the public exchanges, in California and New York. &#32; 

In our Small Group markets, we offer bronze, silver and gold products, off the public exchanges, in California, Colorado, Connecticut, Georgia, Indiana, Kentucky, Maine, Missouri, Nevada, New Hampshire, Ohio, Virginia and Wisconsin. We offer bronze, silver and gold products, on the public exchanges, in Colorado, Connecticut, Georgia, Indiana, Kentucky, Maine, Missouri, New Hampshire, Ohio and Virginia. Additionally, we offer platinum products, off the public exchanges, in California, Connecticut, Georgia, Kentucky, Maine, Nevada and Virginia. &#32; 

- 9 - 

Administrative Services: In addition to fully-insured products, we provide administrative services to Large Group employers that maintain self-funded health plans. These administrative services include underwriting, actuarial services, medical cost management, disease management, wellness programs, claims processing and other administrative services for self-funded employers. Self-funded health plans are also able to use our provider networks and to realize savings through our negotiated provider arrangements, while allowing employers the ability to design certain health benefit plans in accordance with their own requirements and objectives. We also underwrite stop loss insurance for self-funded plans. 

&#160; BlueCard &#174; : BlueCard &#174; &#32;is a national program that links participating health care providers and independent BCBS plans. BlueCard &#174; &#32;host members are generally members who reside in or travel to a state in which an Anthem subsidiary is the Blue Cross and/or Blue Shield licensee and who are covered under an employer sponsored health plan serviced by a non-Anthem controlled BCBS licensee, which is the &#8220;home&#8221; plan. We perform certain administrative functions for BlueCard &#174; &#32;host members, for which we receive administrative fees from the BlueCard &#174; &#32;members&#8217; home plans. Other administrative functions, including maintenance of enrollment information and customer service, are performed by the home plan. 

&#160; Medicare Plans: We offer a wide variety of plans, products and options to individuals age 65 and older such as Medicare supplement plans; Medicare Advantage, including special needs plans; Medicare Part D Prescription Drug Plans, or Medicare Part D; and Medicare-Medicaid Plans, or MMPs. Medicare supplement plans typically pay the difference between health care costs incurred by a beneficiary and amounts paid by Medicare. Medicare Advantage plans provide Medicare beneficiaries with a managed care alternative to traditional Medicare and often include a Medicare Part D benefit. In addition, our Medicare Advantage special needs plans provide tailored benefits to Medicare beneficiaries who have chronic diseases and also cover certain dual eligible customers, who are low-income seniors and persons under age 65 with disabilities. Medicare Part D offers a prescription drug plan to Medicare and MMP beneficiaries. MMP is a demonstration program focused on serving members who are dually eligible for Medicaid and Medicare, which was established as a result of the passage of the ACA. We offer these plans to customers through our health benefit subsidiaries throughout the country, including Amerigroup, CareMore and Simply Healthcare. 

&#160; Individual Plans: We offer a full range of health insurance plans with a variety of options and deductibles for individuals under age 65 who are not covered by employer-sponsored coverage and are not otherwise eligible for government sponsored plans, such as Medicare and/or Medicaid. Some of our products target certain demographic populations such as uninsured younger individuals between the ages of 19 and 29, families, those transitioning between jobs or early retirees. Individual policies are generally sold through independent agents and brokers, retail partnerships, our in-house sales force or via the Internet. Individual business is sold on a fully-insured basis. We offer public exchange products and off-exchange products. Federal premium subsidies are available only for certain public exchange products. Individual customers are generally more sensitive to product pricing and, to a lesser extent, the configuration of the network, and the efficiency of administration. 

&#160; Medicaid Plans and Other State-Sponsored Programs: We have contracts to serve members enrolled in publicly funded health care programs, including Medicaid, TANF, SPD, LTSS, CHIP, and ACA-related Medicaid expansion programs. The Medicaid program makes federal matching funds available to all states for the delivery of health care benefits for low income and/or high medical risk individuals. These programs are managed by the individual states based on broad federal guidelines. TANF is a state and federally funded program designed for the population consisting primarily of low-income children and their guardians. SPD is a federal income supplement program designed for Supplemental Security Income recipients, however, states can broaden eligibility criteria. This population consists of low-income seniors and people with disabilities. LTSS is a state and federally funded program that offers states a broad and flexible set of program design options and refers to the delivery of long-term services and support for our members who receive home and community- or institution-based services for long-term care. CHIP is a state and federally funded program that provides health care coverage to children not otherwise covered by Medicaid or other insurance programs. Our Medicaid plans also cover certain dual eligible customers, as previously described above, who also receive Medicare benefits. We provide Medicaid and other State-Sponsored services in California, Florida, Georgia, Indiana, Kansas, Kentucky, Louisiana, Maryland, Massachusetts, Nevada, New Jersey, New York, South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas, Virginia, Washington, West Virginia and Wisconsin. 

&#160; Pharmacy Products: We market and sell an integrated prescription drug product to both fully-insured and self-funded customers through our health benefit subsidiaries throughout the country. This comprehensive product includes features such as drug formularies, a pharmacy network and maintenance of a prescription drug database and mail order capabilities. Since December 1, 2009, we have delegated certain functions and administrative services related to our integrated prescription drug 

- 10 - 

products to Express Scripts, Inc., or Express Scripts, under a ten year contract, excluding our CareMore and Simply Healthcare subsidiaries and certain self-insured members which have exclusive agreements with different pharmacy benefit management, or PBM, service providers. Express Scripts manages the network of pharmacy providers, operates mail order pharmacies and processes prescription drug claims on our behalf, while we sell and support the product for clients, make formulary decisions and set drug benefit design strategy and provide front line member support. 

&#160; Life Insurance: We offer an array of competitive individual and group life insurance benefit products to both Large Group and Small Group customers in conjunction with our health plans. The life products include term life and accidental death and dismemberment. 

&#160; Disability: We offer short-term and long-term disability products, usually in conjunction with our health plans. 

&#160; Radiology Benefit Management: We offer outpatient diagnostic imaging management services to health plans. These services include utilization management for advanced diagnostic imaging procedures, network development and optimization, patient safety, claims adjudication and provider payment. 

&#160; Personal Health Care Guidance: We offer leading evidence-based and analytics-driven personal health care guidance. These services help improve the quality, coordination and safety of health care, enhance communications between patients and their physicians, and reduce medical costs. 

&#160; Dental: Our dental plans include networks in certain states in which we operate. Many of the dental benefits are provided to customers enrolled in our health plans and are offered on both a fully-insured and self-funded basis. Our members also have access to additional dental providers through our participation in the National Dental GRID, a national dental network developed by and for BCBS plans. The National Dental GRID includes dentists in all 50 states and provides multi-state customers with a national solution providing in-network discounts across the country. Additionally, we offer managed dental services to other health care plans to assist those plans in providing dental benefits to their customers. 

&#160; Vision Services and Products: Our vision plans include networks within the states in which we operate. Many of the vision benefits are provided to customers enrolled in our health plans and are offered on both a fully-insured and self-funded basis. 

&#160; Medicare Administrative Operations: Through our subsidiary, NGS, we serve as a fiscal intermediary, carrier and Medicare administrative contractor for the federal government providing administrative services for the Medicare program, which generally provides coverage for persons who are 65 or older and for persons who are disabled or with end-stage renal disease. Part A of the Medicare program provides coverage for services provided by hospitals, skilled nursing facilities and other health care facilities. Part B of the Medicare program provides coverage for services provided by physicians, physical and occupational therapists and other professional providers, as well as certain durable medical equipment and medical supplies. 

&#160; Networks and Provider Relations 

Our relationships with physicians, hospitals and professionals that render health care services to our members are guided by local, regional and national standards for network development, reimbursement and contract methodologies. While following industry standards, we are simultaneously seeking to lead transformation efforts within our health care system, moving from our current fragmented model premised on episodic intervention to one based on proactive, coordinated care built around the needs of the patient. A key element of this transformation involves a transition from traditional fee-for-service payment models to models where providers are paid based on the value, both in quality and affordability, of the care they deliver. 

&#160; We establish &#8220;market-based&#8221; hospital reimbursement payments that we believe are fair, but aggressive, and among the most competitive in the market. We also seek to ensure that physicians in our network are paid in a timely manner at appropriate rates. In many instances, we deploy multi-year contracting strategies, including case rates or fixed rates, to limit our exposure to medical cost inflation and to increase cost predictability. We maintain both broad and narrow provider networks to ensure member choice, based on both price and access needs, while implementing programs designed to improve the quality of care our members receive. Increasingly, we are supplementing our broad based networks with smaller or more 

- 11 - 

cost-effective networks that are designed to be attractive to a more price-sensitive customer segment, such as public exchange customers. 

&#160; Our reimbursement strategies vary across markets and depend on the degree of consolidation and integration of physician groups and hospitals. Fee-for-service is currently our predominant reimbursement methodology for physicians, but as noted above, we are transitioning providers to value-based payment contracts. More traditional physician fee schedules are developed at the state level based on an assessment of several factors and conditions, including the Centers for Medicare &#38; Medicaid Services, or CMS, resource-based relative value system, or RBRVS, medical practice cost inflation and physician supply. We utilize CMS RBRVS fee schedules as a reference point for fee schedule development and analysis. The RBRVS structure was developed, maintained, and updated by CMS and is used by the Medicare program and other major payers. In addition, we have implemented and continue to expand physician incentive contracting, or &#8220;pay for performance&#8221;, which ties physician payment levels to performance on clinical measures. 

&#160; While we generally do not delegate full financial responsibility to our physician providers in the form of capitation-based reimbursement, there are certain markets where the market dynamics result in this being a useful method to lower costs and reduce underwriting risk, thus we do utilize this payment method in those markets. 

&#160; Our hospital contracts provide for a variety of reimbursement arrangements depending on local market dynamics and current hospital utilization efficiency. Most hospitals are reimbursed a fixed amount per day or reimbursed a per-case amount, per admission, for inpatient covered services. A small percentage of hospitals, primarily rural, sole community hospitals, are reimbursed on a discount from approved charge basis for covered services. Our &#8220;per-case&#8221; reimbursement methods utilize many of the same attributes contained in Medicare&#8217;s Diagnosis Related Groups, or DRG, methodology. Hospital outpatient services are reimbursed by fixed case rates, fee schedules or percent of approved charges. Our hospital contracts recognize unique hospital attributes, such as academic medical centers or community hospitals, and the volume of care performed for our members. To improve predictability of expected costs, we frequently use a multi-year contracting approach with providers. In addition, the majority of our hospital contracts include a &#8220;pay for performance&#8221; component where reimbursement levels are linked to improved clinical performance, patient safety and medical error reduction. &#160; 

Although fee-for-service combined with pay for performance remains our predominant payment model today, our provider engagement and contracting strategies are moving away from &#8220;unit price&#8221; or volume-based payment models to payment models that align compensation with the value delivered as measured by health care, quality and cost. We launched the most significant of these efforts, our Enhanced Personal Health Care program, in the fourth quarter of 2012. This program augments traditional fee-for-service with shared savings opportunities for providers when actual health care costs are below projected costs, and providers meet specific quality measures. The quality measures are based on nationally accepted, credible standards (e.g. NCQA, the American Diabetes Association and the American Academy of Pediatrics) and span preventive, acute and chronic care. We understand, however, that payment incentives alone are insufficient to create the large-scale, system-wide transformation required to achieve meaningful impacts on cost, quality and member experience. Accordingly, we invested in care delivery transformation and population health management support structures to help providers succeed under value-based payment models. This support includes our web-based population health management technology and teams of dedicated expert consultants who work alongside providers, sharing best practices, and helping them leverage our data to the benefit of their patients. In some of these arrangements, participating physician practices receive a per-member, per-month clinical coordination fee to compensate them for important care management activities that occur outside of the patient visit (e.g. purchasing an electronic health record or hiring care management nurses), all of which have been shown to reduce healthcare costs and improve care outcomes. Since the launch of Enhanced Personal Health Care, we now have arrangements with provider organizations covering 48% of our PCPs and have rolled this program out in each of the fourteen states where we operate as a licensee of the BCBSA. 

Medical Management Programs 

Our medical management programs include a broad array of activities that facilitate improvements in the quality of care provided to our members and promote cost-effective medical care. These medical management activities and programs are administered and directed by physicians and nurses. The goals of our medical management strategies are to ensure that the care delivered to our members is supported by appropriate medical and scientific evidence, is received on a timely basis and occurs in the most appropriate location. 

- 12 - 

Precertification: A traditional medical management program involves assessment of the appropriateness of certain hospitalizations and other medical services prior to the services being rendered. For example, precertification is used to determine whether a set of hospital and medical services is being appropriately applied to the member&#8217;s clinical condition, in accordance with criteria for medical necessity as that term is defined in the member&#8217;s benefits contract. All of our health plans have implemented precertification programs for common high-tech radiology studies, including cardiac diagnostic testing, addressing an area of historically significant cost trends. Through our AIM Specialty Health, or AIM, subsidiary we promote appropriate, safe and affordable member care in imaging as well as oncology, sleep management and specialty pharmacy benefits. These expanded specialty benefit management solutions leverage clinical expertise and technology to engage our provider communities and members in more effective and efficient use of outpatient services. 

Care Coordination: Another traditional medical management strategy we use is care coordination, which is based on nationally recognized criteria developed by third-party medical specialists. With inpatient care coordination, the requirements and intensity of services during a patient&#8217;s hospital stay are reviewed, at times by an onsite skilled nurse professional in collaboration with the hospital&#8217;s medical and nursing staff, in order to coordinate care and determine the most effective transition of care from the hospital setting. In addition, guidance for many continued stay cases is reviewed with physician medical directors to ensure appropriate utilization of medical services. We also coordinate care for outpatient services to help ensure that patients with chronic conditions who receive care from multiple physicians are able to manage the exchange of information between physicians and coordinate office visits to their physicians. 

Case Management: We have implemented a medical management strategy focused on identifying the small percentage of the membership that will require a high level of intervention to manage their health care needs. The registered nurses and medical directors focus on members likely to be readmitted to the hospital and help them coordinate their care through pharmacy compliance, post-hospital care, follow-up visits to see their physician and support in their home. 

Formulary management: We have developed formularies, which are selections of drugs based on clinical quality and effectiveness. A pharmacy and therapeutics committee of physicians uses scientific and clinical evidence to ensure that our members have access to the appropriate drug therapies. &#160; 

Medical policy: A medical policy group, comprised of physician leaders from various areas of the country, working in cooperation with academic medical centers, practicing community physicians and medical specialty organizations such as the American College of Radiology and national organizations such as the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and the American Cancer Society, determines our national policy for the application of new medical technologies and treatments. 

Quality programs: We are actively engaged with our hospital and physician networks to enable them to improve medical and surgical care and achieve better outcomes for our members. We endorse, encourage and incentivize hospitals and physicians to support national initiatives to improve the quality of clinical care and patient outcomes and to reduce medication errors and hospital infections. We have demonstrated our leadership in developing hospital quality programs. 

External review procedures: We work with outside experts through a process of external review to provide our members scientifically and clinically, evidence-based medical care. When we receive member concerns, we have formal appeals procedures that ultimately allow coverage disputes related to medical necessity decisions under the benefits contract to be settled by independent expert physicians. 

Service management: In HMO and POS networks, PCPs serve as the overall coordinators of members&#8217; health care needs by providing an array of preventive health services and overseeing referrals to specialists for appropriate medical care. In PPO networks, patients have access to network physicians without a PCP serving as the coordinator of care. 

Provider Cost Comparison Tools: &#32;&#32;&#32;&#32;Through Estimate Your Cost, Anthem Care Comparison and other tools, our members can compare cost estimates and quality data for common services at contracted providers, with cost estimates accounting for facility, professional and ancillary services. These cost estimates bundle related services typically performed at the time of the procedure, not just for the procedure itself. Users can review cost data for over 400 procedures in 49 states. Members can also estimate out-of-pocket costs based on a member&#8217;s own benefit coverage, deductible, and out of pocket maximum. We also offer information on overall facility ratings and patient experience using trusted third party data. We continue to work on enhancing and evolving our tools to assist members in making informed and value-based health care decisions. In addition, we collaborate with an external independent vendor to support employers wanting to purchase a transparency and consumer engagement web solution with certain additional functionality. 

- 13 - 

Personal Health Care Guidance: These services help improve the quality, coordination and safety of health care, enhance communications between patients and their physicians, and reduce medical costs. Examples of services include member and physician messaging, providing access to evidence-based medical guidelines, physician quality profiling, and other consulting services. 

Anthem Health Guide: Anthem Health Guide integrates customer service with clinical and wellness coaching to provide easier navigation of health care services for our members. Members are supported by a team of nurses, coaches, educators, and social workers using voice, click-to-chat, secure email and mobile technology. Our Smart Engagement Platform supports this integrated team using our smart engagement triggers for speech recognition, preventative and clinical gaps in care and highlighting when we have members who are identified for current health care support. 

Care Management Programs 

We continue to expand our 360&#186; Health &#32;suite of integrated care management programs and tools. 360&#186; Health &#32;offers the following programs, among others, that have been proven to increase quality and reduce medical costs for our members: 

ConditionCare &#32;and FutureMoms &#32;are care management and maternity management programs that serve as adjuncts to physician care. Skilled nurse professionals with added support from our team of dietitians, social workers, pharmacists, health educators and other health professionals help participants understand their condition, their doctor&#8217;s orders and how to become a better self-manager of their condition. We also offer members infertility consultation through our SpecialOffers@Anthem program, a comprehensive and integrated assembly of discounted health and wellness products and services from a variety of the nation's leading retailers. 

24/7 NurseLine &#32;offers access to qualified, registered nurses anytime. This allows our members to make informed decisions about the appropriate level of care and avoid unnecessary worry. This program also includes a referral process to the nearest urgent care facility, a robust audiotape library, accessible by phone, with more than 600 health and wellness topics, as well as on-line health education topics designed to educate members about symptoms and treatment of many common health concerns. 

ComplexCare &#32;is an advanced care management program that reaches out to participants with multiple health care issues who are at risk for frequent and high levels of medical care in order to offer support and assistance in managing their health care needs. ComplexCare &#32;identifies candidates through claims analysis using predictive modeling techniques, the use of health risk assessment data, utilization management reports and referrals from a physician or one of our other programs, such as the 24/7 NurseLine . 

MyHealth Advantage &#32;utilizes integrated information systems and sophisticated data analytics to help our members improve their compliance with evidence-based care guidelines, providing personal care notes that alert members to potential gaps in care, enable more prudent health care choices, and assist in the realization of member out-of-pocket cost savings. Key opportunities are also shared with physicians through Availity &#174; &#32;at the time of membership eligibility verification. Availity &#174; &#32;is an electronic data interchange system that allows for the exchange of health information among providers over a secure network. 

MyHealth Coach &#32;provides our members with a professional guide who helps them navigate the health care system and make better decisions about their well-being. MyHealth Coach &#32;proactively reaches out to people who are at risk for serious health issues or have complex health care needs. Our health coaches help participants understand and manage chronic conditions, handle any health and wellness related services they need and make smart lifestyle choices. 

HealthyLifestyles &#32;helps employees transform unhealthy habits into positive ones by focusing on behaviors that can have a positive effect on their health and their employer&#8217;s financial well-being. HealthyLifestyles &#32;programs include smoking cessation, weight management, stress management, physical activity, and diet and nutrition. 

MyHealth@Anthem &#32;is our secure web-based solution, complementing other programs by reinforcing telephonic coaching and mail campaigns. The website engages participants in regularly assessing their health status, gives them feedback about their progress, and tracks important health measures such as blood pressure, weight and blood glucose levels. 

- 14 - 

Behavioral Health Case Management &#32;provides oversight of the delivery of mental health and substance abuse services as an integrated component of the health plan. The program assists providers and members with referrals, transitional care, episodic emergency care and other needs. 

Autism Spectrum Disorder is a specialized case management program staffed by a dedicated team of clinicians who have been trained on the unique challenges and needs of families with a member who has a diagnosis of autism spectrum disorder. These clinicians provide education, information on community resources to help with care and support, guidance on the appropriate usage of benefits, and assistance in exploring effective treatments, such as medical services, that may help the member and their families. 

Employee Assistance Programs &#32;provide many resources that allow members to balance work and personal life by providing quick and easy access to confidential resources to help meet the challenges of daily life. Examples of services available in person as well as via telephone or internet are counseling for child care, health and wellness, financial issues, legal issues, adoption and daily living. 

Health Care Quality Initiatives 

Increasingly, the health care industry is able to define quality health care based on preventive health measurements, outcomes of care and optimal care management for chronic disease. A key to our success has been our ability to work with our network physicians and hospitals to improve the quality and outcomes of the health care services provided to our members. Our ability to promote quality medical care has been recognized by the NCQA, the largest and most respected national accreditation program for managed care health plans. 

Several quality health care measures, including the Healthcare Effectiveness Data and Information Set, or HEDIS &#174; , have been incorporated into the NCQA&#8217;s accreditation processes. HEDIS &#174; &#32;measures range from preventive services, such as screening mammography and pediatric immunization, to elements of care, including decreasing the complications of diabetes and improving treatment for patients with heart disease. For health plans, NCQA&#8217;s highest accreditation status of Excellent is granted only to those plans that demonstrate levels of service and clinical quality that meet or exceed NCQA&#8217;s rigorous requirements for consumer protection and quality improvement. Plans earning this accreditation level must also achieve HEDIS &#174; &#32;results that are in the highest range of national or regional performance. Details for each of our plans&#8217; accreditation levels can be found at www.ncqa.org. 

We have created an innovative program called the State Health Index, or SHI, to quantify and track our success in improving the health of our communities. SHI presents a comprehensive picture of a community&#8217;s health in the 24 states served by our affiliated health plans. It is compiled from public data and includes 14 health indicators in four domains: Maternity Care, Preventive Care, Lifestyle, and Morbidity/Mortality. The metrics are utilized to identify opportunities for health improvement and leverage our strengths to build partnerships with community coalitions, patient advocacy organizations, and local and state public health departments. We analyze states' performance measures and prioritize measures for focused improvement. Together with Anthem Foundation, Inc. and state leadership, we create or enhance programs to improve the health of the entire population in these states - not just for our members. 

Our wholly-owned health outcomes research subsidiary, HealthCore, Inc., or HealthCore, generates consistent and actionable evidence to support decision making while helping to guide fresh initiatives for a range of stakeholders in the healthcare industry. By leveraging a rich array of medical and pharmacy utilization data queried from administrative claims, patients surveys, medical charts and laboratory diagnostics, among other health records, HealthCore&#8217;s multi-disciplinary research teams uncover a broad spectrum of safety, effectiveness, pharmacoepidemiology, and health economics evidence. HealthCore&#8217;s real world evidence and comparative effectiveness research, among others, have played roles in the product planning and development campaigns of biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies, and today it lists most of the leading biologics and drug manufacturers as clients or alliance partners. Its health plan research has led to better insights into evidence-based treatment approaches, the development of value-based initiatives to drive access and adherence to treatment, and the crafting of incentives to modify patient and provider behavior. One of HealthCore&#8217;s predominant initiatives is its governmental and academic collaborations that include cooperation with some of the country&#8217;s top universities and federal agencies, including the Food and Drug Administration and the Centers of Disease Control of the National Institutes of Health, and it is an active contributor to the safety surveillance Sentinel program. As a notable contributor to the health outcomes 

- 15 - 

evidence base, HealthCore&#8217;s research findings are broadly disseminated during presentations at national and international medical meetings and are published in a variety of respected peer-reviewed medical and health services journals. 

Our AIM subsidiary supports quality by implementing clinical appropriateness and patient safety solutions for advanced imaging procedures, cardiology, sleep medicine, specialty pharmaceuticals and oncology, including drugs covered under medical benefit and radiation therapy. These programs, based on widely accepted and evidence based clinical guidelines, promote the most appropriate use of diagnostic and therapeutic services to improve the quality of overall health care delivered to our members and members of other health plans that are covered under AIM&#8217;s programs. To provide additional impact to its clinical appropriateness program, AIM has also implemented a provider assessment program, OptiNet &#174; , which promotes more informed selection of diagnostic imaging and testing facilities by providing cost and facility information to physician offices at the point that a procedure is ordered. We have also leveraged AIM&#8217;s provider network assessment information to proactively engage and educate our members about imaging providers and sleep testing choices based on site capabilities and cost differences. This program is another example of how we facilitate improvements in the quality of care provided to our members and promote cost effective medical care. 

Our wholly-owned analytics-driven subsidiary, Resolution Health, Inc., or RHI, delivers programs to improve the safety, quality and coordination of health care for our members. RHI uses evidence-based proprietary rules and algorithms based on established clinical guidelines and standards of independent accreditation organizations, medical specialty societies, and government agencies such as the National Quality Forum, or NQF, and NCQA. RHI analyzes claims and other data to identify actions that can improve health outcomes at the individual member level. When appropriate, RHI delivers personalized confidential messages, or Personalized Health Insights, to members, providers and care managers. RHI&#8217;s Personalized Health Insights support total population health management and the results of RHI analyses are used across our enterprise to support HEDIS and other clinical quality measures. 

Pricing and Underwriting of Our Products 

We price our products based on our assessment of current health care claim costs and emerging health care cost trends, combined with charges for administrative expenses, risk and profit, including charges for ACA taxes and fees. We continually review our product designs and pricing guidelines on a national and regional basis so that our products remain competitive and consistent with our profitability goals and strategies. 

In applying our pricing to each employer group and customer, we maintain consistent, competitive, disciplined underwriting standards. We employ our proprietary accumulated actuarial data in determining underwriting and pricing parameters. Where allowed by law and regulation, we underwrite large groups based on each group&#8217;s aggregate claim experience. Also, we employ credit underwriting procedures with respect to our self-funded products. 

In most circumstances, our pricing and underwriting decisions follow a prospective rating process in which a fixed premium is determined at the beginning of the contract period. For fully-insured business, any deviation, favorable or unfavorable, from the medical costs assumed in determining the premium is our responsibility. Some of our larger groups employ retrospective rating reviews, where positive experience is partially refunded to the group, and negative experience is charged against a rate stabilization fund established from the group&#8217;s favorable experience, or charged against future favorable experience. 

BCBSA Licenses 

We are a party to license agreements with the BCBSA that entitle us to the exclusive, and in certain areas, non-exclusive use of the Blue Cross and Blue Shield names and marks in assigned geographic territories. BCBSA is a national trade association of Blue Cross and Blue Shield licensees, the primary function of which is to promote and preserve the integrity of the BCBS names and marks, as well as provide certain coordination among the member companies. Each BCBSA licensee is an independent legal organization and is not responsible for obligations of other BCBSA member organizations. We have no right to market products and services using the BCBS names and marks outside of the states in which we are licensed to sell BCBS products. We are required to pay an annual license fee to the BCBSA based on enrollment and also to comply with various operational, governance and financial standards set forth in the licenses. 

We believe that we and our licensed affiliates are currently in compliance with these standards. The standards under the license agreements may be modified in certain instances by the BCBSA. See Part I, Item 1A &#8220;Risk Factors&#8221; in this Annual 

- 16 - 

Report on Form 10-K for additional details of our licensing requirements and the impact if we were not to comply with these license agreements. 

Regulation &#160; 

General 

Our operations are subject to comprehensive and detailed state, federal and international regulation throughout the jurisdictions in which we do business. As discussed below, the regulatory aspects of the U.S. health care system have been and will continue to be significantly affected by Health Care Reform. Supervisory agencies, including state health, insurance and corporation departments, have broad authority to: 

&#8226; 

grant, suspend and revoke licenses to transact business; 

&#8226; 

regulate our products and services in great detail; 

&#8226; 

regulate, limit, or suspend our ability to market products, including the exclusion of our plans from participating on public exchanges; 

&#8226; 

retroactively adjust premium rates for services; 

&#8226; 

monitor our solvency and reserve adequacy; 

&#8226; 

scrutinize our investment activities on the basis of quality, diversification and other quantitative criteria; and 

&#8226; 

impose monetary and criminal sanctions for non-compliance with regulatory requirements. 

To carry out these tasks, these regulators periodically examine our operations and accounts. 

Regulation of Insurance Company and HMO Business Activity 

The governments of the states in which we conduct business, as well as the federal government, have adopted laws and regulations that govern our business activities in various ways. Further, Health Care Reform has resulted in increased federal regulation that significantly impacts our business. These laws and regulations, which vary significantly from state to state and on the federal level, restrict how we conduct our businesses and result in additional burdens and costs to us. These state and federal laws and regulations are subject to amendments and changing interpretations in each jurisdiction. 

&#160; States generally require health insurers and HMOs to obtain a certificate of authority prior to commencing operations. If we were to establish a health insurance company or an HMO in any jurisdiction where we do not presently operate, we generally would have to obtain such a certificate or authorization to expand the operations permitted under an existing certificate if we already operate in the state. The time necessary to obtain such a certificate varies from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. Each health insurer and HMO must file periodic financial and operating reports with the states in which it does business. In addition, health insurers and HMOs are subject to state examination and periodic license renewal. The health benefits business also may be adversely impacted by court and regulatory decisions that expand the interpretations of existing statutes and regulations. It is uncertain whether we can recoup, through higher premiums or other measures, the increased costs of mandated benefits or other increased costs caused by potential legislation, regulation or court rulings. See Part I, Item 1A &#8220;Risk Factors&#8221; in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act 

The ACA has created significant changes and will continue to create significant changes for health insurance markets for the next several years. Specifically, many of the near-term changes were effective for certain groups and individuals in 2010, including a prohibition on lifetime limits, certain annual limits, member cost-sharing on specified preventive benefits, pre-existing condition exclusions for children, increased restrictions on rescinding coverage and extension of coverage of dependents to the age of 26. Certain requirements for insurers were also effective in 2011, including changes to Medicare Advantage payments and the minimum medical loss ratio, or MLR, provision that requires insurers to pay rebates to customers when insurers do not meet or exceed the specified MLR thresholds. Most of the provisions of the ACA with more significant effects on the health insurance marketplace, both state and federal, went into effect on January 1, 2014, including a requirement that insurers guarantee the issuance of coverage to all individuals regardless of health status, strict rules on how 

- 17 - 

health insurance is rated, the assessment of new taxes and fees (including annual fees on health insurance companies), the creation of public exchanges for Individuals and Small Groups, the availability of premium subsidies for certain Individual products, and substantial expansions in eligibility for Medicaid. 

Despite significant preparation for the advent of the public exchanges, there have been many technical difficulties in their implementation, which entail uncertainties associated with mix and volume of business. In addition, CMS has issued transitional policies modifying or extending the deadlines for compliance with certain aspects of Health Care Reform. In March 2014, CMS issued transition relief providing that health insurance coverage in the Individual or Small Group markets that is renewed for a policy year beginning on or before October 1, 2016 that would otherwise have been deemed non-compliant with certain market reforms under Health Care Reform, will not be considered by CMS to be out of compliance with respect to such market reforms, provided certain conditions are met. Some states have adopted these transitional policies, some have not and others have not taken a position. 

Due to the impact of the transitional policies, insurers in the ACA compliant Individual market, including Anthem, may be adversely selected by individuals who will have a higher acuity level than the anticipated pool of participants in the public exchange markets. In addition, the risk adjustment, reinsurance, and risk corridor premium stabilization programs of Health Care Reform, or Health Care Reform Premium Stabilization Programs, established to apportion risk amongst insurers, may not be effective in appropriately mitigating the financial risks related to our public exchange products. These factors, along with the limited information about the individuals who have access to these newly established public exchanges that was available when we established premiums, may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations if premiums are not adequate or do not appropriately reflect the acuity of these individuals. Any variation from our expectations regarding acuity, enrollment levels, adverse selection, or other assumptions utilized in setting adequate premium rates could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. 

In addition, there have been other material changes and delays in the implementation of the ACA that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. These include: 

&#8226; 

Proposed network adequacy standards; 

&#8226; 

Reduction in the amount available for payments under the risk corridor program; 

&#8226; 

Change in Small Group size expansion; 

&#8226; 

Increasingly complex and detailed regulation; and 

&#8226; 

Other unanticipated regulatory changes and delays. 

These delays and changes may have a material and significant impact on anticipated enrollment in public exchange and off-exchange products, thus affecting the risk pools and premium rates. Finally, implementation of the ACA brings with it significant oversight responsibilities by health insurers that may result in increased governmental audits, increased assertions of False Claims Act violations, and an increased risk of other litigation. 

The ACA continues to require additional guidance and specificity to be provided by HHS, the Department of Labor, CMS and the Department of the Treasury. These regulatory agencies continue to consider recommendations from external groups, such as the National Association of Insurance Commissioners, or NAIC. Many provisions have final rules available for review while some proposed regulations have been released for comment or have yet to be released and others are in-process. We continue to carefully evaluate each rule as it is issued. Some of the more significant considerations of the ACA are described below: 

&#8226; 

MLR regulations were issued by HHS in December 2011. The minimum MLR thresholds by line of business, as defined by HHS, are as follows: 

Line of Business 

&#160; 

% 

Large Group 

&#160; 

Small Group 

&#160; 

Individual 

&#160; 

- 18 - 

New York state regulations require us to meet a more restrictive MLR threshold of 82% for both Small Group and Individual lines of business. The minimum MLR thresholds disclosed above are based on definitions of an MLR calculation provided by HHS, or specific states, as applicable, and differ from our calculation of &#8220;benefit expense ratio&#8221; based on premium revenue and benefit expense as reported in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP. Furthermore, the definitions of the lines of business differ under the various state and federal regulations and may not correspond to our lines of business. Definitions under the MLR regulation also impact insurers differently depending upon their organizational structure or tax status, which could result in a competitive advantage to some insurance providers that may not be available to us, resulting in an uneven playing field in the industry. Significant changes to the MLR requirements may occur through additional regulatory action by HHS. 

&#160; Health Care Reform also imposed a separate minimum MLR threshold of 85% for Medicare Advantage and Medicare Part D plans beginning in 2014. Medicare Advantage or Medicare Part D plans that do not meet this threshold will have to pay a minimum MLR rebate. If a plan&#8217;s MLR is below 85% for three consecutive years beginning with 2014, enrollment will be restricted. A Medicare Advantage or Medicare Part D plan contract will be terminated if the plan's MLR is below 85% for five consecutive years. 

Approximately 86.8% and 36.0% of our premium revenue and medical membership, respectively, were subject to the minimum MLR regulations as of and for the year ended December 31, 2015 . Approximately 67.0% and 32.2% of our premium revenue and medical membership, respectively, were subject to the minimum MLR regulations as of and for the year ended December 31, 2014 . 

&#8226; 

The ACA required states to establish public exchanges by January 1, 2014 through which qualified individuals and qualified small employers may access coverage. If a state failed to establish a public exchange, the federal government established a public exchange in that state. To date sixteen states plus the District of Columbia have elected to operate state-based public exchanges. The remaining states have either a federal partnership public exchange (six states) or a federally operated public exchange (twenty-eight states). In the states in which we offer products on public exchanges, six states have passed legislation or executive orders establishing state-based public exchanges (California, Colorado, Connecticut, Kentucky, Nevada and New York). 

&#8226; 

The ACA required the modification of existing products and development of new products to meet the requirements of the legislation, subject to certain transitional relief. Individual and Small Group products must cover essential health benefits as defined in the ACA along with many other requirements and cost sharing features. Individual and Small Group products must meet the definition of the &#8220;metal&#8221; product requirements (bronze, silver, gold and platinum). Each metal product must satisfy a specific actuarial value. Health insurers participating on public exchanges must offer at least one silver and one gold product. Additionally, effective January 1, 2014, health insurers were required to cancel or discontinue the sale of existing non-ACA-compliant Individual and Small Group products, subject to the conditions of the CMS transitional policies discussed above. 

&#8226; 

Regulations became effective in September 2011 that require filings for premium rate increases to be reviewed for Small Group and Individual products above specified thresholds, generally 10%, as may be adjusted from time to time. The regulations provide for state insurance regulators to conduct the reviews, except for cases where a state does not have an &#8220;effective&#8221; rate review program or in federal enforcement states, in which cases HHS will conduct the reviews for any rate increase filed. 

&#8226; 

The Health Care Reform Premium Stabilization Programs introduce new requirements to the MLR calculation, beginning with the 2014 benefit year for the Individual and Small Group markets. The risk adjustment program is a permanent program that transfers dollars from insurers who enroll individuals with lower relative health risk to insurers who enroll individuals with higher relative health risk. Risk adjustment payments/receipts will be determined separately for each state and for Individual and Small Group. The second premium stabilization program is the transitional reinsurance program, a temporary program that runs from 2014 through 2016. The transitional reinsurance program is intended to help stabilize premiums by reimbursing issuers of ACA-compliant non-grandfathered Individual market plans for eligible claims between a defined attachment point and ceiling, at a coinsurance rate defined by HHS. The program will be funded through assessments per covered enrollee upon the commercial health insurance market and sponsors of self-funded health benefit plans of approximately $12.0 billion, 

- 19 - 

$8.0 billion and $5.0 billion in 2014, 2015 and 2016, respectively. The final premium stabilization program is the temporary risk corridor program, also a three year program through 2016, that protects insurers from inaccurate pricing of Individual and Small Group qualified health plans and substantially similar off-exchange products. Beginning in 2014, MLR rebate calculations are adjusted to reflect the impact of the Health Care Reform Premium Stabilization Programs. 

&#8226; 

Through December 31, 2013, and depending on the laws in each state, health insurers were allowed to consider factors such as health status, gender and age in determining the appropriate premium for products in the Individual and Small Group markets. Some states have adopted rules that limit the variation between the highest and lowest premium for the identical insurance policy. The differential in pricing is commonly referred to as &#8220;rating bands&#8221;. The process of using these rating bands allowed health insurers to appropriately price for products and to spread the risk more broadly across all policyholders. Except for policies issued under the CMS transitional policies, beginning in 2014, the ACA precludes health insurers from using health status and gender in the determination of the appropriate insurance premium. In addition, rating bands for age cannot vary by more than 3 to 1 and the rating bands for tobacco use cannot vary by more than 1.5 to 1. The ongoing use of the 3 to 1 rating bands may have a significant impact on the majority of Individual and Small Group customers and could lead to adverse selection in the market as well as increased variability in projecting future premiums for those customer markets. 

&#8226; 

In 2014 significant new taxes and fees became effective for health insurers, some of which may or may not be passed through to customers. The most significant of the taxes and fees is the annual Health Insurance Provider Fee, or HIP Fee, on health insurers that write certain types of health insurance on U.S. risks. The annual HIP Fee is allocated to health insurers based on the ratio of the amount of an insurer's net premium revenues written during the preceding calendar year to an adjusted amount of health insurance for all U.S. health risk for those certain lines of business written during the preceding calendar year. The HIP Fee is non-deductible for federal income tax purposes. The total amount collected from allocations to health insurers in 2015 and 2014 was $11.3 billion and $8.0 billion, respectively. We record our estimated liability for the HIP Fee in full at the beginning of the year with a corresponding deferred asset that is amortized on a straight-line basis to general and administrative expense. The final calculation and payment of the annual HIP Fee occurs in the third quarter each year and our portion of the HIP Fee for 2015 and 2014 was $1.2 billion and $0.9 billion, respectively. The annual HIP Fee to be allocated to all health insurers remains at $11.3 billion for 2016, has been suspended for 2017 and will resume and be increased to $14.3 billion for 2018. For 2019 and beyond, the annual HIP Fee will equal the amount for the preceding year increased by the rate of premium growth for the preceding year less the rate of growth in the consumer price index for the preceding calendar year. 

&#8226; 

Medicare Advantage reimbursement rates will not increase as much as they would otherwise due to a new payment formula promulgated by the ACA that is expected to significantly reduce reimbursements in the future. We also expect further and ongoing regulatory guidance on a number of issues related to Medicare, evolving methodology for ratings and quality bonus payments, and potential action on an audit methodology to review data submitted under &#8220;risk adjuster&#8221; programs. 

Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act 

The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, or the Dodd-Frank Act, includes a number of financial reforms and regulations that may affect our business and financial reporting, including margin requirements, reporting and clearing transactions for our investments in derivative instruments. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act creates a Federal Insurance Office, with limited powers that include information-gathering and subpoena authority. Although the Federal Insurance Office does not have authority over health insurance, it may have authority over other parts of our business, such as life insurance. 

HIPAA and Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act 

The federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, imposes obligations for issuers of health insurance coverage and health benefit plan sponsors. This law requires guaranteed renewability of health care coverage for most group health plans and certain individuals. Also, the law limited exclusions based on preexisting medical conditions. 

- 20 - 

The administrative simplification provisions of HIPAA imposed a number of requirements on covered entities (including insurers, HMOs, group health plans, providers and clearinghouses). These requirements include uniform standards of common electronic health care transactions; privacy and security regulations; and unique identifier rules for employers, health plans and providers. Additional federal privacy and security requirements, including breach notification, improved enforcement and additional limitations on use and disclosure of protected health information were passed through the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health, or HITECH, Act provisions of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 and corresponding implementing regulations. CMS posted the Interim Final Rule with Comment, or IFC, adopting operating rules for two electronic transactions: eligibility for a health plan and health care claims status. Based on the comments received on the IFC, CMS has decided not to change any of the policies established in the rule. Thus, the interim final rule became the final rule. The rule had a January 1, 2013 compliance date and we believe we have effectively complied with the requirements of the rule. 

The federal Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act generally places restrictions on the disclosure of non-public information to non-affiliated third parties, and requires financial institutions, including insurers, to provide customers with notice regarding how their non-public personal information is used, including an opportunity to &#8220;opt out&#8221; of certain disclosures. State departments of insurance and certain federal agencies adopted implementing regulations as required by federal law. In addition, a number of states have adopted data security laws and/or regulations, regulating data security and/or requiring security breach notification, which may apply to us in certain circumstances. 

Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 

The provision of services to certain employee welfare benefit plans is subject to the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, or ERISA, a complex set of laws and regulations subject to interpretation and enforcement by the Internal Revenue Service and the Department of Labor. ERISA regulates certain aspects of the relationships between us, the employers that maintain employee welfare benefit plans subject to ERISA and participants in such plans. Some of our administrative services and other activities may also be subject to regulation under ERISA. In addition, certain states require licensure or registration of companies providing third party claims administration services for benefit plans. We provide a variety of products and services to employee welfare benefit plans that are covered by ERISA. Plans subject to ERISA can also be subject to state laws and the question of whether and to what extent ERISA preempts a state law has been, and will continue to be, interpreted by many courts. 

HMO and Insurance Holding Company Laws, including Risk-Based Capital Requirements 

We are regulated as an insurance holding company and are subject to the insurance holding company acts of the states in which our insurance company and HMO subsidiaries are domiciled. These acts contain certain reporting requirements as well as restrictions on transactions between an insurer or HMO and its affiliates. These holding company laws and regulations generally require insurance companies and HMOs within an insurance holding company system to register with the insurance department of each state where they are domiciled and to file with those states&#8217; insurance departments certain reports describing capital structure, ownership, financial condition, certain intercompany transactions, an enterprise risk report and general business operations. In addition, various notice and reporting requirements generally apply to transactions between insurance companies and HMOs and their affiliates within an insurance holding company system, depending on the size and nature of the transactions. Some insurance holding company laws and regulations require prior regulatory approval or, in certain circumstances, prior notice of certain material intercompany transfers of assets as well as certain transactions between insurance companies, HMOs, their parent holding companies and affiliates. Among other provisions, state insurance and HMO laws may restrict the ability of our regulated subsidiaries to pay dividends. 

Additionally, the holding company acts of the states in which our subsidiaries are domiciled restrict the ability of any person to obtain control of an insurance company or HMO without prior regulatory approval. Under those statutes, without such approval (or an exemption), no person may acquire any voting security of an insurance holding company, which controls an insurance company or HMO, or merge with such a holding company, if as a result of such transaction such person would &#8220;control&#8221; the insurance holding company. &#8220;Control&#8221; is generally defined as the direct or indirect power to direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of a person and is presumed to exist if a person directly or indirectly owns or controls 10% or more of the voting securities of another person. Dispositions of control generally are also regulated under the state holding company acts. 

- 21 - 

The states of domicile of our regulated subsidiaries have statutory risk-based capital, or RBC, requirements for health and other insurance companies and HMOs based on the RBC Model Act. These RBC requirements are intended to assess the capital adequacy of life and health insurers and HMOs, taking into account the risk characteristics of a company&#8217;s investments and products. In general, under these laws, an insurance company or HMO must submit a report of its RBC level to the insurance department or insurance commissioner of its state of domicile for each calendar year. The law requires increasing degrees of regulatory oversight and intervention as a company&#8217;s RBC declines. As of December 31, 2015 , the RBC levels of our insurance and HMO subsidiaries exceeded all RBC thresholds. 

Guaranty Fund Assessments 

Under insolvency or guaranty association laws in most states, insurance companies can be assessed for amounts paid by guaranty funds for policyholder losses incurred when an insurance company becomes insolvent. Most state insolvency or guaranty association laws currently provide for assessments based upon the amount of premiums received on insurance underwritten within such state (with a minimum amount payable even if no premium is received). Under many of these guaranty association laws, assessments against insurance companies that issue policies of accident or sickness insurance are made retrospectively. Some states permit insurers to recover assessments paid through full or partial premium tax offsets or through future policyholder assessments. 

States&#8217; adoption of the revised NAIC Model Guaranty Fund Act will tend to decrease our liability for insolvent insurers. The revised act reduces the premium base on which assessments are calculated, by omitting Medicare Parts C and D premium from the assessment base. 

While the amount and timing of any future assessments cannot be predicted with certainty, we believe that future guaranty association assessments for insurer insolvencies will not have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and capital resources with the exception of potential exposure related to the Penn Treaty Network America Insurance Company and its subsidiary American Network Insurance Company insolvency as discussed in Note 13, &#8220;Commitments and Contingencies&#8221;, to our audited consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Employees 

At December 31, 2015 , we had approximately 53,000 employees. Our employees are an important asset, and we seek to develop them to their full potential. We believe that our relationship with our employees is good. 

Available Information 

We are a large accelerated filer (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or Exchange Act) and are required, pursuant to Item 101 of Regulation S-K, to provide certain information regarding our website and the availability of certain documents filed with or furnished to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC. Our Internet website is www.antheminc.com . We have included our Internet website address throughout this Annual Report on Form 10-K as textual reference only. The information contained on, or accessible through, our Internet website is not incorporated into this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We make available, free of charge, by mail or through our Internet website, our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with or furnish it to the SEC. We also include on our Internet website our Corporate Governance Guidelines, our Standards of Ethical Business Conduct and the charter of each standing committee of our Board of Directors. In addition, we intend to disclose on our Internet website any amendments to, or waivers from, our Standards of Ethical Business Conduct that are required to be publicly disclosed pursuant to rules of the SEC and the New York Stock Exchange, or NYSE. Anthem, Inc. is an Indiana corporation incorporated on July 17, 2001. 

