 Item 1. Business &#32; 

Overview 

Ameriprise Financial, Inc. is a diversified financial services company with a more than 120 year history of providing financial solutions to help clients confidently achieve their financial objectives. Ameriprise is a holding company incorporated in Delaware that primarily engages in business through its subsidiaries. Accordingly, references to &#8220;Ameriprise,&#8221; &#8220;Ameriprise Financial,&#8221; the &#8220;Company,&#8221; &#8220;we,&#8221; &#8220;us,&#8221; and &#8220;our&#8221; may refer to Ameriprise Financial, Inc. exclusively, to our entire family of companies, or to one or more of our subsidiaries. Our headquarters is located at 55 Ameriprise Financial Center, Minneapolis, Minnesota 55474. We also maintain executive offices in New York City. 

We offer a broad range of products and services designed to achieve the financial objectives of individual and institutional clients. We are America&#8217;s leader in financial planning and a leading global financial institution with $776.7 billion in assets under management and administration as of December 31, 2015. Our strategy is centered on helping our clients confidently achieve their goals by providing advice and by managing and protecting their assets and income. We utilize two go-to-market approaches in carrying out this strategy: Wealth Management and Asset Management. 

Our wealth management capabilities are centered on the long-term, personal relationships between our clients and our financial advisors (our &#8220;advisors&#8221;). Through our advisors, we offer financial planning, products and services designed to be used as solutions for our clients&#8217; cash and liquidity, asset accumulation, income, protection, and estate and wealth transfer needs. Our focus on personal relationships, as demonstrated by our exclusive Confident Retirement &#174; &#32;approach to financial planning, allows us to address the evolving financial and retirement-related needs of our clients. Over the years we have evolved our target market to move more upmarket as the needs of our clients have evolved. We currently view our primary target market segment as the mass affluent and affluent (which we define as households with investable assets of more than $100,000), and increasingly those with $500,000 to $5,000,000 in investable assets. The financial product solutions we offer through our advisors include both our own products and services and the products of other companies. Our advisor network is the primary channel through which we offer our own life and disability income insurance and annuity products and services. 

Our network of approximately 9,800 advisors is the primary means through which we engage in our wealth management activities. We offer our advisors training, tools, leadership, marketing programs and other field and centralized support to assist them in serving their clients. We believe that our nationally recognized brand and practice vision, local marketing and field support, integrated operating platform, practice expansion and succession opportunities and comprehensive set of products and solutions constitute a compelling value proposition for financial advisors, as evidenced by our strong advisor retention rate and our ability to attract and retain experienced and productive advisors. We have and will continue to invest in and develop capabilities and tools designed to maximize advisor productivity and client satisfaction. 

We are in a compelling position to capitalize on significant demographic and market trends driving increased demand for financial advice and solutions. In the U.S., the ongoing transition of baby boomers into retirement, as well as recent economic and financial market crises, continues to drive demand for financial advice and solutions. In addition, the amount of investable assets held by mass affluent and affluent households, our target market, has grown and accounts for over half of U.S. investable assets. We believe our differentiated financial planning model, broad range of products and solutions, and demonstrated financial strength throughout the economic and market uncertainty of recent years, will help us capitalize on these trends. 

Our asset management capabilities (represented by the Columbia Threadneedle Investments &#174; &#32;brand) are increasingly global in scale, with Columbia Management as the primary provider of products and services in the U.S. and Threadneedle as the primary provider of products and services outside of the U.S. On March 30, 2015, we launched the new Columbia Threadneedle Investments &#32;brand, which represents the combined capabilities, resources and reach of both firms. While the group now operates under one brand, established investment teams, strategies and processes remain in place at both firms and did not change as a result of the new brand, nor did existing funds or client portfolios and mandates. In addition, there was no change to the corporate structure or regulated entities as a result of the new brand. We offer a broad spectrum of investment advice and products to individual, institutional and high-net worth investors. These investment products are primarily provided through third parties, though we also provide our asset management products through our advisor channel. Our underlying asset management philosophy is based on delivering consistently strong, competitive investment performance. The quality and breadth of our asset management capabilities are demonstrated by 116 of our mutual funds being rated as four- and five-star funds by Morningstar. 

We are positioned to continue to grow our assets under management and to strengthen our asset management offerings to existing and new clients. Our asset management capabilities are well positioned to address mature markets in the U.S. and Europe. We also have the capability to leverage existing strengths to effectively expand into new global and emerging markets. In the past few years, we have expanded beyond our traditional strengths in the U.S. and UK to gather assets in Continental Europe, Asia, Australia, the Middle East, South America and Africa. In addition, we continue to pursue opportunities to leverage the collective capabilities of our global 

asset management business in order to enhance our current range of investment solutions, to develop new solutions that are responsive to client demand in an increasingly complex marketplace and to maximize the distribution capabilities of our global business. 

Financial markets and macroeconomic conditions have had and will continue to have a significant impact on our operating and performance results. In addition, the business and regulatory environment in which we operate remains subject to elevated uncertainty and change. To succeed, we expect to continue focusing on our key strategic objectives. The success of these and other strategies may be affected by the factors discussed below in Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K - &#8220;Risk Factors&#8221;, and other factors as discussed herein. 

The financial results from the businesses underlying our go-to-market approaches are reflected in our five operating segments: 

&#8226; 

&#32;Advice &#38; Wealth Management; 

&#8226; 

&#32;Asset Management; 

&#8226; 

&#32;Annuities; 

&#8226; 

&#32;Protection; and 

&#8226; 

&#32;Corporate &#38; Other. 

As a diversified financial services firm, we believe our ability to gather assets across the enterprise is best measured by our assets under management and administration metric. At December 31, 2015, we had $776.7 billion in assets under management and administration compared to $806.2 billion as of December 31, 2014. For a more detailed discussion of assets under management and administration see &#8220;Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations&#8221; included in Part II, Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The following chart shows our current business mix through the contributions of each segment to our pretax operating earnings (excluding Corporate &#38; Other segment) as well as a historical comparison that reflects how we have executed on our strategy to shift our business mix toward higher growth areas in Advice &#38; Wealth Management and Asset Management. 

&#160; 

Our Principal Brands 

We utilize multiple brands for the products and services offered by our businesses. We believe that using distinct brands for these products and services allows us to differentiate them in the marketplace. 

We use the Ameriprise Financial &#174; brand as our enterprise brand, as well as the name of our advisor network and certain of our retail products and services. The retail products and services that use the Ameriprise Financial brand include those that we provide through our advisors (e.g., financial planning, investment advisory accounts and retail brokerage services) and products and services that we market directly to consumers or through affinity groups (e.g., personal auto and home insurance). 

On March 30, 2015, we launched a new global brand - the Columbia Threadneedle Investments &#174; brand, which represents the combined capabilities, resources and reach of Columbia Management and Threadneedle. This new brand is intended to reinforce the strength of both firms in their established markets of the UK, Europe and the U.S. and to help us grow our presence in key markets including Asia Pacific, Latin America, Africa and the Middle East. 

We use our RiverSource &#174; brand for our annuity and protection products issued by the RiverSource Life companies, including our life and disability income insurance products. 

History and Development 

Our company has a more than 120 year history of providing financial solutions designed to help clients achieve their financial objectives. Our earliest predecessor company, Investors Syndicate, was founded in 1894 to provide face-amount certificates to consumers with a need for conservative investments. By 1937, Investors Syndicate had expanded its product offerings through Federal Housing Authority mortgages, and later, mutual funds, by establishing Investors Mutual, one of the pioneers in the mutual fund industry. In 1949, Investors Syndicate was renamed Investors Diversified Services, Inc., or IDS. In 1957, IDS added life insurance products, and later, annuity products, through IDS Life Insurance Company (now known as &#8220;RiverSource Life Insurance Company&#8221;). In 1972, IDS began to expand its network by delivering investment products directly to clients of unaffiliated financial institutions. IDS also introduced its comprehensive financial planning processes to clients, integrating the identification of client needs with the products and services to address those needs in the 1970s, and it introduced fee-based planning in the 1980s. 

In 1979, IDS became a wholly owned subsidiary of Alleghany Corporation pursuant to a merger. In 1983, our company was formed as a Delaware corporation in connection with American Express&#8217; acquisition of IDS Financial Services from Alleghany Corporation in 1984. We changed our name to &#8220;American Express Financial Corporation&#8221; (&#8220;AEFC&#8221;) and began marketing our products and services under the American Express brand in 1994. To provide retail clients with a more comprehensive set of products and services, we significantly expanded our offering of non-proprietary mutual funds in the late 1990s. And in 2003, we acquired the business of Threadneedle Asset Management Holdings. 

On September 30, 2005, American Express consummated a distribution of the shares of AEFC to American Express shareholders, at which time we became an independent, publicly traded company and changed our name to &#8220;Ameriprise Financial, Inc.&#8221; In 2008, we completed the acquisitions of H&#38;R Block Financial Advisors, Inc. and J. &#38; W. Seligman &#38; Co. Incorporated. In 2010, we completed the acquisition of the long-term asset management business of Columbia Management from Bank of America, which significantly enhanced the scale and performance of our retail mutual fund and institutional asset management businesses. 

In 2006, we sold our large-scale retirement plan recordkeeping business to Wachovia Bank, N.A. (now Wells Fargo Bank, N.A.). We initiated the disposition of our institutional trust and custody business in 2008 to J.P. Morgan Chase Bank, N.A. and completed that restructuring in early 2009. In 2011, we completed the sale of Securities America Financial Corporation and its subsidiaries (&#8220;Securities America&#8221;) to Ladenburg Thalmann Financial Services, Inc. 

In January 2013, we completed the conversion of our federal savings bank subsidiary, Ameriprise Bank, FSB (&#8220;Ameriprise Bank&#8221;), to a limited powers national trust bank now known as Ameriprise National Trust Bank. In connection with this conversion, we terminated deposit-taking and credit-originating activities of Ameriprise Bank. 

Our Organization 

The following is a depiction of the organizational structure for our company, showing the primary subsidiaries through which we operate our businesses. The current legal entity names are provided for each subsidiary. 

The following is a brief description of the business conducted by each subsidiary noted above. 

Subsidiary Name 

Description of Business 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Ameriprise International Holdings GmbH 

A holding company based in Switzerland for various companies engaged in our overseas business, including our Threadneedle group of companies (defined below) 

Threadneedle Asset Management Holdings S&#224;rl 

A holding company based in Luxembourg for the EMEA region group of companies that provide investment management products and services 

Ameriprise Asset Management Holdings GmbH 

A holding company based in Switzerland for our non-EMEA region group of companies that provide investment management products and services. We refer to the group of companies in this entity and Threadneedle Asset Management Holdings Sarl as &#8220;Threadneedle&#8221; and Threadneedle is our primary provider of non-U.S. investment management products and services. 

Columbia Management Investment Advisers, LLC (&#8220;Columbia Management&#8221;) 

The investment adviser for the majority of funds in the Columbia Management family of funds (&#8220; Columbia Management funds&#8221;) and to U.S. and non-U.S. institutional accounts and private funds 

J. &#38; W. Seligman &#38; Co. Incorporated (&#8220;Seligman&#8221;) 

A holding company for Columbia Management Investment Distributors, Inc. and certain other subsidiaries within our Asset Management segment 

Columbia Management Investment Distributors, Inc. 

Broker-dealer subsidiary that serves as the principal underwriter and distributor for Columbia Management funds 

Columbia Management Investment Services Corp. 

A transfer agent that processes client transactions for Columbia Management funds and Ameriprise face-amount certificates 

AMPF Holding Corporation 

A holding company for certain of our retail brokerage and advisory subsidiaries, including AFSI (defined below) and AEIS (defined below) 

American Enterprise Investment Services Inc. (&#8220;AEIS&#8221;) 

Our registered clearing broker-dealer subsidiary, brokerage transactions for accounts introduced by AFSI are executed, cleared and settled through AEIS 

Ameriprise Financial Services, Inc. &#160;(&#8220;AFSI&#8221;) 

A registered broker-dealer and registered investment adviser, and our primary financial planning and retail distribution subsidiary 

RiverSource Distributors, Inc. (&#8220;RiverSource Distributors&#8221;) 

A broker-dealer subsidiary that serves as the principal underwriter and/or distributor for our RiverSource annuities and insurance products sold through AFSI and third-party channels 

RiverSource Life Insurance Company (&#8220;RiverSource Life&#8221;) 

Conducts its insurance and annuity business in states other than New York 

RiverSource Life Insurance Co. of New York (&#8220;RiverSource Life of NY&#8221;) 

Conducts its insurance and annuity businesses in the State of New York. 

RiverSource Life of NY is a wholly owned subsidiary of RiverSource Life. We refer to RiverSource Life and RiverSource Life of NY as the &#8220;RiverSource Life companies.&#8221; 

IDS Property Casualty Insurance Company (&#8220;IDS Property Casualty&#8221; or &#8220;Ameriprise Auto &#38; Home&#8221;) 

Provides personal auto, home and umbrella insurance products. Ameriprise Insurance Company, a wholly owned subsidiary of IDS Property Casualty, is also licensed to provide these products. 

Ameriprise Certificate Company 

Issues a variety of face-amount certificates 

Ameriprise Trust Company &#160;(&#8220;ATC&#8221;) 

Provides trust services to individuals and businesses 

Ameriprise National Trust Bank (formerly Ameriprise Bank, FSB) 

Offers personal trust and related services 

Our Segments - Advice &#38; Wealth Management 

Our Advice &#38; Wealth Management segment provides financial planning and advice, as well as full-service brokerage services, primarily to retail clients through our financial advisors. These services are centered on long-term, personal relationships between our advisors and our clients and focus on helping clients confidently achieve their financial goals. Our financial advisors provide a distinctive approach to financial planning and have access to a broad selection of both affiliated and non-affiliated products to help clients meet their financial needs. 

A &#32;significant portion of revenues in this segment is fee-based, driven by the level of client assets, which is impacted by both market movements and net asset flows. We also earn net investment income on owned assets primarily from certificate products. This segment earns revenues (distribution fees) for providing non-affiliated products and intersegment revenues (distribution fees) for providing our affiliated products and services to our retail clients. Intersegment expenses for this segment include expenses for investment management services provided by our Asset Management segment. All intersegment activity is eliminated in our consolidated results. 

Our Financial Advisor Platform 

We &#32;provide financial planning, advice and brokerage services to clients through our nationwide financial advisor network. Advisors can choose to affiliate with us in two ways, with each affiliation offering different levels of support and compensation. The affiliation options are: 

&#8226; 

Employee Advisors. &#32;Under this affiliation, an advisor is an employee of our company and receives a higher level of support, including leadership, training, office space and staff support. We pay compensation that is competitive with other employee advisor models, which is generally lower than that of our franchisee advisors given the higher level of support we provide our employee advisors. Employee advisors are also employed in the Ameriprise Advisor Center (&#8220;AAC&#8221;), our dedicated platform for remote-based sales and service to Ameriprise retail customers through a team model. 

&#8226; 

Franchisee Advisors. Under this affiliation, an advisor is an independent contractor franchisee who affiliates with our company and has the right to use the Ameriprise brand. We pay our franchisee advisors a higher payout rate than our employee advisors as they are responsible for paying their own overhead, staff compensation and other business expenses. In addition, our franchisee advisors pay a franchise association fee and other fees in exchange for the support we offer and the right to use our brand name. The support we offer to our franchisee advisors includes generalist and specialist leadership support, technology platforms and tools, training and marketing programs. 

We &#32;are committed to providing our advisors with the resources and support necessary to manage and grow their practices. Our platform offers advisors the flexibility of operating on a commission-based brokerage basis as well as on a fee-based advisory basis. Advisors have access to training and materials reflecting our differentiated financial planning model and Confident Retirement planning approach, our nationally recognized brand and &#8220; Be Brilliant &#8221; advertising campaign, local marketing support capabilities and our full range of proprietary and non-proprietary product solutions. Our demonstrated financial strength as well as our dedication to our clients also benefits our advisor practices. We expect to continue to invest in the capabilities of and support provided to our advisor platform, with the goal of continuing to increase advisor productivity and improving on our ability to attract and retain advisors. 

Our &#32;nationwide advisor network consisted of approximately 9,800 advisors as of December 31, 2015, which includes over 2,000 employee advisors and over 7,700 independent franchisees or employees or contractors of franchisees. Of these advisors, 55.3% had been with us for more than 10 years, with an average tenure of over 20 years. Among advisors who have been with us for more than 10 years, we have a retention rate of over 95%. We believe our strong advisor retention rate, as well as our ability to recruit experienced advisors, speaks to the value proposition we offer our advisors. 

Our advisors can offer clients a diversified set of cash and liquidity management, asset accumulation, income, protection, and estate and wealth transfer products and services, as well as a broad selection of financial products from other unaffiliated companies, as described below. 

Brokerage and Investment Advisory Services 

Individual and Family Financial Services 

Our &#32;personalized financial planning approach is designed to focus on all aspects of our clients&#8217; finances. After understanding our clients&#8217; needs, our advisors seek to identify solutions to address those needs across four cornerstones: cash and liabilities, investments, protection and taxes. We believe this approach helps our clients build a solid financial foundation, persevere through difficult economies and challenging markets, and ultimately achieve their financial goals. We offer a broad array of products and services in each of these categories, including those carrying the Ameriprise Financial, Columbia Management or RiverSource name, as well as solutions offered by unaffiliated firms. 

Our &#32;advisors deliver financial solutions to our advisory clients principally by building long-term personal relationships through financial planning that is responsive to clients&#8217; evolving needs, in part through our exclusive &#32;Confident Retirement approach, which involves a comprehensive assessment of retirement income sources and assets, a client&#8217;s plans and goals for retirement and an analysis of what is needed to fund the four principal types of expenses and liabilities encountered during retirement: covering essentials, ensuring lifestyle, preparing for the unexpected and leaving a legacy. Once we identify a financial planning client&#8217;s objectives, we then recommend a solution set consisting of actions and offer products to address these objectives with clients accepting what they determine to be an appropriate range and level of risk. Our financial planning relationships with our clients are characterized by an ability to understand their specific needs, which enables us to help them meet those needs, achieve high overall client satisfaction and retention, hold more products in their accounts and increase our assets under management. 

Our &#32;financial planning clients pay a fee for the receipt of financial planning services. This fee is based on the complexity of a client&#8217;s financial and life situation and his or her advisor&#8217;s experience. Some of our clients may elect to pay a consolidated, asset-based advisory account advisory fee for financial planning and managed account services and administration. If clients elect to implement their financial plan with our company, we and our advisors generally receive a sales commission and/or sales load and other revenues for the products that they purchase from us. These commissions, sales loads and other revenues are separate from, and in addition to, the financial planning and advisory fees we and our advisors may receive. 

Brokerage and Other Products and Services 

We &#32;offer our retail and institutional clients a variety of brokerage and other investment products and services. 

Our &#32; Ameriprise ONE &#174; &#32;Financial Account is a single integrated financial management brokerage account that enables clients to access a single cash account to fund a variety of financial transactions, including investments in mutual funds, individual securities, cash products and margin lending. 

We &#32;provide securities execution and clearing services for our retail and institutional clients through our registered broker-dealer subsidiaries. Clients can use our online brokerage service to purchase and sell securities, obtain independent research and information about a wide variety of securities, and use self-directed asset allocation and other financial planning tools. We offer exchange traded mutual funds, 529 plans, public non-exchange traded real estate investment trusts, structured notes, private equity and other alternative investments issued by unaffiliated companies. We also offer trading and portfolio strategy services across a number of fixed income categories, including treasuries, municipals, corporate, mortgage- and asset-backed securities on both a proprietary and agency basis. 

Ameriprise &#32;may from time-to-time participate in syndicate offerings of closed-end funds and preferred securities. Syndicates are groups of investment banks and broker-dealers that jointly underwrite and distribute new security offerings to the investing public. Our clients may purchase for their own account the closed-end fund shares and preferred stock of such primary offerings in which we participate. 

Fee-based Investment Advisory Accounts 

In &#32;addition to purchases of mutual funds and other securities on a stand-alone basis, clients may purchase mutual funds and other securities in connection with investment advisory fee-based account programs or services. We currently offer both discretionary and non-discretionary investment advisory accounts. In a discretionary advisory account, we (or an unaffiliated investment advisor) choose the underlying investments in the portfolio on behalf of the client, whereas in a non-discretionary advisory account, clients choose the underlying investments in the portfolio based on their financial advisor&#8217;s recommendation. Investors in discretionary and non-discretionary advisory accounts generally pay a fee (for investment advice and other services) based on the assets held in that account as well as any related fees or costs associated with the underlying securities held in that account (e.g., underlying mutual fund 

operating expenses, investment advisory or related fees, Rule 12b-1 fees, etc.). A significant portion of our affiliated mutual fund sales are made through advisory accounts. Client assets held in affiliated mutual funds in an advisory account generally produce higher revenues to us than client assets held in affiliated mutual funds on a stand-alone basis because, as noted above, we receive an investment advisory fee based on the asset values of the assets held in an advisory account in addition to revenues we normally receive for investment management and/or distribution of the funds included in the account. 

We &#32;offer several types of investment advisory accounts. For example, we sponsor (i) Ameriprise Strategic Portfolio Service (&#8220;SPS&#8221;) Advantage, a non-discretionary investment advisory account service, (ii) SPS - Advisor, a discretionary investment advisory account service, (iii) Ameriprise Separate Accounts (a separately managed account (&#8220;SMA&#8221;) program), a discretionary investment advisory account service through which clients invest in strategies managed by us or by affiliated and non-affiliated investment managers, as well as a similar program on an accommodation basis where clients transfer assets to us and do not maintain an investment management relationship with the manager of those assets, and (iv) Active Portfolios &#174; &#32;investments, a discretionary mutual fund investment advisory account service that offers a number of strategic target allocations based on different risk profiles and tax sensitivities. Additionally, we offer discretionary investment advisory account services through which clients may invest in SMAs, mutual funds and exchange traded funds. 

Mutual Fund Offerings (Unaffiliated and Affiliated) 

In &#32;addition to the Columbia Management &#32;family of funds (discussed below in &#8220;Our Segments - Asset Management - Product and Service Offerings - U.S. Registered Funds&#8221;), we offer mutual funds from nearly 300 unaffiliated mutual fund families representing more than 3,500 mutual funds on our brokerage platform and as part of our investment advisory accounts to provide our clients a broad choice of investment products. In 2015, retail sales of other companies&#8217; mutual funds accounted for the majority of our total retail mutual fund sales. 

Mutual &#32;fund families of other companies generally pay us a portion of the revenue generated from the sales of those funds and from the ongoing management of fund assets attributable to our clients&#8217; ownership of shares of those funds. These payments enable us to offer a broad and robust product set to our clients and provide beneficial client services, tools and infrastructure such as our website and online brokerage platform. We also receive administrative services fees from most mutual funds sold through our advisor network. 

Insurance and Annuities 

We &#32;offer insurance and annuities issued by the RiverSource Life companies (discussed below in &#8220;Business - Our Segments - Annuities&#8221; and in &#8220;Business - Our Segments - Protection&#8221;). The RiverSource &#32;insurance solutions available to our retail clients include variable, indexed and fixed universal life insurance, traditional term life insurance and disability income insurance. RiverSource &#32;annuities include fixed annuities, as well as variable annuities that allow our clients to choose from a number of underlying investment options, including volatility management options, and to purchase certain guaranteed benefit riders. In addition to RiverSource &#32;insurance and annuity products, our advisors offer products of unaffiliated carriers on a limited basis, including variable annuities, life insurance and long term care insurance products issued by a select number of unaffiliated insurance companies. 

We &#32;receive a portion of the revenue generated from the sale of life and disability insurance policies of unaffiliated insurance companies. We are paid distribution fees on annuities sales of unaffiliated insurance companies based on a portion of the revenue generated from such sales and asset levels. These insurance companies may also pay us an administrative service fee in connection with the sale of their products. 

Banking Products 

While &#32;we have changed our banking operations and products in recent years (as discussed above in &#8220;Business - History and Development&#8221;), we continue to offer consumer deposit and credit products through relationships with well-known and respected financial services companies. In connection with the sale of the Ameriprise Bank credit card account portfolio to Barclays in 2012, we entered into a co-branding agreement with Barclays pursuant to which Barclays will continue to issue Ameriprise-branded credit cards. We also entered into a referral agreement with a third party to source mortgages and related products. Finally, the cash management features of the Ameriprise ONE &#32;Financial Account remain supported by our brokerage platform, and our clients continue to have access to a variety of other cash solutions, including Ameriprise Certificates, FDIC-insured Brokered CDs issued by third-party banks and deposits placed at third-party banks through Ameriprise Insured Money Market Account (AIMMA) brokerage sweep accounts. 

Ameriprise &#32;National Trust Bank continues to provide personal trust, custodial, agency and investment management services to help meet estate and wealth transfer needs of our advisors&#8217; individual and corporate clients. The performance of such personal trust services may involve our investment products. Ameriprise National Trust Bank generally receives an asset-based fee for investment advice and other services based on assets managed or custodied, as well as related fees and costs. 

Face-Amount Certificates 

We &#32;issue different types of face-amount certificates through Ameriprise Certificate Company, a wholly owned subsidiary of Ameriprise Financial that is registered as an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (&#8220;Investment Company Act&#8221;). Owners of our certificates invest funds and are entitled to receive at maturity or at the end of a stated term, a determinable 

amount of money equal to their aggregate investments in the certificate plus interest at rates we determine, less any withdrawals and early withdrawal penalties. For certain types of certificate products, the rate of interest is calculated in whole or in part based on any upward movement in a broad-based stock market index up to a maximum return, where the maximum is a fixed rate for a given term, but can be changed at our discretion for prospective terms. In 2015, we launched a new product that offers the ability to step up to a higher interest rate based upon the then-current new purchase rate for the same term as the current certificate. 

At &#32;December 31, 2015, we had $4.8 billion in total certificate reserves underlying our certificate products. Our earnings are based upon the difference, or &#8220;spread,&#8221; between the interest rates credited to certificate holders and the interest earned on the certificate assets invested. A portion of these earnings is used to compensate the various affiliated entities that provide management, administrative and other services to our company for these products. In times of weak performance in the equity markets, certificate sales are generally stronger. In 2015, advisors&#8217; cash sales of our certificates were $3.1 billion. 

Financial Wellness Program 

We &#32;provide workplace financial planning and educational programs to employees of major corporations, small businesses and school district employees through our Financial Wellness Program. In addition, we provide training and support to financial advisors working on-site at company locations to present educational seminars, conduct one-on-one meetings and participate in client educational events. We also provide financial advice service offerings, such as financial planning and executive financial services, tailored to discrete employee segments. 

Strategic Alliances and Other Marketing Arrangements 

We &#32;use strategic marketing alliances, local marketing programs for our advisors, and on-site workshops through our Business Alliances group to generate new clients for our financial planning and other financial services. An important aspect of our strategy is to create alliances that help us generate new financial services clients within our target market segment - the mass affluent and affluent, and increasingly those with $500,000 to $5,000,000 in investable assets. Our alliance arrangements are generally for a limited duration of one to five years with an option to renew. Additionally, these types of marketing arrangements typically provide that either party may terminate the agreements on short notice, usually within sixty days. We compensate our alliance partners for providing opportunities to market to their clients. 

Our Segments - Asset Management 

Our Asset Management segment provides investment management and advice and investment products to retail, high net worth and institutional clients on a global scale through Columbia Threadneedle &#32; Investments , a new brand launched on March 30, 2015 that represents the combined capabilities, resources and reach of Columbia Management and Threadneedle. Although the group now operates under one brand, established investment teams, strategies and processes in place at both firms will not change as a result of the new brand, nor will existing funds or client portfolios and mandates. Columbia Management and Threadneedle have been increasingly working together over the past few years to increase the breadth and depth of their offerings to clients. Clients benefit from the depth of our combined research ideas and insights, trading techniques and portfolio strategies. In this regard, Columbia Management and Threadneedle are increasingly leveraging their combined global investment management and research capabilities through research sharing and, for certain assets, through the use of sub-advisory and personnel sharing arrangements within the global asset management business. 

Columbia &#32;Management primarily provides products and services in the U.S., and Threadneedle primarily provides products and services internationally. As noted above, we refer to the group of companies in Ameriprise Asset Management Holdings GmbH and Threadneedle Asset Management Holdings Sarl as &#8220;Threadneedle.&#8221; We provide U.S. retail clients with products through unaffiliated third-party financial institutions and through our Advice &#38; Wealth Management segment, and we provide institutional products and services through our institutional sales force. International retail products are primarily distributed through third-party financial institutions and unaffiliated financial advisors. Retail products include U.S. mutual funds and their non-U.S. equivalents, exchange-traded funds (&#8220;ETFs&#8221;) and variable product funds underlying insurance and annuity separate accounts. Institutional asset management services are designed to meet specific client objectives and may involve a range of products, including those that focus on traditional asset classes, separately managed accounts, collateralized loan obligations (&#8220;CLOs&#8221;), hedge fund or alternative strategies, collective funds and property funds. CLOs, hedge fund or alternative strategies and certain private funds are often classified as alternative assets. Our Asset Management segment also provides all intercompany asset management services for Ameriprise Financial subsidiaries. The fees for such services are reflected within the Asset Management segment results through intersegment transfer pricing. Intersegment expenses for this segment include distribution expenses for services provided by our Advice &#38; Wealth Management, Annuities and Protection segments. All intersegment activity is eliminated in our consolidated results. 

Revenues &#32;in the Asset Management segment are primarily earned as fees based on managed asset balances, which are impacted by market movements, net asset flows, asset allocation and product mix. We may also earn performance fees from certain accounts where investment performance meets or exceeds certain pre-identified targets. At December 31, 2015, our Asset Management segment had $471.9 billion in managed assets worldwide. 

Managed &#32;assets include managed external client assets and managed owned assets. Managed external client assets include client assets for which we provide investment management services, such as the assets of the Columbia Management &#32;and Threadneedle &#32;fund 

families and the assets of institutional clients. Managed external client assets also include assets managed by sub-advisers we select. Our external client assets are not reported on our Consolidated Balance Sheets, although certain investment funds marketed to investors may be consolidated at certain times. See Note 2 to our Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information on consolidation principles. Managed owned assets include certain assets on our Consolidated Balance Sheets (such as the assets of the general account and the variable product funds held in the separate accounts of our life insurance subsidiaries) for which the Asset Management segment provides management services and receives management fees. For additional details regarding our assets under management and administration, see &#8220;Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations&#8221; included in Part II, Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Investment Management Capabilities 

The &#32;investment management activities of Columbia Management and Threadneedle are conducted through investment management teams located in multiple locations, including Boston, Charlotte, Chicago, Kuala Lumpur, Los Angeles, London, Minneapolis, New York, Menlo Park, Portland and Singapore. Each investment management team may focus on particular investment strategies, asset types, products and on services offered and distribution channels utilized. 

Our &#32;investment management capabilities span a broad range of asset classes and investment styles. The portfolios underlying our product and service offerings may focus on providing solutions to investors through one or more U.S. or non-U.S. equity, fixed income, bank loan, property, multi-asset allocation, alternative (including liquid alternatives) or other asset classes, and the strategies utilized in the management of such portfolios varies depending on the needs and desired outcomes or objectives of individual and institutional investors. We continually assess these capabilities to help ensure our ability to provide product and services offerings that are responsive to the evolving needs of our clients. 

Product and Service Offerings 

We &#32;offer a broad spectrum of investment management and advice and products to individual, institutional and high-net worth investors. In an effort to address changing market conditions and the evolving needs of investors, we may from time to time develop and offer new retail and institutional investment products with new and/or innovative investment strategies, including U.S. mutual funds and their non-U.S. equivalents, ETFs, separately managed accounts, hedge or alternative funds and other private funds, CLOs, and collective funds. The following is an overview of our Asset Management offerings. As discussed previously, Columbia Management and Threadneedle are increasingly leveraging their combined global investment management and research capabilities to support and expand our product and service offerings. 

U.S. Registered Funds 

We &#32;provide investment advisory, distribution and other services to the Columbia Management &#32;family of funds. The Columbia Management &#32;family of funds includes retail mutual funds, exchange-listed ETFs and U.S. closed-end funds and variable product funds. Retail mutual funds are available through unaffiliated third-party financial institutions and the Ameriprise financial advisor network. Variable product funds are available as underlying investment options in variable annuity and variable life insurance products, including RiverSource products. The Columbia Management &#32;family of funds includes domestic and international equity funds, fixed income funds, cash management funds, balanced funds, specialty funds, absolute return and other alternative funds and asset allocation funds, including fund-of-funds, with a variety of investment objectives. The Columbia Management &#32;family of funds also uses sub-advisers to diversify the product offerings it makes available to investors on its variable product platform. At December 31, 2015, our U.S. retail mutual funds, ETFs and U.S. closed-end funds had total managed assets of $148.6 billion in 138 funds. The variable insurance trust funds (&#8220;VIT Funds&#8221;) that we manage had total managed assets at December 31, 2015 of $69.8 billion in 73 funds. 

Columbia &#32;Management serves as investment manager for most of our U.S. mutual funds as well as our exchange-listed ETFs and U.S. closed-end funds. Columbia Wanger Asset Management, LLC (&#8220;Columbia Wanger&#8221;), a subsidiary of Columbia Management, also serves as investment manager for certain funds. In addition, several of our subsidiaries perform related services for the funds, including distribution, accounting, administrative and transfer agency services. Columbia Management and Columbia Wanger perform investment management services pursuant to contracts with the U.S. registered funds that are subject to renewal by the fund boards within two years after initial implementation, and thereafter, on an annual basis. 

We &#32;earn management fees for managing the assets of the Columbia Management &#32;family of mutual funds based on the underlying asset values. We also earn fees by providing related services to the Columbia Management &#32;family of funds. 

Non-U.S. Funds 

Threadneedle &#32;offers a fund product range that includes different risk-return options across regions, markets, asset classes and product structures, which include retail funds that are similar to U.S. mutual funds. These funds are marketed to non-U.S. persons and the majority are often referred to as UCITS products (Undertakings for Collective Investment in Transferable Securities). UCITS and other funds offered by Threadneedle typically are structured as Open Ended Investment Companies (&#8220;OEICs&#8221;) in the UK, Societes d&#8217;Investissement A Capital Variable (&#8220;SICAVs&#8221;) in Luxembourg, as well as unit trusts. Threadneedle also sponsors, manages and 

offers UK property funds that invest in UK real estate. The majority of these offerings are registered in and distributed across multiple jurisdictions. At December 31, 2015, our non-U.S. retail funds had total managed assets of $45.4 billion in 178 funds. 

Threadneedle Asset Management Ltd. serves as investment manager for most of our non-U.S. fund products and earns management fees based on underlying asset values for managing the assets of these funds. Certain Threadneedle affiliates also earn fees by providing ancillary services to the funds. In addition, certain non-U.S. funds or portions of the portfolios underlying such funds may receive sub-advisory services, including services provided by both Columbia Management personnel and other unaffiliated advisers. 

Separately Managed Accounts 

We &#32;provide investment management services to a range of clients globally, including pension, profit-sharing, employee savings, sovereign wealth funds and endowment funds, accounts of large- and medium-sized businesses and governmental clients, as well as the accounts of high-net-worth individuals and smaller institutional clients, including tax-exempt and not-for-profit organizations. Our services include investment of funds on a discretionary or non-discretionary basis and related services including trading, cash management and reporting. We offer various fixed income, equity and alternative investment strategies for our institutional clients with separately managed accounts. Columbia Management and Threadneedle distribute products of the other, including Threadneedle&#8217;s offering various investment strategies of Columbia Management to non-U.S. clients and Columbia Management&#8217;s offering of certain investment strategies of Threadneedle to U.S. clients. 

For &#32;our investment management services, we generally receive fees based on the market value of managed assets pursuant to contracts the client can terminate on short notice. Clients may also pay us fees based on the performance of their portfolio. At December 31, 2015, Columbia Management managed a total of $41.6 billion in assets under this range of services and Threadneedle managed $94.3 billion. 

Management of Owned Assets 

We &#32;provide investment management services and recognize management fees for certain assets on our Consolidated Balance Sheets, such as the assets held in the general account of our RiverSource Life companies and assets held by Ameriprise Certificate Company. Our fixed income team manages the general account assets to produce a consolidated and targeted rate of return on investments based on a certain level of risk. Our fixed income and equity teams also manage separate account assets. The Asset Management segment&#8217;s management of owned assets for Ameriprise Financial subsidiaries is reviewed by the boards of directors and staff functions of the applicable subsidiaries consistent with regulatory investment requirements. At December 31, 2015, the Asset Management segment managed $34.5 billion of owned assets. 

Management of Collateralized Loan Obligations (&#8220;CLOs&#8221;) 

Columbia &#32;Management has a dedicated team of investment professionals who provide collateral management services to special purpose vehicles which primarily invest in syndicated bank loans and issue multiple tranches of securities collateralized by the assets of each pool to provide investors with various maturity and credit risk characteristics. For collateral management of CLOs, we earn fees based on the par value of assets and, in certain instances, we may also receive performance-based fees. At December 31, 2015, we managed $7.1 billion of assets related to CLOs. 

Private Funds 

We &#32;also provide investment management and related services to private, pooled investment vehicles organized as limited partnerships, limited liability companies or foreign (non-U.S.) entities. These funds are currently exempt from registration under the Investment Company Act under either Section 3(c)(1) or Section 3(c)(7) or related interpretative relief and are organized as U.S. and non-U.S. funds. These funds are subject to local regulation in the jurisdictions where they are formed or marketed. For investment management services, we generally receive fees based on the market value of assets under management, and we may also receive performance-based fees. As of December 31, 2015 we managed $465 million in private fund assets. 

Ameriprise Trust Company - Collective Funds and Separately Managed Accounts 

Collective &#32;funds are investment funds sponsored by ATC (our Minnesota-chartered trust company) that are exempt from registration with the Securities and Exchange Commission (&#8220;SEC&#8221;) and offered to certain qualified institutional clients such as retirement, pension and profit-sharing plans. Columbia Management currently serves as investment manager to ATC with respect to a series of ATC collective funds covering a broad spectrum of investment strategies for which ATC serves as trustee. ATC receives fees for its investment management services to the collective funds and Columbia Management receives fees from ATC pursuant to an agreement with ATC for the investment management services provided by Columbia Management. The fees payable to ATC and Columbia Management are generally based upon a percentage of assets under management. In addition to its collective funds, ATC serves as investment manager to separately managed accounts for qualified institutional clients. 

As &#32;of December 31, 2015, we managed $6.3 billion of ATC Funds and separate accounts for ATC clients. This amount does not include the Columbia Management &#32;family of funds held in other retirement plans because these assets are included under assets managed for institutional and retail clients and within the &#8220;Product and Service Offerings - U.S. Registered Funds&#8221; section above. 

Sub-advised Accounts 

In &#32;addition to providing sub-advisory services and investment support pursuant to personnel sharing arrangements on an intercompany basis within the global asset management business, we act as sub-adviser for certain U.S. and non-U.S. funds, private banking individually managed accounts, common trust funds and other portfolios sponsored or advised by other firms. As with our affiliated funds, we earn management fees for these sub-advisory services based on the underlying asset value of the funds and accounts we sub-advise. As of December 31, 2015, we managed over $26.3 billion in assets in a sub-advisory capacity. 

Distribution 

We maintain distribution teams and capabilities that support the sales, marketing and support of the products and services of our global asset management business. These distribution activities are generally organized into two major categories: retail distribution and institutional/high net worth distribution. 

Retail Distribution 

Columbia &#32;Management Investment Distributors, Inc. acts as the principal underwriter and distributor of our Columbia Management &#32;family of funds. Pursuant to distribution agreements with the funds, we offer and sell fund shares on a continuous basis and pay certain costs associated with the marketing and selling of shares. We earn commissions for distributing the Columbia Management &#32;funds through sales charges (front-end or back-end loads) on certain classes of shares and distribution (12b-1) and servicing-related fees based on a percentage of fund assets, and receive intersegment allocation payments. This revenue is impacted by overall asset levels and mix of the funds. 

Columbia Management &#32;fund shares are sold through both our Advice &#38; Wealth Management segment and through unaffiliated third-party financial intermediaries, including U.S. Trust and Bank of America from whom we acquired Columbia Management in 2010. Fees and reimbursements paid to such intermediaries may vary based on sales, redemptions, asset values, asset allocation, product mix, and marketing and support activities provided by the intermediary. Intersegment distribution expenses for services provided by our Advice &#38; Wealth Management Segment are eliminated in our consolidated results. 

Threadneedle &#32;funds are sold primarily through financial intermediaries and institutions, including banks, life insurance companies, independent financial advisers, wealth managers and platforms offering a variety of investment products. Threadneedle also distributes to direct clients. Various Threadneedle affiliates serve as the distributors of these fund offerings and are authorized to engage in such activities in numerous countries across Europe, the Middle East, the Asia-Pacific region and Africa. Certain Threadneedle &#32;fund offerings, such as its UCITS products, may be distributed on a cross-border basis while others are distributed exclusively in local markets. 

Institutional and High Net Worth Distribution 

We &#32;offer separately managed account services and certain funds to high net worth clients and to a variety of institutional clients, including pension plans, employee savings plans, foundations, sovereign wealth funds, endowments, corporations, banks, trusts, governmental entities, high-net-worth individuals and not-for-profit organizations. We provide investment management services for insurance companies, including our insurance subsidiaries. We also provide, primarily through ATC and one of our broker-dealer subsidiaries, a variety of services for our institutional clients that sponsor retirement plans. We have dedicated institutional and sub-advisory sales teams that market directly to such institutional clients. We concentrate on establishing strong relationships with institutional clients and leading global and national consultancy firms across North America, Europe, the Middle East, Asia and Australia. 

Our Segments - Annuities 

Our &#32;Annuities segment provides RiverSource &#32;variable and fixed annuity products to individual clients. Our solutions in this segment and our Protection segment help us deliver on our Confident Retirement &#32;approach as well as provide certain products to unaffiliated advisors and financial institutions. 

The &#32;RiverSource Life companies provide variable annuity products through our advisors, and our fixed annuity products are distributed through both affiliated and unaffiliated advisors and financial institutions. These products are designed to help individuals address their asset accumulation and income goals. Revenues for our variable annuity products are primarily earned as fees based on underlying account balances, which are impacted by both market movements and net asset flows. Revenues for our fixed annuity products are primarily earned as net investment income on assets supporting fixed account balances, with profitability significantly impacted by the spread between net investment income earned and interest credited on the fixed account balances. We also earn net investment income on owned assets supporting reserves for immediate annuities and for certain guaranteed benefits offered with variable annuities and on capital supporting the business. Intersegment revenues for this segment reflect fees paid by our Asset Management segment for marketing support and other services provided in connection with the availability of VIT Funds under the variable annuity contracts. Intersegment expenses for this segment include distribution expenses for services provided by our Advice &#38; Wealth Management segment, as well as expenses for investment management services provided by our Asset Management segment. All intersegment activity is eliminated in our consolidated results. 

Our &#32;annuity products include deferred variable and fixed annuities as well as immediate annuities. The relative proportion between fixed and variable annuity sales is generally driven by the relative performance of the equity and fixed income markets. Fixed sales are generally stronger when yields available in the fixed income markets are relatively high than when yields are relatively low. Variable sales are generally stronger in times of superior performance in equity markets than in times of weak performance in equity markets. The relative proportion between fixed and variable annuity sales is also influenced by product design and other factors. In addition to the revenues we generate on these products, we also receive fees charged on assets allocated to our separate accounts to cover administrative costs and a portion of the management fees from the underlying investment accounts in which assets are invested, as discussed below under &#8220;Variable Annuities.&#8221; Investment management performance is critical to the profitability of our RiverSource &#32;annuity business. 

Variable Annuities 

A &#32;variable annuity provides a contractholder with investment returns linked to underlying investment accounts of the contractholder&#8217;s choice. These underlying investment options may include the VIT Funds previously discussed (see &#8220;Business - Our Segments - Asset Management - Product and Service Offerings - U.S. Registered Funds,&#8221; above) as well as variable portfolio funds of other companies. RiverSource &#32;variable annuity products in force offer a fixed account investment option with guaranteed minimum interest crediting rates ranging up to 5% at December 31, 2015. 

Contract &#32;purchasers can choose to add optional benefit provisions to their contracts to meet their needs, including guaranteed minimum death benefit (&#8220;GMDB&#8221;), guaranteed minimum withdrawal benefit (&#8220;GMWB&#8221;) and guaranteed minimum accumulation benefit (&#8220;GMAB&#8221;) provisions. Approximately 99% of RiverSource Life&#8217;s overall variable annuity assets include either an optional or a standard GMDB provision and approximately 60% of RiverSource Life&#8217;s overall variable annuity assets include a GMWB or GMAB provision. In general, these features can help protect contractholders and beneficiaries from a shortfall in death or living benefits due to a decline in the value of their underlying investment accounts. 

In &#32;2015, we introduced the SecureSource 4 &#174; and SecureSource 4 &#32; Plus &#174; &#32;living benefit riders, optional GMWB riders that can be added to new purchases of RiverSource &#32;variable annuities for a fee. These benefits ensure a specified withdrawal amount annually for life. These two riders offer clients a choice between lower fees and the opportunity for higher guaranteed income growth. Clients who purchase these benefits are invested in one or more of four of our Portfolio Stabilizer (managed volatility) funds of funds that are designed to pursue total return while seeking to mitigate exposure to market volatility. Clients purchasing a new variable annuity with the optional GMAB living benefit rider are also invested in one or more of four of our Portfolio Stabilizer funds of funds. Columbia Management serves as investment advisor for the funds of funds and all of the underlying funds in which the funds of funds invest. 

Our &#32;Portfolio Navigator (traditional asset allocation) funds are available for our variable annuities, but as of April 2012, were no longer available for sale with a living benefit rider. Portfolio Navigator funds allow clients to allocate their contract value to one of five funds of funds, each of which invests in various underlying funds. Portfolio Navigator funds are designed to allow a contract purchaser to select investment options based on the purchaser&#8217;s investment time horizon, risk tolerance and investment goals and tailor the performance of annuities and life insurance policies to their specific needs and keep investment allocations on track over time. Columbia Management serves as investment adviser for the funds of funds and all of the underlying funds in which the Portfolio Navigator funds of funds invest. Our Portfolio Stabilizer funds of funds offering is available for new sales of variable annuities sold without a living benefit rider. 

Variable &#32;annuity clients who have not elected a living benefit rider may enroll in the Income Guide service, which aids clients in managing income through an adaptive withdrawal strategy. 

The &#32;general account assets of our life insurance subsidiaries support the contractual obligations under the guaranteed benefit the Company offers (see &#8220;Business - Our Segments - Asset Management - Product and Service Offerings - Management of Owned Assets&#8221; above). As a result, we bear the risk that protracted under-performance of the financial markets could result in guaranteed benefit payments being higher than what current account values would support. Our exposure to risk from guaranteed benefits generally will increase when equity markets decline. Similarly, our guaranteed benefit reserves will generally increase when interest rates decline. 

RiverSource &#32;variable annuities provide us with fee-based revenue in the form of mortality and expense risk fees, marketing support and administrative fees, fees charged for optional features elected by the contractholder, and other contract charges. We receive marketing support payments from the VIT Funds underlying our variable annuity products as well as Rule 12b-1 distribution and servicing-related fees from the VIT Funds and the underlying funds of other companies. In addition, we receive marketing support payments from other companies&#8217; funds included as investment options in our RiverSource &#32;variable annuity products. 

Fixed Annuities 

RiverSource &#32;fixed annuity products provide a contractholder with cash value that increases by a fixed or indexed interest rate. We periodically reset rates at our discretion subject to certain policy terms establishing guaranteed minimum interest crediting rates. Our earnings from fixed annuities are based upon the spread between rates earned on assets purchased with fixed annuity deposits and the rates at which interest is credited to our RiverSource &#32;fixed annuity contracts. RiverSource &#32;fixed annuity contracts in force provide guaranteed minimum interest crediting rates ranging from 1% to 5% at December 31, 2015. New contracts issued provide guaranteed 

minimum interest rates in compliance with state laws. In 2007, we discontinued new sales of equity indexed annuities, although we continue to service existing policies. 

Distribution 

Our &#32;RiverSource Distributors subsidiary is a registered broker-dealer that serves both as the principal underwriter and distributor of RiverSource &#32;variable and fixed annuities through AFSI and as the distributor of fixed annuities through third-party channels such as banks and broker-dealer networks. Our advisors are the largest distributors of RiverSource &#32;annuity products, although they can offer variable annuities from selected unaffiliated insurers as well. 

In &#32;2015, we had total cash sales for fixed annuity products through third-party channels of $9 million. As of December 31, 2015, we had distribution agreements for RiverSource &#32;fixed annuity products in place with more than 118 third-party firms. 

Liabilities and Reserves for Annuities 

We maintain adequate financial reserves to cover the risks associated with guaranteed benefit provisions added to variable annuity contracts in addition to liabilities arising from fixed and variable annuity base contracts. You can find a discussion of liabilities and reserves related to our annuity products in Part II, Item 7A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K - &#8220;Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk&#8221;, as well as in Note 2, Note 10, Note 11 and Note 16 to our Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Financial Strength Ratings 

Our &#32;insurance company subsidiaries that issue RiverSource &#32;annuity products receive ratings from independent rating organizations. Ratings are important to maintain public confidence in our insurance subsidiaries and our protection and annuity products. For a discussion of the financial strength ratings of our insurance company subsidiaries, see the &#8220;Our Segments - Protection - Financial Strength Ratings&#8221; section, below. 

Our Segments - Protection 

Our &#32;Protection segment provides a variety of products to address the protection and risk management needs of our retail clients, including life, disability income and property casualty insurance. These products are designed to provide a lifetime of solutions that allow clients to protect income, grow assets and give to loved ones or charity. 

Life &#32;and disability income products are primarily provided through our advisors. Our property casualty products are sold primarily through affinity relationships. We issue insurance policies through our life insurance subsidiaries and the Property Casualty companies (as defined below under &#8220;Ameriprise Auto &#38; Home Insurance Products&#8221;). The primary sources of revenues for this segment are premiums, fees and charges we receive to assume insurance-related risk. We earn net investment income on owned assets supporting insurance reserves and capital supporting the business. We also receive fees based on the level of assets supporting variable universal life separate account balances. This segment earns intersegment revenues from fees paid by our Asset Management segment for marketing support and other services provided in connection with the availability of VIT Funds under the variable universal life contracts. Intersegment expenses for this segment include distribution expenses for services provided by our Advice &#38; Wealth Management segment, as well as expenses for investment management services provided by our Asset Management segment. All intersegment activity is eliminated in consolidation. 

RiverSource Insurance Products 

Through &#32;the RiverSource Life companies, we issue both variable and fixed (including indexed) universal life insurance, traditional life insurance and disability income insurance. Universal life insurance is a form of permanent life insurance characterized by flexible premiums, flexible death benefits and unbundled pricing factors (i.e., mortality, interest and expenses). Variable universal life insurance combines the premium and death benefit flexibility of universal life with underlying fund investment flexibility and the risks associated therewith. Traditional life insurance refers to whole and term life insurance policies. While traditional life insurance typically pays a specified sum to a beneficiary upon death of the insured for a fixed premium, we also offer a term life insurance product that will generally pay the death benefit in the form of a monthly income stream to a date specified at issue. We also offer a chronic care rider, &#32;AdvanceSource &#174; &#32;rider, on our new permanent insurance products. This rider allows its policyholder to accelerate a portion of the life insurance death benefit in the event of a qualified chronic care need. 

Our &#32;sales of RiverSource &#32;individual life insurance in 2015, as measured by scheduled annual premiums, lump sum and excess premiums and single premiums, consisted of 83% fixed universal life, 14% variable universal life and 3% traditional life. Our RiverSource Life companies issue only non-participating life insurance policies that do not pay dividends to policyholders from the insurer&#8217;s earnings. 

Assets &#32;supporting policy values associated with fixed account life insurance and annuity products, as well as those assets associated with fixed account investment options under variable insurance and annuity products (collectively referred to as the &#8220;fixed accounts&#8221;), are part of the RiverSource Life companies&#8217; general accounts. Under fixed accounts, the RiverSource Life companies bear the investment risk. More information on the RiverSource Life companies&#8217; general accounts is found under &#8220;Business - Our Segments - Asset Management - Product and Service Offerings - Management of Owned Assets&#8221; above. 

Variable Universal Life Insurance 

Variable &#32;universal life insurance provides life insurance coverage along with investment returns linked to underlying investment accounts of the policyholder&#8217;s choice. Investment options may include VIT Funds discussed above, Portfolio Navigator funds of funds, as well as variable portfolio funds of other companies. Our Portfolio Stabilizer funds of funds offering is available for new sales of variable universal life insurance products. RiverSource &#32;variable universal life insurance products in force offer a fixed account investment option with guaranteed minimum interest crediting rates ranging from 2% to 4.5% at December 31, 2015. 

Fixed Universal Life Insurance and Traditional Whole Life Insurance 

Fixed &#32;universal life and traditional whole life insurance policies do not subject the policyholder to the investment risks associated with variable universal life insurance. 

RiverSource &#32;fixed universal life insurance products provide life insurance coverage and cash value that increases by a fixed interest rate. The rate is periodically reset at the discretion of the issuing company subject to certain policy terms relative to minimum interest crediting rates. RiverSource &#32;fixed universal life insurance policies in force provide guaranteed minimum interest crediting rates ranging from 2% to 5% at December 31, 2015. Certain fixed universal life policies offered by RiverSource Life provide secondary guarantee benefits. The secondary guarantee ensures that, subject to specified conditions, the policy will not terminate and will continue to provide a death benefit even if there is insufficient policy value to cover the monthly deductions and charges. 

RiverSource &#32;indexed universal life insurance (&#8220;IUL&#8221;) provides lifetime insurance protection and efficient asset growth through index-linked interest crediting, without the impact of negative market returns. IUL is similar to universal life insurance in that it provides life insurance coverage and cash value that increases as a result of credited interest as well as a minimum guaranteed credited rate of interest. Unlike universal life insurance, the rate of credited interest above the minimum guarantee for funds allocated to the indexed account is linked to the performance of the S&#38;P 500 Index &#174; &#32;(subject to a cap and floor) or a blended multi-index account option comprised of the S&#38;P 500 Index, the MSCI &#174; &#32;EAFE Index and MSCI EM Index. 

In 2013, we introduced RiverSource TrioSource SM &#32;universal life insurance with long term care benefits. The base feature of the RiverSource TrioSource &#32;product is a fixed universal life insurance policy that provides a guaranteed death benefit and a guaranteed return of premium. 

In 2009, we discontinued new sales of traditional whole life insurance, however, we continue to service existing policies. Our in-force traditional whole life insurance policies combine a death benefit with a cash value that generally increases gradually over a period of years. 

Term Life Insurance 

Term &#32;life insurance provides a death benefit, but it does not build up cash value. The policyholder chooses the term of coverage with guaranteed premiums at the time of issue. During the chosen term, we cannot raise premium rates even if claims experience deteriorates. At the end of the chosen term, coverage may continue with higher premiums until the maximum age is attained, or the policy expires with no value. We also offer a term life insurance product that pays the death benefit in the form of a monthly income stream. 

Disability Income Insurance 

Disability &#32;income insurance provides monthly benefits to individuals who are unable to earn income either at their occupation at time of disability (&#8220;own occupation&#8221;) or at any suitable occupation (&#8220;any occupation&#8221;) for premium payments that are guaranteed not to change. Depending upon occupational and medical underwriting criteria, applicants for disability income insurance can choose &#8220;own occupation&#8221; and &#8220;any occupation&#8221; coverage for varying benefit periods. In some states, applicants may also choose various benefit provisions to help them integrate individual disability income insurance benefits with Social Security or similar benefit plans and to help them protect their disability income insurance benefits from the risk of inflation. 

Long Term Care Insurance 

As &#32;of December 31, 2002, the RiverSource Life companies discontinued underwriting stand-alone long term care insurance. However, our advisors sell long term care insurance issued by other companies. 

In 2004, the RiverSource Life companies began to file for approval to implement rate increases on most of their existing blocks of nursing home-only indemnity long term care insurance policies. Implementation of these rate increases began in early 2005 and continues. We have received approval for some or all requested increases in the 50 states where increases have been requested, with an average approved cumulative rate increase of 113.3% of premium on all such policies where an increase was requested. 

In 2007, the RiverSource Life companies began to file for approval to implement rate increases on most of their existing blocks of comprehensive reimbursement long term care insurance policies. Implementation of these rate increases began in late 2007 and continues. We have received approval for some or all requested increases in 48 states, with an average approved cumulative rate increase of 55% of premium on all such policies where an increase was requested. 

We intend to seek additional rate increases with respect to these and other existing blocks of long term care insurance policies, subject to regulatory approval. 

Ameriprise Auto &#38; Home Insurance Products 

We &#32;offer personal auto, home, umbrella and specialty insurance products through IDS Property Casualty and its subsidiary, Ameriprise Insurance Company (the &#8220;Property Casualty companies&#8221;). We offer a range of coverage options under each product category. Our Property Casualty companies provide personal auto, home and umbrella coverage to clients in 43 states and the District of Columbia. 

Distribution and Marketing Channels 

Our &#32;Property Casualty companies do not have field agents - we use co-branded direct marketing to sell our personal auto, home and umbrella insurance products through alliances with commercial institutions and affinity groups, and directly to our clients and the general public. We also receive referrals through our financial advisor network. Our Property Casualty companies&#8217; multi-year contract with Costco Wholesale Corporation and Costco&#8217;s affiliated insurance agency expires on March 31, 2020. Costco members represented 62% of all new policy sales of our Property Casualty companies in 2015. Among our other alliances, we market our property casualty products to customers of Ford Motor Credit Company and offer personal home insurance products to customers of the Progressive Group. 

We offer RiverSource &#32;life insurance products almost exclusively through our advisors. Our advisors offer insurance products issued predominantly by the RiverSource Life companies, though they may also offer insurance products of unaffiliated carriers, subject to certain qualifications. 

Reinsurance 

We &#32;reinsure a portion of the insurance risks associated with our life, disability income, long term care and property casualty insurance products through reinsurance agreements with unaffiliated reinsurance companies. We use reinsurance to limit losses, reduce exposure to large and catastrophic risks and provide additional capacity for future growth. To manage exposure to losses from reinsurer insolvencies, we evaluate the financial condition of reinsurers prior to entering into new reinsurance treaties and on a periodic basis during the terms of the treaties. Our insurance companies remain primarily liable as the direct insurers on all risks reinsured. 

We also reinsure a portion of the risks associated with our personal auto, home and umbrella insurance products through reinsurance agreements with unaffiliated reinsurance companies. 

See Note 7 to our Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information on reinsurance. 

Liabilities and Reserves 

We &#32;maintain adequate financial reserves to cover the insurance risks associated with the insurance products we issue. Generally, reserves represent estimates of the invested assets that our insurance companies need to hold to provide adequately for future benefits and expenses and applicable state insurance laws generally require us to assess and submit an opinion regarding the adequacy of our reserves on an annual basis. For a discussion of liabilities and reserves related to our insurance products, see Note 2 to our Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Financial Strength Ratings 

Independent &#32;rating organizations evaluate the financial soundness and claims-paying ability of insurance companies continually, and they base their ratings on a number of different factors, including market position in core products and market segments, risk-adjusted capitalization and the quality of the company&#8217;s investment portfolios. More specifically, the ratings assigned are developed from an evaluation of a company&#8217;s balance sheet strength, operating performance and business profile. Balance sheet strength reflects a company&#8217;s ability to meet its current and ongoing obligations to its contractholders and policyholders and includes analysis of a company&#8217;s capital adequacy. The evaluation of operating performance centers on the stability and sustainability of a company&#8217;s sources of earnings. The business profile component of the rating considers a company&#8217;s mix of business, market position and depth and experience of management. 

Our insurance subsidiaries&#8217; ratings are important to maintain public confidence in our protection and annuity products. We list our ratings on our website at ir.ameriprise.com. For the most current ratings information, please see the individual rating agency&#8217;s website. 

Our Segments - Corporate &#38; Other 

Our &#32;Corporate &#38; Other segment consists of net investment income or loss on corporate level assets, including excess capital held in our subsidiaries and other unallocated equity and other revenues as well as unallocated corporate expenses. 

Competition 

We &#32;operate in a highly competitive global industry. As a diversified financial services firm, we compete directly with a variety of financial institutions, including registered investment advisors, securities brokers, asset managers, banks and insurance companies. Our competitors may have greater financial resources, broader and deeper distribution capabilities and products and services than we 

do. We compete directly with these for the provision of products and services to clients, as well as for our financial advisors and investment management personnel. Certain of our competitors offer web-based financial services and discount brokerage services, usually with lower levels of service, to individual clients. 

Our Advice &#38; Wealth Management segment competes with securities broker-dealers, independent broker-dealers, financial planning firms, registered investment advisors, insurance companies and other financial institutions to attract and retain financial advisors and their clients. Competitive factors influencing our ability to attract and retain financial advisors include compensation structures, brand recognition and reputation, product offerings and technology and service capabilities and support. Further, our financial advisors compete for clients with a range of other advisors, broker-dealers and direct channels, including wirehouses, regional broker-dealers, independent broker-dealers, insurers, banks, asset managers, registered investment advisers and direct distributors. Competitive factors influencing our ability to attract and retain clients include quality of advice provided, price, reputation, advertising and brand recognition, product offerings and technology and service quality. 

Our Asset Management segment competes on a global basis to acquire and retain managed and administered assets against a substantial number of firms, including those in the categories listed above. Such competitors may have achieved greater economies of scale, offer a broader array of products and services, offer products with a stronger performance record and have greater distribution capabilities. Competitive factors influencing our performance in this industry include investment performance, product offerings and innovation, product ratings, fee structures, advertising, service quality, brand recognition and reputation and the ability to attract and retain investment personnel. The ability to create and maintain and deepen relationships with distributors and clients also plays a significant role in our ability to acquire and retain managed and administered assets. The impact of these factors on our business may vary from country to country and certain competitors may have certain competitive advantage in certain jurisdictions. 

Competitors of our Annuities and Protection segments consist of both stock and mutual insurance companies. Competitive factors affecting the sale of annuity and insurance products (including property casualty insurance products) include distribution capabilities, price, product features, hedging capability, investment performance, commission structure, perceived financial strength, claims-paying ratings, service, advertising, brand recognition and financial strength ratings from rating agencies such as A.M. Best. 

Technology 

We &#32;have an integrated customer management system that serves as the hub of our technology platform. In addition, we have specialized product engines that manage various accounts and over the years, we have updated our platform to include new product lines. We also use a proprietary suite of processes, methods and tools for our financial planning services. We update our technological capabilities regularly to help maintain an adaptive platform design that aims to enhance the productivity of our advisors to allow for faster, lower-cost responses to emerging business opportunities, compliance requirements and marketplace trends. 

We have developed and maintain a comprehensive business continuity plan that covers different business disruptions of varying severity and scope and addresses, among other things, the loss of a geographic area, building, staff, data systems and/or telecommunications capabilities. We review and test our business continuity plan periodically and update it as necessary. We require our key technology vendors and service providers to do the same. 

Geographic Presence 

For &#32;years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, approximately 89%, 89% and 89%, respectively, of our long-lived assets were located in the United States and approximately 91%, 89% and 92%, respectively, of our net revenues were generated in the United States. The majority of our foreign operations are conducted through Threadneedle, as described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K under &#8220;Business - Our Segments - Asset Management.&#8221; 

Employees 

At December 31, 2015, we had approximately 13,000 employees, including over 2,000 employee advisors (which does not include our franchisee advisors, who are not employees of our company, but includes advisors employed in the AAC). We are not subject to collective bargaining agreements, and we believe that our employee relations are strong. 

Intellectual Property 

We &#32;rely on a combination of contractual rights and copyright, trademark, patent and trade secret laws to establish and protect our intellectual property. In the United States and other jurisdictions, we have established and registered or filed applications to register certain service marks and brand names that we consider important to the marketing of our products and services, including but not limited to Ameriprise Financial, Columbia Management, Threadneedle, RiverSource and Columbia Threadneedle Investments. We have in the past and will in the future take action to establish and protect our intellectual property. 

Regulation 

Virtually &#32;all aspects of our business, including the activities of the parent company and our subsidiaries, are subject to various federal, state and foreign laws and regulations. These laws and regulations provide broad regulatory, administrative and enforcement powers to supervisory agencies and other bodies, including U.S. federal and state regulatory agencies, foreign government agencies or regulatory bodies and U.S. and foreign securities exchanges. The costs of complying with such laws and regulations can be significant, and the 

consequences for the failure to comply may include civil or criminal charges, fines, censure, the suspension of individual employees, restrictions on or prohibitions from engaging in certain lines of business (or in certain states or countries), revocation of certain registrations as well as reputational damage. We have made and expect to continue to make significant investments in our compliance processes, enhancing policies, procedures and oversight to monitor our compliance with the numerous legal and regulatory requirements applicable to our business. 

The regulatory environment in which our businesses operate remains subject to change and heightened regulatory scrutiny. Regulatory developments, both in and outside of the U.S., have resulted or are expected to result in greater regulatory oversight and internal compliance obligations for firms across the financial services industry. In addition, we continue to see enhanced legislative and regulatory interest regarding retirement investing, and we will continue to closely review and monitor any legislative or regulatory proposals and changes. These legal and regulatory changes have impacted and may in the future impact the manner in which we are regulated and the manner in which we operate and govern our businesses. 

The discussion and overview set forth below provides a general framework of the laws and regulations impacting our businesses. Certain of our subsidiaries may be subject to one or more elements of this regulatory framework depending on the nature of their business, the products and services they provide and the geographic locations in which they operate. To the extent the discussion includes references to statutory and regulatory provisions, it is qualified in its entirety by reference to these statutory and regulatory provisions and is current only as of the date of this report. 

In addition to the regulators summarized above, we are also subject to regulation by self-regulatory organizations such as the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (&#8220;FINRA&#8221;), as well as various federal and state securities, insurance and financial regulators (such as regulatory agencies and bodies like the U.S. Department of Labor) in the U.S. and foreign jurisdictions where we do business. 

Advice and Wealth Management Regulation 

Certain of our subsidiaries are registered with the SEC as broker-dealers under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (&#8220;Exchange Act&#8221;) and with certain states, the District of Columbia and other U.S. territories. Our broker-dealer subsidiaries are also members of self-regulatory organizations, including FINRA, and are subject to the regulations of these organizations. The SEC and FINRA have stringent rules with respect to the net capital requirements and the marketing and trading activities of broker-dealers. Our broker-dealer subsidiaries, as well as our financial advisors and other personnel, must obtain all required state and FINRA licenses and registrations to engage in the securities business and take certain steps to maintain such registrations in good standing. SEC regulations also impose notice requirements and capital limitations on the payment of dividends by a broker-dealer to a parent. 

Our financial advisors are representatives of a dual registrant that is registered both as an investment adviser under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (&#8220;Advisers Act&#8221;) and as a broker-dealer. Our advisors are subject to various regulations that impact how they operate their practices, including those related to supervision, sales methods, trading practices, record-keeping and financial reporting. In addition, because our independent contractor advisor platform is structured as a franchise system, we are also subject to Federal Trade Commission and state franchise requirements. As a result of the 2010 Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (&#8220;Dodd-Frank Act&#8221;), our financial advisors may in the future become subject to a fiduciary standard of conduct in connection with their broker-dealer activities that is no less stringent than what is currently applied to investment advisers under the Advisers Act. As noted earlier, we continue to see enhanced legislative and regulatory interest regarding retirement investing and financial advisors, including proposed rules, regulatory priorities or general discussion around transparency and disclosure in advisor compensation and recruiting, identifying and managing conflicts of interest and enhanced data collection. 

Our financial advisors service clients who hold assets in IRAs and employer-sponsored retirement plan accounts. The Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended (&#8220;ERISA&#8221;) and related provisions of the Internal Revenue Code impose duties on persons who are fiduciaries under ERISA, and prohibit certain transactions (absent an exemption) involving the assets of IRA and ERISA plan clients and certain transactions by the fiduciaries to the plans and IRAs. The Department of Labor continues to pursue regulations that would significantly expand the scope of who is considered an ERISA fiduciary and what activity constitutes acting as an ERISA fiduciary, while prohibiting certain additional types of transactions conducted by persons who are considered fiduciaries. These regulations focus on conflicts of interest related to investment recommendations made by financial advisors or registered investment advisors to clients holding qualified accounts and other types of ERISA clients as well as how financial advisors are able to discuss IRA rollovers. On January 29, 2016, after a lengthy public comment period and public hearing, the Department of Labor sent a proposed fiduciary rule to the Office of Management and Budget where the rule remains confidential until the final rule is published in the Federal Register. We continue to review and analyze the potential impact of the proposed regulations on our clients and prospective clients, as well as the potential impact on our business. We cannot predict how any final regulations may differ from the proposed regulations. 

Other agencies, exchanges and self-regulatory organizations of which certain of our broker-dealer subsidiaries are members, and subject to applicable rules and regulations of, include the Commodities Futures Trading Commission (&#8220;CFTC&#8221;) and the National Futures Association (&#8220;NFA&#8221;). Effective in August 2014, AFSI changed its registration from a Futures Commission Merchant to a Commodity Trading Advisor with the CFTC. In addition, certain subsidiaries may also be registered as insurance agencies and subject to the regulations described in the following sections. 

Asset Management Regulation 

In the U.S., certain of our asset management subsidiaries are registered as investment advisers under the Advisers Act and subject to regulation by the SEC. The Advisers Act imposes numerous obligations on registered investment advisers, including fiduciary duties, disclosure obligations and record-keeping, and operational and marketing restrictions. Our registered investment advisers may also be subject to certain obligations of the Investment Company Act based on their status as investment advisers to investment companies that we, or third parties, sponsor. As an outcome of the Dodd-Frank Act, Congress is considering whether to increase the frequency of examinations of SEC-registered investment advisers, including the authorization of one or more self-regulatory organizations to examine, subject to SEC oversight, SEC-registered investment advisers. On December 11, 2015, the SEC approved a proposed rule designed to enhance investor protection by limiting the use of derivatives by mutual funds, closed-end funds and ETFs, and requiring new risk management measures with respect to derivatives. Comments on the proposed rules are currently due at the end of the first quarter of 2016. We are currently assessing the impact of the proposed rule on our business, particularly with respect to mutual funds and ETFs managed by Columbia Management. The timing of the final rules and implementation timeframes are currently unclear. As noted earlier, we continue to see enhanced legislative and regulatory interest regarding financial services in the U.S. through rules (and those yet to be implemented), regulatory priorities or general discussion around risk retention requirements, expanded reporting requirements and transfer agent regulation. 

Aspects of the regulation applicable to our Advice &#38; Wealth Management segment also apply to our Asset Management segment. For example, Columbia Management Investment Distributors, Inc. is registered with the CFTC and NFA as well as registered as a broker-dealer for the limited purpose of acting as the principal underwriter and distributor for Columbia Management &#32;funds. Additionally, ERISA and the U.S. Department of Labor&#8217;s proposed fiduciary rule impacts our global asset management business and we continue to review and analyze the potential impact of the proposed regulations on our clients and prospective clients, as well as the potential impact on our business across each of our business lines. 

In connection with rules adopted by the CFTC, certain of our subsidiaries are registered with the CFTC as a commodity trading advisor and commodity pool operator and are also members of the NFA. These rules adopted by the CFTC eliminated or limited previously available exemptions and exclusions from many CFTC requirements and impose additional registration and reporting requirements for operators of certain registered investment companies and certain other pooled vehicles that use or trade in futures, swaps and other derivatives that are subject to CFTC regulation. 

Outside of the U.S., our Threadneedle group is primarily authorized to conduct its financial services business in the UK under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000. Threadneedle is currently regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (&#8220;FCA&#8221;) and the Prudential Regulation Authority (&#8220;PRA&#8221;). FCA and PRA rules impose certain capital, operational and compliance requirements and allow for disciplinary action in the event of noncompliance. 

In addition to the above, certain of our asset management subsidiaries, such as Threadneedle&#8217;s UK and other European subsidiaries, are required to comply with pan-European directives issued by the European Commission, as adopted by E.U. member states. For example, Threadneedle and certain of our other asset management subsidiaries are required to comply with the Markets in Financial Instruments Directive (&#8220;MiFID&#8221;), Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive (&#8220;AIFMD&#8221;) and European Market Infrastructure Regulation (&#8220;EMIR&#8221;). These regulations are impacting the way we manage assets and place, settle and report on trades for our clients, as well as market to clients and prospects. EMIR is the EU equivalent of Title VII Dodd-Frank (and provides a framework for the regulation of over the counter and exchange-traded derivative markets). EMIR is being implemented in a number of phases that began in August 2012. Similar to the developments in the U.S., we continue to see enhanced legislative and regulatory interest regarding financial services through international markets, including in the European Union where we have a substantial asset management business. These non-U.S. rules (and those yet to be implemented), proposed rules, regulatory priorities or general discussions may impact us directly or indirectly, including as a regulated entity or as a service provider to, or a business receiving services from or engaging in transactions with, regulated entities. For example, within the EU and the UK we have been, or will be, addressing Solvency II, UCITS V, Market Abuse Directive II, Markets in Financial Instruments Directive II and Market Abuse Regulation, Transparency Directive II, the FCA&#8217;s Asset Management Market Survey and Asset Management Senior Managers Regime and a financial transaction tax. 

In Singapore, our asset management subsidiary Threadneedle Investments Singapore (Pte.) Ltd. (&#8220;Threadneedle Singapore&#8221;) is regulated by the Monetary Authority of Singapore (&#8220;MAS&#8221;) under the Securities and Futures Act. Threadneedle Singapore holds a capital markets services license with MAS, and employees of Threadneedle Singapore engaging in regulated activities are also required to be licensed. MAS rules impose certain capital, operational and compliance requirements and allow for disciplinary action in the event of noncompliance. 

Threadneedle companies and activities are also subject to other local country regulations in Europe, Dubai, Hong Kong, Luxembourg, Malaysia, Taiwan, the U.S., South Korea, South America and Australia. Additionally, many of our subsidiaries, including Columbia Management, are also subject to foreign, state and local laws with respect to advisory services that are offered and provided by these subsidiaries, including services provided to government pension plans. 

Other Securities Regulation 

Ameriprise Certificate Company is regulated as an investment company under the Investment Company Act. As a registered investment company, Ameriprise Certificate Company must observe certain governance, disclosure, record-keeping, operational and marketing requirements. Ameriprise Certificate Company pays dividends to the parent company and is subject to capital requirements under applicable law and understandings with the SEC and the Minnesota Department of Commerce (Banking Division). 

ATC is primarily regulated by the Minnesota Department of Commerce (Banking Division) and is subject to capital adequacy requirements under Minnesota law. It may not accept deposits or make personal or commercial loans. As a provider of products and services to tax-qualified retirement plans and IRAs, certain aspects of our business, including the activities of our trust company, fall within the compliance oversight of the U.S. Departments of Labor and Treasury, particularly regarding the enforcement of ERISA, and the tax reporting requirements applicable to such accounts. ATC, as well as our investment adviser subsidiaries, may be subject to ERISA, and the regulations thereunder, insofar as they act as a &#8220;fiduciary&#8221; under ERISA with respect to certain ERISA clients. 

Protection and Annuities Regulation 

Our insurance subsidiaries are subject to supervision and regulation by states and other territories where they are domiciled or otherwise licensed to do business. The primary purpose of this regulation and supervision is to protect the interests of contractholders and policyholders. In general, state insurance laws and regulations govern standards of solvency, capital requirements, the licensing of 

insurers and their agents, premium rates, policy forms, the nature of and limitations on investments, periodic reporting requirements and other matters. In addition, state regulators conduct periodic examinations into insurer market conduct and compliance with insurance and securities laws. The Minnesota Department of Commerce, the Wisconsin Office of the Commissioner of Insurance, and the New York State Department of Financial Services (the &#8220;Domiciliary Regulators&#8221;) regulate certain of the RiverSource Life companies, and the Property Casualty companies depending on each company&#8217;s state of domicile. In addition to being regulated by their Domiciliary Regulators, our RiverSource Life companies and Property Casualty companies are regulated by each of the insurance regulators in the states where each is authorized to transact business. Financial regulation of our RiverSource Life companies and Property Casualty companies is extensive, and their financial transactions (such as intercompany dividends and investment activity) may be subject to pre-approval and/or continuing evaluation by the Domiciliary Regulators. 

Aspects of the regulation applicable to our Advice &#38; Wealth Management segment also apply to our Annuities and Protection segments. For example, RiverSource Distributors is registered with the CFTC and NFA as well as registered as a broker-dealer for the limited purpose of acting as the principal underwriter and/or distributor for our RiverSource &#32;annuities and insurance products sold through AFSI and third-party channels. Additionally, ERISA and the U.S. Department of Labor&#8217;s proposed fiduciary rule impacts our insurance business and we continue to review and analyze the potential impact of the proposed regulations on our clients and prospective clients, as well as the potential impact on our business across each of our business lines. 

Virtually all states require participation in insurance guaranty associations, which assess fees to insurance companies in order to fund claims of policyholders and contractholders of insolvent insurance companies subject to statutory limits. These assessments are generally based on a member insurer&#8217;s proportionate share of all premiums written by member insurers in the state during a specified period prior to an insurer&#8217;s insolvency. See Note 23 to our Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information regarding guaranty association assessments. 

Certain variable annuity and variable life insurance policies offered by the RiverSource Life companies constitute and are registered as securities under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. As such, these products are subject to regulation by the SEC and FINRA. Securities regulators have recently increased their focus on the adequacy of disclosure regarding complex investment products, including variable annuities and life insurance, and have announced that they will continue to review actions by life insurers to improve profitability and reduce risks under in force annuity and insurance products with guaranteed benefits. 

The Dodd-Frank Act created the Federal Insurance Office (&#8220;FIO&#8221;) within the Department of Treasury. The FIO does not have substantive regulatory responsibilities, though it is tasked with monitoring the insurance industry and the effectiveness of its regulatory framework and providing periodic reports to the President and Congress. 

RiverSource Life owns a block of residential mortgage loans. As an owner and servicer of residential mortgages, RiverSource Life must comply with applicable federal and state lending and foreclosure laws and is subject to the jurisdiction of the federal Consumer Finance Protection Bureau and certain state regulators relative to these mortgage loans. 

Each of our insurance subsidiaries is subject to risk-based capital (&#8220;RBC&#8221;) requirements designed to assess the adequacy of an insurance company&#8217;s total adjusted capital in relation to its investment, insurance and other risks. The National Association of Insurance Commissioners (&#8220;NAIC&#8221;) has established RBC standards that all state insurance departments have adopted. The RBC requirements are used by the NAIC and state insurance regulators to identify companies that merit regulatory actions designed to protect policyholders. Our RiverSource Life companies and Property Casualty companies are subject to various levels of regulatory intervention should their total adjusted statutory capital fall below defined RBC action levels. At the &#8220;company action level,&#8221; defined as total adjusted capital level between 100% and 75% of the RBC requirement, an insurer must submit a plan for corrective action with its primary state regulator. The level of regulatory intervention is greater at lower levels of total adjusted capital relative to the RBC requirement. RiverSource Life, RiverSource Life of NY, IDS Property Casualty and Ameriprise Insurance Company maintain capital levels well in excess of the company action level required by state insurance regulators as noted below as of December 31, 2015: 

Entity 

&#160; 

Company Action Level RBC 

&#160; 

Total 

Adjusted Capital 

&#160; 

% of Company Action Level RBC 

&#160; 

&#160; 

(in millions, except percentages) 

RiverSource Life 

&#160; 

$ 

&#160; 

$ 

3,800 

&#160; 

% 

RiverSource Life of NY 

&#160; 

&#160; 

&#160; 

IDS Property Casualty 

&#160; 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Ameriprise Insurance Company 

&#160; 

&#160; 

&#160; 

8,701 

Ameriprise Financial, as a direct and indirect owner of its insurance subsidiaries, is subject to the insurance holding companies laws of the states where its insurance subsidiaries are domiciled. These laws generally require insurance holding companies to register with the insurance department of the insurance company&#8217;s state of domicile and to provide certain financial and other information about the operations of the companies within the holding company structure. 

As part of its Solvency Modernization Initiative, in 2010 the NAIC adopted revisions to its Insurance Holding Company System Regulatory Act (&#8220;Holding Company Act&#8221;) to enhance insurer group supervision and create a new Risk Management and Own Risk and Solvency Assessment (&#8220;ORSA&#8221;) Model Act. The Holding Company Act revisions focus on the overall insurance holding company system, establish a framework of regulator supervisory colleges, enhancements to corporate governance, and require the annual filing of an Enterprise Risk Management Report. The ORSA Model Act requires that an insurer create and file, annually, its Own Risk Solvency Assessment, which is a complete self-assessment of its risk management functions and capital adequacy. These laws have now been enacted by the domiciliary states of RiverSource Life and the Property Casualty companies: Minnesota, New York and Wisconsin. The reports have been completed and filed as required by the laws and regulations of those states. 

Federal Banking Regulation 

In &#32;January 2013, Ameriprise Bank received approval for and completed the conversion from a federal savings bank to a limited powers national trust bank, which was renamed Ameriprise National Trust Bank. As a limited powers national association, Ameriprise National Trust Bank remains subject to supervision under various laws and regulations enforced by the OCC, including those related to capital adequacy, liquidity and conflicts of interest, and to a limited extent, by the FDIC. 

Following the conversion of Ameriprise Bank, Ameriprise Financial deregistered as a savings and loan holding company and is no longer subject to consolidated regulation or supervision by the Federal Reserve System (&#8220;FRB&#8221;) as such, nor is it subject to the additional FRB requirements applicable to financial holding companies. 

Parent Company Regulation 

Ameriprise &#32;Financial is a publicly traded company that is subject to SEC and New York Stock Exchange (&#8220;NYSE&#8221;) rules and regulations regarding public disclosure, financial reporting, internal controls and corporate governance. The adoption of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 as well as the implementation of the Dodd-Frank Act have significantly enhanced these rules and regulations. 

We have operations in a number of geographical regions outside of the U.S. through Threadneedle and certain of our other subsidiaries. We monitor developments in European Union (&#8220;EU&#8221;) legislation, as well as in the other markets in which we operate, to ensure that we comply with all applicable legal requirements, including EU directives applicable to financial institutions as implemented in the various member states. Because of the mix of business activities we conduct, we assess the impact of, and monitor our status under, the EU Financial Conglomerates Directive, which contemplates that certain financial conglomerates involved in banking, insurance and investment activities among other things, implement measures to prevent excessive leverage and multiple leveraging of capital and maintain internal control processes to address risk concentrations as well as risks arising from significant intragroup transactions. 

Privacy, Environmental Laws and USA Patriot Act 

Many &#32;aspects of our business are subject to comprehensive legal requirements by a multitude of different functional regulators concerning the use and protection of personal information, including client and employee information. This includes rules adopted pursuant to the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, the Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act, the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (&#8220;HIPAA&#8221;), the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health (&#8220;HITECH&#8221;) Act, an ever increasing number of state laws, EU data protection legislation as domestically implemented in the respective EU member states, and data protection rules in the other regions outside the U.S. and the EU in which we operate. We have also implemented policies and procedures in response to such requirements. We continue our efforts to safeguard the data entrusted to us in accordance with applicable laws and our internal data protection policies, including taking steps to reduce the potential for identity theft or other improper use or disclosure of personal information, while seeking to collect only the data that is necessary to properly achieve our business objectives and to best serve our clients. 

As the owner and operator of real property, we are subject to federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations. We periodically conduct environmental reviews on our own real estate as well as investment real estate to assess and ensure our compliance with these laws and regulations. 

The Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism Act, commonly referred to as the USA Patriot Act, was enacted in October 2001 in the wake of the September 11th terrorist attacks. The USA Patriot Act broadened existing anti-money laundering legislation and the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the United States substantially. In response, we enhanced our existing anti-money laundering programs and developed new procedures and programs. For example, we implemented a customer identification program applicable to many of our businesses and enhanced our &#8220;know your customer&#8221; and &#8220;due diligence&#8221; programs. In addition, we will continue to comply with anti-money laundering legislation in the UK derived from applicable EU directives and international initiatives adopted in other jurisdictions in which we conduct business. 

Securities Exchange Act Reports and Additional Information 

We &#32;maintain an Investor Relations website at ir.ameriprise.com. Investors can also access the website through our main website at ameriprise.com by clicking on the &#8220;Investor Relations&#8221; link located at the bottom of our homepage. We use our Investor Relations website to announce financial and other information to investors and to make available SEC filings, press releases, public conference calls and webcasts. Investors and others interested in the company are encouraged to visit the investor relations website from time to time, as information is updated and new information is posted. The website also allows users to sign up for automatic notifications in the event new materials are posted. The information found on the website is not incorporated by reference into this report or in any other report or document the Company furnishes or files with the SEC. 

Segment Information and Classes of Similar Services 

You &#32;can find financial information about our operating segments and classes of similar services in Note 25 to our Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

