 Item 1. 

Business 

Overview 

RealNetworks creates innovative applications and services that make it easy to connect with and enjoy digital media. We invented the streaming media category in 1995 and continue to connect consumers with their digital media both directly and through partners, aiming to support every network, device, media type and social network. We provide the digital media services and products we create to consumers, mobile carriers and other businesses. 

Consumers use our services and software to store, organize, play and manage their digital media content. Our consumer products and services include our photo and video sharing and storage application, our casual games, our direct-to-consumer ringback tone and productivity tool, and RealPlayer, our widely distributed media player. Network service providers, such as mobile carriers, use our products and services to create and deliver digital media and messaging services, such as ringback tones, music on demand, intercarrier messaging, and photo and video sharing technology for their subscribers. 

We were incorporated in 1994 in the State of Washington. Our common stock is listed on The NASDAQ Stock Market under the symbol &#8220;RNWK.&#8221; 

In this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015 , RealNetworks, Inc., together with its subsidiaries, is referred to as &#8220;RealNetworks&#8221;, the &#8220;Company&#8221;, &#8220;we&#8221;, &#8220;us&#8221;, or &#8220;our&#8221;. "RealPlayer," and other trademarks of ours appearing in this report are our property. 

Segments 

We manage our business and report revenue and operating income (loss) in three segments: (1) RealPlayer Group, (2) Mobile Entertainment, and (3) Games. We allocate certain corporate expenses which are directly attributable to supporting the business, including but not limited to a portion of finance, legal, human resources and headquarters facilities, to our reportable segments rather than retaining those expenses in our corporate segment. 

RealPlayer Group 

Our RealPlayer Group business primarily consists of our new photo and video sharing product, RealTimes, which was launched in the second quarter of 2015 and our RealPlayer media player software and related products and services. Within our RealPlayer Group, we have intensified our focus on leveraging current and prospective partners, especially wireless carriers, to increase distribution of RealTimes. In the fourth quarter of 2015 we entered into two new carrier agreements for our RealTimes product. We have continued to make progress in developing new partnerships to increase distribution of RealTimes. 

Our RealPlayer media player software includes features and services that enable consumers to discover, play, download, manage and edit digital video, specifically, allowing them to stream audio and video, download and save photos and videos from the web, transfer and share content on social networks, and edit their own photo and video content. Building on this business, our new RealTimes product gives consumers even more options and control over their digital memories. With the RealTimes product, consumers can find, watch, save and share their photos and videos on multiple devices and across multiple platforms, as well as create photo and video collages, or RealTimes Stories. 

In our RealPlayer segment, revenue is derived from sales of the premium version of our media player and from the distribution of third-party software products to consumers who wish to download additional applications when downloading our software products. We also generate revenue through our RealPlayer subscription products, including RealTimes and our SuperPass service. RealTimes is distributed both directly to consumers and through partners, such as our recently announced agreements with Verizon and KDDI. There is an entry-level free version for consumers, as well as a premium subscription version. SuperPass is our subscription service that provides consumers with access to a broad range of digital entertainment content for a monthly fee. 

In addition to consumer products, we also license our technology to a variety of electronic equipment and microchip manufacturers who embed our codec in their phones, laptops, and smart TVs. 

Mobile Entertainment 

Mobile Entertainment consists primarily of the digital media services we provide to network service providers as software as a service (SaaS) offerings. The majority of revenues from this segment are in Asia and North America. These SaaS offerings, which include our ringback tone, intercarrier messaging, and music on demand services, as well as our call management product called LISTEN, are sold to a large number of mobile carriers worldwide, and our music on demand services are principally sold in Korea. In connection with our SaaS services, we also offer business intelligence, subscriber management and billing for our carrier customers. 

Our ringback tone services enable callers to hear subscriber-selected music instead of the traditional electronic ringing sound while waiting for the person they have called to answer. We primarily offer ringback tone services via carriers, where, in return for providing, operating and managing the ringback tone service for the carrier customers, we generally enter into revenue-sharing arrangements with the carriers based on monthly subscription fees, content download fees or a combination of such fees paid by subscribers. Our interactive and highly customizable LISTEN product takes the ringback tone service to a new level, allowing the subscriber to utilize the app as more of a time management and productivity tool. 

Our intercarrier messaging services are delivered through various carrier partners within the U.S. and internationally. The revenue we earn from our intercarrier messaging service is subject to a revenue-sharing arrangement with our carrier partners. 

Our music on demand services, provided through our partner in Korea, offer a wide range of songs for downloading or streaming to PCs and mobile devices through various payment arrangements. 

Games 

We own and operate a casual games service, offering casual games via digital downloads, online subscription play, third-party portals, social networks and mobile devices. Casual games typically have simple graphics, rules and controls and are quick to learn, and often include time-management, board, card, puzzle, word and hidden-object games. 

We develop, publish, license and distribute casual games. We have a large and diverse portfolio of original games developed by our in-house game studios, games developed by us from content we license from other intellectual property holders, and games licensed to us by third parties that we distribute to our customers. We also partner with external game developers who develop games for us on an outsourced basis, which gives those developers access to our large distribution network in exchange for distribution rights to their games. We distribute games principally in North America, Europe and Latin America through our GameHouse and Zylom websites and through websites owned or managed by third parties. 

Following the sale of our Slingo and social casino business, we monetize our games largely through sales of game licenses and subscriptions. We have adapted our games for play on mobile handsets, smartphones and tablets, which can be purchased in app stores. Consumers can also play and purchase games from our catalog of online and downloadable PC games. We typically introduce new games by offering a free trial before purchase on an individual basis or as part of one of our subscription services. In addition to revenue from sales of game licenses and subscriptions, we also generate revenue from display advertising that is shown to consumers during online play. Our Slingo and social casino games business which we sold in August 2015 generated much of its revenue through microtransactions and advertising. See Note 3. &#32;&#32; Acquisitions and Disposals &#32;for additional details on the sale. 

See Note 18. &#32; Segment Information , in this Form 10-K for additional details on our segments. 

Rhapsody 

At December 31, 2015 , we owned approximately 43% &#32;of the issued and outstanding stock of Rhapsody. See Note 4. &#32; Rhapsody Joint Venture , in this 10-K for additional details. Rhapsody provides music products and services that enable consumers to have access to digital music content from a variety of devices. The Rhapsody unlimited subscription service offers unlimited access to a catalog of tens of millions of music tracks by way of on-demand streaming and conditional downloads. Rhapsody also operates a radio-like service, branded as "UnRadio" in the U.S., through which users can listen to online radio stations based on selected artists or genres and download favorite tracks played on those stations for offline playback. Rhapsody currently offers music services in 32 different territories (under the Rhapsody or Napster brands) and generates revenue primarily through subscriptions to its music services either directly to consumers or through distribution partners, such as mobile carriers. 

Customers 

Our customers include consumers and businesses located throughout the world. Sales to customers outside the U.S., primarily in Asia and Europe, were 63% , 61% &#32;and 56% &#32;of our revenue during the years ended December 31, 2015 , 2014 &#32;and 2013 , respectively. See Note 18. &#32; Segment Information , for details on geographic concentrations and see Note 6. &#32; Allowance for Doubtful Accounts Receivable and Sales Returns , for details on customer revenue concentrations. 

Research and Development 

We devote a substantial portion of our resources to developing new products, enhancing existing products, expanding and improving our fundamental technology, and strengthening our technological expertise in all our businesses. During the years ended December 31, 2015 , 2014 , and 2013 , we expended 35% , 34% and 30%, respectively, of our revenue on research and development activities. 

Sales, Marketing and Distribution 

Our marketing programs are aimed at increasing brand awareness of our products and services and stimulating demand. We use a variety of methods to market our products and services, including paid search advertising, affiliate marketing programs, advertising in print, electronic and other online media, direct mail and email offers to qualified potential and existing customers, and providing product specific information through our websites. We also cross-market products and services offered by some of our businesses through the RealPlayer and Games marketing and distribution channels. We also have subsidiaries and offices in several countries that market and sell our products outside the U.S. 

Our products and services are marketed through direct and indirect channels. We use public relations, trade shows, events and speaking opportunities to market our products and services. We also use a variety of online channels, including social media, to promote and sell our products and services directly. 

We market and sell our RealPlayer services directly through our own websites such as Real.com, as well as indirectly through third party distribution partners. 

Our Mobile Entertainment sales, marketing and business development team works closely with many of our enterprise, infrastructure, wireless, broadband and media customers to identify new business opportunities for our entertainment applications, services and systems. Through ongoing communications with the product and marketing divisions of our customers, we tailor our SaaS offerings to their strategic needs and the needs of their subscribers. 

Our games are marketed directly from our websites and through third-party distribution channels, such as mobile phone application stores, search engines, online portals, major social networks and content publishers. 

Customer Support 

Customer support is integral to the provision of nearly all of our consumer products and services. Consumers who purchase and use our consumer software products and services can get assistance via the Internet, email or telephone, depending on the product or service. For most of our consumer products, we contract with third-party outsource support vendors to provide the primary staffing for our first-tier customer support globally. We also provide various support service options for our business customers and for software developers using our software products and associated services. Support service options include online support services, hotline telephone support, and on-site support personnel covering technical and business-related support topics. 

Competition 

The market for software and services for digital media delivery over the Internet and wireless networks is intensely competitive. Many of our current and potential competitors have longer operating histories, greater name recognition or brand awareness, more employees or significantly greater resources than we do. 

Our RealTimes product faces significant competition from both well known, firmly established companies and entrepreneurial, nimble startups who provide photo and video sharing services. In addition, as we continue to develop this product and expand its reach, we expect to see growing competition from companies offering innovative features for engaging with users' video content. Our RealPlayer media player continues to face competition from alternative streaming media playback technologies which have obtained very broad market penetration. 

In our Mobile Entertainment segment, our SaaS business competes with a large and diverse number of domestic and international companies, and each of our SaaS offerings tends to face competitors specific to that product or service. Our SaaS business continues to experience significant competitive pricing pressure from carriers and the proliferation of smartphone applications and services, some of which do not depend on our carrier customers for distribution to consumers. Many of our SaaS services require a high degree of integration with carrier or service provider networks and thus require a high degree of operational expertise. In addition, our ability to enhance services with new features as the digital entertainment market evolves is critical to our competitive position, as is our knowledge of the consumer environment to which these services are targeted. 

Our Games business competes with a variety of distributors, publishers and developers of casual games for mobile and PC platforms and for social networks. In addition, the market for casual games has become increasingly price competitive in recent years. Our in-house content development studios compete with other developers and publishers of social and mobile games based on our ability to develop and publish high quality games that resonate with consumers, our effectiveness at building our brands, and our ability to secure broad distribution. Our social and mobile games compete with a range of developers. Our family of websites serving the PC casual games market competes with other high volume distribution channels for downloadable, online and social games. 

Intellectual Property 

As of December 31, 2015 , we had 10 U.S. patents, 53 South Korean patents, 24 patents in other countries and more than 30 pending patent applications worldwide relating to various aspects of our technology. In 2012, we completed the sale of certain patents, patent applications and related rights held by us, and certain of our assets relating to our next generation video codec technologies to Intel. We regularly analyze our patent portfolio and prepare additional patent applications on current and anticipated features of our technology in various jurisdictions across the world. 

I n addition to our patent portfolio, we have assembled, over time, an international portfolio of trademarks and service marks that covers certain of our products and services. We also have applications pending for additional trademarks and service marks in jurisdictions around the world, and have several unregistered trademarks. Many of our marks begin with the word &#8220;Real&#8221; (such as RealPlayer). We are aware of other companies that use &#8220;Real&#8221; in their marks alone or in combination with other words, and we do not expect to be able to prevent all third-party uses of the word &#8220;Real&#8221; for all goods and services. 

Our ability to compete across our businesses partly depends on the superiority, uniqueness and value of the technology that we both develop and license from third parties. To protect our proprietary rights, we rely on a combination of patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, confidentiality agreements with our employees and third parties, and protective contractual provisions. These efforts to protect our intellectual property rights may not be effective in preventing misappropriation of our technology, or may not prevent the development and design by others of products or technologies similar to or competitive with those we develop. 

Employees 

At December 31, 2015 , we had approximately 579 employees, of which 201 were based in the Americas, 174 were based in Asia, and 204 were based in Europe. None of our employees are subject to a collective bargaining agreement. 

Position on Charitable Responsibility 

In periods when we have achieved sustained profitability, we intend to donate 5% of our net income to charitable organizations, which will reduce our net income for those periods. The non-profit RealNetworks Foundation, established in 2001, manages a substantial portion of our charitable giving efforts. Through the Foundation, we support our employees' philanthropic efforts by matching their donations of time and money to charitable organizations. 

Available Information 

Our corporate Internet address is www.realnetworks.com. We make available free of charge on www.investor.realnetworks.com our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to these reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). However, the information found on our corporate website is not part of this or any other report. 

