 ITEM 1. 

BUSINESS 

General Development of Business 

&#160;

Sangui BioTech, Inc. ( &#147; SBT &#148; ) was incorporated in Delaware on August 2, 1996, and began operations in October 1996. Shortly after the formation of SBT, the shareholders of SanguiBioTech AG ( &#147; Sangui GmbH &#148; ) and GlukoMediTech AG ( &#147; Gluko AG &#148; ) agreed to a share swap in which all of the outstanding shares held by the shareholders would be exchanged for shares of SBT, thereby making Sangui GmbH and Gluko AG wholly owned subsidiaries of SBT. In August 1997, a publicly held company, Citadel Investment System, Inc., a Colorado corporation ( &#147; Citadel &#148; ), acquired one hundred percent (100%) of the outstanding common shares of Sangui BioTech, Inc., and as a result, Sangui BioTech, Inc. became a wholly owned subsidiary of Citadel. Thereafter, Citadel changed its name to Sangui BioTech International, Inc. (the &#147; Company &#148; or &#147; SGBI &#148; ).

Until the end of its fiscal year 2003, SGBI's business operations were conducted through wholly owned subsidiaries. During the first quarter of the 2003 fiscal year, SBT sold its assets, and commenced a wind-down of its U.S. business operations. SBT was merged with and into SGBI effective December 31, 2002. Gluko AG was merged with Sangui GmbH effective June 30, 2003. 

Sangui BioTech GmbH, the only remaining subsidiary of SGBI, develops hemoglobin-based artificial oxygen carriers for use as blood additives, blood volume substitutes and variant products thereof. Sangui GmbH has also developed an anti-aging cosmetic and a number of related products aimed at improving oxygen supply to the skin. Enhanced oxygen supply is the key to improved wound healing; therefore the Company has extended its product portfolio to contain wound pads and other wound management products. The facilities of Sangui GmbH are located on the premises of the Forschungs- und Entwicklungszentrum of the University of Witten/Herdecke, Witten, Germany.

To date, neither SGBI nor its subsidiary has had profitable operations. The Company has never been profitable, and through June 30, 2016, SGBI's accumulated deficit has exceeded $36,6 million. The Company may continue to incur substantial losses over the next several years as it pursues its development, marketing and market entry efforts, testing activities and other growth operations.

We have adopted the strategy to license our marketable products or such products that are close to market entry to industry partners. In the pursuit of this strategy we have licensed the most promising product, a hemoglobin based wound spray technology to Sastomend GmbH, a former joint venture company for distribution in several European and Latin American countries. In addition, we are entering the preclinical testing of hemoglobin based artificial oxygen carriers aiming at the remediation of ischemic conditions in human patients.

No assurance can be given that our program will be successful.

Business of the Company 

&#160;

Our mission is the development of novel and proprietary pharmaceutical, medical and cosmetic products. We develop our products through our German subsidiary, Sangui GmbH. Currently, we are seeking to market and sell our products through partnerships with industry partners worldwide.

Our focus has been the development of oxygen carriers capable of providing oxygen transport in humans in the event of acute and/or chronic lack of oxygen due to arterial occlusion, anemia or blood loss whether due to surgery, trauma, or other causes, as well as in the case of chronic wounds. 

We have thus far focused our development and commercialization efforts on such artificial oxygen carriers by reproducing and synthesizing polymers out of native hemoglobin of defined molecular sizes. 

In addition, we have developed external applications of oxygen transporters in the medical and cosmetic fields in the form of sprays for the healing of chronic wounds and of gels and emulsions for the regeneration of the skin. A wound dressing that shows outstanding properties in the support of wound healing is distributed by SastoMed GmbH, as global licensee under the Granulox brand name. Sastomed GmbH was a joint venture company in which we held 25%. Our stake was sold to the joint venture partner effective December 31, 2015.

We also market a wound dressing that shows outstanding properties in the support of wound healing, which we call Chitoskin. SanguiBioTech GmbH holds distribution rights for these Chitoskin wound pads for the European Union and various other countries. A European patent has been granted for the production and use of Chitoskin wound pads.

Our current key business focuses are: (a) selling our existing cosmetics and wound management products through distribution partners, or by way of direct sale, to end users; (b) identifying additional industrial and distribution partners for our patents, production techniques, and products; and, (c) obtaining the additional certifications on our products in development.

SanguiBioTech GmbH is ISO 9001:2000 (General Quality Management System) and ISO 13485:2003 (Quality Management System Medical Products) certified, and is subject to audits on a regular basis.

Products of the Company 

Artificial Oxygen Carriers 

We develop several products based on polymers of purified natural porcine hemoglobin with oxygen carrying abilities that are similar to those of native hemoglobin. These are (1) oxygen carrying blood additives, and (2) oxygen carrying blood volume substitutes.

In December 1997, we decided that porcine hemoglobin should be used as the basic material for artificial oxygen carriers. In March 1999, we decided which hemoglobin hyperpolymer would go into preclinical investigation, that glutaraldehyde would be utilized as a cross linker, and further that the polymer hemoglobin be chemically masked to prevent protein interaction in blood plasma. The fine adjustment of the molecular formula of the artificial oxygen carriers - optimized for laboratory scale production - was finalized in the summer of 2000.

The experiments completed in our laboratories demonstrated that it is possible to polymerize hemoglobins isolated from porcine blood resulting in huge soluble molecules, so-called hyperpolymers. In August 2000, we finalized our work on the pharmaceutical formulation of the oxygen carrier for laboratory scale. In February 2001 a pilot production in a laboratory scale was carried out in our clean room. The resulting product was successfully applied in animal tests, moreover, single volunteers underwent pilot self-experiments.

The blood additives and blood substitute projects were halted in 2003 due to the lack of financing for the pre-clinical test phase.

During the first quarter of our 2013 financial year the European Patent Office granted a patent based on Sangui &#146; s application (1299457) &#147; Mammalian hemoglobin compatible with blood plasma, cross-linked and conjugated with polyalkylene oxides as artificial medical oxygen carriers, production and use thereof. &#148; 

During the third quarter of our 2013 financial year the company had a feasibility study prepared by external experts inquiring into market potentials and further preclinical and clinical development requirements. The study came to the conclusion that an approval of Sangui's hemoglobin hyperpolymers as a blood additive appears possible, expedient and promising. 

During the fourth quarter of our 2014 financial year the company filed a patent application aimed at significantly expanding the protection of our hemoglobin formulations. It will encompass a greater array of ischemic conditions of the human body, for instance in the case of severe dysfunctions of the lung.

During the first quarter of our 2015 financial year, we began together with Excellence Cluster Cardio-Pulmonary System (ECCPS) and TransMIT Gesellschaft f&#252;r Technologietransfer mbH (TransMIT) to investigate therapeutic approaches to treating septic shock and acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS). The approach adopted here by Sangui, ECCPS and TransMIT presupposes that self-perpetuating septic shock, that has so far been highly resistant to treatment, can be interrupted by Sangui's artificial haemoglobin-based oxygen carrier, which would ultimately lower mortality rates. The preclinical trials commenced at ECCPS investigate the effect of various haemoglobin preparations on the oxygen supply of a number of organs in septic shock models and ARDS.

Also during the first quarter of our 2015 financial year we were notified that the period for objection against European Patent EP 2550973, ( &#147; Wound Spray &#148; ) elapsed without any objection being raised. The patent, therefore, has become effective and legally binding.

During the second quarter of our 2015 financial year the first phase of preclinical trials was concluded successfully. It could be demonstrated that applying an oxygen-carrying liquid (the hemoglobin hyperpolymer formulation SBT102) in the abdomen did significantly improve the oxygen supply to the intestines. The restoration of intestinal oxygenation will have an impact on tissue integrity and ultimately on patient survival.

During the third quarter of our 2015 financial year the preclinical trials were concluded successfully, the final results did fully confirm the interim results obtained in the second quarter.

According to regulatory requirements, all drugs must complete preclinical and clinical trials before approval (Government Regulation; No Assurance of Product Approval, see Certain Business Risks below) and market launch. Our management believes that the European and United States FDA approval process will take at a minimum several years to complete.

Our most promising potential product in the area of artificial oxygen carriers, the blood additive is still in an early development stage. In the pursuit of these projects we will need to obtain substantial additional capital to continue their development.

The blood additives project was halted in the second quarter of our financial year 2016 due to the lack of financing the further authorization.

Nano Formulations for the Regeneration of the Skin 

Healthy skin is supplied with oxygen both from the inside, by way of the blood circulation, as well as through diffusion from the outside. A lack of oxygen will cause degenerative alterations, ranging from premature aging, to surface damage, and even as extensive as causing open wounds. The cause for the lack of oxygen may be a part of the normal aging process, but it may also be caused by burns, radiation, trauma, or a medical condition. Impairment of the blood flow, for example caused by diabetes mellitus or by chronic venous insufficiency, can also lead to insufficient oxygen supply and the resulting skin damage.

Our nano-emulsion-based preparations have been designed to support the regeneration of the skin by improving its oxygen supply. The products were thoroughly tested by an independent research institute and received top marks for skin moisturization, and enhanced skin elasticity, respectively.

Sales of this series remained at a low level across the years. After the end of the 2015 fiscal year we decided to discontinue our operations in this particular segment and to abandon the patent protection for this range of products.

Chitoskin Wound Pads 

Usually, normal ( &#147; primary &#148; ) wounds tend to heal over a couple of days without leaving scars following a certain sequence of phases. Burns and certain diseases impede the normal wound healing process, resulting in large, hardly healing ( &#147; secondary &#148; ) wounds which only close by growing new tissue from the bottom. Wound dressings serve to safeguard the wound with its highly sensitive new granulation tissue from mechanical damage as well as from infection. Using the natural polymer chitosan, our Chitoskin wound dressings show outstanding properties in supporting wound healing.

It is our strategy to find industry partners ready to acquire or license this product range as a whole.

Hemoglobin Based Wound Spray Technology 

SanguiBioTech GmbH has developed a novel medical product aimed at the healing of chronic wounds. Chronic wounds are a medical problem of increasing importance as they originate from widespread risk factors such as diabetes, obesity, smoking etc. Lack of oxygen supply to the cells in the wound ground is the main reason why those wounds lose their genuine healing power. Based on its concept of artificial oxygen carriers, our Hemospray wound spray product bridges the watery wound surface and permits an enhanced afflux of oxygen to the wound ground.

In December 2010, SanguiBioTech GmbH established a joint venture company with SanderStrothmann GmbH of Georgsmarienhuette, Germany. Under the name of SastoMed GmbH this enterprise is in charge of obtaining the CE mark certification authorizing the distribution of the Hemospray wound spray in the member states of the European Union. SanguiBioTech GmbH has granted SastoMed GmbH global distribution rights. The basic terms of the pertinent licensing contract agreement are as follows:

As licensor SanguiBioTech GmbH is awarded a fixed licensing fee as a percentage of each and every external revenues incurred by SastoMed from sales of the Granulox product (based on SastoMed selling prices). The percentage ranges in the uppermost zone of what is usually granted in the pharmaceutical and medical products industries and thus well above the average licensing rate of 7.5% of sales revenues as calculated by market analysts. In addition and complementing this basic agreement the percentage will be permanently increased by one fourth of the current rate as soon as cumulated sales revenues at SastoMed will have exceeded the total of &#128; 50,000,000.

In September 2011, the Mexican Health Authorities registered the entire current range of Sangui developed wound management products and thus granted the authorization to apply and sell these products on a nationwide level. 

On April 5, 2012, SastoMed GmbH notified SanguiBioTech GmbH that the wound spray product was granted a certification as class III medical product. The CE mark according to sections 6 

and 7 of the German Medical Devices Act authorizes production, distribution and sales of the product in all member countries of the European Union. According to SastoMed GmbH, sales of the product under the brand name &#147; Granulox &#148; started in Germany on April 16, 2012, other markets will be addressed in due course.

In August, 2012, Sangui BioTech GmbH and SastoMed GmbH cordially adjusted the existing sales strategy. In consideration of corresponding contributions the existing licensing contract was partially complemented resulting in the following conditions: As licensor SanguiBioTech GmbH is awarded a fixed licensing fee as a percentage of each and every external revenues incurred by SastoMed from sales of the Granulox product (based on SastoMed selling prices). The percentage ranges in the uppermost zone of what is usually granted in the pharmaceutical and medical products industries. In addition and complementing this basic agreement the percentage will be permanently increased by one fourth of the current rate as soon as cumulated sales revenues at SastoMed will have exceeded the total of &#128; 50,000,000.

In December, 2012, actual distribution of the product was initiated in Mexico under the management of SastoMed GmbH and their local distribution partner Bio-Mac Pharma. International distribution has been expanded since then through cooperation agreements with local distribution partners in the Benelux countries and South Eastern Europe.

In May, 2013, the Company declared in the course of the filing of its nine month report on form 10-QSB that according to information provided by SastoMed GmbH it now expects the Granulox market entry phase to last longer than initially expected. No assurance can be given that based on royalty revenues the Company may reach break-even in the course of its current financial year.

Since December 2013, international distribution outside Germany was initiated in collaboration with local partners in more than 40 countries in Europe and Latin American.

Effective December 31, 2015 Sangui BioTech GmbH sold its stake in Sastomed GmbH of 25% to SanderStrohmann GmbH . Also effective December 31, 2015 SanderStrohmann GmbH increased the nominal capital of Sastomed GmbH for an amount of Euro 500,000 to strengthen the capital base of Sastomed GmbH.

It has to be noted, however, that Granulox sales by our distribution partner SastoMed GmbH have become more volatile and declining from time to time.. We remain confident, however, that SastoMed will be able to considerably increase its sales along with more international markets entering actual distribution of the product.

Patents and Proprietary Rights 

&#160;

The Company seeks patent protection for all of its research and development, and all the most important modifications and improvements thereto. As of June 30, 2016 SanguiBioTech GmbH had been granted patents from 7 patent families, furthermore, it has applied for additional patents. Most of the patents have been filed in the United States of America (US), and as international patent applications with the European Patent Office (EP). Validation of EP patents in all cases includes Germany, France, Great Britain, Italy, and Spain. Below are listed the most important of the rights held by the Company.

1. Hemoglobin-Hyperpolymers 

&#160;

US 5,985,332

&#147; Hemoglobins provided with ligands protecting the oxygen binding sites for use as artificial oxygen carriers for direct application in medicine and biology, and method for the preparation thereof &#148; (patent granted, end of duration 2017)

&#160;

&#160;

US 6,956,025

EP 1 299 457

&#147; Mammalion hemoglobin compatible with blood plasma, cross-linked and conjugated with polyalkylene oxides as artificial medical oxygen carriers, production and use thereof &#148; (patents granted, end of duration 2020)

&#160;

&#160;

EP 1 249 385

&#147; Method for the production of artificial oxygen carriers from covalently cross linking hemoglobin with improved functional properties of hemoglobin by cross-linking in the presence of chemically non-reacting effectors of the oxygen affinity of the hemoglobin &#148; (patent granted, end of duration 2020)

&#160;

&#160;

US 7,005,414

EP 1 294 386

&#147; Synthetic oxygen transport made from cross-linked modified human or porcine hemoglobin with improved properties, method for a preparation thereof from purified material and use thereof &#148; (patents granted, end of duration 2020)

&#160;

&#160;

US 7,598,220

&#147; Use of hyperpolymeric hemoglobin for treating a pulmonary edema &#148; (patent granted, end of duration 2021)

&#160;

&#160;

DE 10 2013 014 651

EP 14758344

US SN 14 569,846

&#147; Compositions for Improved Tissue Oxygenation by Peritoneal Ventilation &#148; (patents pending)

2. Wound Management 

EP 1 485 120

&#147; Use of one or more natural or modified oxygen carriers, devoid of plasma and cellular membrane constituents, for externally treating open, in particular chronic wounds &#148; (patent granted, end of duration 2022)

&#160;

&#160;

EP 1 696 971

&#147; Therapeutically active wound dressings, production thereof, and use of the same &#148; (patent granted, end of duration 2023)

Manufacturing, Marketing and Distribution 

Manufacturing, marketing and distribution are not core competencies of the company. It is our strategy, therefore to outsource such business processes to external partners. In selecting and mandating them special attention is being paid to their experience, reputation and standing including the required quality management systems and certifications. 

Research and Development 

Research and development are charged to operations as they are incurred. Legal fees and other direct costs incurred in obtaining and protecting patents are expensed as incurred. Research and development costs totaled $37,780 and $204,987 during the fiscal years ended June 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively.

Government Regulation 

Sangui BioTech International, Inc. and its former United States subsidiaries are and were subject to governmental regulation under the Occupational Safety and Health Act, the Environmental 

Protection Act, the Toxic Substances Control Act, and other similar laws of general application, as to all of which we believe we and our subsidiaries were in material compliance.

Although it is believed that we and our former United States subsidiaries have been in material compliance with all applicable governmental and environmental laws, rules, regulations and policies, and although no government concerns were put forward during the operation of or after the closing of the US operations, there can be no assurance that the business, financial condition, and our results of operations of and those of our subsidiaries will not be materially adversely affected by future government claims with regard to unlikely, but not impossible, infringements on these or other laws resulting from our former United States operations.

Additionally, the clinical testing, manufacture, promotion and sale of a significant majority of the products and technologies, if those products and technologies are to be offered and sold in the United States, are subject to extensive regulation by numerous governmental authorities in the United States, principally the Federal Drug Administration (FDA), and corresponding state regulatory agencies. To the extent those products and technologies are to be offered and sold in markets other than the United States, the clinical testing, manufacture, promotion and sale of those products and technologies will be subject to similar regulation by corresponding foreign regulatory agencies. In general, the regulatory framework for biological health care products is more rigorous than for non-biological health care products. Generally, biological health care products must be shown to be safe, pure, potent and effective. There are numerous state and federal, foreign and international statutes and regulations that govern or influence the testing, manufacture, safety, effectiveness, labeling, storage, record keeping, approval, advertising, distribution and promotion of biological health care products. Non-compliance with applicable requirements can result in, among other things, fines, injunctions, seizures of products, total or partial suspension of product marketing, and failure of the government to grant pre-market approval, withdrawal of marketing approvals, product recall and criminal prosecution.

Competition 

The market for our products and technologies is highly competitive, and we expect competition to increase. Experiments and clinical testing in the field of artificial oxygen carriers are being carried out by Alliance Pharmaceutical Corp. of San Diego, California. In the fields of anti-aging and anti-cellulite cosmetics, all major cosmetic vendors are actively marketing proprietary formulations. Leading wound management product providers include Johnson &#38; Johnson, Bristol-Myers Squibb, Coloplast A/S of Denmark as well as BSNmedical, a former part of Beiersdorf AG.

Dependence on Major Customers 

As of June 30, 2016 and June 30, 2015, the majority of revenues and trade receivables were generated and due by SastoMed GmbH as licensee of the global distribution rights of the Sangui developed wound spray technology.

Human Resources 

We consider our relations with our employees to be favorable. As of June 30, 2016 the Company, and our subsidiary, had one fulltime employee, who was not involved in research and development. For management, research and development purposes, the Company has consulting arrangements with five individuals and one related entity.

Dividends 

We anticipate that we will use any funds available to finance our growth and that we will not pay cash dividends to stockholders in the foreseeable future.

Reports to Security Holders 

Copies of our reports, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, are available and may be viewed as filed at the SEC &#146; s Public Reference Room at 450 Fifth Street, N.W., Washington D.C. 20549 or by calling 1-800-SEC-0330. Additionally they can be accessed and downloaded via the internet at http://www.sec.gov/cgi-bin/srch-edgar by simply typing in &#147; Sangui Biotech International &#148; or via the web links at the corporate website http://www.sanguibiotech.com.

&#160;

