 ITEM 1. BUSINESS. &#160; 

History and Development of Business 

Founded by William R. Kelly in 1946, Kelly Services &#174; &#32;has developed innovative workforce solutions for customers in a variety of industries throughout our 69-year history. Our range of solutions has grown steadily over the years to match the changing needs of our customers. 

We have evolved from a United States-based company concentrating primarily on traditional office staffing into a global workforce solutions leader offering a full breadth of specialty services. While ranking as one of the world&#8217;s largest scientific staffing providers, we also place professional and technical employees at all levels in engineering, IT, law, healthcare and finance. These specialty services complement our expertise in office services, education, contact center, light industrial and electronic assembly staffing. As the human capital arena has become more complex, we have also developed a talent supply chain management approach to help many of the world&#8217;s largest companies plan for and manage their workforce. Innovative solutions supporting this approach span outsourcing, consulting, recruitment, career transition and vendor management services. 

Geographic Breadth of Services 

Headquartered in Troy, Michigan, we provide employment for approximately 550,000 employees annually to a variety of customers around the globe&#8212;including 93 of the Fortune 100&#8482; &#32;companies. 

Kelly provides workforce solutions to a diversified group of customers in three regions: the Americas ; Europe, the Middle East , and Africa (&#8220;EMEA&#8221;) ; and Asia Pacific &#32; (&#8220;APAC&#8221;) . 

Description of Business Segments 

Our operations are divided into seven principal business segments: Americas Commercial , Americas Professional and Technical (&#8220;Americas PT&#8221;) , &#32;EMEA Commercial , EMEA Professional and Technical (&#8220;EMEA PT&#8221;) , APAC Commercial , APAC Professional and Technical (&#8220;APAC PT&#8221;) &#32;and Outsourcing and Consulting Group (&#8220;OCG&#8221;) . 

Americas Commercial 

Our Americas Commercial segment specialties include: Office, providing trained employees for data entry, clerical and administrative support roles across numerous industries; Contact Center, providing staff for contact centers, technical support hotlines and telemarketing units; Education, supplying schools nationwide with instructional and non-instructional employees; Marketing, providing support staff for seminars, sales and trade shows; Electronic Assembly, providing assemblers, quality control inspectors and technicians; and Light Industrial, placing maintenance workers, material handlers and assemblers. We also offer a temporary-to-hire service that provides customers and temporary staff the opportunity to evaluate their relationship before making a full-time employment decision, as well as a direct-hire placement service and vendor on-site management. 

Americas PT 

Our Americas PT segment includes a number of specialty staffing services: Science, providing all levels of scientists and scientific and clinical research workforce solutions; Engineering, supplying engineering professionals across all disciplines, including aeronautical, chemical, civil/structural, electrical/instrumentation, environmental, industrial, mechanical, petroleum, pharmaceutical, quality and telecommunications; Information Technology, placing IT specialists across all disciplines; Creative Services, placing creative talent in the spectrum of creative services positions; Finance and Accounting, serving the needs of corporate finance departments, accounting firms and financial institutions with all levels of financial professionals; Healthcare, providing all levels of healthcare specialists and professionals; and Law, placing legal professionals including attorneys, paralegals, contract administrators, compliance specialists and legal administrators. Our temporary-to-hire service, direct-hire placement service and vendor on-site management are also offered in this segment. 

&#32;3 

EMEA Commercial 

Our EMEA Commercial segment provides a similar range of staffing services as described for our Americas Commercial segment above, including: Office, Contact Center and our temporary-to-hire service. Additional service areas include: Catering and Hospitality, providing chefs, porters and hospitality representatives; and Industrial , &#32;supplying manual workers to semi-skilled professionals in a variety of trade, non-trade and operational positions. 

EMEA PT 

Our EMEA PT segment provides many of the same services as described for our Americas PT segment, including: Engineering, Finance and Accounting, Healthcare, IT and Science. 

APAC Commercial 

Our APAC Commercial segment offers a similar range of commercial staffing services as described for our Americas and EMEA Commercial segments above, through staffing solutions that include permanent placement, temporary staffing and temporary to full-time staffing. 

APAC PT 

Our APAC PT segment provides many of the same services as described for our Americas and EMEA PT segments, including: Engineering, IT and Science. 

OCG 

Our OCG segment delivers integrated talent management solutions to meet customer needs across multiple regions, skill sets and the entire spectrum of talent categories. Using talent supply chain strategies, we help customers manage their full-time and contingent labor spend, and gain access to service providers and quality talent at competitive rates with minimized risk. Services in this segment include: Contingent Workforce Outsourcing (&#8220;CWO&#8221;) , providing globally managed service solutions that integrate supplier and vendor management technology partners to optimize contingent workforce spend; Business Process Outsourcing (&#8220;BPO&#8221;) , offering full staffing and operational management of non-core functions or departments; Recruitment Process Outsourcing (&#8220;RPO&#8221;) , offering end-to-end talent acquisition solutions, including customized recruitment projects; Independent Contractor Solutions , delivering evaluation, classification and risk management services that enable safe access to this critical talent pool; Payroll Process Outsourcing (&#8220;PPO&#8221;) , providing centralized payroll processing solutions globally for our customers; Career Transition and Executive Coaching and Development ; and Executive Search , providing leadership in executive placement in various regions throughout the world. 

Financial information regarding our industry segments is included in the Segment Disclosures note to our consolidated financial statements presented in Part II, Item 8 of this report. 

Business Objectives &#160; 

Kelly&#8217;s philosophy is rooted in our conviction that we can and do make a difference on a daily basis &#8212; for our customers, in the lives of our employees, in the local communities we serve and in our industry. Our vision is &#8220;to provide the world&#8217;s best workforce solutions.&#8221; We aspire to be a strategic business partner to our customers and strive to assist them in operating more efficient and profitable organizations. Our solutions are customized to benefit any scope or scale customers require. 

As the use of contingent labor, consultants and independent contractors becomes more prevalent and critical to the ongoing success of our customer base, our core competencies are refined to help them realize their respective business objectives. Kelly offers a comprehensive array of outsourcing and consulting services, as well as world-class staffing on a temporary, temporary-to-hire and direct placement basis. Kelly will continue to deliver the strategic expertise our customers need to transform their workforce challenges into opportunities. 

&#32;4 

Business Operations 

Service Marks 

We own numerous service marks that are registered with the United States Patent and Trademark Office, the European Union Community Trademark Office and numerous individual country trademark offices. &#160; 

Seasonality &#160; 

Our quarterly operating results are affected by the seasonality of our customers&#8217; businesses. Demand for staffing services historically has been lower during the first quarter, and typically increases during the remainder of the year. &#160; 

Working Capital &#160; 

Our working capital requirements are primarily generated from temporary employee payroll and customer accounts receivable. Since receipts from customers generally lag payroll to temporary employees, working capital requirements increase substantially in periods of growth. 

Customers &#160; 

We are not dependent on any single customer or a limited segment of customers. In 2015, an estimated 51% of total Company revenue was attributed to 100 large customers. Our largest single customer accounted for approximately five percent of total revenue in 2015. &#160; 

Government Contracts &#160; 

Although we conduct business under various federal, state, and local government contracts, no single one accounts for more than three percent of total Company revenue in 2015. 

Competition &#160; 

The worldwide temporary staffing industry is competitive and highly fragmented. In the United States, approximately 100 competitors operate nationally, and approximately 10,000 smaller companies compete in varying degrees at local levels. Additionally, several similar staffing companies compete globally. In 2015, our largest competitors were Adecco S.A., Randstad Holding N.V., ManpowerGroup Inc., Allegis Group and Recruit Holdings. 

Key factors that influence our success are quality of service, price and breadth of service. 

Quality of service is highly dependent on the availability of qualified, competent talent, and our ability to recruit, screen, train, retain and manage a pool of employees who match the skills required by particular customers. During an economic downturn, we must balance competitive pricing pressures with the need to retain a qualified workforce. Price competition in the staffing industry is intense, particularly for office clerical and light industrial personnel, and pricing pressure from customers and competitors continues to be significant. 

Breadth of service, or ability to manage staffing suppliers, has become more critical as customers seek a single supplier to manage all their staffing needs. Kelly&#8217;s talent supply chain management approach seeks to address this requirement for our larger customers, enabling us to deliver talent wherever and whenever they need it around the world. 

Environmental Concerns &#160; 

Because we are involved in a service business, federal, state or local laws that regulate the discharge of materials into the environment do not materially impact us. 

Employees &#160; 

We employ approximately 1,100 people at our corporate headquarters in Troy, Michigan, and approximately 7,000 staff members in our U.S. and international network of branch offices. In 2015, we assigned approximately 550,000 temporary employees to a variety of customers around the globe. 

While services may be provided inside the facilities of customers, we remain the employer of record for our temporary employees. We retain responsibility for employee assignments, the employer&#8217;s share of all applicable payroll taxes and the administration of the employee&#8217;s share of these taxes. 

&#32;5 

Foreign Operations &#160; 

For information regarding sales, earnings from operations and long-lived assets by domestic and foreign operations, please refer to the information presented in the Segment Disclosures note to our consolidated financial statements, presented in Part II, Item 8 of this report. 

Access to Company Information 

We electronically file our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to those reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission (&#8220;SEC&#8221;). The public may read and copy any of the reports that are filed with the SEC at the SEC&#8217;s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC also maintains an Internet website at www.sec.gov &#32;that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically. 

We make available, free of charge, through our website, and by responding to requests addressed to our vice president of investor relations, our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to those reports. These reports are available as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. Our website address is: www.kellyservices.com. The information contained on our website, or on other websites linked to our website, is not part of this report. 

&#32;6 

