 ITEM 1. &#160; BUSINESS. 

Overview 

Lake Area Corn Processors, LLC is a South Dakota limited liability company that owns and manages an ethanol plant that has a nameplate production capacity of 40 million gallons of ethanol per year through its wholly-owned subsidiary Dakota Ethanol, L.L.C. The ethanol plant is located near Wentworth, South Dakota. Lake Area Corn Processors, LLC is referred to in this report as "LACP," the "Company," "we," or "us." Dakota Ethanol, L.L.C. is referred to in this report as "Dakota Ethanol" or the "ethanol plant." 

Since September 4, 2001, we have been engaged in the production of ethanol and distillers grains. Fuel grade ethanol is our primary product accounting for the majority of our revenue. We also sell distillers grains and corn oil, the principal co-products of the ethanol production process. 

&#32;3 

General Development of Business 

LACP was formed as a South Dakota cooperative on May 25, 1999. On August 20, 2002, our members approved a plan to reorganize into a South Dakota limited liability company. The reorganization became effective on August 31, 2002, and the assets and liabilities of the cooperative were transferred to the newly formed limited liability company. Following the reorganization, our legal name was changed to Lake Area Corn Processors, LLC. 

Our ownership of Dakota Ethanol represents our primary asset and source of revenue. Since we operate Dakota Ethanol as a wholly-owned subsidiary, all net income generated by Dakota Ethanol is passed to LACP. We make distributions of the income received from Dakota Ethanol to our unit holders in proportion to the number of units held by each member compared to the units held by our members generally. 

We recently completed replacement of and upgrades to grain receiving equipment that had been damaged by a wind storm. We used cash from insurance proceeds and our continuing operations to finance these projects which cost approximately $4 million. 

We recently completed expansion of our ethanol tank farm and our shipping equipment. We used cash from our continuing operations to finance this capital project which cost approximately $4 million. 

We are in the process of expanding our railroad siding to accommodate shipping unit trains. We anticipate this project will be completed during our third quarter of 2016. We are using cash from our continuing operations and amounts we have available to borrow on our long-term revolving debt to finance this capital project which is expected to cost approximately $7 million. 

During our 2015 fiscal year, we paid a total of $8,989,512 in distributions to our members or approximately $0.30 per membership unit. 

Financial Information 

Please refer to " Item 7 - Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations " for information regarding our results of operations and " Item 8 - Financial Statements and Supplementary Data " for our audited consolidated financial statements. 

Principal Products 

The principal products produced at the ethanol plant are fuel grade ethanol, distillers grains and corn oil. The table below shows the approximate percentage of our total revenue which is attributed to each of our primary products for each of our last three fiscal years. 

Product 

&#160; 

Fiscal Year 2015 

&#160; 

Fiscal Year 2014 

&#160; 

Fiscal Year 2013 

Ethanol 

&#160; 

77% 

&#160; 

80% 

&#160; 

75% 

Distillers Grains 

&#160; 

20% 

&#160; 

17% 

&#160; 

22% 

Corn Oil 

&#160; 

3% 

&#160; 

2% 

&#160; 

3% 

Ethanol 

Ethanol is ethyl alcohol, a fuel component made primarily from corn and various other grains. Ethanol is primarily used as: (i) an octane enhancer in fuels; (ii) an oxygenated fuel additive for the purpose of reducing ozone and carbon monoxide vehicle emissions; and (iii) a non-petroleum-based gasoline substitute. Ethanol produced in the United States is primarily used for blending with unleaded gasoline and other fuel products. Ethanol blended fuel is typically designated in the marketplace according to the percentage of the fuel that is ethanol, with the most common fuel blend being E10, which includes 10% ethanol. The United States Environmental Protection Agency ("EPA") has approved the use of gasoline blends that contain 15% ethanol, or E15, for use in all vehicles manufactured in model year 2001 and later. In addition, flexible fuel vehicles can use gasoline blends that contain up to 85% ethanol called E85. 

&#32;4 

An ethanol plant is essentially a fermentation plant. Ground corn and water are mixed with enzymes and yeast to produce a substance called "beer," which contains approximately 15% alcohol, 11% solids and 74% water. The "beer" is boiled to separate the water, resulting in ethyl alcohol, which is then dehydrated to increase the alcohol content. This product is then mixed with a certified denaturant, such as gasoline, to make the product unfit for human consumption which allows it to be sold commercially. 

Distillers Grains 

A principal co-product of the ethanol production process is distillers grains, a high protein, high-energy animal feed supplement primarily marketed to the dairy and beef industry. We primarily produce distillers grains in two forms, modified/wet distillers grains and dried distillers grains. Modified/wet distillers grains have a higher moisture content than dried distillers grains. Our modified/wet distillers grains are used primarily in our local market because they have a shorter shelf life and are more expensive to transport than dried distillers grains. During our 2015 fiscal year, approximately 64% , based on volume, of the distillers grains we sold were in the modified/wet form and approximately 36% &#32;were in the dried form. During our 2014 fiscal year, approximately 61% &#32;of the distillers grains we sold were in the modified/wet form and approximately 39% &#32;were in the dried form. 

Corn Oil 

We separate a portion of the corn oil contained in our distillers grains which we market separately from our distillers grains. The corn oil that we produce is not food grade corn oil and therefore cannot be used for human consumption. The primary uses for the corn oil that we produce are animal feed, industrial uses and biodiesel production. 

Principal Product Markets 

Ethanol 

The primary market for our ethanol is the domestic fuel blending market. However, in recent years the United States has experienced increased ethanol exports. This increase in ethanol exports follows a conscious effort by the United States ethanol industry to expand ethanol exports along with lower ethanol prices which encouraged exports. Ethanol exports were higher during 2015 compared to 2014 with Canada receiving the largest percentage of ethanol produced in the United States and Brazil in second. India, the Philippines, South Korea and the United Arab Emirates have also been top destinations. However, ethanol export demand is more unpredictable than domestic demand and tends to fluctuate throughout the year as it is subject to monetary and political forces in other nations. An example of this, the recent imposition of a tax on imported ethanol by Brazil has created uncertainty as to the viability of that market for ethanol produced in the United States and may require United States producers to seek out other markets for their products. In addition, the strong U.S. Dollar may have negatively impacted ethanol exports from the United States during 2015. 

In 2011, the European Union launched anti-dumping and anti-subsidy investigations related to ethanol exports from the United States. In August 2012, the European Union concluded the anti-subsidy investigation and decided not to impose a tariff related to the anti-subsidy portion of the investigation. However, the European Union decided to impose a tariff on ethanol imported from the United States based on the anti-dumping portion of the investigation. While this tariff has negatively impacted ethanol exports to the European Union, other countries have increased their ethanol imports. Further, some ethanol exports to the European Union have continued despite the tariff due to the relatively lower price of ethanol produced in the United States in 2014 and 2015. 

Ethanol is generally blended with gasoline before it is sold to the end consumer. Therefore, the primary purchasers of ethanol are fuel blending companies who mix the ethanol we produce with gasoline. As discussed below in the section entitled "Distribution of Principal Products," we have a third party marketer that sells all of our ethanol. Our ethanol marketer makes substantially all decisions regarding where our ethanol is sold. 

Distillers Grains 

Distillers grains are primarily used as animal feed. Distillers grains are typically fed to animals instead of other traditional animal feeds such as corn and soybean meal. Distillers grains exports have increased in recent years as distillers grains have become a more accepted animal feed. The primary export markets for distillers grains are China, Mexico, South Korea, Vietnam and Canada. Demand for distiller grains from China decreased during the second half of 2014 when China announced in June 2014 that it would stop issuing import permits for distiller grains from the United States due to the presence in some shipments of a genetically modified corn trait not approved for import. This announcement was followed in July 2014 by a new certification requirement that distiller grains shipments to China were free of the genetically modified corn trait. Further, a new registration requirement for Chinese importers of distillers grains began on September 1, 2015. On January 12, 2016, the Chinese government 

&#32;5 

announced that it will commence an antidumping and countervailing duty investigation related to distillers grains imported from the United States. This investigation was commenced in November 2015 by Chinese distillers grain producers. This investigation will likely lead to a decrease in distillers grains exports to China in the short-term and may result in the imposition of tariffs by the Chinese in the long-term. This antidumping and countervailing duty investigation could significantly decrease demand and prices for distillers grains produced in the United States. 

We anticipate that the vast majority of our distillers grains will continue to be sold in the domestic market due to our plant's location. Further, management anticipates that we will continue to sell a large proportion of our distillers grains in the modified/wet form which is marketed locally. 

Corn Oil 

The primary markets for corn oil are the industrial chemicals market, animal feeding market and the biodiesel production market. Domestic corn oil supplies have been increasing in recent years at a time when demand has been relatively stable which has resulted in decreasing corn oil prices. The market for corn oil is expected to continue to shift as changes in supply and demand of corn oil interact. Our corn oil is primarily marketed in the United States and we do not expect that significant exports of corn oil will occur in the near future. 

Distribution of Principal Products 

Ethanol Distribution 

We have an ethanol marketing agreement with RPMG, Inc. ("RPMG"), a professional third party marketer, which is the sole marketer of our ethanol. We are an equity owner of Renewable Products Marketing Group, LLC ("RPMG, LLC"), the parent company of RPMG, which allows us to realize favorable marketing fees in the sale of our ethanol, distillers grains and corn oil. Our ethanol marketing agreement provides that we can sell our ethanol either through an index arrangement or at a fixed price agreed to between us and RPMG. The term of our ethanol marketing agreement is perpetual, until it is terminated according to the terms of the agreement. The primary reasons our ethanol marketing agreement would terminate are if we cease to be an owner of RPMG, LLC, if there is a breach of our ethanol marketing agreement which is not cured, or if we give advance notice to RPMG that we wish to terminate our ethanol marketing agreement. Notwithstanding our right to terminate our ethanol marketing agreement, we may be obligated to continue to market our ethanol through RPMG for a period of time after termination. Further, following termination we agreed to accept an assignment of certain railcar leases which RPMG has secured to service our ethanol sales. If our ethanol marketing agreement is terminated, it would trigger a redemption by RPMG, LLC of our ownership interest in RPMG, LLC. 

Distillers Grains Distribution 

Other than the distillers grains that we market locally without a third party marketer, our distillers grains are marketed by RPMG. Our distillers grains marketing agreement with RPMG automatically renews for additional one-year terms unless notice of termination is given as provided by the distillers grains marketing agreement. We pay RPMG a commission based on each ton of distillers grains sold by RPMG. 

We market a portion of our distillers grains to our local market without the use of an external marketer. Currently, we market approximately 64% , based on volume, of our distillers grains internally. Shipments of these products are made to local markets by truck. This has allowed us to sell less distillers grains in the form of dried distillers grains which has decreased our natural gas usage and improved our margins from the sale of distillers grains. 

Corn Oil Distribution 

We market all of our corn oil through RPMG. Our corn oil marketing agreement automatically renews for additional one year terms unless either party gives 180 days notice that the agreement will not be renewed. We pay RPMG a commission based on each pound of our corn oil that is sold by RPMG. 

New Products and Services 

We did not introduce any new products or services during our &#32; 2015 &#32;fiscal year. 

&#32;6 

Patents, Trademarks, Licenses, Franchises and Concessions 

We do not currently hold any patents, trademarks, franchises or concessions. We were granted a license by Broin and Associates, Inc. ("Broin"), the company that designed and built the ethanol plant, to use certain ethanol production technology necessary to operate our ethanol plant. The cost of the license granted by Broin was included in the amount we paid Broin to design and build our ethanol plant. 

Sources and Availability of Raw Materials 

Corn Feedstock Supply 

The major raw material required for our ethanol plant to produce ethanol, distillers grains and corn oil is corn. The plant operates in excess of its nameplate capacity of 40 million gallons of ethanol per year, producing approximately 51 million gallons of ethanol annually from approximately 18 million bushels of corn. The area surrounding the ethanol plant currently provides an ample supply of corn to meet and exceed our raw material requirements for the production capacity of the plant. 

Corn prices have been volatile in recent years due to changes in corn demand as well as yield and production fluctuations that have had a significant impact on corn prices. Corn prices were lower during our 2015 fiscal year as a result of three consecutive years of favorable corn crops which has increased the amount of corn available to us. As a result of these favorable corn crops, we have not had difficulty securing the corn we need to operate the ethanol plant at prices that have allowed us to operate profitably. However, as we experienced during 2012, an unfavorable corn crop can have a significant negative impact on our profitability. We could experience a drought or other unfavorable weather condition during our 2016 fiscal year which could impact the price we pay for corn and could negatively impact the availability of corn near our plant. If we experience a localized shortage of corn, we may be forced to purchase corn from producers who are farther away from our ethanol plant which can increase our transportation costs. In addition, if new corn customers enter the market, it can increase demand for corn which could result in higher corn prices. Since corn is the primary raw material we use to produce our products, the availability and cost of corn can have a significant impact on the profitability of our operations. 

Corn is supplied to us primarily from our members who are local agricultural producers and from purchases of corn on the open market. We anticipate purchasing corn from third parties should our members fail to supply us with enough corn to operate the ethanol plant at capacity. We do not anticipate experiencing difficulty purchasing the corn we require to operate the ethanol plant. 

We have an agreement with John Stewart &#38; Associates ("JSA") to provide us with consulting services related to our risk management strategy. We pay JSA a fee of $2,500 per month to assist us in making risk management decisions regarding our commodity purchases. The agreement renews on a month-to-month basis. 

Natural Gas 

Natural gas is an important input to our manufacturing process. We purchase our natural gas on the open market and the price for our natural gas is based on market rates. We have a contract with Northern Natural Gas for the interstate transportation of our natural gas. We contract with NorthWestern Energy for the local transportation of our natural gas. Both contracts expire in 2018. We have had no interruptions or shortages in the supply of natural gas to the plant since operations commenced in 2001. We anticipate that we will be able to purchase sufficient natural gas to continue to operate the ethanol plant during our 2016 fiscal year. 

Some believe that due to recent increases in natural gas production in the United States, the United States may start exporting natural gas in the future. If this were to occur, it may result in higher natural gas prices in the United States due to increased demand. The United States has been able to increase natural gas production due to a process called hydraulic fracturing frequently referred to as "fracking." The natural gas industry is experiencing challenges to this natural gas production process. If fracking is banned or limited due to these challenges, it could lead to less natural gas production which may increase natural gas prices. 

&#32;7 

Electricity 

Electricity is necessary for lighting and powering much of the machinery and equipment used in the production process. We contract with Sioux Valley Energy, Inc. to provide all of the electric power and energy requirements for the ethanol plant. We have had no interruptions or shortages in the supply of electricity to the plant since operations commenced in 2001. 

Water 

Water is a necessary part of the ethanol production process. It is used in the fermentation process and to produce steam for the cooking, evaporation, and distillation processes. We contract with Big Sioux Community Water System, Inc. to meet our water requirements. Our current agreement with Big Sioux is for a five-year term commencing in December 2014 and is renewable for additional five year terms. Since our operations commenced in September 2001, we have had no interruption in the supply of water and all of our requirements have been met. 

Seasonal Factors in Business 

We experience some seasonality of demand for our ethanol, distillers grains and corn oil. Since ethanol is predominantly blended with gasoline for use in automobiles, ethanol demand tends to shift in relation to gasoline demand. As a result, we experience some seasonality of demand for ethanol in the summer months related to increased driving and, as a result, increased gasoline demand. In addition, we experience some increased ethanol demand during holiday seasons related to increased gasoline demand. We also experience decreased distillers grains demand during the summer months due to natural depletion in the size of herds at cattle feed lots. Further, we expect some seasonality of demand for our corn oil since the biodiesel industry is a major corn oil user and biodiesel plants typically reduce production during the winter months. We experience some seasonality in the price we pay for natural gas with premium pricing during the winter months. This increase in natural gas prices coincides with increased natural gas demand for heating needs in the winter months. 

Working Capital 

We primarily use our working capital for purchases of raw materials necessary to operate the ethanol plant, for payments on our credit facilities, for distributions to our members and for capital expenditures to maintain and upgrade the ethanol plant. Our primary sources of working capital are income from our operations and investments as well as our revolving lines of credit with our primary lender, Farm Credit Services of America, PCA and Farm Credit Services of America, FLCA (collectively "FCSA"). For our 2016 fiscal year, we anticipate using cash from our operations to maintain our current plant infrastructure. Management believes that our current sources of working capital are sufficient to sustain our operations for our 2016 fiscal year and beyond. 

Dependence on One or a Few Major Customers 

As discussed above, we have entered into marketing agreements with RPMG to market our ethanol, distillers grains and corn oil. Therefore, we rely on RPMG to market almost all of our products, except for the modified/wet distillers grains that we market locally. Our financial success will be highly dependent on RPMG's ability to market our products at competitive prices. Any loss of RPMG as our marketing agent or any lack of performance under these agreements or inability to secure competitive prices could have a significant negative impact on our revenues. While we believe we can secure new marketers if RPMG were to fail, we may not be able to secure such new marketers at rates which are competitive with RPMG's. 

Our Competition 

Ethanol Competition 

We are in direct competition with numerous ethanol producers in the sale of our products and with respect to raw material purchases related to those products. Many of the ethanol producers with which we compete have greater resources than we do. While management believes we are a lower cost producer of ethanol, larger ethanol producers may be able to take advantage of economies of scale due to their larger size and increased bargaining power with both ethanol, distillers grains and corn oil customers and raw material suppliers. As of November 13, 2015 , the Renewable Fuels Association estimates that there are &#32; 214 &#32;ethanol production facilities in the United States with capacity to produce approximately 15.5 billion &#32; gallons of ethanol per year. According to RFA estimates, approximately 3% &#32; of the ethanol production capacity in the United States was not operating as of &#32; November 13, 2015 . The largest ethanol producers include Archer Daniels Midland, Flint Hills Resources, Green Plains Renewable Energy, POET, and Valero Renewable Fuels, each of which is capable of producing significantly more ethanol than we produce. 

&#32;8 

The following table identifies the largest ethanol producers in the United States along with their production capacities. 

U.S. FUEL ETHANOL PRODUCTION CAPACITY 

BY TOP PRODUCERS 

Producers of Approximately 700 

million gallons per year (MMgy) or more 

Company 

&#160; 

Current Capacity 

(MMgy) 

&#160; 

Percent of Total 

Archer Daniels Midland 

&#160; 

1,762 

&#160; 

11% 

POET Biorefining 

&#160; 

1,626 

&#160; 

10% 

Valero Renewable Fuels 

&#160; 

1,300 

&#160; 

8% 

Green Plains Renewable Energy 

&#160; 

1,085 

&#160; 

7% 

Flint Hills Resources 

&#160; 

&#160; 

5% 

Updated: &#32; November 13, 2015 &#32; 

The products that we produce are commodities. Since our products are commodities, there are typically no significant differences between the products we produce and the products of our competitors that would allow us to distinguish our products in the market. As a result, competition in the ethanol industry is primarily based on price and consistent fuel quality. 

We have experienced increased competition from oil companies that have purchased ethanol production facilities. These oil companies are required to blend a certain amount of ethanol each year. Therefore, the oil companies may be able to operate their ethanol production facilities at times when it is unprofitable for us to operate our ethanol plant. Further, some ethanol producers own multiple ethanol plants which may allow them to compete more effectively by providing them flexibility to run certain production facilities while they have other facilities shut down. Finally some ethanol producers who own ethanol plants in geographically diverse areas of the United States may spread the risk they encounter related to feedstock prices due to localized corn shortages or poor growing conditions. 

We anticipate increased competition from renewable fuels that do not use corn as the feedstock. Many of the current ethanol production incentives are designed to encourage the production of renewable fuels using raw materials other than corn. One type of ethanol production feedstock that is being explored is cellulose. Cellulose is the main component of plant cell walls and is the most common organic compound on earth. Cellulose is found in wood chips, corn stalks, rice straw, amongst other common plants. Cellulosic ethanol is ethanol produced from cellulose. There are several commercial scale cellulosic ethanol production facilities either in production or in the construction phase which may be completed during 2016. If this technology can be profitably employed on a commercial scale, it could potentially lead to ethanol that is less expensive to produce than corn based ethanol, especially when corn prices are high. Cellulosic ethanol may also capture more government subsidies and assistance than corn based ethanol. This could decrease demand for our product or result in competitive disadvantages for our ethanol production process. 

A number of automotive, industrial and power generation manufacturers are developing alternative clean power systems using fuel cells, plug-in hybrids, electric cars or clean burning gaseous fuels. Electric car technology has recently grown in popularity, especially in urban areas. While there are currently a limited number of vehicle recharging stations, making electric cars not feasible for all consumers, there has been increased focus on developing these recharging stations to make electric car technology more widely available in the future. Additional competition from these other sources of alternative energy, particularly in the automobile market, could reduce the demand for ethanol, which would negatively impact our profitability. 

Competition among ethanol producers may continue to increase as gasoline demand decreases due to more fuel efficient vehicles being produced. If the concentration of ethanol used in most gasoline does not increase and gasoline demand is lower due to increased fuel efficiency by the vehicles operated in the United States, competition may increase among ethanol producers to supply the ethanol market. 

Distillers Grains Competition 

Our ethanol plant competes with other ethanol producers in the production and sales of distillers grains. Distillers grains are primarily used as an animal feed supplement which replaces corn and soybean meal. As a result, we believe that distillers grains prices are positively impacted by increases in corn and soybean prices. In addition, in recent years the United States ethanol industry has increased exports of distillers grains which management believes has positively impacted demand and prices for 

&#32;9 

distillers grains in the United States. In the event these distillers grains exports decrease, including as a result of the Chinese antidumping and countervailing duty investigation, it could lead to an oversupply of distillers grains. An oversupply of distillers grains could result in increased competition among ethanol producers for sales of distillers grains which could negatively impact distillers grains prices in the United States. 

Corn Oil Competition 

We compete with many ethanol producers for the sale of corn oil. Many ethanol producers have installed the equipment necessary to separate corn oil from the distillers grains they produce which has increased competition for corn oil sales and has resulted in lower market corn oil prices. 

Research and Development 

We do not conduct any research and development activities associated with the development of new technologies for use in producing ethanol, distillers grains or corn oil. However, we continually work to develop new methods of operating our ethanol plant more efficiently. 

Governmental Regulation 

Federal Ethanol Supports &#32;&#32; 

The ethanol industry is dependent on several economic incentives to produce ethanol, the most significant of which is the Federal Renewable Fuels Standard (the "RFS"). The RFS requires that in each year, a certain amount of renewable fuels must be used in the United States. The RFS is a national program that does not require that any renewable fuels be used in any particular area or state, allowing refiners to use renewable fuel blends in those areas where it is most cost-effective. The RFS statutory volume requirement increases incrementally each year until the United States is required to use 36 billion gallons of renewable fuels by 2022. Starting in 2009, the RFS required that a portion of the RFS must be met by certain "advanced" renewable fuels. These advanced renewable fuels include ethanol that is not made from corn, such as cellulosic ethanol and biomass based biodiesel. The use of these advanced renewable fuels increases each year as a percentage of the total renewable fuels required to be used in the United States. 

The United States Environmental Protection Agency (the "EPA") has the authority to waive the RFS statutory volume requirement, in whole or in part, provided one of the following two conditions have been met: (1) there is inadequate domestic renewable fuel supply; or (2) implementation of the requirement would severely harm the economy or environment of a state, region or the United States. Annually, the EPA is supposed to pass a rule that establishes the number of gallons of different types of renewable fuels that must be used in the United States which is called the renewable volume obligations. 

The RFS statutory volume requirement for corn based ethanol is 14.4 billion gallons in 2014, 15 billion gallons in 2015 and 15 billion gallons in 2016. Previously, the EPA issued proposed renewable volume obligations pursuant to the RFS which were lower than these statutory requirements. On November 30, 2015, the EPA released its final renewable volume obligations for corn-based ethanol for 2014 through 2016. The final renewable volume obligations reduced the corn-based ethanol use requirements pursuant to the RFS below the statutory requirements. Pursuant to the final renewable volume obligation release, the RFS requirement for corn-based ethanol was 13.61 billion gallons for 2014, 14.05 billion gallons for 2015 and 14.5 billion gallons for 2016. Many in the ethanol industry believe that this significant departure from the statutory requirements for the RFS is not supported by the law and will have a significant negative impact on the ethanol industry. Recently, a lawsuit was filed challenging the EPA's final renewable volume obligation release. 

In February 2010, the EPA issued new regulations governing the RFS. These new regulations are called RFS2. The most controversial part of RFS2 involves what is commonly referred to as the lifecycle analysis of greenhouse gas emissions. Specifically, the EPA adopted rules to determine which renewable fuels provided sufficient reductions in greenhouse gases, compared to conventional gasoline, to qualify under the RFS program. RFS2 establishes a tiered approach, where regular renewable fuels are required to accomplish a 20% greenhouse gas reduction compared to gasoline, advanced biofuels and biomass-based biodiesel must accomplish a 50% reduction in greenhouse gases, and cellulosic biofuels must accomplish a 60% reduction in greenhouse gases. Any fuels that fail to meet this standard cannot be used by fuel blenders to satisfy their obligations under the RFS program. The scientific method of calculating these greenhouse gas reductions has been a contentious issue. Many in the ethanol industry were concerned that corn based ethanol would not meet the 20% greenhouse gas reduction requirement based on certain parts of the environmental impact model that many in the ethanol industry believed was scientifically suspect. However, RFS2 as adopted by the EPA provides that corn-based ethanol from modern ethanol production processes does meet the definition of a renewable fuel under the RFS program. Our ethanol plant was grandfathered into the RFS due to the fact that it was constructed prior to the 

&#32;10 

effective date of the lifecycle greenhouse gas requirement and is not required to prove compliance with the lifecycle greenhouse gas reductions. Many in the ethanol industry are concerned that certain provisions of RFS2 as adopted may disproportionately benefit ethanol produced from sugarcane which could make sugarcane based ethanol, which is primarily produced in Brazil, more competitive in the United States ethanol market. If this were to occur, it could reduce demand for the ethanol that we produce. 

Most ethanol that is used in the United States is sold in a blend called E10. E10 is a blend of 10% ethanol and 90% gasoline. E10 is approved for use in all standard vehicles. Estimates indicate that gasoline demand in the United States is approximately 137 billion gallons per year. Assuming that all gasoline in the United States is blended at a rate of 10% ethanol and 90% gasoline, the maximum demand for ethanol is 13.7 billion gallons per year. This is commonly referred to as the "blend wall," which represents a theoretical limit where more ethanol cannot be blended into the national gasoline pool. This is a theoretical limit because it is believed that it would not be possible to blend ethanol into every gallon of gasoline that is being used in the United States and it discounts the use of higher percentage blends such as E15 or E85. These higher percentage blends may lead to additional ethanol demand if they become more widely available and accepted by the market. 

Many in the ethanol industry believe that it will be impossible to meet the RFS requirement in future years without an increase in the percentage of ethanol that can be blended with gasoline for use in standard (non-flex fuel) vehicles. The United States Environmental Protection Agency (the "EPA") has approved the use of E15, gasoline which is blended at a rate of 15% ethanol and 85% gasoline, in vehicles manufactured in the model year 2001 and later. However, there are still state hurdles that need to be addressed in some states before E15 will become more widely available. Sales of E15 may be limited because it is not approved for use in all vehicles, the EPA requires a label that management believes may discourage consumers from using E15, and retailers may choose not to sell E15 due to concerns regarding liability. In addition, different gasoline blendstocks may be required at certain times of the year in order to use E15 due to federal regulations related to fuel evaporative emissions which may limit E15 sales in these markets. As a result, the approval of E15 by the EPA has not had an immediate impact on ethanol demand in the United States. 

Effect of Governmental Regulation 

In late 2009, California passed a Low Carbon Fuels Standard ("LCFS"). The California LCFS requires that renewable fuels used in California must accomplish certain reductions in greenhouse gases which is measured using a lifecycle analysis, similar to the RFS. On December 29, 2011, a federal district court in California ruled that the California LCFS was unconstitutional which halted implementation of the California LCFS. However, the California Air Resources Board ("CARB") appealed this court ruling and on September 18, 2013, the federal appellate court reversed the federal district court finding the LCFS constitutional and remanding the case back to federal district court to determine whether the LCFS imposes a burden on interstate commerce that is excessive in light of the local benefits. On June 30, 2014, the United States Supreme Court declined to hear the appeal of the federal appellate court ruling and CARB recently re-adopted the LCFS with some slight modifications. The LCFS could have a negative impact on demand for corn-based ethanol and result in decreased ethanol prices affecting our ability to operate profitably. 

The European Union concluded an anti-dumping investigation related to ethanol produced in the United States and exported to Europe. As a result of this investigation, the European Union imposed a tariff on ethanol which is produced in the United States and exported to Europe. This tariff could result in decreased exports of ethanol to Europe which could negatively impact the market price of ethanol in the United States. 

We are subject to extensive air, water and other environmental regulations, and we have been required to obtain a number of environmental permits to construct and operate the plant. We have obtained all of the necessary permits to operate the plant. Although we have been successful in obtaining all of the permits currently required, any retroactive change in environmental regulations, either at the federal or state level, could require us to obtain additional permits or spend considerable resources on complying with such regulations. In addition, we may be required to purchase and install equipment for controlling and improving emissions. During our &#32; 2015 &#32;fiscal year, our costs of environmental compliance were approximately $230,000. We anticipate that our environmental compliance costs will be approximately $192,000 during our &#32; 2016 &#32;fiscal year. 

We are subject to environmental oversight by the EPA. There is always a risk that the EPA may enforce certain rules and regulations differently than South Dakota's environmental administrators. South Dakota or EPA rules are subject to change, and any such changes could result in greater regulatory burdens on plant operations. We could also be subject to environmental or nuisance claims from adjacent property owners or residents in the area arising from possible foul smells or other air or water discharges from the ethanol plant. Such claims may result in an adverse result in court if we are deemed to engage in a nuisance that substantially impairs the fair use and enjoyment of property. 

&#32;11 

Employees 

As of &#32; December 31, 2015 , we had a total of 39 full-time employees. We do not expect to hire a significant number of employees in the next 12 months. 

Financial Information about Geographic Areas 

All of our operations are domiciled in the United States. All of the products sold to our customers for fiscal years 2015, 2014 and 2013 were produced in the United States and all of our long-lived assets are domiciled in the United States. We have engaged a third-party professional marketer that decides where the majority of our products are marketed and we have limited control over the marketing decisions made by our third-party professional marketer. Therefore, some of our products may be sold outside of the United States based on decisions made by our marketer. 

