 ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

Business Overview 

Insmed is a global biopharmaceutical company focused on the unmet needs of patients with rare diseases. Our lead product candidate is ARIKAYCE&#153;, or liposomal amikacin for inhalation (LAI), which is in late-stage development for patients with nontuberculous mycobacteria (NTM) lung disease, a rare and often chronic infection that is capable of causing irreversible lung damage and can be fatal. Our earlier stage pipeline includes INS1009, a nebulized prodrug formulation of treprostinil, a vasodilator of pulmonary arterial vascular beds. We believe INS1009 may offer a differentiated product profile with therapeutic potential in pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH), idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF), sarcoidosis, and severe refractory asthma. 

We are conducting a global phase 3 clinical study of ARIKAYCE (the 212 or CONVERT study) in adult patients with NTM lung disease caused by Mycobacterium avium complex (MAC), the predominant infective species in NTM lung disease in the United States (US), Europe, and Japan. The European Medicines Agency (EMA) Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) is reviewing our marketing authorization application (MAA) seeking approval of ARIKAYCE for the treatment of MAC lung disease in adult patients who have persistent positive sputum cultures despite the use of medically appropriate first-line therapy. We are also advancing a phase 1 study of INS1009 in healthy subjects. In addition to INS1009, our earlier-stage pipeline includes preclinical compounds that we are evaluating in multiple rare diseases of unmet medical need, including methicillin-resistant staph aureus (MRSA), NTM, PAH and sarcoidosis. We are also evaluating additional formulations and delivery options for treprostinil, including delivery via a metered dose inhaler. To complement our internal research, we actively seek in-licensing and acquisition opportunities for a broad range of rare diseases. 

The table below summarizes the current status and anticipated milestones for ARIKAYCE and INS1009. 

&#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; Product Candidate/Target Indications &#160; &#160; Status &#160; &#160; Next Expected Milestones &#160; &#160; ARIKAYCE for adult patients with refractory NTM lung infections caused by MAC &#160; &#160; &#149; 

We are advancing the CONVERT study, a randomized, open-label global phase 3 clinical study of ARIKAYCE in adult patients with treatment refractory NTM lung disease caused by MAC. &#149; 

In late 2015, we responded to the EMA's 120-day questions, which are a standard part of the MAA evaluation process in the EU. &#149; 

The US FDA has designated ARIKAYCE as an orphan drug, a breakthrough therapy and a qualified infectious disease product (QIDP). Breakthrough therapy features intensive guidance on efficient drug development and offers the potential for a rolling review. A QIDP-designated product qualifies for fast track designation and is eligible for priority review. &#149; 

The Committee for Orphan Medicinal Products of the EMA has issued a positive opinion for orphan designation of ARIKAYCE. &#160; &#160; &#149; 

We expect to achieve our patient enrollment objective in the CONVERT study in the second half of 2016. &#149; 

We expect to receive the CHMP's 180-day list of outstanding issues (LOI) related to our MAA in the first quarter of 2016. &#149; 

We anticipate responding to the LOI and participating in an oral hearing with the CHMP in the second quarter of 2016 to address the LOI on our MAA for ARIKAYCE. We continue to expect the CHMP to render an opinion around the middle of 2016. &#149; 

If approved, we expect ARIKAYCE would be the first approved inhaled antibiotic treatment specifically indicated for NTM lung infections in North America, Europe, and Japan. &#149; 

If approved, we plan to commercialize ARIKAYCE in certain countries in Europe and in the US, and eventually Canada, Japan and certain other countries. &#160; &#160; INS1009 (nebulized treprostinil prodrug) for PAH, IPF, sarcoidosis and severe refractory asthma &#160; &#160; &#149; 

In the fourth quarter of 2015 we initiated a phase 1 randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled single ascending dose study of INS1009 for inhalation to determine its safety, tolerability, and pharmacokinetics in healthy volunteers. &#160; &#160; &#149; 

We expect to present the results of our phase 1 study of INS1009 at a future medical meeting. &#160; 

Corporate History 

We were incorporated in the Commonwealth of Virginia on November 29, 1999. On December 1, 2010, we completed a business combination with Transave, Inc. (Transave), a privately held, New Jersey-based company focused on the development of differentiated and innovative inhaled pharmaceuticals for the site-specific treatment of serious lung infections. 

Our Strategy 

Our strategy focuses on the needs of patients with rare diseases. We are currently focused on the development and commercialization of ARIKAYCE, or LAI. There are currently no inhaled products specifically indicated to treat NTM lung disease in North America, Europe or Japan. While we believe that ARIKAYCE has the potential to treat many different diseases, we are prioritizing securing regulatory approval of ARIKAYCE in NTM lung disease caused by MAC. We are also advancing earlier-stage programs in other rare disorders, including a phase 1 study of INS1009, our nebulized prodrug formulation of treprostinil. 

Our current priorities are as follows: 

&#183; Enrolling the CONVERT study; &#183; Securing approval of ARIKAYCE in the European Union for the treatment of MAC lung disease in adult patients who have persistent positive sputum cultures despite the use of medically appropriate first-line therapy; &#183; Preparing our US NDA submission based on the results of the CONVERT study; &#183; Ensuring our product supply chain will support the clinical development and if approved, commercialization of ARIKAYCE; &#183; Preparing for potential commercialization of ARIKAYCE in certain countries in the EU and the US; &#183; Defining further research and lifecycle management strategies for ARIKAYCE, including investigator-initiated studies; &#183; Completing the phase 1 study of INS1009, our nebulized treprostinil prodrug, and investigating its use in multiple indications; &#183; Presenting preclinical findings from our earlier-stage program(s); and &#183; Expanding our rare disease pipeline through corporate development. Product Pipeline 

ARIKAYCE for patients with NTM lung disease 

Our lead product candidate is ARIKAYCE, or LAI, a novel, once-daily formulation of amikacin that is in late-stage clinical development for patients with NTM lung disease, a rare and often chronic infection that is capable of causing irreversible lung damage and which can be fatal. Amikacin solution for parenteral administration is an established drug that is effective against a variety of NTM; however, its use is limited by the need to administer it intravenously and by toxicity to hearing, balance, and kidney function (Peloquin et al., 2004). Our advanced pulmonary liposome technology uses charge-neutral liposomes to deliver amikacin directly to the lung where it is taken up by the lung macrophages where the NTM infection resides. This prolongs the release of amikacin in the lungs while minimizing systemic exposure thereby offering the potential for decreased systemic toxicities. ARIKAYCE's ability to deliver high levels of amakacin directly to the lung distinguishes it from intravenous amakacin. ARIKAYCE is administered once-daily using an optimized, investigational eFlow&#174; Nebulizer System manufactured by PARI Pharma GmbH, a novel, highly efficient and portable aerosol delivery system. 

The CONVERT study 

ARIKAYCE is currently being evaluated in a phase 3 randomized, open-label, global clinical study designed to confirm the culture conversion results seen in our phase 2 clinical trial. This phase 3 study, which is known as the CONVERT (or 212) study, is enrolling non-cystic fibrosis (non-CF) patients 18 years and older with an NTM lung infection caused by MAC that is refractory to a stable multi-drug regimen for at least six months with the regimen either ongoing or completed within 12 months of screening. In our completed phase 2 study, the subgroup of non-CF patients with NTM 

lung infection caused by MAC demonstrated the greatest response to treatment with ARIKAYCE. We believe this clinical trial will confirm the culture conversions seen in the phase 2 study and provide the basis for submitting a New Drug Application (NDA) to the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA), as well as regulatory submissions in Japan and other countries. 

After a screening period of approximately 10 weeks, eligible subjects will be randomized 2:1 to once-daily ARIKAYCE plus a multi-drug regimen or a multi-drug regimen without ARIKAYCE. For every two patients that are randomized to receive ARIKAYCE plus a multi-drug regimen, one patient is randomized to receive a multi-dose regimen without ARIKAYCE. The primary efficacy endpoint is the proportion of subjects who achieve culture conversion at Month 6 (defined as three consecutive negative sputum cultures collected monthly) in the ARIKAYCE plus multi-drug regimen arm compared to the arm in which subjects receive a multi-drug regimen without ARIKAYCE. The study's key secondary endpoints include the change from baseline in the six-minute walk test and off-treatment assessments to evaluate durability of effect. The study also includes a comprehensive pharmacokinetic sub-study in Japanese subjects in lieu of a separate local pharmacokinetic study in Japanese subjects. 

At Month 8, after all sputum culture results are known up to and including Month 6, subjects will be assessed as converters or non-converters for the primary efficacy endpoint. A converter is defined as a patient with three consecutive monthly sputum samples at Month 6 that test negative for the presence of MAC NTM. All converters will continue on their randomized treatment regimen for 12 months beginning from the first negative culture that defined culture conversion. All converters will return for off-treatment follow-up visits. A 12-month off-treatment study visit will be the last study visit for the CONVERT study. All non-converters in the study at Month 8 will be eligible to enter a separate open-label study (the 312 study). The primary objective of the 312 study is to evaluate the long-term safety and tolerability of ARIKAYCE for up to 12 months. The secondary endpoints of the 312 study include evaluating the proportion of subjects achieving culture conversion (three consecutive negative sputum cultures without relapse or recurrence) by Month 6 and the proportion of subjects achieving culture conversion by Month 12 (end of treatment). 

The protocol for the CONVERT study incorporates feedback from the FDA and the EMA via its scientific advice working party process, as well as local health authorities, including Japan's Pharmaceuticals and Medical Devices Agency, and was approved in the US by a central Institutional Review Board (IRB). We initiated the global trial in early 2015 and expect to complete patient enrollment in the second half of 2016. If the CONVERT study meets the primary endpoint of culture conversion at Month 6, we believe we would be eligible to submit an NDA pursuant to 21 CFR 314 Subpart H (Accelerated Approval of New Drugs for Serious or Life-Threatening Illnesses), which permits FDA to approve a drug based on a "surrogate endpoint" provided the sponsor commits to study the drug further to verify and describe the drug's clinical benefit. We believe that efficacy data from the CONVERT study after Month 6 will suffice to meet this commitment. We are currently conducting CONVERT at over 115 sites in the US, Europe, Australia, New Zealand, Asia and Canada. The CONVERT study is designed to enroll enough subjects to ensure at least 261 subjects are evaluable for the primary endpoint at Month 6. 

Phase 2 study (the 112 study) 

Our completed phase 2 study, which is also known as the 112 study, was a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study that evaluated the efficacy and safety of ARIKAYCE in adults with NTM lung disease due to MAC or Mycobacterium abscessus ( M. abscessus ) that was refractory to guideline-based therapy. The study included an 84-day double-blind phase in which subjects were randomized 1:1 either to ARIKAYCE once-daily plus a multi-drug regimen or to placebo once-daily plus a multi-drug regimen. After completing the 84-day double-blind phase, subjects had the option of continuing in an 84-day open-label phase during which all subjects received ARIKAYCE plus a 

multi-drug regimen. The study also included 28-day and 12-month off-ARIKAYCE follow-up assessments to evaluate safety and durability of effect. 

Eighty-nine subjects were randomized and dosed in the study. Of the 80 subjects who completed the 84-day double-blind phase, 78 subjects elected to continue in the open-label phase and received ARIKAYCE plus a multi-drug regimen for an additional 84 days. Seventy-six (76) percent (59/78) of subjects who elected to continue in the open-label phase of the study completed the open-label study. 

The primary efficacy endpoint of the study was the change from baseline (day 1) to the end of the double-blind phase of the trial (day 84) in a semi-quantitative measurement of mycobacterial density on a seven-point scale. ARIKAYCE did not meet the pre-specified level for statistical significance although there was a positive trend (p=0.072) in favor of ARIKAYCE. The p-value for the key secondary endpoint of culture conversion to negative at Day 84 was 0.003, in favor of ARIKAYCE. 

After establishing the primary endpoint for the phase 3 CONVERT study, we explored the microbiologic outcomes from the 112 study using the more stringent definition of culture conversion, which is defined as at least three consecutive monthly sputum samples that test negative for NTM bacteria. This definition of culture conversion is in the American Thoracic Society/Infectious Disease Society of America (ATS/IDSA) Guidelines (Griffith et al. 2007) and used in clinical practice. The preliminary results of these analyses are summarized below: 

&#183; Twenty subjects who received ARIKAYCE in the 112 study achieved culture conversion status over the 168-day treatment phase (13 received ARIKAYCE in the double-blind phase and seven received ARIKAYCE in the open-label phase). &#183; Three additional subjects who started ARIKAYCE in the open-label phase achieved culture conversion by the 28-day off-ARIKAYCE follow-up assessment. The 112 study included a 12-month off-ARIKAYCE follow up visit in order to collect sputum culture results. These results were collected and analyzed to assess the durability of the ARIKAYCE treatment effect for both the group of subjects who achieved culture conversion and the group of subjects who did not achieve culture conversion during the 168-day treatment phase. The preliminary results of these analyses are summarized below: 

&#183; Seventeen of the total 23 subjects who achieved culture conversion during the study attended their 12-month off-ARIKAYCE follow-up visit. The NTM sputum culture results for these 17 subjects are as follows: &#183; Eleven subjects remained culture negative; nine of these subjects were non-CF subjects with MAC (eight of these nine subjects were off all NTM treatments at this time) and two were subjects with non-CF M. abscessus at the time of study entry (both subjects were continuing treatment for M. abscessus ). &#183; Three non-CF subjects with MAC could not produce sputum despite reasonable attempts. These same subjects were off all NTM treatments at this time. This is consistent with the achievement of treatment success during the follow-up period as the lack of sputum production is indicative of symptom resolution. &#183; Two non-CF subjects with MAC were broth culture positive only, which may represent contamination (a false positive) or a new infection rather than a relapse. &#183; One non-CF subject with M. abscessus was also broth culture positive only. &#183; Twenty eight of the subjects who did not achieve culture conversion during the 168-day treatment phase of the study provided sputum at the 12-month follow up visit, of which 22 8 

subjects continued to have positive sputum cultures with six subjects showing a negative culture, with approximately 50% of subjects continuing on NTM treatment. 

Eligibility for the 112 study required subjects to have been on ATS/IDSA Guideline therapy for at least six months prior to screening and to have had persistently positive sputum mycobacterial cultures. 

During the double-blind phase, the majority of the subjects in both treatment groups experienced at least one treatment-emergent adverse event (TEAE). All of the most common TEAEs, except diarrhea, occurred more frequently in the ARIKAYCE group than in the placebo group. Renal TEAEs were reported infrequently. Audiovestibular TEAEs were reported in similar proportions of subjects in the two treatment groups in the double-blind phase and were reported infrequently in the open-label phase. TEAEs considered related by the investigator were reported more frequently in the ARIKAYCE group than in the placebo group in the double-blind phase (ARIKAYCE: 72.7%, placebo: 37.8%). However, in the open-label phase, the overall incidence of treatment-related adverse events was lower in the group of subjects who had received ARIKAYCE during the double-blind phase of the trial than in the group of subjects who had received placebo during the double-blind phase of the trial (ARIKAYCE: 48.6%, placebo: 60.5%). 

One subject died during the double-blind phase of pneumonia and acute respiratory distress syndrome and one subject died during the open-label phase of multi-organ failure, intestinal ischemia, and urosepsis. None of the events in either subject were considered to be related to the study drug by the investigator. All of these events were assessed by the Data Monitoring Committee, with no change in their assessment of the risk benefit of ARIKAYCE. In the double-blind phase, serious adverse events were reported for a greater proportion of subjects in the ARIKAYCE group than in the placebo group (18.2% versus 8.9%, respectively). In the double-blind phase, a greater proportion of subjects in the ARIKAYCE treatment group than in the placebo group reported adverse events leading to study drug discontinuation (ARIKAYCE: 18.2%; placebo: 0%). The most commonly reported TEAEs leading to study drug discontinuation in the ARIKAYCE group were infective exacerbation of underlying bronchiectasis (6.8%) and dyspnea (4.5%). The incidence of adverse events leading to discontinuation did not increase in the ARIKAYCE group with longer exposure to the study drug in the open-label phase compared with the double-blind phase (17.1% and 18.2%, respectively). In the open-label phase, 27.9% of subjects who had received placebo during the double-blind phase of the trial reported adverse events leading to study drug discontinuation. 

No clinically significant changes in laboratory values, vital signs, BMI, and pulmonary function tests were observed over the course of the study. The results discussed above are preliminary findings based on currently available data. 

MAA for NTM 

We are currently seeking EU approval of ARIKAYCE for the treatment of NTM lung disease caused by MAC in adult patients who have persistent positive sputum cultures despite the use of medically appropriate first-line therapy. Our MAA filing is based on data from the 112 study. We submitted our responses to the CHMP's 120-day questions in December 2015. We expect to receive the CHMP's 180-day LOI in the first quarter of 2016. We anticipate responding to the LOI and participating in an oral hearing with the CHMP in the second quarter of 2016 to address the LOI on our MAA for ARIKAYCE. The 120-day and 180-day communications are part of CHMPs official review timetable. We expect the CHMP to render an opinion on our MAA around the middle of 2016. 

We initially filed our MAA with the EMA seeking approval of ARIKAYCE in the EU for the treatment of NTM lung infections as well as Pseudomonas lung infections in CF patients. In the third 

quarter of 2015, the CHMP adopted our request to withdraw the Pseudomonas indication from our MAA. We chose to withdraw the Pseudomonas indication after receiving a request from EMA for additional information with respect to the similarity of ARIKAYCE to the TobiPodhaler given this product's orphan designation. While it is our view that ARIKAYCE is not similar to the TobiPodhaler, a comprehensive response to the EMA's request would have required us to divert significant resources from and potentially delay the regulatory advancement of the NTM indication. Given the significant need for approved medications for patients with NTM lung disease, we concluded the most appropriate near-term course of action for ARIKAYCE was to focus exclusively on advancing the regulatory review process for the NTM indication. 

NTM Market Opportunity 

NTM is a rare and serious disorder associated with increased morbidity and mortality. There is an increasing rate of lung disease caused by NTM and this is an emerging public health concern worldwide. Patients with NTM lung disease may experience a multitude of symptoms such as fever, weight loss, cough, lack of appetite, night sweats, blood in the sputum, and fatigue. Patients with NTM lung disease frequently require lengthy hospital stays to manage their condition. There are no products specifically indicated for the treatment of NTM lung disease in the US, Europe and Canada. Current guideline-based approaches involve multi-drug regimens that may cause severe side effects and treatment can be as long as two years or more. 

The prevalence of human disease attributable to NTM has increased over the past two decades. In a decade-long study (1997-2007), researchers found that the prevalence of NTM in the US is increasing at approximately 8% per year and that NTM patients on Medicare over the age of 65 are 40% more likely to die over the period of the study than those who did not have the disease (Adjemian et al., 2012). A 2015 publication from co-authors from several US government departments stated that prior year statistics led to a projected 181,037 national annual cases in 2014 costing the US healthcare system approximately $1.7 billion (Strollo et al., 2015). 

Our market research indicates that there are approximately 100,000 patients in the US, the EU5 (France, Germany, Italy, Spain and the United Kingdom), and Japan who have a confirmed diagnosis of NTM lung disease, of which an estimated 10 to 30 percent are refractory to current treatments. In 2012, in collaboration with the NIH, we funded a study performed by Clarity Pharma Research that showed there were an estimated 50,000 cases of pulmonary disease attributable to NTM in the US in 2011 and that such cases were estimated to be growing at a rate of 10% per year. In 2013, we engaged Clarity Pharma Research to perform a similar chart audit study of NTM in Europe and Japan. Based on results of this study, researchers estimated that there are approximately 20,000 cases of pulmonary disease attributable to NTM within the EU5 and approximately 30,000 in the 28 countries comprising the EU. In addition, there are nearly 32,000 cases in Japan. Although population-based data on the epidemiology of NTM infections in Europe are limited, consistent with US prevalence trends, recent published studies concur that prevalence in Europe is increasing and, according to a study published in the Japanese journal Kekkaku in 2011, Japan has one of the world's highest NTM disease rates. 

NTM currently includes over 150 species. MAC is the predominant pathogenic species in NTM pulmonary disease in the US, Japan and Europe, followed by M. abscessus . Thus far, we have studied ARIKAYCE in both MAC and M. abscessus . 

We are studying the economic and societal implications of NTM lung infections. We have conducted a burden of illness study in the US with a major medical benefits provider. This study showed that patients with NTM lung infections are costly to healthcare plans and ATS/IDSA guideline-based treatment results in healthcare savings as opposed to suboptimal treatment. 

In partnership with one of the nation's largest Medicare insurance providers, we recently presented the results of three claims-based studies. 

&#183; At the Interscience Conference of Antimicrobial Agents and Chemotherapy in September 2015 researchers reported a 36.1% increase (p&#60;0.001) in the incidence of NTM infections between 2008 and 2013 with the greatest incidence (56.3%) for those members 65 to 74 years of age. Following diagnosis with NTM infection, over 50% of members were still in the plan after six years (Abraham et al.). &#183; At Infectious Disease Week in October 2015 researchers reported that patients with NTM are using significantly greater healthcare resources in the period preceding their diagnosis. Ordering mycobacterial testing of sputum earlier may help in preventing a misdiagnosis or delaying a diagnosis (Holt et al.). &#183; At the Academy of Managed Care Pharmacy conference in October 2015, researchers reported significantly higher resource utilization and cost patterns for patients with NTM lung infections than their matched controls both pre- and post-diagnosis. Patients who received optimal treatment based on the 2007 ATS/IDSA guidelines showed lower healthcare resource utilization and total medical costs than patients who received suboptimal treatment. These data suggest that healthcare plans should consider mechanisms to identify and appropriately treat patients with NTM lung disease (Abraham et al.). We plan to repeat this type of research globally in support of our overall disease awareness and education efforts. 

The FDA has designated ARIKAYCE as an orphan drug, a breakthrough therapy, and a QIDP for NTM lung disease. Orphan designation features seven years of post-approval market exclusivity and QIDP features an additional five years of post-approval exclusivity. A QIDP-designated product is eligible for fast track and priority review designations. A priority review designation for a drug that is not a new molecular entity (NME) means the FDA's goal is to take action on the NDA within six months of the FDA's accepting the application as filed compared to 10 months under a standard review. 

INS1009 

INS1009 is an investigational sustained-release nebulized treprostinil prodrug that has the potential to address certain of the current limitations of existing inhaled prostanoid therapies. We believe that INS1009 prolongs duration of effect and may provide greater consistency in pulmonary arterial pressure reduction over time. Current inhaled prostanoid therapies must be dosed four to nine times per day for the treatment of PAH. Reducing dose frequency has the potential to ease patient burden and improve compliance. Additionally, we believe that INS1009 over time may reduce side effects, including elevated heart rate, low blood pressure, and severity and/or frequency of cough, associated with high initial drug levels and local upper airway exposure when using current inhaled prostanoid therapies. We believe INS1009 may have therapeutic potential in PAH, IPF, sarcoidosis, and severe refractory asthma. 

In late 2014, we had a pre-investigational new drug (pre-IND) meeting with the FDA for INS1009 and clarified that, subject to final review of the preclinical data, INS1009 could be eligible for an approval pathway under Section 505(b)(2) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (FDCA) ("505(b)(2) approval"). Like a traditional NDA that is submitted under Section 505(b)(1) of the FDCA, a 505(b)(2) NDA must establish that the drug is safe and effective, but unlike a traditional NDA the applicant may rely at least in part on studies not conducted by or for the applicant and for which the applicant does not have a right of reference. The ability to rely on existing third-party data to support safety and/or effectiveness can reduce the time and cost associated with traditional NDAs. 

In the fourth quarter of 2015 we submitted an IND application and subsequently commenced a phase 1 study of INS1009. The phase 1 study is a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled single ascending dose study of INS1009 for inhalation to determine its safety, tolerability, and pharmacokinetics in healthy volunteers. 

We believe INS1009 may have therapeutic potential in PAH, IPF, sarcoidosis, and severe refractory asthma. 

PAH 

There is no cure for PAH. PAH is a serious, progressive rare disease affecting approximately 100,000 patients globally, including approximately 25,000 treated patients in the US (Yang et al., 2006; Peacock et al. 2007; and Humbert et al. 2006). PAH ultimately leads to heart failure and the disease has a 15% one-year mortality rate (Kane et al., 2011). Several medications are used to treat PAH: 

&#183; Non-specific treatments such as anticoagulants, diuretics, and oxygen may be used. These drugs are not specifically approved for the treatment of PAH, but are commonly utilized. In specific circumstances, drugs such as digoxin or calcium channel blockers may also be used to treat PAH. &#183; Several drugs are approved specifically for the treatment of PAH. These drugs address three target pathophysiologic pathways: the endothelin pathway; the nitric oxide pathway; and the prostacyclin pathway. They may be used alone or in combination. IPF 

Idiopathic Pulmonary Fibrosis (IPF) is a rare, chronic, progressive, interstitial lung disease of unknown etiology that affects around five million patients worldwide. Patients with IPF are generally middle-aged or older at the time of diagnosis. Disease progression is variable but progressive fibrosis (scarring) leads ultimately to death, with a median survival of three to five years after diagnosis. Symptoms often include shortness of breath, dry cough, unintended weight loss, fatigue, and clubbing of the fingers and toes. Over time, IPF can lead to a debilitating loss of physical ability. The prevalence of IPF in the US ranges from between 90,000 and 190,000 patients, a range similar to that reported in Europe (Lee et al., 2014). 

Sarcoidosis 

Sarcoidosis is a granulomatous inflammatory disease that is induced by unknown antigen(s) in a genetically susceptible host (Mortaz et al. 2014). This rare, chronic systemic disease most commonly affects the lung. Several features of sarcoidosis tend to obscure the diagnosis, leading to an under-appreciation of the potential impact of the disease on the health care system and society as a whole. Sarcoidosis frequently presents with non-specific complaints, ranging from fatigue and depression, "asthma symptoms" (wheezing, cough), to arthritis and muscle pain or weakness. As such, sarcoidosis can mimic other diseases, leading to misdiagnosis and inappropriate treatments. The prevalence of sarcoidosis in the US is unknown, with estimates ranging widely from one to 40 per 100,000 (Erdal et al. 2012). 

Severe refractory asthma 

Severe refractory asthma is characterized by a difficulty to achieve disease control despite high-intensity treatment. Prevalence figures of severe refractory asthma are lacking, whereas longstanding estimates vary between five and 10% of all asthmatic patients. To make a reliable estimate of the prevalence of severe refractory asthma as defined by the Innovative Medicine Initiative consensus, Hekking et al. analyzed prescription data from 65 Dutch pharmacy databases, representing 500,500 adult inhabitants. Of asthmatic adults, 3.6% qualified for a diagnosis of severe refractory asthma; therefore, the prevalence of severe refractory asthma might be lower than estimated by expert opinion, which implies that currently recognized severe asthma phenotypes could meet the criteria of rare disease. (Hekking et al. October 2014). 

Research and Development 

Research and development expenses consist primarily of salaries, benefits and other related costs, including stock-based compensation, for personnel serving in our research and development functions. Expenses also include other internal operating expenses, the cost of manufacturing our drug candidate for clinical study, the cost of conducting clinical studies, and the cost of conducting preclinical and research activities. Our expenses related to manufacturing our drug candidate for clinical study are primarily related to activities at contract manufacturing organizations that manufacture ARIKAYCE for our use. Our expenses related to clinical trials are primarily related to activities at contract research organizations that conduct and manage clinical trials on our behalf. We incurred approximately $74.3 million, $56.3 million, and $44.3 million for research and development expenses in 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. 

Corporate Development 

We plan to develop, acquire, in-license or co-promote other products that address rare diseases. We are focused broadly on rare disease therapeutics and prioritizing those areas that best align with our core competencies and current therapeutic focus in the fields of pulmonology and infectious disease. 

Manufacturing 

ARIKAYCE is manufactured by Ajinimoto Althea, Inc., a Delaware corporation (Althea), in the US at a 50 liter scale. In September 2015, we entered into a commercial fill/finish services agreement with Althea to produce ARIKAYCE. Althea has the right to terminate this agreement upon written notice for our uncured material breach, if we are the subject of specified bankruptcy or liquidation events, or without cause with 24 months' prior written notice. In February 2014, we entered into a contract manufacturing agreement with Therapure Biopharma Inc., a Canadian corporation (Therapure) for the manufacture of ARIKAYCE at a 200 liter scale which we believe will be necessary to support commercialization. We have also identified certain second source suppliers for our supply chain, and plan to implement supply and quality agreements in preparation for commercialization of ARIKAYCE. In July 2014, we entered into a commercialization agreement with PARI Pharma GmbH (PARI), the manufacturer of our drug delivery nebulizer, to address our commercial supply needs. We currently produce INS1009, our investigational nebulized treprostinil prodrug, and plan to utilize third parties to manufacture INS1009 at a larger scale and the drug delivery device. 

Intellectual Property 

ARIKAYCE Patents and Trade Secrets 

We own or license rights to more than 200 issued patents and pending patent applications in the US and in foreign countries, including more than 120 issued patents and pending patent applications related to ARIKAYCE. Our success depends in part on our ability to maintain proprietary protection surrounding our product candidates, technology and know-how; to operate without infringing the proprietary rights of others; and to prevent others from infringing our proprietary rights. We actively seek patent protection by filing patent applications, including on inventions that are important to the development of our business in the US, Europe, Canada, and selected other foreign markets that we consider key for our product candidates. These international markets generally include Australia, Japan, China, India, Israel, and Mexico. 

Our patent strategy includes obtaining patent protection, where possible, on compositions of matter, methods of manufacture, methods of use, methods of treatment, dosing and administration regimens and formulations. We also rely on trade secrets, know-how, continuing technological innovation, in-licensing and partnership opportunities to develop and maintain our proprietary position. 

We monitor for activities that may infringe our proprietary rights, as well as the progression of third-party patent applications that may have the potential to create blocks to our products or otherwise interfere with the development of our business. We are aware, for example, of US patents, and corresponding international counterparts, owned by third parties that contain claims related to treating lung infections using inhaled antibiotics. If any of these patents were to be asserted against us, we do not believe that our proposed products would be found to infringe any valid claim of these patents. 

Reflecting our commitment to safeguarding proprietary information, we require our employees, consultants, advisors, collaborators and other third-party partners to sign confidentiality agreements to protect the exchange of proprietary materials and information. We also seek to preserve the integrity and confidentiality of our data and trade secrets by maintaining physical security of our premises and physical and electronic security of our information technology systems. 

We own six US patents that cover the ARIKAYCE composition and its use in treating NTM. Upon ARIKAYCE approval for the treatment of NTM, these patents may be eligible for listing in the FDA Orange Book. These patents and their expiration dates (not taking into account any potential patent term extension) are as follows: 

&#183; US Patent No. 7,718,189 (expires June 6, 2025) &#183; US Patent No. 8,226,975 (expires August 15, 2028) &#183; US Patent No. 8,632,804 (expires December 5, 2026) &#183; US Patent No. 8,802,137 (expires April 8, 2024) &#183; US Patent No. 8,679,532 (expires December 5, 2026) &#183; US Patent No. 8,642,075 (expires December 5, 2026) In addition, we own four pending US patent applications that cover the ARIKAYCE composition and its use in treating NTM. Upon ARIKAYCE approval for the treatment of NTM, these patents would be listed in the FDA Orange Book. We also own a pending US application that covers methods for making ARIKAYCE. 

Three patents have been granted by the European Patent Office ("EPO") (European Patent Nos. 1581236, 1909759 and 2363114) that cover ARIKAYCE and its use in treating NTM. In addition, we have three applications pending before the EPO that cover ARIKAYCE and its use in treating NTM and one additional international application that will be filed in the EPO on or before November 15, 2016 that covers methods of treating NTM with ARIKAYCE. We also own a pending European application that covers methods of making ARIKAYCE. Thirty eight patents have also been issued in major foreign markets, e.g., Japan, China, Korea, Australia, and India, which cover ARIKAYCE and methods of using ARIKAYCE for treating NTM. Thirty seven foreign patent applications are pending that cover the ARIKAYCE composition and its use in treating NTM. We anticipate that in the US, we will have potential patent coverage for ARIKAYCE and its use in treating NTM, through at least February 2029, which includes a potential six months of pediatric exclusivity. 

Through our agreements with PARI, we have license rights to US and foreign patents and applications that cover the eFlow Nebulizer System medical device. We have rights to use the nebulizers in clinical trials and we have entered into a commercial supply agreement with PARI. 

The basic terms of utility patents issued in the US are the longer of 17 years from the issue date or 20 years from the earliest effective filing date, if the patent was in force on or was issued from a patent application that was filed prior to June 8, 1995; or 20 years from the earliest effective filing date, if the patent application was filed on or after June 8, 1995. 

The basic term of foreign utility patents may vary in accordance with provisions of applicable local law, but is typically 20 years from the earliest effective filing date. 

INS1009 Patents 

We own US Patent No. 9,255,064 (expires October 24, 2034), which is the first patent to issue with claims covering INS1009. Other treprostinil prodrugs are also claimed and described in the patent. Methods of using treprostinil prodrugs, including INS1009, are described in the patent. 

We own pending patent applications that if granted, would cover treprostinil analogs including INS1009, nanoparticle formulations of such treprostinil and prostacyclin analogs and methods for using such treprostinil analogs and nanoparticle formulations comprising the same in treating patients with pulmonary arterial hypertension and other diseases, as well as methods for manufacturing such prostacyclin analogs. 

Trademarks 

In addition to our patents and trade secrets, we have filed applications to register certain trademarks in the US and/or abroad, including INSMED, ARIKAYCE, and IPLEX. At present, we have received either registration or a notice of allowance for these marks from the US Patent and Trademark Office. We have also received foreign allowances or issued foreign registrations for certain of these marks. In October 2013, we learned that the EMA had no objection to our use of the name ARIKAYCE. In early 2014, we learned that the FDA conditionally approved our use of the name ARIKAYCE as our proposed trade name for our liposomal amikacin for inhalation product candidate. Our ability to obtain and maintain trademark registrations will in certain geographical locations depend on making use of the mark in commerce on or in connection with our products and approval of the trademarks for our products by regulatory authorities in each country. 

License and Collaboration Agreements 

ARIKAYCE-related License and Collaboration Agreements 

Ajinomoto Althea, Inc. 

In September 2015, we entered into a Commercial Fill/Finish Services Agreement (the "Fill/Finish Agreement") with Althea to produce, on a non-exclusive basis, ARIKAYCE in finished dosage form. Under the Fill/Finish Agreement, we are obligated to pay a minimum of $2.7 million for the batches of ARIKAYCE produced by Althea each calendar year during the term of the Fill/Finish Agreement. The Fill/Finish Agreement is effective as of January 1, 2015, has an initial term that ends on December 31, 2017 and may be extended for additional two year periods upon mutual written agreement of the Company and Althea at least one year prior to the expiration of its then-current term. 

Either we or Althea may terminate the Fill/Finish Agreement upon the occurrence of certain events, including (i) material breach of the Fill/Finish Agreement by either party, provided such breach is not cured within 30 days after receipt by the breaching party of written notice of the breach or (ii) insolvency or bankruptcy of the other party. In addition, we may terminate the Fill/Finish Agreement without cause with 12 months' prior written notice to Althea, and Althea may terminate the Agreement without cause with 24 months' prior written notice. 

PARI Pharma GmbH 

We currently have a licensing agreement with PARI for use of the optimized eFlow Nebulizer System for delivery of ARIKAYCE in treating patients with NTM infections, CF and bronchiectasis. Under the licensing agreement, we have rights under several US and foreign issued patents, and patent applications involving improvements to the optimized eFlow Nebulizer System, to exploit such system with ARIKAYCE for the treatment of such indications, but we cannot manufacture such nebulizers except as permitted under our Commercialization Agreement with PARI (as discussed below). We currently have rights to use the nebulizers in clinical trials and also entered into a commercial supply agreement with PARI. Outside the EU, the eFlow Nebulizer System is labeled as investigational for use in our clinical trials in the US, Canada, Australia and Japan. 

We have certain obligations under this licensing agreement in relation to specified licensed indications. With respect to CF, we are obligated to use commercially reasonable efforts to develop, obtain regulatory and reimbursement approval, market and sell ARIKAYCE in two or more major European countries. With respect to NTM, CF and bronchiectasis, we have specific obligations to use commercially reasonable efforts to achieve certain developmental and regulatory milestones by set deadlines. Additionally, for NTM, we are obligated to use commercially reasonable efforts to achieve certain commercial milestones in the US, Europe and Canada. The consequences of our failing to use commercially reasonable efforts to achieve these milestones are context-specific, but include ending PARI's non-compete obligation, making the license non-exclusive and terminating the license, in each case with respect to the applicable indication. Under the licensing agreement, we paid PARI an upfront license fee and PARI is entitled to receive milestone payments up to an aggregate of &#8364;4.3 million either in cash, qualified stock or a combination of both, at PARI's discretion, based on achievement of certain future milestone events including first acceptance of MAA submission (or equivalent) in the US of ARIKAYCE and the device, first receipt of marketing approval in the US for ARIKAYCE and the device, and first receipt of marketing approval in a major EU country for ARIKAYCE and the device. In addition, PARI is entitled to receive royalty payments in the mid-single digits on the net commercial sales of ARIKAYCE pursuant to the licensing agreement, subject to certain specified annual minimum royalties. 

This license agreement will remain in effect on a country-by-country basis until the final royalty payments have been made with respect to the last country in which ARIKAYCE is sold, or until the agreement is otherwise terminated by either party. We have the right to terminate this license agreement upon written notice for PARI's uncured material breach, if PARI is the subject of specified bankruptcy or liquidation events, or if PARI fails to reach certain specified milestones. PARI has the right to terminate this license agreement upon written notice for our uncured material breach, if we are the subject of specified bankruptcy or liquidation events, if we assign or otherwise transfer the agreement to a third party that does not agree to assume all of our rights and obligations set forth in the agreement, or if we fail to reach certain specified milestones. 

In July 2014, we entered into a Commercialization Agreement (the "PARI Agreement") with PARI for the manufacture and supply of eFlow nebulizer systems and related accessories (the "Device") as optimized for use with our proprietary liposomal amikacin for inhalation. The PARI Agreement envisages that PARI will undertake the manufacturing of the Device except in the case of certain defined supply failures, when we will have the right to make the Device and have it made by third parties (but not certain third parties deemed under the PARI Agreement to compete with PARI). The PARI Agreement has an initial term of fifteen years from the first commercial sale of ARIKAYCE pursuant to the licensing agreement (the "Initial Term"). The term of the PARI Agreement may be extended by us for an additional five years by providing written notice to PARI at least one year prior to the expiration of the Initial Term. 

Therapure Biopharma Inc. 

In February 2014, we entered into a Contract Manufacturing Agreement with Therapure for the manufacture of ARIKAYCE. Pursuant to the Agreement, we collaborated with Therapure to construct a production area for the manufacture of ARIKAYCE in Therapure's existing manufacturing facility in Mississauga, Ontario, Canada. Therapure manufactures ARIKAYCE for us on a non-exclusive basis. The agreement has an initial term of five years from the first date on which Therapure delivers ARIKAYCE to us after we obtain permits related to the manufacture of ARIKAYCE, and will renew automatically for successive periods of two years each, unless terminated by either party by providing the required two years' prior written notice to the other party. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the parties have rights and obligations under the agreement prior to the commencement of the initial term. Under the agreement, we are obligated to pay certain minimum amounts for the batches of ARIKAYCE produced each calendar year. The agreement allows for termination by either party upon the occurrence of certain events, including (i) the material breach by the other party of any provision of the agreement or the quality agreement expected to be entered into between the parties, or (ii) the default or bankruptcy of the other party. In addition, we may terminate the agreement for any reason upon no fewer than one hundred eighty days' advance notice. Costs incurred under this agreement are being recorded as a component of research and development expense until such time as we receive US FDA approval for ARIKAYCE. 

SynteractHCR, Inc. 

On December 30, 2014, we entered into Work Order 1, pursuant to a Master Agreement for Services with SynteractHCR, Inc., ("Synteract") dated as of August 27, 2014, as amended on December 23, 2014, pursuant to which we retained Synteract to perform implementation and management services in connection with certain clinical trials pursuant to a specific protocol of pharmaceutical products under development by us or under our control. Synteract is providing comprehensive services for the 212 study. Prior to the execution of the Work Order, Synteract was providing such services pursuant to a Letter of Intent, dated August 25, 2014. Based on work orders signed to date for the 212 study, we anticipate that aggregate costs relating to the Synteract work orders will be approximately $40 million over the period of the study. In addition, we signed work orders with Synteract related to the follow-on 312 study. Based on work orders signed to date for the 312 study, we anticipate that aggregate costs relating to the Synteract work orders will be approximately $20 million over the period of the study. 

Cystic Fibrosis Foundation Therapeutics, Inc. 

In 2004 and 2009, we entered into research funding agreements with Cystic Fibrosis Foundation Therapeutics, Inc. (CFFT) whereby we received $1.7 million and $2.2 million for each respective agreement in research funding for the development of ARIKAYCE. If ARIKAYCE becomes an approved product for CF in the US, we will owe a payment to CFFT of up to $13.4 million that is payable over a three-year period after approval as a commercialized drug in the US. Furthermore, if certain global sales milestones are met within 5 years of the drug commercialization, we would owe an additional payment of $3.9 million. Under the 2009 agreement, in the event we terminate development of ARIKAYCE prior to first commercial sale of a product containing ARIKAYCE for a period of 360 continuous days, and such termination is not for reasons outside of our reasonable control, then at CFFT's election and within 180 days of such termination, CFFT (1) may elect to develop ARIKAYCE and (2) will have the right to receive from us an exclusive (subject to certain exceptions), royalty-free, sub-licensable license to use, develop, sell and commercialize a product containing ARIKAYCE in the treatment of certain infections in CF patients or pulmonary disease. 

INS1009-related License and Other Collaboration Agreements 

Device Supply and Clinical Investigation Agreement Relating to INS1009 

Respironics &#151;In November 2015, we entered into an agreement with Respironics Inc., a division of Philips (Respironics), for the clinical supply of devices to be used in the development of INS1009 for PAH. The agreement calls for payments to Respironics upon the achievement of certain clinical milestones relating to the development of INS1009 aggregating $7.6 million. In addition, we will be required to pay a royalty on net sales of the product, if any. 

License Agreements and Other Collaboration Agreements 

Ipsen and Genentech &#151;Prior to 2007, we focused on development and commercialization of IPLEX for the treatment of growth failure in children with severe primary IGF-deficiency. IPLEX was approved by the FDA for treatment of severe primary IGF-1 deficiency in December 2005 and was commercially launched in the second quarter of 2006. We subsequently withdrew IPLEX from the market in connection with a patent infringement settlement agreement among us, Ipsen (formerly Tercica), and Genentech. In connection with the settlement, we were granted a license or sublicense as applicable to patents held by Ipsen and Genentech to develop IPLEX in certain medical indications in the US and foreign territories, subject to certain opt-in and other rights retained by Ipsen and Genentech. In November 2008 we gained Royalty-Free Worldwide Rights for IPLEX from Ipsen and Genentech in connection with potential expanded access ALS programs. 

Eleison &#151;In February 2011, we entered into an agreement with Eleison Pharmaceuticals whereby we granted Eleison an exclusive license for Inhaled CISPLATIN Lipid Complex. The license gives Eleison the right to develop, manufacture and commercialize inhaled CISPLATIN Lipid Complex for cancers affecting the lung. Payments totaling $1.0 million were received in 2011 and were recorded in license fees. 

Premacure (now Shire plc) &#151;In May 2012, we entered into an agreement with Premacure pursuant to which we granted to Premacure an exclusive, worldwide license to develop manufacture and commercialize IGF-1, with its natural binding protein, IGFBP-3, for the prevention and treatment of complications of preterm birth (the "Premacure License Agreement"). In March 2013, we amended the Premacure License Agreement to provide Premacure with the option to pay us $11.5 million and assume any of our royalty obligations to other parties in exchange for a fully paid license. In March 2013, Shire plc announced that they acquired Premacure. In April 2013 Shire exercised this option and paid us $11.5 million, and as a result we are not entitled to future royalties from Shire. 

Competition 

The biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries are highly competitive. We face potential competitors from many different areas including commercial pharmaceutical, biotech and device companies, academic institutions and scientists, other smaller or earlier stage companies and non-profit organizations developing anti-infective drugs and drugs for respiratory diseases. Many of these companies have greater human and financial resources and may have product candidates in more advanced stages of development and may reach the market before our product candidates. Competitors may develop products that are more effective, safer or less expensive or that have better tolerability or convenience. We also may face generic competitors where third-party payers will encourage use of the generic products. Although we believe that our formulation delivery technology, respiratory and anti-infective expertise, experience and knowledge in our specific areas of focus provide us with competitive advantages, these potential competitors could reduce our commercial opportunity. 

NTM competitive overview 

Our major competitors include pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies that have approved therapies or therapies in development for the treatment of chronic lung infections. While some companies have expressed interest in studying their products for NTM, we are not aware of any companies that are currently conducting clinical trials for the treatment of NTM lung disease. There are no approved inhaled therapies specifically indicated for NTM lung infections in North America, Europe or Japan but there is an ATS/IDSA-recommended treatment regimen that is utilized. 

Government Regulation 

Orphan Drugs 

European Union 

The European Commission grants orphan drug designation to promote the development of drugs or biologics (1) for life-threatening or chronically debilitating conditions affecting not more than five in 10,000 people in the EU, or (2) for life threatening, seriously debilitating or serious and chronic condition in the EU where, without incentives, sales of the drug in the European Economic Area (the European Union plus, Iceland, Lichtenstein, and Norway) (EEA) are unlikely to be sufficient to justify its development. Orphan drug designation is available either if no other satisfactory method of diagnosing, preventing or treating the condition is approved in the EEA or if such a method does exist but the proposed orphan drug will be of significant benefit to patients. 

If a drug with an orphan drug designation subsequently receives a marketing authorization for a therapeutic indication which is covered by such designation, the drug is entitled to orphan exclusivity. Orphan exclusivity means that the EMA or national Medicines Agency may not accept another application for authorization, or grant an authorization, for a same or similar drug for the same therapeutic indication. Competitors may receive such a marketing authorization despite orphan exclusivity, provided that they demonstrate that the existing orphan product is not supplied in sufficient quantities or that the 'second' drug or biologic is clinically superior to the existing orphan product. The 'second' drug may but need not to have an orphan designation as well. The period of orphan exclusivity is ten years, which can be extended by two years where an agreed pediatric investigation plan has been implemented (see Pediatric Information section below). The exclusivity period may also be reduced to six years if the designation criteria are no longer met, including where it is shown that the product is sufficiently profitable not to justify maintenance of market exclusivity. Each orphan designation carries the potential for one market exclusivity for all the therapeutic indications that are covered by the designation. A product that has several separate orphan designations has several separate market exclusivities. 

Orphan drug designation also provides opportunities for free protocol assistance and fee reductions for access to the centralized regulatory procedure or fee exemptions for companies with a small and medium enterprises (SMEs) status. In addition, Member States may provide national benefits to orphan drugs, such as early access to the reimbursement procedure or exemption from the turnover tax imposed on pharmaceutical companies. 

The orphan designation may be applied for at any time during the development of the drug but before the application for marketing authorization. At the time of marketing authorization, the criteria for orphan designation are examined again, and the Commission decides on the maintenance of the orphan designation. The non-maintenance of the orphan designation means that the drug loses its orphan status and thus no longer benefit from orphan exclusivity, fee reductions or exemptions, and national benefits. 

United States 

Under the Orphan Drug Act (ODA), the FDA may grant orphan drug designation to drugs intended to treat a rare disease or condition ("rare" is generally defined as a disease or condition for which the drug intended affects fewer than 200,000 people in the US) if it meets certain criteria specified in the ODA and FDA's implementing regulations at 21 CFR Part 316. After the FDA grants orphan drug designation, the drug and the specific intended use(s) for which it has obtained designation are listed by FDA in a publicly-accessible database. 

Orphan drug designation qualifies the drug sponsor for various development incentives of the ODA, including tax credits for qualified clinical testing, and a waiver of the NDA application user fee (unless the application seeks approval for an indication not included in the orphan drug designation). Orphan drug designation also affords the company a period of marketing exclusivity upon approval of the drug. Specifically, the first NDA applicant with an FDA orphan drug designation for a particular active moiety to receive FDA approval of the drug for an indication covered by the orphan designation is entitled to a seven-year exclusive marketing period, often referred to as orphan drug exclusivity, in the US for that drug and indication. During the orphan drug exclusivity period, the FDA may not approve any other applications to market the same drug for the same indication for use, except in limited circumstances, such as a showing of clinical superiority to the product that has orphan drug exclusivity. Orphan drug exclusivity does not prevent the FDA from approving a different drug for the same disease or condition, or the same drug for a different disease or condition. 

However, orphan drug designation does not alter the timing or scope of the regulatory review and approval process; the sponsor must still submit evidence from clinical and non-clinical studies sufficient to demonstrate the safety and effectiveness of the drug. 

Drug Approval 

European Union 

Marketing Authorization Application 

To obtain approval of a drug under the EU regulatory system, an application for a marketing authorization may be submitted under a centralized, a decentralized or a national procedure. The centralized procedure, which is compulsory for medicines produced by certain biotechnological processes or for orphan drugs, provides for the grant of a single marketing authorization that is valid for all EU member states, which grants the same rights and obligations in each member states as a national marketing authorization. As a general rule, only one marketing authorization may be granted for drugs approved through the centralized procedure. Pursuant to the European Economic Agreement between the European Union and the EFTA countries, the marketing authorization is also relevant for the three EFTA countries (Iceland, Lichtenstein, Norway). 

Under the centralized procedure, the Committee for Human Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP), the EMA's main scientific committee, is required to adopt an opinion on a valid application within 210 days, excluding clock stops when additional information is to be provided by the applicant in response to questions. More specifically, on day 120 of the procedure, once the CHMP has received the preliminary assessment reports and opinions from the Rapporteur and Co-Rapporteur designated by the CHMP, it adopts a list of questions, which are sent to the applicant together with the CHMP's overall conclusions. Applicants then have three months to respond to the CHMP (and can request a three-month extension). The Rapporteur and Co-Rapporteur assess the applicant's replies, revise the assessment report as necessary and may prepare a list of outstanding issues. The revised assessment report and list of outstanding issues are sent to the applicant together with the CHMP's recommendation by day 180 of the procedure. Applicants then have one month to respond to the 

CHMP (and can request a one or two-month extension). The Rapporteur and Co-Rapporteur assess the applicant's replies, submit them for discussion to the CHMP and prepare a final assessment report. Once its scientific evaluation is completed, the CHMP gives a favorable or unfavorable opinion as to whether to grant the marketing authorization. After the adoption of the CHMP opinion, a decision must be adopted by the European Commission, after consulting the Standing Committee of the Member States. The European Commission prepares a draft decision and circulates it to the member states; if the draft decision differs from the CHMP opinion, the Commission must provide detailed explanations. The European Commission adopts a decision within 15 days of the end of the consultation procedure. 

Accelerated Procedure, Conditional Approval and Approval Under Exceptional Circumstances 

Various programs, including accelerated procedure, conditional approval and approval under exceptional circumstances, are intended to expedite or simplify the approval of drugs that meet certain qualifications. The purpose of these programs is to provide important new drugs to patients earlier than under standard approval procedures. 

For drugs which are of major interest from the point of view of public health, in particular from the viewpoint of therapeutic innovation, applicants may submit a substantiated request for accelerated assessment. If the CHMP accepts the request, the review time is reduced from 210 to 150 days. 

Furthermore, for certain categories of medicinal products, marketing authorizations may be granted on the basis of less complete data than is normally required in order to meet unmet medical needs of patients or in the interest of public health. In such cases, the company may request, or the CHMP may recommend, the granting of a marketing authorization, subject to certain specific obligations; such marketing authorization may be conditional or under exceptional circumstances. The timelines for the centralized procedure described above also apply with respect to applications for a conditional marketing authorization or marketing authorization under exceptional circumstances. 

Conditional marketing authorizations may be granted for products designated as orphan medicinal products, if all of the following conditions are met: (1) the risk-benefit balance of the product is positive, (2) the applicant will likely be in a position to provide the required comprehensive clinical trial data, (3) the product fulfills unmet medical needs, and (4) the benefit to public health of the immediate availability on the market of the medicinal product concerned outweighs the risk inherent in the fact that additional data are still required. 

Conditional marketing authorizations are valid for one year, on a renewable basis until the holder provides a comprehensive data package. The granting of conditional marketing authorization depends on the applicant's ability to fulfill the conditions imposed within the agreed upon deadline. They are subject to "conditions", i.e. the holder is required to complete ongoing studies or to conduct new studies with a view to confirming that the benefit-risk balance is positive or to fulfill specific obligations in relation to pharmacovigilance. Once the holder has provided a comprehensive data package, the conditional marketing authorization is replaced by a 'regular' marketing authorization. 

Marketing authorizations under exceptional circumstances may be granted where the applicant demonstrates that, for objective and verifiable reasons, he is unable to provide comprehensive data on the efficacy and safety of the drug under normal conditions of use. Such marketing authorizations are subject to certain conditions, in particular relating to safety of the drug, notification of incidents relating to its use or actions to be taken. They are valid for an indefinite period of time, but the conditions upon which they are based are subject to an annual reassessment in order to ensure that the risk-benefit balance remains positive. 

Exclusivities 

If an approved drug contains a new active substance, it is protected by data exclusivity for eight years as from the notification of the Commission decision granting the marketing authorization and then by marketing protection for two or three years. Overall, the drug is protected for ten or eleven years against generic competition, and no additional exclusivity protection is granted for any new development of the active substance it contains. 

During the eight-year period of data exclusivity, competitors may not refer to the marketing authorization dossier of the approved drug for regulatory purposes. During the period of marketing protection, competitors may not market their competitor drugs. The period of marketing protection is normally two years but may become three years if, during the eight-year data exclusivity period, a new therapeutic indication is approved that is considered as bringing a significant clinical benefit over existing therapies. 

Medical Devices Regulations 

In the EU, the marketing of medical devices is not subject to a prior approval by a health authority, but, depending on the class of device, may require prior review by a Notified Body. Notified Bodies are technical review bodies that are accredited and supervised by national health authorities. They conduct conformity assessment procedures of, among others, medical devices. 

Medical devices are generally governed by Directive 93/42/EEC on Medical Devices that harmonizes the conditions for placing medical devices on the European market. This Directive however does not regulate certain important marketing aspects, such as advertising or pricing and reimbursement, which remain governed by national law. 

Directive 93/42 requires medical devices to meet the essential requirements which are enumerated in the annexes to the Directive. Compliance with those requirements is demonstrated by the CE mark as the manufacturer may only affix the CE mark if he may declare conformity with the essential requirement for each medical device that is marketed. Directive 93/42 provides recourse to harmonized European standards in order to facilitate compliance with the essential requirements. Harmonized standards provide a presumption of conformity with the essential requirements. 

Directive 93/42 institutes several conformity assessment procedure. The relevant conformity assessment procedure depends on the type of medical device and the risks involved. Devices are divided in four groups: Class I, Class IIa, Class IIb, and Class III. Class I devices present the lowest level of risk so that, for most of these devices the manufacturer can self-certify the product and need not rely on certification by a Notified Body. For the other classes, a Notified Body must review the manufacturer's procedures and/or the product. Every device is initially classified by the manufacturer. However, the Notified Body may dispute the classification and assert that the device should be included in a class requiring stricter conformity assessment procedures. Specific rules apply to custom-made medical devices, medical devices that are used in clinical trials, and medical devices that incorporate a medicinal ingredient. 

For classes of devices other than Class I, a manufacturer must have a Notified Body test and certify conformity of its design and production procedures or its products with the essential requirements of Directive 93/42. Certification takes the form of a certificate of conformity issued by the Notified Body, which is valid throughout the European Union. Upon certification by the Notified Body, the manufacturer affixes the CE mark to the medical device, which allows the product to move freely within the European Union and thus prevents EU Member States from restricting sales and marketing 

of the devices, unless such measure is justified on the basis of evidence of non-compliance. Ultimately, the manufacturer is responsible for the conformity of the device with the essential requirements and for the affixing of the CE mark. 

Manufacturers of medical devices are subject to materiovigilance obligations that require reporting of incidents or near incidents related to the use of a medical device, which incidents may demonstrate the need for corrective action by the manufacturer. In addition, Notified Bodies regularly re-assess the conformity of a medical device to the essential requirements of Directive 93/42 and may from time to time audit the manufacturer and may, where needed, suspend or withdraw the manufacturer's certificate of conformity. 

United States 

In the United States, pharmaceutical products are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA and other government bodies. The Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (FDCA) and other federal and state statutes and regulations, govern, among other things, the research, development, testing, manufacture, storage, recordkeeping, approval, labeling, promotion and marketing, distribution, post-approval monitoring and reporting, sampling and import and export of pharmaceutical products. Failure to comply with applicable US requirements at any time during product development, approval, or after approval may subject a company to a variety of administrative or judicial sanctions, such as imposition of clinical holds, FDA refusal to accept for filing or approve new drug applications, warning letters, product recalls, product seizures, total or partial suspension of production or distribution, injunctions, fines, refusals of government contracts, restitution, disgorgement, civil penalties, and criminal prosecution. 

Pharmaceutical product development in the US may include: 

&#183; Completion of preclinical laboratory tests, animal studies and formulation studies in compliance with the FDA's good laboratory practice, or GLP, regulations; &#183; Submission to the FDA of an investigational new drug application, or IND, which must become effective before clinical trials may begin; &#183; Approval of the protocol by an independent institutional review board, or IRB before each trial may be initiated; &#183; Performance of adequate and well-controlled human clinical trials in accordance with good clinical practices, or GCP, to establish the safety and efficacy of the proposed drug for each indication; &#183; Submission to the FDA of a NDA; &#183; Satisfactory completion of an FDA advisory committee review, if applicable; &#183; Satisfactory completion of an FDA inspection of the manufacturing facility or facilities at which the product is produced to assess compliance with cGMP, and to assure that the facilities, methods and controls are adequate to preserve the drug's identity, strength, quality and purity; and &#183; FDA review and approval of the NDA. The sponsor must submit adequate tests by all methods reasonably applicable to show that the drug is safe for use under the conditions prescribed, recommended or suggested in the proposed labeling. The sponsor must submit substantial evidence, generally consisting of adequate and well-controlled clinical investigations, to establish that the drug will have the effect it purports or is represented to have under the conditions of use prescribed, recommended, or suggested in the proposed labeling. In certain cases, FDA may determine that a drug is effective based on one clinical study plus confirmatory evidence. Satisfaction of FDA pre-market approval requirements typically takes 

many years and the actual time required may vary substantially based upon the type, complexity and novelty of the product or disease. 

Preclinical Studies 

Preclinical studies include laboratory evaluation of product chemistry, formulation and toxicity, pharmacology, as well as animal trials to assess the characteristics and potential safety and efficacy of the product. The conduct of the preclinical tests must comply with federal regulations and requirements including FDA's good laboratory practices regulations and USDA's regulations implementing the Animal Welfare Act. An IND sponsor must submit the results of the preclinical tests, together with manufacturing information, analytical data, any available clinical data or literature, and a proposed clinical trial protocol, among other things, to the FDA as part of an IND application. Certain non-clinical tests, such as animal tests of reproductive toxicity and carcinogenicity, may continue even after the IND is submitted. An IND automatically becomes effective 30 days after receipt by the FDA, unless before that time the FDA raises concerns or questions related to one or more proposed clinical trials and places the clinical trial on a clinical hold. In such a case, the IND sponsor and the FDA must resolve any outstanding concerns before the clinical trial can begin. As a result, submission of an IND may not result in the FDA allowing clinical trials to commence. 

Clinical Trials 

Clinical trials involve the administration of the investigational new drug to human subjects (healthy volunteers or patients) under the supervision of a qualified investigator. Clinical trials must be conducted: (i) in compliance with all applicable federal regulations and guidance, including those pertaining to good clinical practice, or GCP, standards that are meant to protect the rights, safety, and welfare of human subjects and to define the roles of clinical trial sponsors, investigators, and monitors; as well as (ii) under protocols detailing, among other things, the objectives of the trial, the parameters to be used in monitoring safety, and the effectiveness criteria to be evaluated. Each protocol involving testing of a new drug in the US (whether in patients or healthy volunteers) must be included in the IND submission, and FDA must be notified of subsequent protocol amendments. In addition, the protocol must be reviewed and approved by an IRB, and all study subjects must provide informed consent. Typically each institution participating in the clinical trial will require review of the protocol before any clinical trial before it commences at that institution. Information about certain clinical trials must be submitted within specific timeframes to the National Institutes of Health, or NIH, for public dissemination on their ClinicalTrials.gov website. Progress reports detailing the results of the clinical trials must be submitted at least annually to the FDA and there are additional, more frequent reporting requirements for suspected serious adverse events. 

A study sponsor might choose to discontinue a clinical trial or a clinical development program for a variety of reasons. The FDA may impose a temporary or permanent clinical hold, or other sanctions, if it believes that the clinical trial either is not being conducted in accordance with FDA requirements or presents an unacceptable risk to the clinical trial subjects. An IRB may also require the clinical trial at the site to be halted, either temporarily or permanently, for failure to comply with the IRB's requirements, or may impose other conditions. 

Clinical trials to support NDAs for marketing approval are typically conducted in three sequential pre-approval phases, but the phases may overlap or be combined. In Phase 1, short term (typically less than a few months) testing is conducted in a small group of subjects (typically 20-100), who may be patients with the target disease or condition or healthy volunteers, to evaluate its safety, determine a safe dosage range, and identify side effects. In Phase 2, the drug is given to a larger group (up to several hundred) of subjects with the target condition to further evaluate its safety and gather 

preliminary evidence of efficacy. Phase 3 studies typically last between several months and two years. In Phase 3, the drug is given to a large group of subjects with the target disease or condition (several hundred to several thousand), often at multiple geographical sites, to confirm its effectiveness, monitor side effects, and collect data to support drug approval. In some cases, FDA may require post-market studies, known as Phase 4 studies, to be conducted as a condition of approval in order to gather additional information on the drug's effect in various populations and any side effects associated with long-term use. Depending on the risks posed by the drugs, other post-market requirements may be imposed. Only a small percentage of investigational drugs complete all three phases and obtain marketing approval. 

NDA Application 

After completion of the required clinical testing, an NDA can be prepared and submitted to the FDA. FDA approval of the NDA is required before marketing of the product may begin in the US. The NDA must include the results of all preclinical, clinical and other testing and a compilation of data relating to the product's pharmacology, chemistry, manufacture, and controls. The cost of preparing and submitting an NDA is substantial. Under federal law, the submission of most NDAs is additionally subject to a substantial application user fee, and annual product and establishment user fees also apply. These fees are typically increased annually. 

The FDA has 60 days from its receipt of a NDA to determine whether the application will be accepted for filing based on the FDA's threshold determination that it is sufficiently complete to permit substantive review. Once the submission is accepted for filing, the FDA begins a substantive review. Under the statute and implementing regulations, FDA has 180 days (the "initial review cycle") from the date of filing to issue either an approval letter or a complete response letter, unless the review period is adjusted by mutual agreement between FDA and the applicant or as a result of the applicant submitting a major amendment. In practice, the performance goals established pursuant to the Prescription Drug User Fee Act have effectively extended the initial review cycle beyond 180 days. FDA's current performance goals call for FDA to complete review of 90 percent of standard (non-priority) NDAs within 10 months of receipt and within six months for priority NDAs, but two additional months are added to standard and priority NDAs for an NME. 

The FDA may refer applications for novel drug products or drug products that present difficult questions of safety or efficacy to an advisory committee, typically a panel that includes outside clinicians and other experts, for review, evaluation and a recommendation as to whether the application should be approved. The FDA is not bound by the recommendation of an advisory committee, but it generally follows such recommendations. 

Before approving a NDA, the FDA will typically inspect one or more clinical sites to assure compliance with Good Clinical Practice. Additionally, the FDA will typically inspect the facility or the facilities at which the drug is manufactured. FDA will not approve the product unless compliance with current good manufacturing practices is satisfactory and the NDA contains data that provide substantial evidence that the drug is safe and effective in the indication or indications studied. FDA also reviews the proposed labeling submitted with the NDA and typically requires changes in the labeling text. 

After the FDA evaluates the NDA and the manufacturing and testing facilities, it issues either an approval letter or a complete response letter. Complete response letters generally outline the deficiencies in the submission and delineate the additional testing or information needed in order for the FDA to reconsider the application. If and when those deficiencies have been addressed to the FDA's satisfaction in a resubmission of the NDA, the FDA will issue an approval letter. The FDA has 

committed to reviewing 90 percent of resubmissions within two or six months from receipt depending on the type of information included. 

An approval letter authorizes commercial marketing of the drug for the approved indication or indications and the other conditions of use set out in the approved prescribing information. Once granted, product approvals may be withdrawn if compliance with regulatory standards is not maintained or problems are identified following initial marketing. 

As a condition of NDA approval, the FDA may require substantial post-approval testing and surveillance to monitor the drug's safety or efficacy and may impose other conditions, including labeling restrictions that can materially affect the potential market and profitability of the drug. As a condition of approval, or after approval, the FDA also may require submission of a risk evaluation and mitigation strategy, or REMS, to mitigate any identified or suspected serious risks. The REMS may include medication guides, physician communication plans, assessment plans, and elements to assure safe use, such as restricted distribution methods, patient registries, or other risk minimization tools. 

Expedited Review and Approval of Eligible Drugs 

The FDA's 21 CFR 314 Subpart H (Accelerated Approval) regulations allow certain drugs, for serious or life-threatening conditions, to be approved on the basis of surrogate endpoints (i.e., clinical endpoints other than survival or irreversible morbidity), which can substantially reduce time to approval. As a condition of approval under Subpart H, the FDA may require certain adequate and well-controlled post-marketing clinical studies to verify and describe clinical benefit of the product, and may impose restrictions on distribution to assure safe use. Post marketing studies would usually be required to be studies already underway at the time of the accelerated approval. In addition, all promotional materials for an accelerated approval drug must be submitted to FDA prior to use. If the required post-marketing studies fail to verify the clinical benefit of the drug, or if the applicant fails to perform the required post-marketing studies with due diligence, the FDA may withdraw approval of the drug following a hearing conducted in accordance with the agency's regulations. Under Subpart H, the agency may also withdraw approval of a drug if, among other things, the promotional materials for the product are false or misleading, or other evidence demonstrates that the drug product is not shown to be safe or effective under its conditions of use. 

The FDA also has various programs&#151;fast track designation, priority review, and breakthrough designation&#151;that are intended to expedite or streamline the process for the development and FDA review of drugs that meet certain qualifications. The purpose of these programs is to provide important new drugs to patients earlier than under standard FDA review procedures. The programs each have different eligibility criteria and provide different benefits, and can be applied either alone or in combination depending on an applicant's circumstances. Fast track designation applies to a drug that is intended to treat a serious condition and for which nonclinical or clinical data demonstrate the potential to address unmet medical need. It should be requested at the time of IND submission or ideally no later than the pre-NDA meeting. FDA must respond to requests for fast track designation within 60 days of receipt of the request. If granted, the manufacturer is eligible for actions to expedite development and review, such as frequent interaction with the review team, as well as for rolling review, meaning that the applicant may submit sections of the application as they are available. The timing of FDA's review of these sections depends on a number of factors, and the review clock does not start running until the agency has received a complete NDA submission. FDA may withdraw fast track designation if the agency determines that the designation is no longer supported by data emerging in the clinical trial process. 

Priority review applies to an application (both original and efficacy supplement) for a drug that treats a serious condition and that, if approved, would provide a significant improvement in safety or effectiveness. It also applies to any supplement that proposes a labeling change pursuant to a report on a pediatric study. A request for priority review is submitted at the time of NDA or supplemental NDA submission. FDA must respond within 60 days of receipt of the request. If granted, the review time is shortened from the standard 10 months to 6 months, with two additional months in the case of an NME. 

Breakthrough therapy designation was created under the 2012 Food and Drug Administration Safety and Innovation Act (FDASIA). Breakthrough therapy designation applies to a drug that is intended to treat a serious condition and for which preliminary clinical evidence indicates that the drug may demonstrate substantial improvement on a clinically significant endpoint(s) over available therapies. It can be requested with the IND submission and ideally no later than the end-of-phase 2 meeting. FDA must respond within 60 days of receipt of the request. If granted, the applicant receives intensive guidance on efficient drug development, intensive involvement of senior managers and experienced review and regulatory health project management staff in a proactive, collaborative, cross-disciplinary review, rolling review, and other actions to expedite review. Designation may be rescinded if the product no longer meets the criteria for breakthrough therapy designation. 

The 2012 Generating Antibiotic Incentives Now (GAIN) Act created new incentives for the development of new therapies for serious and life-threatening infections. Drugs that are designated as Qualified Infectious Disease Products, or QIDPs, are eligible for priority review and fast track designation, and well as market exclusivity. A product is eligible if it is an antibacterial or anti-fungal drug for human use that is intended to treat serious or life-threatening infections, including: those caused by an anti-bacterial or anti-fungal resistant pathogen, including novel or emerging infectious pathogens; or caused by qualifying pathogens listed by the FDA. A drug sponsor may request that FDA designate its product as a QIDP at any time prior to NDA submission. FDA must make a QIDP determination within 60 days of receiving the designation request. 

Exclusivities 

After NDA approval, owners of relevant drug patents may apply for up to a five-year patent extension on a single patent. The allowable patent term extension is calculated as half of the drug's testing phase (the time between IND application and NDA submission) and all of the review phase (the time between NDA submission and approval) up to a maximum of five years. The time can be shortened if FDA determines that the applicant did not pursue approval with due diligence. The total patent term after the extension may not exceed 14 years. For patents that might expire during the application phase, the patent owner may request an interim patent extension. An interim patent extension increases the patent term by one year and may be renewed up to four times. For each interim patent extension granted, the post-approval patent extension is reduced by one year. The director of the United States Patent and Trademark Office must determine that approval of the drug covered by the patent for which a patent extension is being sought is likely. Interim patent extensions are not available for a drug for which a NDA has not been submitted. 

A variety of non-patent exclusivity periods are available under the FDCA that can delay the submission or approval of certain applications for competing products. 

A five-year period of non-patent exclusivity within the United States is granted to the first applicant to gain approval of a NDA for a new chemical entity (NCE). An NCE is a drug that contains no active moiety (the molecule or ion responsible for the action of the drug substance) that has been approved by FDA in any other application submitted under section 505(b) of the Act. During the 

exclusivity period for a new chemical entity, the FDA may not accept for review an abbreviated new drug application, or ANDA, or a 505(b)(2) NDA submitted by another company that references (i.e., relies on FDA prior approval of) the NCE drug. However, an ANDA or 505(b)(2) NDA may be submitted after four years if it contains a certification of patent invalidity or non-infringement with respect to a patent listed with the FDA for the reference NDA. 

A three year period of non-patent exclusivity is granted for a drug product that contains an active moiety that has been previously approved, when the application contains reports of new clinical investigations (other than bioavailability studies) conducted or sponsored by the sponsor that were essential to approval of the application, for example, for new indications, dosages, strengths or dosage forms of an existing drug. This three-year exclusivity covers only the conditions of use associated with the new clinical investigations, which means that FDA may approve applications for other versions of the original, unmodified drug product. Where this form of exclusivity applies, it prevents FDA approval of an ANDA or 505(b)(2) NDA subject to the exclusivity for the three-year period; however, FDA may accept and review ANDAs or 505(b)(2) NDAs during the three year period. 

Five year and three year exclusivities also do not preclude FDA approval of a 505(b)(1) application for a duplicate version of the drug during the period of exclusivity, provided that the 505(b)(1) conducts or obtains a right of reference to all of the preclinical studies and adequate and well-controlled clinical trials necessary to demonstrate safety and effectiveness. 

Products with QIDP designation may receive a five year extension of other non-patent exclusivities for which the drug is also eligible. This exclusivity applies only with respect to drugs that are first approved on or after July 9, 2012. The exclusivity does not prevent FDA from approving a subsequent application for a change to the QIDP-designated drug that results in a new indication, route of administration, dosing, schedule, dosage form, delivery system, delivery device, or strength. For example, an approved product with orphan designation and QIDP designation would have twelve years of marketing exclusivity. 

Medical Device Regulation 

Medical devices may receive marketing authorization from FDA as stand-alone devices, or in some cases, may receive marketing authorization as part of a combination product. In either case, the ultimate product will need to satisfy FDA requirements. The primary pathways for marketing authorization for devices in the United States are 510(k) clearance or premarket approval (PMA). 

Medical devices are also subject to certain post-clearance, post-approval requirements. Those requirements include continuing Quality System Regulation compliance, Medical Device Reporting, Correction and Removal, and requirements governing labeling and promotional advertising. 

The FDCA provides for the exemption of medical devices intended for investigational use from certain regulatory requirements if such devices comply with prescribed procedures and conditions. For example, devices intended for investigational use may be exempted from premarket notification and premarket approval requirements. Investigational devices must bear a label that states the following: "CAUTION&#151;Investigational device. Limited by Federal (or US) law to investigational use." The labeling may not represent that the device is safe or effective for the purposes for which it is being investigated. 

Combination Products 

A combination product is a product comprising two or more regulated components (e.g., a drug and device) that are combined into a single product, co-packaged, or sold separately but intended for co-administration, as evidenced by the labeling for the products. A drug that is administered using an inhaler is an example of a combination drug/device product. 

FDA is divided into various Centers, which each have authority over a specific type of product. NDAs are reviewed by personnel within the Center for Drug Evaluation and Research, while device applications and premarket notifications are reviewed by the Center for Devices and Radiological Health. When reviewing a drug/device combination product, FDA must assign a lead Center to review the product, based on the combination product's primary mode of action, or PMOA, which is the single mode of a combination product that provides the most important therapeutic action of the combination product. The Center that regulates that portion of the product that generates the PMOA becomes the lead evaluator. If there are two independent modes of action, neither of which is subordinate to the other, the FDA makes a determination as to which Center to assign the product based on consistency with other combination products raising similar types of safety and effectiveness questions or to the Center with the most expertise in evaluating the most significant safety and effectiveness questions raised by the combination product. 

When evaluating an application, a lead Center may consult other Centers and apply the standards that would be applicable but still retain complete reviewing authority, or it may collaborate with another Center, by which the Center assigns review of a specific section of the application to another Center, delegating its review authority for that section. Typically, the FDA requires a single marketing application submitted to the Center selected to be the lead evaluator, although the agency has the discretion to require separate applications to more than one Center. One reason to submit multiple applications is if the applicant wishes to receive some benefit that accrues only from approval under a particular type of application, like new drug product exclusivity. If multiple applications are submitted, each may be evaluated by a different lead Center. 

Like their constituent products&#151;e.g., drugs and devices&#151;combination products are highly regulated and subject to a broad range of post marketing requirements including cGMPs, adverse event reporting, periodic reports, labeling and advertising and promotion requirements and restrictions. 

Disclosure of Clinical Trial Information 

Under US and certain foreign laws intended to improve clinical trial transparency, sponsors of clinical trials may be required to register and disclose certain information about their clinical trials. This can include information related to the investigational drug, patient population, phase of investigation, study sites and investigators, and other aspects of the clinical trial. This information is then made publicly available. Sponsors also may be obligated to disclose the results of their clinical trials after completion. Disclosure of the results of these trials can be delayed until the new product or new indication being studied has been approved. Competitors may use this publicly-available information to gain knowledge regarding the progress of development programs. 

Other US Post-approval Regulatory Requirements 

Once an NDA is approved, a product will be subject to certain post-approval requirements, including those relating to advertising, promotion, adverse event reporting, recordkeeping, and good manufacturing practices, as well as registration, listing, and inspection. There also are continuing, 

annual user fee requirements for any marketed products and the establishments at which such products are manufactured, as well as new application fees for supplemental applications with clinical data. 

FDA regulates the content and format of prescription drug labeling, advertising, and promotion, including direct-to-consumer advertising and promotional Internet communications. FDA also establishes parameters for permissible non-promotional communications between industry and the medical community, including industry-supported scientific and educational activities. The FDA and other agencies actively enforce the laws and regulations prohibiting the promotion for uses not consistent with the approved labeling, and a company that is found to have improperly promoted off-label uses or otherwise not to have met applicable promotion rules may be subject to significant liability under both the FDCA and other statutes, including the False Claims Act. 

Manufacturers are subject to requirements for adverse event reporting and submission of periodic reports following FDA approval of a NDA. 

All aspects of pharmaceutical manufacture must conform to cGMPs after approval. Drug manufacturers and certain of their subcontractors are required to register their establishments with FDA and certain state agencies, and are subject to periodic unannounced inspections by the FDA during which the FDA inspects manufacturing facilities to assess compliance with cGMPs. Changes to the manufacturing process are strictly regulated and often require prior FDA approval before being implemented. FDA regulations also require investigation and correction of any deviations from cGMP and impose reporting and documentation requirements upon the sponsor and any third-party manufacturers that the sponsor may decide to use. Accordingly, manufacturers must continue to expend time, money and effort in the areas of production and quality control to maintain compliance with cGMPs. 

Drugs may be marketed only for the approved indications and in accordance with the provisions of the approved labeling. Changes to some of the conditions established in an approved application, including changes in indications, labeling, product formulation, or manufacturing processes or facilities, require submission and FDA approval of a new NDA or NDA supplement, in some cases before the change may be implemented. An NDA supplement for a new indication typically requires clinical data similar to that in the original application, and the FDA uses the same procedures and actions in reviewing NDA supplements as it does in reviewing NDAs. 

The FDA also may require post market studies, known as phase 4 studies, and may require a REMS, which could restrict the distribution or use of the product. 

Later discovery of previously unknown problems with a product, including adverse events of unanticipated severity or frequency, or with manufacturing processes, or failure to comply with regulatory requirements, or failure of phase 4 studies to meet their specified endpoints, may result in revisions to the approved labeling to add new safety information; or the need to conduct additional post-market studies or clinical trials to assess new safety risks; or imposition of distribution or other restrictions under a REMS program; or recall of the product and withdrawal of the NDA. 

Noncompliance with postmarket requirements can result in one or more of the following consequences: 

&#183; Restrictions on the marketing or manufacturing of the product, complete withdrawal of the product from the market or product recalls; &#183; Warning letters; &#183; Holds on post-approval clinical trials; 30 

&#183; Refusal of the FDA to approve pending NDAs or supplements to approved NDAs, or suspension or revocation of product license approvals; &#183; Product seizure or detention, or refusal to permit the import or export of products; or &#183; Injunctions or the imposition of civil or criminal penalties. In addition, the distribution of prescription pharmaceutical products is subject to the Prescription Drug Marketing Act, or PDMA, which regulates the distribution of drugs and drug samples at the federal level, and sets minimum standards for the registration and regulation of drug distributors by the states. Both the PDMA and state laws limit the distribution of prescription pharmaceutical product samples and impose requirements to ensure accountability in distribution. 

Pediatric Information 

European Union 

In the European Union, new drugs (i.e. drugs containing a new active substance) for adults, must also be tested in children. This mandatory pediatric testing is carried out through the implementation of a pediatric investigation plan, or PIP, which is proposed by the applicant and approved by the EMA. A PIP contains all the studies to be conducted and measures to be taken in order to support the approval of the new drug, including pediatric pharmaceutical forms, in all subsets of the pediatric population. Validation of the marketing authorization application for adults is subject to the implementation of the PIP, subject to one or more waivers or deferrals. On the one hand, the PIP may allow a deferral for one or more of the studies or measures included therein in order not to delay the approval of the drug in adults, and, on another hand, the EMA may grant either a product-specific waiver for the (adult) disease/condition or one or more pediatric subsets or a class waiver for the disease/condition. PIPs are subject to modifications from time to time, when they no longer are workable. Prior to obtaining the validation of a marketing authorization application for adults, the applicant has to demonstrate compliance with PIP at the time of submission of the application. In the case of orphan medicinal products, completion of an approved PIP can result in an extension of the market exclusivity period from ten to twelve years. 

United States 

Under the Pediatric Research Equity Act of 2003, or PREA, NDAs and NDA supplements must contain data that are adequate to assess the safety and effectiveness of the drug for the claimed indications in all relevant pediatric subpopulations and to support dosing and administration for each pediatric subpopulation for which the drug is safe and effective. The FDA may, on its own initiative or at the request of an applicant, grant deferrals for submission of data or full or partial waivers. Unless otherwise required by regulation, PREA does not apply to any drug for an indication for which orphan designation has been granted. Under the Best Pharmaceuticals for Children Act (BPCA), pediatric research is incentivized by the possibility of six additional months of pediatric exclusivity, which if granted, is added to existing exclusivity periods and patent terms listed for the applicable drug in the FDA's Orange Book at the time the sponsor satisfies FDA's "written request" for pediatric research. Sponsors may seek to negotiate the terms of a written request during drug development. While the sponsor of an orphan designated drug may not be required to perform pediatric studies under PREA, they are eligible to participate in the incentives under the BPCA. 

Regulation Outside the US and Europe 

In addition to regulations in the US and Europe, we will be subject to a variety of regulations in other jurisdictions governing clinical studies of our candidate products. Whether or not we obtain 

FDA approval for a product, we must obtain approval of a product by the comparable regulatory authorities of countries outside the US before we can commence clinical studies or marketing of the product in those countries. The requirements for approval and the approval process vary from country to country, and the time may be longer or shorter than that required for FDA approval. Furthermore, we must obtain any required pricing approvals in addition to regulatory approval prior to launching the product in the approving country. 

Health Canada 

Health Canada (HC) is the government agency that provides regulatory and marketing approval for drugs and therapeutic products in Canada. The upcoming Legislative and Regulatory Modernization (LRM) is the most significant drug regulatory system reform in Canada in more than 50 years and is expected to overhaul Canada's Food and Drugs Act and Regulations. The LRM supports a 'lifecycle' regulatory approach and is focused on strengthening evidence-based decision making, good regulatory planning, licensing, post-licensing, accountability, authority and enforcement. Through this framework, HC intends to improve the market authorization process and implement necessary regulatory frameworks. In October 2010, HC accelerated its modernization efforts. This included the proposed regulatory pathways for Orphan Drugs (harmonized with US/EU regulations). 

Japan 

The Minister of Health, Labor and Welfare is the government agency that provides regulatory approval for pharmaceutical products in Japan. Parties engaged in manufacture or sale of products in Japan must receive the approval of the Minister of Health, Labor and Welfare. The Pharmaceutical Affairs Law of Japan requires a license for marketing authorization when importing to Japan and selling pharmaceutical products manufactured in other countries. It also requires a foreign manufacturer to get each of its manufacturing sites certified as a manufacturing site of pharmaceutical products to be marketed in Japan. To receive a license for marketing authorization, the manufacturer or seller must, at the very least, employ the certain manufacturing marketing, quality and safety personnel. A license for marketing authorization may not be granted if the quality management methods and post marketing safety management methods applied with respect to the pharmaceutical product fail to conform to the standards stipulated in the ordinances promulgated by the Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare. 

In addition to the licensing requirements for entities that engage in manufacturing, importing and sales of medical products as mentioned above, the law also requires that the medical products have obtained approval before they are marketed and sold in Japan. The process for the approval includes such elements as evaluation and testing of trustworthiness of the clinical trial, testing of quality, efficacy, absorption and egestion, toxicity, and safety of the products. The time required for the approval process varies depending on the product, but it can be years. The product also needs approval for pricing to be applied for redemption of health insurance. The medical products which once are approved and marketed are also subject to regular post-marketing vigilance of safety and quality under the standards of Good Manufacturing Practice. 

Australia 

The Therapeutic Goods Administration ("TGA") is the regulatory body, under the Australian Department of Health, responsible for conducting assessment and monitoring activities of therapeutic goods in Australia. Products under the jurisdiction of the TGA include prescription medicines, medical devices (simple and complex), diagnostic products, vaccines, and biologics. Activities of the TGA include classifying the product based on risk to the person, implementing appropriate regulatory 

controls for the manufacturing processes, and monitoring approved products with a comprehensive adverse event reporting program. The TGA requires that a marketing authorization be submitted and reviewed for safety and efficacy, and approved before a medication can be marketed and provided to patients commercially. A separate regulatory pathway is utilized to conduct clinical trials in Australia. Australia has also an Orphan drug designation. 

Regulation of Medical Devices Outside the US and Europe 

In addition to regulations in the US, we will be subject to a variety of regulations in other jurisdictions governing the medical device. Whether or not we obtain FDA approval for a product and the medical device that will be used, we must obtain approval of a product and the medical device by the comparable regulatory authorities of countries outside the US before we can commence marketing of the product in those countries. The requirements for approval and the approval process vary from country to country, and the time may be longer or shorter than that required for FDA approval. 

Under certain harmonized medical device approval/clearance regulations outside the US, reference to US clearance permits fast-tracking of market clearance. Other regions are harmonized with EU standards, and therefore recognize the CE mark (Conformit&#233; Europ&#233;ene, which means European Conformity) as a declaration of conformity to applicable standards. 

Early Access Programs 

European Union 

Under European law, member states are authorized to adopt national legal regimes for the supply or use of non-authorized drugs in case of therapeutic needs. The most common national legal regimes are compassionate use programs and named patient sales, but other national regimes for early access may be available, depending on the member state. For drugs approved through the centralized procedure, such as orphan drugs, compassionate use programs are also regulated at the European level. 

Special programs can be set up to make available to patients with an unmet medical need a promising drug which has not yet been authorized for their condition ("compassionate use"). As a general rule, compassionate use programs can only be put in place for drugs or biologics that are expected to help patients with life-threatening, long-lasting or seriously disabling illnesses who currently cannot be treated satisfactorily with authorized medicines, or who have a disease for which no medicine has yet been authorized. The compassionate use route may be a way for patients who cannot enroll in an ongoing clinical trial to obtain treatment with a potentially life-saving medicine. Compassionate use programs are coordinated and implemented by the EU member states, which decide independently how and when to open such programs according to national rules and legislation. Generally, doctors who wish to obtain a promising drug for their seriously ill patients will need to contact the relevant national authority in their respective country and follow the procedure that has been set up. Typically, the national authority keeps a register of the patients treated with the drug within the compassionate use program, and a system is in place to record any side effects reported by the patients or their doctors. Orphan drugs very often are subject to compassionate use programs due to their very nature (rare diseases are life-threatening, long-lasting or seriously disabling diseases) and the unusually long time required for both their approval and effective marketing. 

Doctors can also obtain promising drugs for their patients by requesting a supply of a drug from the manufacturer or a pharmacist located in another country, to be used for an individual patient under their direct responsibility. This is often called treatment on a 'named-patient basis' and should not be confused with compassionate use programs. In this case, the doctor responsible for the 

treatment will either contact the manufacturer directly or make a prescription for a pharmacist. While manufacturers or pharmacists do record what they supply, there is no central register of the patients that are being treated in this way. 

Reimbursement of Pharmaceutical Products 

In the US, many independent third-party payers, as well as the Medicare and state Medicaid programs, reimburse buyers of pharmaceutical products. Medicare is the federal program that provides health care benefits to senior citizens and certain disabled and chronically ill persons. Medicaid is the need-based federal and state program administered by the states to provide health care benefits to certain persons. 

As one of the conditions for obtaining Medicaid and Medicare Part B coverage for our marketed pharmaceutical products, we will need to agree to pay a rebate to state Medicaid agencies that provide reimbursement for those products. We will also have to agree to sell our commercial products under contracts with the Department of Veterans Affairs, Department of Defense, Public Health Service, and numerous other federal agencies as well as certain hospitals that are designated as 340B covered entities (entities designated by federal statutes to receive drugs at discounted prices) at prices that are significantly below the price we charge to commercial pharmaceutical distributors. These programs and contracts are highly regulated and will impose restrictions on our business. Failure to comply with these regulations and restrictions could result in a loss of our ability to continue receiving reimbursement for our drugs once approved. Medicare and Medicaid programs may also seek penalties for improper marketing, including off-label marketing, of our drugs. 

Private healthcare payers also attempt to control costs and influence drug pricing through a variety of mechanisms, including through negotiating discounts with the manufacturers and through the use of tiered formularies and other mechanisms that provide preferential access to certain drugs over others within a therapeutic class. Payers also set other criteria to govern the uses of a drug that will be deemed medically appropriate and therefore reimbursed or otherwise covered. 

Different pricing and reimbursement schemes exist in other countries. In the European Union, governments influence the price of drugs through their pricing and reimbursement rules and control of national health care systems that fund a large part of the cost of those products to patients. Some jurisdictions operate positive and negative list systems under which drugs may only be marketed once a reimbursement price has been agreed. To obtain reimbursement or pricing approval, some of these countries may require the completion of clinical trials that compare the cost-effectiveness of a particular drug candidate to currently available therapies. Other member states allow companies to fix their own prices for drugs, but monitor and control company profits. The downward pressure on health care costs in general, particularly prescription drugs, has become very intense. As a result, increasingly high barriers are being erected to the entry of new drugs. In addition, in some countries, cross-border imports from low-priced markets exert a commercial pressure on pricing within a country. There can be no assurance that any country that has price controls or reimbursement limitations for drugs will allow favorable reimbursement and pricing arrangements for any of our products. 

Regulation/Fraud and Abuse Laws 

Healthcare providers, physicians and third-party payers (government or private) often play a primary role in the recommendation and prescription of health care products. In the US and most jurisdictions, numerous detailed requirements apply to government and private health care programs, 

and a broad range of fraud and abuse and transparency laws are relevant to pharmaceutical companies. US federal and state healthcare laws and regulations in these areas include the following: 

&#183; The federal anti-kickback statute; &#183; The federal civil False Claims Act; &#183; The federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA), as amended by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act (HITECH), and similar state privacy laws; &#183; The federal criminal false statements statute; &#183; The price reporting requirements under the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program and the Veterans Health Care Act of 1992; &#183; The federal Physician Payment Sunshine Act, being implemented as the Open Payments Program; and &#183; Analogous and similar state laws and regulations. Similar restrictions apply in the member states of the European Union, which have been set out by laws or industry codes of conducts. 

Employees 

As of December 31, 2015, we had a total of 125 employees, including 64 in research, clinical, regulatory, medical affairs and quality assurance; 11 in technical operations, manufacturing and quality control; 36 in general and administrative functions; and 14 in pre-commercial activities. We had 114 employees in the US and 11 employees in Europe. We anticipate increasing headcount in both the US and Europe in 2016. 

Our success depends in large measure on our ability to attract and retain capable executive officers and highly skilled employees who are in great demand. None of our employees are represented by a labor union and we believe that our relations with our employees are generally good. Generally, our employees are at-will employees. However, we have entered into employment agreements with certain of our executive officers. 

Available Information 

We file electronically with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, which we refer to as the Exchange Act. We make available on our website at http://www.insmed.com, free of charge, copies of these reports as soon as reasonably practicable after filing these reports with, or furnishing them to, the SEC. The public can also obtain materials that we file with the SEC through the SEC's website at http://www.sec.gov or at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room is available by calling the SEC at 800-SEC-0330. 

Also available through our website's "Investor Relations Corporate Governance" page are charters for the Audit, Compensation and Nominations and Governance committees of our board of directors, our Corporate Governance Guidelines, and our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics. 

The references to our website and the SEC's website are intended to be inactive textual references only. Neither the contents of our website, nor the contents of the SEC's website, are incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Financial Information 

The financial information required under this Item 1 is incorporated herein by reference to Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

