 ITEM 1. BUSINESS. Overview 

History of Sino Payments, Inc. 

We were incorporated in the State of Nevada on June 26, 2007 under the name China Soaring Inc. On November 26, 2008, we changed the Company's name to Sino Payments, Inc. Our initial business was to operate a credit card processing and merchant-acquiring services company that provides credit card clearing services to merchants and financial institutions in PRC. Since inception, we have strived to implement our business plan, including the key step of creating our Global Processing Platform (&#147;SinoPay GPP&#148;) and establishing our website, www.sinopayments.com.

We seek to help clients improve their business systems and IT effectiveness. Specifically the Company&#146;s business is to be a provider of Internet Protocol (&#147;IP&#148;) processing services in Asia to bank card-accepting merchants (&#147;IP Business&#148;). We market our services to local merchants with regional retail locations across Asia Pacific as potential customers of their IP and related credit card and debit card processing systems. We offer interoperability through what is envisioned as a highly efficient infrastructure and perceived exceptional knowledge of the IP processing market through our SinoPay GPP platform. The SinoPay GPP system facilitates the processing of all major credit card types (Visa/MC/AMEX/Diners/Discover/JCB) and will be integrated with China UnionPay to provide processing of UnionPay Debit cards in China. SINO intends to deploy the SinoPay GPP platform throughout Asia with a focus on China, Hong Kong, Thailand, Philippines, Malaysia, Korea, and Japan.

As of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we still have not implemented any IP Business services to any customer. While we have a functioning SinoPay GPP system product for sale, we have yet to sell any SinoPay GPP system to a customer as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We will continue to promote the SinoPay GPP system, but our primary focus is on growing our IT Business because of our strategic decision that IT Business presents greater growth and profit potential than IP Business in the short term. Further, we believe that the SinoGPP system will require ongoing and potentially expensive marketing and sales effort due to the highly competitive market for Point Of Sale (&#147;POS&#148;) systems and longer sales cycle for POS systems than IT Business project and consulting sales. 

Share Exchange 

On January 1, 2014, we received 100% of the issued and outstanding shares of in VEI CHN in exchange for i) newly issued 12,000,000 shares of our common stock to the majority stockholder of VEI CHN; and ii) 166,667 shares of our common stock held by VEI CHN to be transferred to the majority stockholder of VEI CHN (&#147;Share Exchange&#148;). This transaction resulted in the owners of VEI CHN obtaining a majority voting interest in the Company. The merger of VEI CHN into the Company, which has nominal net assets, results in VEI CHN having control of the combined entity.

For financial reporting purposes, the transaction represents a &#34;reverse merger&#34; rather than a business combination and the Company is deemed to be the accounting acquiree in the transaction. The transaction is being accounted for as a reverse merger and recapitalization. The Company is the legal acquirer but accounting acquiree for financial reporting purposes and VEI CHN is the acquired company but accounting acquirer. Consequently, the assets and liabilities and the operations that will be reflected in the historical financial statements prior to the transaction will be those of VEI CHN and will be recorded at the historical cost basis of VEI CHN, and no goodwill will be recognized in this transaction. The consolidated financial statements after completion of the transaction will include the assets and liabilities of VEI CHN and the Company, and the historical operations of the Company and the combined operations of VEI CHN from the initial closing date of the transaction. 

History of Value Exchange Int&#146;l (China) Limited 

VEI CHN was first established on November 16, 2001 in Hong Kong SAR with limited liability under the name of Triversity Hong Kong Limited and subsequently changed its name to Triversity (Asia Pacific) Limited on April 24, 2002 and then further changed its name to TAP Investments Group Limited on November 16, 2007. TAP Investments Group Limited changed to its current name as Value Exchange Int&#146;l (China) Limited on May 13, 2013.

VEI CHN is an investment holding company with two subsidiaries established in Hong Kong SAR, namely TAP Services (HK) Limited which was incorporated on August 25, 2003 and acquired by VEI CHN on September 25, 2008, and subsequently changed to its current name as Value Exchange Int&#146;l (Hong Kong) Limited (&#147;VEI HKG&#148;) on May 13, 2013, and Ke Dao Solutions Limited (&#147;KDSL&#148;), which was incorporated on May 14, 2013. VEI CHN also set up a Wholly-owned Foreign Enterprise (WOFE) in Shanghai, PRC, in September 2, 2008 in the name of Value Exchange Int&#146;l (Shanghai) Limited (&#147;VEI SHG&#148;).

Principal business 

The principal business of VEI CHN for more than 15 years is to provide the Information Technology Services and Solutions (consisting of select services and solutions in computer software programming and integration, and computer systems, Internet and information technology systems engineering, consulting, administration and maintenance, including e-commerce and payment processing) to the Retail Sector (&#147;IT Business&#148;), primarily to leading retailers in Hong Kong SAR, Macau SAR and PRC and as more fully described below. As is customary in the industry, such services and solutions are provided by both company employees, contractors and consultants. The primary services and products of the IT Business are:

a) 

Systems maintenance and related service 

VEI CHN Group provides development, customization of software and hardware, enhancements thereto and maintenance services for installed POS system. VEI CHN Group markets, sells and maintains its own brand POS software &#150; edgePOS as well as third party brands (e.g. NCR / Retalix), which is one of the leading POS software programs in the market. These software enhancements and programming can integrate with different IP systems.

Systems maintenance services consist of: i) software maintenance service, including software patches and software code revisions; ii) installing, testing and implementing software; iii) training of customer personnel for the use of software; and iv) technical support for software systems. 

Other services include system installation and implementation, including i) project planning; ii) analysis of customer information and business needs from a IT perspective (&#147;System Analysis&#148;); iii) design of the entire system; iv) hardware and consumables selection advice and sales; and v) system hardware maintenance. These services typically consist of customer projects for New Store Opening (&#147;NSO&#148;) and Install, Move, Add and Change (&#147;IMAC&#148;) for retail, and ad-hoc custom system projects for other business sectors. Our primary focus is the retail sector in Hong Kong SAR and PRC. 

b) 

Systems development and integration 

VEI CHN Group provides value-added software, which integrates with customer owned or licensed software, and ad-hoc software development projects for other business sectors. Besides use of proprietary, custom software code, our services may from time to time license standard third party software programs. 

Business partner and customers 

The main business partner of the IT Business group is Wincor Nixdorf (&#147;WN&#148;), a German listed group with subsidiaries in Hong Kong and PRC. Since 1990&#146;s, VEI CHN Group served the AS Watson Group, a retail conglomerate including Watsons, Parknshop and Fortress, directly and through a sub-contracting arrangement with WN in the region. This contributes almost half of the gross sales revenue each year to VEI CHN. 

In recent years, VEI CHN has striven to broaden its clientele in retail sector and to other business sectors. VEI CHN Group secured a number of service contracts for leading retail groups, Robinson Retails Group in Philippines and Dairy Farm in Hong Kong. PCCW, a leading telecommunication company in Hong Kong, and Inland Revenue Department of the Hong Kong SAR Government have also become major customers of the VEI CHN Group. The focus on expanding clientele in the retail sector is a current priority of Company&#146;s growth strategy. 

The annual sales of VEI CHN Group have been increasing over the past few years in its principal business by expanding its customer base and its scope of services. VEI CHN Group solution now runs in over 10,000 POS in the region and provides a solid foundation to SINO&#146;s IP system. Also, VEI CHN Group is seeking to leverage its existing POS solution customer base to expand into the mobile Customer Relationship Management and Rewards market. Visa's 2015 eCommerce Consumer Monitor Survey showed a 23% increase in 2015 in Hong Kong consumers using their mobile devices to purchase goods and services. The importance of the mobile market in commerce is globally recognized. 

Business Focus after Share Exchange 

With the completion of the Share Exchange and throughout fiscal years 2015 and 2016, SINO is focusing and will focus its business in IT Business, and seek to expand its services to commercial customers in PRC and Asia Pacific Region. This strategy is based upon our subjective business judgment that the IT Business presents more opportunities for potential customer order in our core markets of Hong Kong SAR and China than the IP Business and presents an industry segment that better suits our current technical capabilities, marketing capabilities and financial resources. 

With respect to the IP Business, the Company will seek to implement its IP Business and related credit card and debit card processing systems as part of and enhancement for the IT Business to the Retail Sector. There has been no significant integration of the businesses in fiscal year 2015 and there is no deadline for such integration, which will occur as and when the Company can afford to and deems it propitious to integrate operations.

We will evaluate the merits of this business and growth strategy from time to time and may elect in the future to continue to pursue an IP Business, IT Business or focus more on one segment than the other, including seek business opportunities in the applications of digital technology which can raise our customers&#146; competitive edge leading to increase in market share and profitability in their business sectors. Any change in business focus will be based on current economic conditions, competitive environment, our available cash and infrastructure resources, current customer demand trends and financial results of each segment of our post-Share Exchange business plan. As of the date of the filing of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we are pursuing our emphasis on IT Business in our core Hong Kong SAR and PRC market while also exploring expansion opportunities in adjacent markets. Our ability to exploit adjacent market opportunities for expansion will be limited and governed by available, affordable funding and cash flow. 

POST-SHARE EXCHANGE CORPORATE STRUCTURE 

As set forth in the following diagram, following the integration of operations, which occur in fiscal year 2014 onwards, a diagrammatic representation of our integrated corporate structure, indicating the legal domicile, geographic location and ownership/control, is as follows:

We do not have a set time schedule for integration of IT Business and IP Business as our primary focus is on growing the IT Business while not abandoning the IP Business and our ability to integrate is limited by available and dedicated financial resources and manpower. 

Marketing 

With the completion of the Share Exchange, we use and anticipate utilizing several other marketing activities in our attempt to make our services known to and to attract business clientele. These marketing activities are designed to inform potential clients about the benefits of using our services and include and will include the following: development and distribution of marketing literature; direct mail and email; advertising; promotion of our web site; and industry analyst relations campaign.

The Company has a Sales and Marketing team in each regional office to promote and maintain good business relationships with our customers. We strive to provide high quality and fast response services to our customers in our Help Centre, Maintenance Support Team and Professional IT Engineer to help customers solving their problems and satisfying their IT needs.

VEI CHN Group has been serving in IT Business sectors for over 15 years, focusing on POS maintenance and support to retail sector. The VEI CHN Group will continue its key business and seek to expand its client base to gain more market share in PRC and Hong Kong SAR. When and if SINO has sufficient funding SINO may consider acquiring companies in the Asia Pacific region with similar business, subject to financial wherewithal to do so and subject to a suitable and affordable acquisition opportunity. The operating subsidiaries will also cooperate with strategic partners in the local markets to secure and provide maintenance services to major retail customers and as a basis for attempting to expand our business in our markets. In fiscal year 2015, we had over 10 strategic partner arrangements engaged in providing our services to customers. 

Competition 

We face significant competition from large multinational service providers, such as Wincor Nixdorf, NCR, Fujitsu IBM, Toppan Forms and large national companies, such as Octopus card, an electronic payment in online or offline system in Hong Kong SAR. Though VEI CHN Group faces keen competition in the maintenance service market, it has a well-trained technical team, which we believe offers premier services to the satisfaction of our customers, and, as is the case with many smaller companies in the IT segment, we believe we can offer more customized and cost effective services to certain customers. Without extensive teaming with strategic partners, we lack the capabilities to compete directly with larger competitors in projects or work requiring capabilities of a large company. SINO may also experience a competitive disadvantage in bids or prospective work where extensive and broad prior projects in certain areas of IT are required to bid and to win bids. An instance of such a competitive disadvantage would be technical work in which we do not have extensive prior experience or we do not have a prior relationship with the customer in question.

Some of our competitors in our industry have substantially greater capital and technical resources than we have and, operate as subsidiaries of financial institutions or bank holding companies, which may allow them on a consolidated basis to own and conduct depository and other banking activities that we do not have the regulatory authority to own or conduct. Since they are affiliated with financial institutions or banks, these competitors do not incur the costs associated with being sponsored by a bank for registration with card networks and they can settle transactions quickly for their own merchants. We do not, however, currently contemplate pursuing an acquisition or strategic relationship with a financial institution in order to increase our competitiveness. As of the date of the filing of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, SINO has not pursued or identified such a financial institution and there can be no assurance that we could consummate a merger or strategic relationship with any financial institution. 

Security of Computer Networks 

We maintain certain computer networks, computer systems and databases in connection with our business operations and services. We use readily available security programs to protect these systems and databases and we periodically review security measures. Any security system or program may be vulnerable to hacking or security breaches, especially since hacking and malicious programs are constantly evolving to overcome new security measures. Like any company&#146;s computer and network systems and databases, our systems and databases could be vulnerable to security hacking or malicious programs. We may also be vulnerable to security leaks and violations by employees and contractors, which is a threat faced by all IT Business companies. We have not experienced any significant security breaches or problems as of the date of filing of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. SINO technical staff typically evaluates cybersecurity and security measures from time to time as new threats become known to us. 

Key Personnel 

The following personnel are considered critical to our operations: Kenneth Tan and Benny Lee, who provide executive management services and strategic direction. We do not have key man insurance to fund replacement of any key personnel. We also frequently use third party consultants acting as independent contractors to assist in the completion of various projects, which consultants are usually hired on a project-by-project basis. Third parties are instrumental to keep the development of projects on time and on budget. Reliance on independent contractors is common in technology services businesses. We do not anticipate and have not experienced any significant problem in securing needed technical expertise, but the inability to secure needed technical expertise is a risk faced by IT service companies like our company.

A common problem in our industry is key or important contractors and employees being lured to more attractive or lucrative work opportunities. SINO cannot typically match the level and scope of financial incentives offered by larger competitors to workers. SINO has to rely on active recruitment coupled with offering projects that match workers&#146; skills and interests as well as providing an appealing work environment and competitive base compensation in order to maintain or create an adequate work force on a project-by-project basis. 

Insurance 

Except the Company&#146;s subsidiaries in (i) PRC are required to cover its employees with medical, retirement and unemployment insurance programs, and (ii) Hong Kong are required to cover its employees with labor insurance programs under the prevailing laws and regulations of the PRC and in Hong Kong, we do not maintain other insurance. Because we may not have sufficient insurance, if we are made a party to a liability legal action, we may not have sufficient funds to defend the litigation or may suffer another liability. If that occurs a judgment or liability that is not covered by any insurance or covered by available cash or funding, could cause us to cease or reduce operations. We did not experience any significant claims against our insurance in fiscal year 2015. 

Government Regulation 

We are not currently subject to direct Chinese, United States federal, state or local regulation other than regulations applicable to businesses generally or directly applicable to electronic commerce and the U.S. securities laws applicable to the Company. However, the Internet is increasingly popular and essential on a global basis. As a result, it is possible that a number of international and local laws and regulations may be adopted with respect to the Internet applications and transactions, including ones used in or serviced by our service. These laws may cover issues such as user privacy, freedom of expression, pricing, content and quality of products and services, taxation, advertising, intellectual property rights and information security. Furthermore, the growth of electronic commerce may prompt calls for more stringent consumer protection laws. Existing and future laws and regulations governing the privacy of end users or their customers&#146; information is or may become part of the regulatory burden of conducting our business lines. We do not provide our services in the U.S. as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, but the global nature of the Internet and e-commerce and financial transactions means that any company may become subject from time to time to U.S. or foreign laws on privacy, financial regulation, business regulation or tax law. 

We are not certain how our existing business may be affected by the application of existing, evolving laws, or extension of foreign laws to our operations and, governing issues such as property ownership, copyrights, encryption and other intellectual property issues, taxation, libel, obscenity and export or import matters. The vast majority of such laws were adopted prior to the advent of the Internet. As a result, they do not contemplate or address the unique issues of the Internet and related technologies. Changes in laws intended to address such issues could create uncertainty in the Internet market place, including areas affecting our business lines. Such uncertainty could reduce demand for services or increase the cost of doing business as a result of litigation or regulatory costs or increased service delivery costs. In addition, because our services could be available over the Internet in multiple states and foreign countries, other jurisdictions may claim that we are required to qualify to do business in each such state or foreign country. Our failure to qualify a business in a jurisdiction where it is required to do so could subject it to taxes and penalties. It could also hamper our ability to enforce contracts in such jurisdictions. The application of laws or regulations from jurisdictions whose laws do not currently apply to our business could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.

Like many companies, and from time to time, the Company may review the economic and tax advantages of various jurisdictions for businesses like the Company business in order to determine if there are any significant long-term advantages in relocating or expanding the Company operations to another jurisdiction, whether in whole or in part. Any such review is part of the customary strategic planning of the Company. 

We are subject to the Foreign Corrupt Practice Act, or &#147;FCPA,&#148; and other laws that prohibit improper payments or offers of payments to foreign governments and their officials and political parties by U.S. persons and issuers as defined by the statute for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Our activities in Asia create the risk of unauthorized payments or offers of payments by consultants or agents of our company, because these parties are not always subject to our control. It is our policy to implement safeguards to discourage these practices by our employees. Also, our existing safeguards and any future improvements may prove to be less than effective, and consultants, sales agents of our Company may engage in conduct for which we might be held responsible. Violations of the FCPA may result in severe criminal or civil sanctions, and we may be subject to other liabilities, which could negatively affect our business, operating results and financial condition. The U.S. government may seek to hold our Company liable for successor liability FCPA violations committed by companies in which we invest or that we acquire.

Employees 

We have more than 130 full time employees as of December 31, 2015, including officers of the Company and including employees and officers of VEI CHN and its subsidiaries. 

