 Item 1. Business. 

BUSINESS OVERVIEW 

Genie Energy Ltd. is comprised of the following two businesses:

Genie Retail Energy, (GRE), which acts through various subsidiaries, resells electricity and natural gas to residential and small business customers operating primarily in the Mid-Atlantic and Midwestern United States. It also provides brokerage and advisory services to large commercial customers in deregulated markets. Since its inception in 2004, GRE has grown to become one of the nation&#8217;s largest independent retail energy providers, which are commonly referred to as &#8220;REPs&#8221;.

Genie Oil and Gas, Inc., (GOGAS), is an oil and gas exploration company. GOGAS projects include an oil and gas exploration project in Israel operated by its subsidiary, Afek Oil and Gas, Ltd. In 2013, the Government of Israel awarded Afek an exclusive three year petroleum exploration license covering 396.5 square kilometers in the southern portion of the Golan Heights. We are in the process of submitting our work plan for the subsequent exploration phases and once submitted, Israel&#8217;s National Infrastructure, Energy and Water Ministry is expected to extend our license. Pursuant to that license, Afek is conducting an exploratory drilling program of up to ten wells throughout its license area, as well as a well flow test program. The results of the exploration program to date are consistent with our original theory and demonstrate the existence of significant hydrocarbon resources, although there are still unknowns that will impact the commercial viability of the resource.

CORPORATE STRUCTURE 

Genie Energy Ltd., a Delaware corporation, owns 99.3% of its subsidiary, Genie Energy International Corporation, or GEIC, which owns 100% of GRE, and 92% of GOGAS. GOGAS holds an 86.5% interest in Afek Oil &#38; Gas Ltd., or Afek. In addition, GOGAS has a 98.3% interest in American Shale Oil Corporation, or AMSO, which holds and manages a 41.3% interest in American Shale Oil, L.L.C., or AMSO, LLC, an oil shale development project in Colorado. GOGAS also holds majority interests in two inactive oil and gas projects: an 86.1% interest in Israel Energy Initiatives, Ltd., or IEI, an oil shale development project in Israel, and an 88.4% interest in Genie Mongolia, Inc., an oil shale exploration project in Central Mongolia.

GRE has outstanding deferred stock units granted to directors and employees that represent an interest of 3.9% of the equity of GRE.

REPORTABLE SEGMENTS 

We have three reportable business segments: Genie Retail Energy, Afek Oil and Gas, Ltd., and Genie Oil and Gas. Our reportable segments are distinguished by types of service, customers and methods used to provide their services. Financial information by segment and geographic areas is presented in &#8220;Note 16&#8212;Business Segment Information&#8221; in the Notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements in this Annual Report.

GENERAL BUSINESS INFORMATION 

Our main offices are located at 520 Broad Street, Newark, New Jersey 07102. Our telephone number is (973) 438-3500 and our web site is www.genie.com .

We make available free of charge through the investor relations page of our web site (http://genie.com/investors/sec-filings/) our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to these reports, and all beneficial ownership reports on Forms 3, 4 and 5 filed by directors, officers and beneficial owners of more than 10% of our equity as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We have adopted a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics for all of our employees, including our principal executive officer and principal financial officer. Copies of our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics are available on our web site.

Our web site ( www.genie.com ) and the information contained therein or incorporated therein are not incorporated into this Annual Report on Form 10-K or our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.

KEY EVENTS IN OUR HISTORY 

Genie was incorporated in January 2011. References to us in the following discussion are made on a consolidated basis as if we existed and owned Genie Retail Energy and Genie Oil and Gas in all periods discussed.

In November 2004, IDT Corporation, or IDT, our former corporate parent, launched a retail energy provider business in New York State under the brand name IDT Energy.

In March 2008, we formed Israel Energy Initiatives, Ltd., which was awarded an exclusive Shale Oil Exploration and Production License in July 2008 by the Government of Israel.

In April 2008, IDT acquired E.G.L. Oil Shale, L.L.C., which was subsequently renamed American Shale Oil, LLC.

In March 2009, a subsidiary of TOTAL S.A., or Total, the world&#8217;s fifth largest integrated oil and gas company, acquired a 50% interest in AMSO, LLC in exchange for cash paid to us of $3.2 million and Total&#8217;s commitment to fund the majority of AMSO, LLC&#8217;s research, development and demonstration expenditures as well as certain other funding commitments.

In April 2013, the Government of Israel finalized the award to our subsidiary, Afek, of an exclusive three year petroleum exploration license covering 396.5 square kilometers in the southern portion of the Golan Heights in Northern Israel. The initial term of the license expires in April 2016. Afek is taking the required steps to obtain an extension.

In December 2013, GRE acquired Dallas-based Diversegy, LLC, a retail energy advisory and brokerage company that serves commercial and industrial customers throughout the United States, and Epiq Energy, LLC (now IDT Energy Network, LLC), its network marketing channel.

In April 2014, Israel&#8217;s Northern District Planning and Building Committee issued a one year exploratory drilling permit to Afek. The permit authorized the company to drill up to ten exploratory wells within its exploratory license area.

In February 2015, Afek began drilling its first exploratory well in Northern Israel&#8217;s Golan Heights pursuant to its petroleum exploration license.

In October 2015, Afek confirmed the presence of hydrocarbons in its license area based on the data gathered from its exploratory drilling program.

Spin-Off from IDT Corporation 

We were formerly a subsidiary of IDT. On October 28, 2011, we were spun-off by IDT and became an independent public company through a pro rata distribution of our common stock to IDT&#8217;s stockholders, which we refer to as the Spin-Off. As a result of the Spin-Off, each of IDT&#8217;s stockholders received: (i) one share of our Class A common stock for every share of IDT&#8217;s Class A common stock held of record on October 21, 2011, or the Record Date, and (ii) one share of our Class B common stock for every share of IDT&#8217;s Class B common stock held of record on the Record Date.

Exchange Offer and Issuance of Preferred Stock 

On August 2, 2012, we initiated an offer to exchange up to 8.75 million outstanding shares of our Class B common stock for the same number of shares of a new series of preferred stock. On October 17, 2012, we issued 1,604,591 shares of our newly designated Series 2012-A Preferred Stock, par value $0.01 per share, in exchange for an equal number of shares of Class B common stock tendered in the exchange offer.

In subsequent exchange offers concluded in March 2013 and June 2014, we issued an aggregate of 718,108 shares of Series 2012-A Preferred Stock in exchange for an equal number of shares of Class B common stock tendered in the exchange offer.

RECENT DEVELOPMENTS 

Afek 

In February 2016, Israel&#8217;s Northern District Planning and Building Committee approved a two-year permit extension for Afek to continue its oil and gas exploratory drilling program. The original one-year permit would have expired in February 2016. Also, in February 2016, Afek initiated a well flow test program within the previously drilled Nes 3 well. 

Mongolia 

In 2015, GOGAS halted exploration activities in Mongolia and sharpened its strategic focus on the opportunity at Afek. The regulatory environment in Mongolia remains difficult, and the decline in the price of oil has reduced the attractiveness of the opportunity.

IEI 

On September 2, 2014, the Jerusalem District Committee for Planning and Building declined to issue IEI a permit to build and operate a pilot drilling project. IEI had an exclusive Shale Oil Exploration and Production License awarded in 2008 by the Israeli Ministry of National Infrastructure that expired in July 2015. IEI continues to evaluate its options to determine the best course of action to move forward to exploit the abundant oil shale resource in Israel. Operations at IEI are currently on hold.

AMSO 

On February 23, 2016, Total notified AMSO of its decision not to continue to fund AMSO, LLC. We are currently considering our options with respect to the future of this project. AMSO and Total are obligated to fund certain remediation and reclamation costs.

Dividends 

We pay a quarterly dividend on both of our common and preferred stock. The aggregate dividends paid in the year ended December 31, 2015 on our Class A and Class B common stock (the &#8220;Common Stock&#8221;) was $3 million, as follows:

&#8226; On March 31, 2015, we paid a quarterly Base Dividend of $0.06 per share on our Common Stock for the fourth quarter of 2014 to stockholders of record at the close of business on March 23, 2015.

&#8226; On May 22, 2015, we paid a quarterly Base Dividend of $0.06 per share on our Common Stock for the first quarter of 2015 to stockholders of record at the close of business on May 15, 2015.

On August 6, 2015, the Company announced that its Board of Directors had suspended dividends on the Company&#8217;s common stock for the current time. However, on January 22, 2016, the Company announced that its Board of Directors approved resuming the quarterly dividend on our Common Stock, and on February 12, 2016, we paid a quarterly Dividend of $0.06 per share to stockholders of record as of the close of business on February 5, 2016.

The aggregate dividends paid in the year ended December 31, 2015 on our Preferred Stock was $1.5 million, as follows:

&#8226; On February 15, 2015, we paid a quarterly Base Dividend of $0.1594 per share on our Preferred Stock for the fourth quarter of 2014 to stockholders of record at the close of business on February 5, 2015 of our Preferred Stock.

&#8226; On May 15, 2015, we paid a quarterly Base Dividend of $0.1594 per share on the Preferred Stock for the first a quarter of 2015 to stockholders of record at the close of business on May 6, 2015 of our Preferred Stock.

&#8226; On August 14, 2015, we paid a quarterly Base Dividend of $0.1594 per share on the Preferred Stock for the second quarter of 2015 to stockholders of record at the close of business on August 6, 2015 of our Preferred Stock.

&#8226; On November 16, 2015, we paid a quarterly Base Dividend of $0.1594 per share on the Preferred Stock for the third quarter of 2015 to stockholders of record as of the close of business on November 4, 2015.

On February 16, 2016, we paid a quarterly Base Dividend of $0.1594 per share on the Preferred Stock for the fourth quarter of 2015 to stockholders of record at the close of business on February 5, 2016, in the aggregate amount of $0.4 million.

Genie Retail Energy 

In November 2004, IDT launched a retail energy provider business in New York State, which has grown its geographic footprint and customer base significantly while diversifying its service offerings. Today, GRE operates two active REP businesses which resell natural gas and electricity to residential and small business customers. IDT Energy operates in eight utility markets in New York, six utility territories in New Jersey, eight utility territories in Pennsylvania, four utility territories in Maryland and one utility territory in each of Washington, D.C. and Illinois. Residents Energy operates in eight utility markets in New York, seven utility markets in Pennsylvania and five utility markets in New Jersey.

As discussed more fully below, on February 23, 2016, the New York Public Service Commission (PSC) issued an order that sought to impose significant new restrictions on REPs operating in New York, including GRE. Depending on the final language of the order and the outcome of legal appeals, as well as our final response to the order with respect to our relationships with our New York customers, the order will likely have a substantial impact upon GRE&#8217;s operations in New York. As of December 31, 2015, New York represented 53% of GRE&#8217;s total meters served and 44% of the total residential customer equivalents, or RCEs, of GRE&#8217;s customer base.

GRE REPs have applications pending to enter into additional utility service areas, primarily natural gas and dual meter territories, in Pennsylvania, Maryland, Washington, D.C. and Illinois. We continue to evaluate additional, deregulation-driven opportunities in other states.

GRE&#8217;s REP businesses, particularly sales of natural gas, are seasonal businesses. Approximately 64% and 59% of our natural gas revenues in the years ended December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014, respectively were generated during the first quarter, when the demand for heating was highest. Although the demand for electricity is not as seasonal as natural gas, approximately 30% and 20% of total revenues from electricity sales were generated in the third quarter of 2015 and 2014, respectively.

GRE&#8217;s revenues represent 100% of our total consolidated revenues since our inception. In the year ended December 31, 2015, GRE generated revenues of $210 million comprised of $167 million from sales of electricity, $41 million from sales of natural gas, and other revenue of $2 million, as compared with revenues of $275 million in the year ended December 31, 2014 comprised of $214 million from the sales of electricity, $58 million from the sales of natural gas and other revenue of $3 million. Electricity sales have become a more significant portion of GRE&#8217;s business in recent years. In addition, in the year ended December 31, 2015, GRE had income from operations of $13 million, as compared to income from operations of $4 million in the year ended December 31, 2014 . 

The weather has a significant impact on GRE&#8217;s operations. For example, unusually sustained cold weather in the first quarter of 2014 drove increased demand. Coupled with short reserves of natural gas in the wholesale markets and delivery constrictions beyond our control, this caused a significant increase in revenues and direct cost of revenues in the first quarter of 2014. In addition, many electricity generation plants are in fact natural gas fired. The winter&#8217;s &#8220;polar vortex&#8221; resulted in extraordinarily large spikes in the prices of wholesale electricity and natural gas in markets where GRE&#8217;s REPs and other retail providers purchase their supply.

Because of the resulting dramatic increases in wholesale electricity costs, the retail electricity prices that GRE&#8217;s REPs and many other variable rate electricity suppliers charged to their customers also increased sharply. These retail electricity price increases resulted in large numbers of complaints, regulatory actions, and calls for legislation, regulation and litigation. GRE&#8217;s subsidiary, IDT Energy, also paid approximately $5 million in rebates to affected customers in the year ended December 31, 2014. These events adversely affected GRE&#8217;s REPs customer churn, gross margins and results of operations.

As discussed more fully below in Item 3 &#8220;Legal Proceedings&#8221; in this Annual Report, IDT Energy reached an agreement in principle on a settlement with the Pennsylvania Attorney General&#8217;s Office and the Acting Consumer Advocate terminating litigation with no admission of liability or finding of wrongdoing by IDT Energy.

The settlement must be approved by the Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission, which is expected in the second quarter of 2016.

In December 2013, GRE acquired Dallas-based Diversegy, LLC, or Diversegy, a retail energy advisory and brokerage company that serves commercial and industrial customers, and its network marketing channel, Epiq Energy, LLC, or Epiq, since renamed IDT Energy Network, or IDTEN. Diversegy connects large commercial and industrial customers with its portfolio of competitive energy products provided by some of the industry&#8217;s leading energy suppliers. Diversegy evaluates alternative supply sources based on its customers&#8217; usage patterns and risk profiles in order to provide options that benefit their bottom lines. IDTEN provides independent representatives with the opportunity to build sales organizations and to profit from both residential and commercial energy. IDTEN offers its direct marketing representatives the opportunity to earn commissions on energy supply based on the consumption of the customers they bring into the program.

During 2015, we worked to integrate Diversegy and IDTEN into our existing operations and platform. We restructured both organizations so that they are both based in our Newark headquarters. Neither company contributed materially to revenues in 2015, but we expect that Diversegy will contribute positive net income and that IDTEN will contribute to meter growth in 2016.

Industry Overview 

GRE operates retail energy providers that operate in states with deregulated retail energy markets. Like other REPs, GRE&#8217;s REPs purchase electricity and natural gas on the wholesale markets and resell the commodities to its customers, primarily homeowners, renters and small businesses. The incumbent local utilities continue to handle electricity and natural gas distribution, billing, and collections. A portion of the proceeds billed to GRE&#8217;s REPs customers for the commodity supply is remitted to the REPs.

GRE has no significant fixed assets and low levels of capital expenditure. Its direct cost of revenues is incurred to purchase electricity and natural gas in their respective wholesale markets. Selling, general and administrative expenses are primarily related to customer acquisition, customer retention, billing and purchase of receivables fees paid to the utilities, and program management.

Customers; Marketing 

The services of GRE&#8217;s REPs, IDT Energy and Residents Energy, are made available to customers under several categories of terms and conditions. The large majority of our current customer base is enrolled in variable rate programs, the only programs GRE&#8217;s REPs offered until 2014, via automatically renewing or month-to-month agreements, which enable us to recover our wholesale costs for electricity and natural gas through adjustments to the rates charged to our customers. The frequency and degree of these rate adjustments are determined by GRE, and are not restricted by regulation.

Variable rate energy supply programs are available to all customers in all states served by GRE&#8217;s REPs. Likewise, Renewable (Green) energy supply options exist in all markets served by GRE&#8217;s REPs. Renewable (Green) Electricity supply is 100% matched with renewable energy certificates that reflect the generation of electricity from sources like running water, wind, solar and biomass.

For our variable rate product, the amount we charge to our customers changes with our costs for the underlying commodity. During times of rising costs, the number of complaints made to our call center or to the state regulators may increase. We proactively seek to address customer concerns through rebates and incentives, as well as by providing accurate information and through communications with regulators.

In 2014, we began offering fixed electric rates in select utility territories with rates guaranteed for up to one year. These offerings represent a small but growing portion of our business. GRE&#8217;s REPs fixed-rate offerings are currently available in seven utility service areas in Pennsylvania, three in New York, three in New Jersey, one in Maryland and one in Illinois.

While GRE&#8217;s REPs variable rates are not regulated, they, like all GRE&#8217;s REP programs, are governed by their terms and conditions, which are accepted by all customers. GRE&#8217;s REPS are required to comply with various reporting requirements in order to maintain eligibility to operate as a REP. Certain jurisdictions require GRE&#8217;s REPs to

publish its customer offers with the applicable regulatory commission, or in the public domain, generally a website established for such purpose.

The electricity and natural gas we sell are metered and delivered to customers by the local utilities. Consequently, we do not have a maintenance or service staff for customer locations. The utilities also provide billing and collection services for the majority of our customers. For a small number of direct bill customers, we perform our own billing and collection. Additionally, GRE&#8217;s REPs&#8217; receivables are generally purchased by the utilities in whose areas we operate for a percentage of their face value (as of December 31, 2015, approximately 2.0%) in exchange for the utility receiving a first priority lien in the customer receivable without recourse against the REP.

GRE&#8217;s REP businesses market their energy services primarily through direct marketing methods, including door-to-door sales, outbound telemarketing, network marketing through IDTEN, direct mail and internet signup. As of December 31, 2015, GRE&#8217;s REPs serviced 392,000 meters (264,000 electric and 128,000 natural gas), as compared to 363,000 meters (234,000 electric and 129,000 natural gas) as of December 31, 2014.

GRE&#8217;s strategy is to acquire profitable customers in low-risk markets, specifically where the utilities have adopted a portfolio of REP-friendly, regulatory-driven programs. Key among these programs is purchase of receivables, or POR, programs, where utilities are contractually obligated to purchase customer receivables at a pre-determined fixed discount. Under POR programs, utilities offer consolidated billing, where the utilities have the responsibility for billing the individual customer and the subsequent collection of the remittances. Additionally, we target markets in which we can procure energy in an efficient and transparent manner. We seek to purchase wholesale energy where there is a real time market that reflects a fair price for the commodity for all participants. This allows GRE to reflect a true market cost base and adjust its rates to its variable rate customers taking into account its competitors who change their commodity prices at longer intervals.

Utilities in New York, Pennsylvania, Illinois, Washington, D.C. and Maryland offer POR programs, without recourse, that permit customers with past-due balances to remain in the POR and consolidated bill programs. However, utilities in New Jersey generally do not permit customers with past-due balances beyond 120 days to enroll or remain in their POR programs, which means that after a certain amount of time (determined based on the specific commodity), the REP becomes responsible for the billing and collection of the commodity portion of the future invoices for its delinquent customers.

We also regularly monitor other deregulated or deregulating markets to determine if they are appropriate for entry, and may initiate the licensing process in a selected region to facilitate entry into the region contingent upon favorable deregulatory developments.

Acquisition and Management of Gas and Electric Supply 

Since 2009, IDT Energy has been party to a Preferred Supplier Agreement with BP Energy Company, or BP. The agreement allows for purchases of electricity and natural gas for customers focused in areas where the utilities have POR programs. Under the arrangement, IDT Energy purchases electricity and natural gas at market rate plus a fee. IDT Energy&#8217;s obligations to BP are secured by a first security interest in deposits or receivables from utilities in connection with their purchase of IDT Energy&#8217;s customer&#8217;s receivables under the applicable POR program, and in any cash deposits or letters of credit posted in connection with any collateral accounts with BP. The agreement with BP has been amended to cover the territories in which we operate. The agreement was modified and extended on November 19, 2015, and is scheduled to terminate on November 30, 2019. IDT Energy&#8217;s ability to purchase electricity and natural gas under this agreement is subject to satisfaction of certain conditions including the maintenance of certain covenants.

GRE is required to meet certain minimum green energy supply criteria in some of the markets in which it operates. We meet those thresholds by acquiring renewable energy certificates, or REC&#8217;s. In addition, GRE offers green or other renewable energy products to its customers in several territories. GRE acquires green renewable energy conversion rights or attributes and REC&#8217;s to satisfy the load requirements for these customers.

As an owner of REPs, GRE does not own electrical power generation, transmission, or distribution facilities, or natural gas production, pipeline or distribution facilities. GRE&#8217;s REPs currently contract with Dominion Transmission, Inc., National Fuel Supply, Williams Gas Pipeline and Texas Eastern Transmission and others for

natural gas pipeline, storage and transportation services, and utilizes the New York Independent System Operator, Inc., or NYISO, and PJM Interconnection, LLC, or PJM, for electric transmission and distribution. NYISO operates the high-voltage electric transmission network in New York State, and administers and monitors New York&#8217;s wholesale electricity markets. PJM is a regional transmission organization that coordinates the movement of wholesale electricity in all or parts of thirteen states (including New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Maryland and Illinois) and the District of Columbia.

For risk management purposes, GRE REPs utilize forward physical delivery contracts for a portion of their purchases of electricity and natural gas, which are defined as commodity derivative contracts. In addition, GRE&#8217;s REPs enter into put and call options as hedges against unfavorable fluctuations in market prices of electricity and natural gas. 

The NYISO and PJM perform real-time load balancing for each of the electrical power grids in which GRE REPs operate. Similarly, load balancing is performed by the utilities or local distribution company, or LDC, for each of the natural gas markets in which GRE operates. Load balancing ensures that the amount of electricity and natural gas that GRE purchases is equal to the amount necessary to service its customers&#8217; demands at any specific point in time. GRE is charged or credited for balancing the electricity and natural gas purchased and sold for its account by its suppliers and the LDCs. GRE manages the differences between the actual electricity and natural gas demands of its customers and its bulk or block purchases by buying and selling in the spot market, and through monthly cash settlements and/or adjustments to future deliveries in accordance with the load balancing performed by utilities, LDCs, NYISO and PJM.

Diversegy and IDT Energy Network (IDTEN) 

Diversegy, which we acquired in December 2013, operates as an energy broker and advisor to industrial, commercial and municipal customers across deregulated energy markets in the United States. Customers of all types and size have the ability to leverage Diversegy&#8217;s expertise and purchasing power as they evaluate their electricity and natural gas procurement plans. Diversegy allows us to enter more markets around the country as we are not limited to only the markets we operate as a REP, and we are not responsible for assuming the risk associated with procuring and managing the commodity.

IDTEN (formerly Epiq Energy, LLC), which we also acquired in December 2013, has built and operates a network marketing platform that sells GRE&#8217;s REPs&#8217; and Diversegy&#8217;s services. IDTEN offers an innovative direct sales opportunity to individuals who are seeking to profit from the deregulation of energy in the United States, focusing on residential and small to medium-sized businesses. IDTEN&#8217;s sales channel has the potential to reach customers our traditional sales channels of door-door marketing and outbound telemarketing has difficulty in reaching. During 2015, IDTEN recruited active independent representatives in states where GRE operates REPs.

Competition 

As an operator of REPs, GRE competes with the local utility companies in each of the markets where it provides services and with many other licensed REPs. In some markets, competitor REPs are affiliated with local utilities. GRE also competes with several large vertically integrated energy companies. Some of these competitors are larger and better capitalized than GRE. Competition with the utilities and REPs exposes GRE to customer churn, especially since GRE&#8217;s residential customers generally do not sign long-term contracts.

REPs and utilities offering fixed rate products or guaranteed pricing often are unable to change their sell rates offered to customers in response to volatility in the prices of the underlying commodities. In times of high commodity prices, REPs like GRE&#8217;s REPs that offer variable rate products, and reflect real-time commodity costs, may offer variable rates prices which are not competitive with fixed rate providers. Conversely, in a downward moving commodity cost environment, variable rate REPs like GRE&#8217;s REPs may benefit from the lag that utilities experience in reducing their sell rate to reflect the lower cost base in the commodity markets, and may reflect commodity costs decreases in their offerings and rates.

In the latter part of 2014, GRE began offering a fixed rate plan for up to one year to electric customers in Pennsylvania, New Jersey and Illinois. This was expanded into New York and Maryland in 2015 and represents approximately 16% of the electric customer base.

Increasing our market share depends in part on our ability to persuade more customers to switch to GRE&#8217;s services than those that churn from us to other providers. Moreover, local utilities and some REPs may have certain advantages such as name recognition, financial strength and long-standing relationships with customers. Persuading potential customers to switch to GRE requires significant marketing and sales operations. If GRE is not successful in convincing customers to switch, our REP businesses, results of operations and financial condition will all be adversely affected.

Regulation 

As of December 31, 2015, GRE&#8217;s REPs operate in eight utility territories in New York, six utility territories in New Jersey, eight utility territories in Pennsylvania, four utility territories in Maryland, one in Washington D.C. and one in Illinois. IDT Energy recently received regulatory approvals to enter nine new utility territories in Pennsylvania and one new territory covering Maryland and Washington D.C. Residents Energy recently received regulatory approval from the Public Utility Commission of Ohio to sell electricity and gas in the state of Ohio and from the Illinois Commerce Commission to sell electricity in the State of Illinois. The State of New York, the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, the State of New Jersey, the State of Maryland, the State of Illinois, the District of Columbia, the State of Ohio, the federal government, and related public service/utility commissions, among others, establish the rules and regulations for our REP operations.

Like all operators of REPs, GRE is affected by the actions of governmental agencies, mostly on the state level, by the respective state Public Service/Utility Commissions, and other organizations (such as NYISO and PJM) and indirectly the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, or FERC. Regulations applicable to electricity and natural gas have undergone substantial change over the past several years as a result of restructuring initiatives at both the state and federal levels. GRE&#8217;s REPs may be subject to new laws, orders or regulations or the revision or interpretation of existing laws, orders or regulations.

If GRE&#8217;s REPs enter territories outside of the utility regions within which they currently operate in New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Maryland, Illinois and Washington D.C., or territories outside of these states, they would need to be licensed and would be subject to the rules and regulations of such states or municipalities and respective utilities.

As of December 31, 2015, Diversegy was licensed to serve as a broker of electricity in New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Maryland, the District of Columbia, Illinois, Ohio, Rhode Island, New Hampshire, Massachusetts and Delaware, and as a gas broker in New Jersey, Maryland, Ohio, Rhode Island and New Hampshire. IDTEN was licensed as an electricity broker in New Jersey, Illinois, Ohio, the District of Columbia, Maryland and Pennsylvania, and as a gas broker in New Jersey, Ohio, Maryland, Pennsylvania, New Hampshire and the District of Columbia. Both Diversegy and IDTEN serve as brokers in other states that do not require licenses.

Employees 

As of March 1, 2016, GRE employed 145 full time employees, 68 of whom are located in the Jamestown, New York office, of which approximately 85% are affiliated with our customer care center, 46 of whom are located in our New Jersey office and 31 of whom are located in the Florida and New York offices performing customer acquisition and support.

Genie Oil and Gas, Inc.

Genie Oil and Gas (GOGAS) is an oil and gas exploration company. GOGAS currently holds our interests in four development projects, two of which are currently inactive and another of which does not currently have a funding source for continued operations: (1) an 86.5% interest in Afek, which operates an exploration project in the southern portion of the Golan Heights in Northern Israel (2) an 88.4% interest in Genie Mongolia, Inc., an inactive oil shale exploration project in Central Mongolia, (3) a 98.3% interest in AMSO, which holds and manages a 41.3% interest in AMSO, LLC, an oil shale development project in Colorado, that is a joint venture with Total, S.A., and (4) an 86.1% interest in IEI, an inactive oil shale development project in Israel&#8217;s Shfela Basin.

The Genie Mongolia, AMSO, LLC and IEI projects are early stage oil shale projects. Oil shale is an organic-rich, fine-grained sedimentary rock that contains significant amounts of kerogen (a solid mixture of organic chemical 

compounds) from which liquid hydrocarbons can be extracted. However, extracting oil and gas from oil shale is more complex than conventional oil and gas recovery and is more expensive. Rather than pumping it directly out of the ground in the form of liquid oil, the oil shale can be mined and then heated to a high temperature through a process called surface retorting, with the resultant liquid separated and collected. An alternative which we and others are researching and developing is in-situ retorting, which involves heating the oil shale to a temperature of approximately 660&#176;F while it is still underground, and then pumping the resulting liquid and/or gases to the surface. In-situ retorting is considered to be less environmentally invasive than surface retorting and may offer significant economic advantages. 

Afek Oil and Gas Ltd. 

In April 2013, the Government of Israel finalized the award to Afek of an exclusive three year petroleum exploration license covering 396.5 square kilometers in the southern portion of the Golan Heights. Afek is in the process of submitting its work plan for the subsequent exploration phases and is taking the required steps to seek extension of the license, which is currently scheduled to expire in April 2016. Afek has retained oil and gas exploration professionals and has contracted with internationally recognized vendors to provide the services required for its exploration program. In 2013, Afek completed preliminary geophysical work including electromagnetic surveys and the reprocessing of the 2D seismic data to characterize the subsurface prior to drilling exploration wells. Afek subsequently conducted initial analysis of the acquired data internally and with outside exploration experts.

In early 2014, Afek submitted a permit application to the Northern District Planning and Building Committee to conduct an exploration drilling program to further characterize the resource in its license area. In July, the Northern District Planning and Building Committee voted to approve an up to ten-well exploratory drilling program, and subsequently issued the requisite permits.

In October, 2014, the High Court of Justice in Israel issued an interim order to halt Afek&#8217;s drilling program until it could rule on a petition filed by the Israel Union for Environmental Defense and some local residents challenging the issuance of the drilling permit. In December 2014, the Court ruled against the petitioners, and lifted its interim order.

In February 2015, Afek began drilling its first exploratory well in Northern Israel&#8217;s Golan Heights. To date, Afek has completed drilling five wells. In addition, the initial phase of the flow test program is underway which will test multiple target zones within one, or more, of the completed wells. The results of the exploration program to date are consistent with our original theory and demonstrate the existence of significant hydrocarbons in the basin, although there are still unknowns that will impact the commercial viability of the resource. The next step is to execute and analyze the results of flow tests and other data to determine the nature of the hydrocarbons and the potential production methodology and associated costs of potential commercial development. We remain excited about the potential for this project and look forward to gathering more information to determine next steps and the future path. The volume of the resources and to what extent they may be extractable cannot yet be determined. The resources do not constitute proved, probable or possible reserves.

On February 1, 2016, Israel&#8217;s Northern District Planning and Building Committee approved a two-year permit extension for Afek to continue to conduct its up to ten-well oil and gas exploration program. The original permit was for a one-year period, which commenced in February 2015. This extension is expected to cover the remainder of Afek&#8217;s ongoing exploratory program in the area covered by its exploratory license issued by Israel&#8217;s National Infrastructure, Energy and Water Ministry.

Afek incurred exploration expenses of $6.6 million, $7.0 million and $4.0 million in the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively.

Genie Mongolia 

In April 2013, Genie Mongolia and the Petroleum Authority of Mongolia entered into an exclusive oil shale development agreement to explore and evaluate the commercial potential of oil shale resources in a 34,470 square kilometer area in Central Mongolia. The five year agreement allows Genie Mongolia to explore, identify and characterize the oil shale resource in the exclusive survey area and to conduct a pilot test using in-situ technology on appropriate oil shale deposits. In September 2014, Genie Mongolia signed a prospecting agreement with the Petroleum Authority of Mongolia covering an additional 25,000 square kilometers in Central Mongolia. In light of the progress achieved by Afek in Northern Israel, we suspended our operations in Mongolia.

Genie Mongolia maintains the rights to the acreage it has acquired, however, it has reduced its operating expenses and is looking to divest its assets in Mongolia.

Genie Mongolia incurred research and development expenses of $1.7 million, $2.7 million and $3.4 million in the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively.

American Shale Oil Corporation 

The U.S. Bureau of Land Management, or BLM, effective January 1, 2007, issued to EGL Resources a lease for research, development and demonstration, or RD&#38;D Lease, in western Colorado, which it assigned to its affiliate, E.G.L. Oil Shale, L.L.C. (or EGL). In April 2008, EGL was acquired by AMSO and IDT (and subsequently renamed AMSO, LLC) in exchange for cash of $5.5 million, certain commitments for future funding of AMSO, LLC&#8217;s operations and a 1% override on AMSO, LLC&#8217;s future revenue. In March 2009, a subsidiary of TOTAL S.A., the world&#8217;s fifth largest integrated oil and gas company, acquired a 50% interest in AMSO, LLC in exchange for cash paid to us of $3.2 million and Total&#8217;s commitment to fund the majority of AMSO, LLC&#8217;s research, development and demonstration expenditures as well as certain other funding commitments. As a result of dilution resulting from Total funding certain capital calls for AMSO, AMSO currently holds a 41.3% interest in AMSO, LLC. 

According to reports from the United States Geological Service, or USGS, oil shale resources in the United States are estimated at over 4 trillion barrels; and based on management estimates, could potentially supply the U.S.&#8217;s demand for liquid fuel over the next 100 years. The majority of those deposits are found in the Green River Formation, which spans parts of Colorado, Utah and Wyoming, the Piceance Basin of Colorado, and the Uinta Basin of Utah and Colorado. Colorado&#8217;s Piceance Basin, where AMSO, LLC&#8217;s RD&#38;D Lease is located, contains some of the richest oil shale resources in the world (as reported by the Department of Energy and USGS sources).

AMSO, LLC&#8217;s RD&#38;D Lease covers an area of 160 acres. The RD&#38;D Lease had an initial ten-year term beginning on January 1, 2007 and provides for a five-year extension if AMSO, LLC can demonstrate that a process leading to the production of commercial quantities of shale oil is diligently being pursued. In November 2015, AMSO, LLC satisfied the extension criteria, and the RD&#38;D Lease was extended effective on January 1, 2017. If AMSO, LLC can demonstrate the economic and environmental viability of its technology, it will have the opportunity to submit a one-time payment pursuant to the applicable regulations and convert its RD&#38;D Lease to a commercial lease on 5,120 acres, which overlap and are contiguous with the 160 acres covered by its RD&#38;D Lease. AMSO, LLC&#8217;s plan is to target the mining interval where the illite-rich oil shale is located.

AMSO, LLC is utilizing a team of experienced experts in various fields to conduct research, development and demonstration activities. AMSO, LLC constructed surface oil and gas processing facilities and drilled pilot wells for its pilot test in Colorado. The pilot test is intended to confirm the accuracy of several of the key underlying assumptions of AMSO, LLC&#8217;s proposed in-situ heating and retorting process. In January 2012, AMSO, LLC conducted a fully integrated commissioning test of the above and below ground facilities to determine their readiness for pilot test operations. The underground electric heater did not perform to specifications during the commissioning test. After modifications were made, in March 2013 AMSO, LLC initiated start-up of the oil shale pilot test. After approximately two weeks of operation, the down-hole electric heater failed. Pilot operations were too short to allow conclusions to be drawn about the ultimate viability of AMSO, LLC&#8217;s technical approach. AMSO, LLC subsequently decided not to attempt to re-engineer the current downhole electrical heating system. Instead, it initiated a comprehensive review of alternative heating system solutions. From 2013 through 2015, AMSO, LLC continued its review of alternative heating system solutions.

AMSO, LLC incurred $4.8 million, $7.8 million and $8.6 million for research and development in the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively.

On February 23, 2016, Total notified AMSO of its decision not to continue to fund AMSO, LLC. We are currently considering our options with respect to the future of this project. AMSO and Total are obligated to fund certain remediation and reclamation costs.

Israel Energy Initiatives, Ltd.

IEI had an exclusive Shale Oil Exploration and Production License awarded in July 2008 by the Government of Israel. The license covered approximately 238 square kilometers in the south of the Shfela region in central Israel. Under the terms of the license, IEI was to conduct a geological appraisal study across the license area, characterize the resource and select a location for a pilot plant. The initial term of the license was for three years until July 2011. The license was extended until July 2015 when it expired.

IEI began its resource appraisal study in 2009, and completed the field work included in its study in 2011. The resource appraisal was comprised primarily of a drilling operation conducted in the license area. The resource appraisal plan included drilling and coring several wells to depths of approximately 600 meters, as well as well logging, analysis of core materials and other geochemical tests, water monitoring and hydrology tests, laboratory analyses of samples and other laboratory experiments. The results from the appraisal process, both from field tests and laboratory experiments, confirmed IEI&#8217;s expectations as to the attractiveness of the oil shale resource in the license area from the standpoint of richness, thickness and hydrology.

In June 2013, IEI submitted its application for the construction and operation of its oil shale pilot test facility to the Jerusalem District Building and Planning Committee. IEI was asked to provide supplements to the environmental impact assessment and a revised application was submitted in November, 2013. In September 2014, the Jerusalem District Building and Planning Committee voted against issuing the pilot plant building and construction permits.

IEI is evaluating whether and how to exploit the abundant oil shale resource in Israel in light of the Committee&#8217;s decision. Operations at IEI are currently suspended.

IEI incurred $0.2 million, $2.6 million and $3.7 million for research and development in the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively.

Financing 

We are considering sales of equity interests in Afek or GOGAS to provide the necessary financing for their activities. 

Competition 

If GOGAS is successful in developing and producing commercial quantities of oil and gas from oil shale and other conventional and unconventional resources in an environmentally acceptable manner and receives all the necessary regulatory approvals, then, in the commercial production phases of operations, it will likely face competition from conventional and unconventional oil producers, other fossil fuels and other alternative energy providers in marketing and selling refined products and natural gas. Many of the potential competitors, including national oil companies, are larger and have substantially greater resources to be able to withstand the volatility of the oil and gas market (including as to price, availability, refining capacity and other factors).

Regulation 

The RD&#38;D Lease held by AMSO, LLC covers an area of 160 acres. The RD&#38;D Lease had an initial ten-year term beginning on January 1, 2007 and provides for a five-year extension if AMSO, LLC can demonstrate that a process leading to the production of commercial quantities of shale oil is diligently being pursued. In November 2015, AMSO, LLC satisfied the extension criteria, and the RD&#38;D Lease was extended effective on January 1, 2017. If AMSO, LLC can demonstrate the economic and environmental viability of its technology, it will have the opportunity to submit a one-time payment pursuant to the applicable regulations and convert its RD&#38;D Lease to a commercial lease on 5,120 acres, which overlap and are contiguous with the 160 acres covered by its RD&#38;D Lease.

In order to execute these activities and milestones, AMSO, LLC must obtain the necessary permitting and comply with the various rules, regulations, and policies spanning multiple regulatory bodies and governmental agencies at various levels. In connection with the site characterization phase (which AMSO, LLC completed) and the pilot phase (which is ongoing), AMSO, LLC has been working to ensure compliance with rules, regulations, and policies of the BLM and the Department of Environmental Protection at the federal level, with the Colorado Division of Reclamation and Mining Service and the Air Pollution Control Division and the Water Control Division of the

Colorado Department of Public Health and Environment at the state level, and with Rio Blanco County at the county level. In accordance with the technical and regulatory requirements of the RD&#38;D Lease, in May 2009, AMSO, LLC submitted its in-situ Plan of Development to the BLM. In September 2009, the BLM approved AMSO, LLC&#8217;s Plan of Development, allowing AMSO, LLC to proceed with implementation, subject to compliance with Colorado&#8217;s permitting requirements (which AMSO, LLC has satisfied). AMSO, LLC continues to refine its Plan of Development in conjunction with its ongoing operations, and the BLM has approved such modifications.

Although AMSO, LLC has diligently worked to satisfy the regulatory requirements and challenges necessary for implementing the site characterization and initial pilot phase of the project, it is difficult at this time to predict all of the compliance requirements that may be necessary throughout the life of the project.

Afek holds an exclusive exploration license in Northern Israel&#8217;s Golan Heights, granted by Israel&#8217;s National Infrastructure, Energy and Water Ministry. Its up to ten-well exploratory drilling program was approved by the Northern District Planning and Building Committee. The original oil and gas exploration license term expires in April 2016, and Afek is required to file an application to extend the term with the Ministry of Infrastructure, Energy and Water. We believe the extension will be granted. In February 2015, Afek began drilling its first exploratory well. Contingent upon the results of its exploration program, Afek may seek to declare a commercial discovery and apply for a commercial production lease pursuant to Israeli law. The international community considers the Golan Heights an internationally disputed territory, and therefore political risk may affect our ability to execute our plan of operations. This may influence local decision makers, as well as service providers necessary to our operations. On February 1, 2016, Israel&#8217;s Northern District Planning and Building Committee approved a two-year permit extension for Afek to continue to conduct its up to ten-well oil and gas exploration program. The original permit was for a one-year period, which commenced in February 2015. This extension is expected to cover the remainder of Afek&#8217;s ongoing exploratory program in the area covered by it exploratory license issued by Israel&#8217;s National Infrastructure, Energy and Water Ministry.

IEI had an exclusive Shale Oil Exploration and Production License that was extended until July 2015 when it expired. Operations at IEI are currently on hold as IEI evaluates whether and how to exploit the abundant oil shale resource in Israel.

Intellectual Property 

We rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks, domain name registrations and trade secret laws in the United States and other jurisdictions and contractual restrictions to protect our intellectual property rights and our brand names. All of our employees sign confidentiality agreements. These agreements provide that the employee may not use or disclose our confidential information except as expressly permitted in connection with the performance of his or her duties for us, or in other limited circumstances. These agreements also state that, to the extent rights in any invention conceived of by the employee while employed by us do not vest in us automatically by operation of law, the employee is required to assign his or her rights to us.

In connection with its RD&#38;D process and related technologies, some patents are registered in the name of AMSO, LLC and some patents are registered in the name of Genie IP BV., a Dutch subsidiary of our. AMSO, LLC owns five patents issued in the United States, eighteen patents issued abroad, four of which are jointly owned with Lawrence Livermore National Security, LLC (&#8220;LLNS&#8221;), as well as several pending applications, both in the United States and abroad. The issued or allowed patents include: patent No. 7,743,826 (US), which expires April 16, 2028; patent No. 7,921,907 (US), which expires January 19, 2027; patent No. 8,162,043 (US), which expires January 19, 2027; patent No. 8,464,792 (US), which expires July 27, 2031; patent No. 8,899,331 (US), granted jointly to AMSO, LLC and LLNS, which expires December 29, 2030; patent registration No. 3668 (Mongolia) which expires December 25, 2032; patent registration No. 32691 (Morocco), granted jointly to AMSO, LLC and LLNS on October 1, 2011, which expires September 30, 2029; patent registration No. 3565 (Mongolia), granted jointly to AMSO, LLC and LLNS on April 13, 2012, which expires March 29, 2031; patent No. 508 (Madagascar), granted on December 2, 2011, which expires November 2, 2029; patent No. 606 (Madagascar), granted on April 18, 2014, which expires April 27, 2031; patent registration No. 3590 (Mongolia), granted on April 13, 2012, which expires April 22, 2031; patent No. 32765 (Morocco), granted on November 1, 2011, which expires November 2, 2029; patent registration

No. 2,741,861 (Canada), granted on August 27, 2013, which expires November 2, 2029; patent registration No. 2,738,920 (Canada), granted jointly to AMSO, LLC and LLNS, which expires September 30, 2029; and patent registration No. CN 102209835 (China), granted on April 16, 2014, which expires November 1, 2029; patent No. 3895 (Mongolia), granted January 28, 2015, which expires March 29, 2031; patent No. 222732 (Israel), granted December 25, 2015, which expires March 29, 2031; Patent No. ZL201180031952.4 (China), granted on January 6, 2016, which expires March 30, 2031; Patent No. 212486 (Israel), granted March 1, 2015, which expires Nov. 2, 2029; Patent No. 216332 (Israel), granted April 1, 2015, which expires May 13, 2030; Patent No. 4102/EXT/2012 (DR Congo), granted June 17, 2014, which expires April 26, 2032; Patent No. 34256 (Morocco), granted May 2, 2013, which expires March 30, 2031; Patent No. 34231 (Morocco), granted May 2, 2013, which expires April 27, 2031; and patent No. 9,127,541 (US), which expires November 2, 2029.

Genie IP B.V. owns Mongolian utility models 2050, 2052, 2053, 2054, 2055, and 2067 which all expire on January 23, 2019. The patents and utility models are directed to in-situ methods and systems for the extraction of oil from shale, integral to our technical and operational plans, as well as carbon sequestration in depleted oil shale deposits and down-hole heater technologies. AMSO has also been granted three trademarks in the United States in connection with its operations.

Genie IP B.V. has seven published international Patent Cooperation Treaty (PCT) applications, three published Israeli patent applications and additional unpublished patent applications. Some of these patent applications relate to methods and apparatus for oil extraction from shale, some of these patent applications relate to downstream processing of oil extracted from shale, and some of these patent applications relate to techniques for locating and extracting unconventional naturally-occurring oil from a tight formation.

Employees 

GOGAS, excluding AMSO, employs 53 employees, while AMSO (including AMSO, LLC) employs 18 full-time employees, including a secondee assigned by Total. AMSO, IEI and Afek also retain the services of a number of professional consultants, including geologists, hydrologists, drilling and completions engineers, process engineers, environmental experts, permitting consultants, energy experts, legal, and land designation and acquisition consultants.

