 ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

GENERAL &#160; 

Investors Title Company (the &#8220;Company&#8221;) is a holding company that operates through its subsidiaries and was incorporated in the state of North Carolina in 1973. The Company became operational in 1976, when it acquired Investors Title Insurance Company (&#8220;ITIC&#8221;), which had itself been operating since 1972, as a wholly owned subsidiary under a plan of exchange of shares of common stock. In 1983, the Company acquired National Investors Title Insurance Company (&#8220;NITIC&#8221;), formerly Northeast Investors Title Insurance Company, which had itself been operating since 1973, as a wholly owned subsidiary under a plan of exchange of shares of common stock. The Company&#8217;s executive offices are located at 121 North Columbia Street, Chapel Hill, North Carolina 27514 and its telephone number is (919) 968-2200. The Company maintains a website at www.invtitle.com . 

OVERVIEW OF THE BUSINESS 

The Company&#8217;s primary business activity, and its only reportable operating segment, is the issuance of residential and commercial title insurance through ITIC and NITIC. Additionally, the Company provides tax-deferred real property &#32; exchange services through its subsidiaries, Investors Title Exchange Corporation (&#8220;ITEC&#8221;) and Investors Title Accommodation Corporation (&#8220;ITAC&#8221;); investment management and trust services to individuals, trusts and other entities through its subsidiary Investors Trust Company (&#8220;Investors Trust&#8221;); and management services to title insurance agencies through its subsidiary, Investors Title Management Services (&#8220;ITMS&#8221;). See &#8220;Item 7. Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations&#8221; and Note 12 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information related to the revenues, income and assets attributable to the Company&#8217;s primary operating segment. 

&#160; 

Title Insurance 

Through its two wholly owned title underwriting subsidiaries, ITIC and NITIC, the Company underwrites title insurance for owners and mortgagees as a primary insurer. ITIC and NITIC offer primary title insurance coverage to owners and mortgagees of real estate and assume reinsurance of title insurance risks from other title insurance companies. The commitments and policies are predominantly issued using standard forms approved by the American Land Title Association (&#8220;ALTA&#8221;). 

Title insurance protects against losses resulting from title defects affecting real property. Upon a real estate closing, the seller of real property executes a deed to the new owner, and typically, the property is encumbered with a new mortgage. &#32;&#32; When real property is conveyed from one party to another, occasionally there is an undisclosed defect in the title or a mistake or omission in a prior deed or mortgage that may give a third party a legal claim against such property or result in the invalidity or unenforceability of the insured mortgage. If a claim is made against the title to real property, title insurance provides indemnification against covered defects. 

Numerous types of defects could jeopardize the property owner&#8217;s or mortgagee&#8217;s interest in the property for which a title policy may provide coverage. Such risks include title being vested in an individual or entity other than the insured, lack of a right of access to the property, invalidity or unenforceability of the insured mortgage, or other defects, liens, or encumbrances that make the property unmarketable. The policy may provide coverage for defects arising from prior unsatisfied mortgages, tax liens or confirmed assessments, judgments attaching to the property or encumbrances against the property arising through easements, restrictions or other existing covenants. Title insurance may also protect against deeds or mortgages that were forged or improperly acknowledged or delivered, that were executed by spouses without the other spouse&#8217;s signature or that were conveyed by minors or other persons who lack legal capacity. 

Title Insurance Policies. The Company issues title insurance policies based on a search of public records. The title search documents the current status of title to the property. &#32; There are two basic types of title insurance policies - one for the mortgage lender and one for the real property owner. A lender often requires property owners to purchase title insurance to protect the priority of its mortgage loan, but the lender&#8217;s title insurance policy does not protect the property owner. The property owner has to purchase a separate owner&#8217;s title insurance policy to protect its investment. 

Insured Risk on Policies in Force. Generally, the amount of the insured risk under a title insurance policy is equal to the purchase price, the loan amount or the fair market value of the insured property. If a claim is made against an insured property&#8217;s title, the insurer can choose to pay the cost of eliminating the covered title defects or to defend the insured party against covered &#32; title defects affecting the property. In the alternative, the insurer may opt to pay the policy limits to the insured or, if the loss is less than policy limits, the amount of the insured&#8217;s actual loss due to such title defects, &#32; at which time the insurer&#8217;s duty to defend the claim and all other obligations of the insurer with respect to the claim are satisfied. 

At any given time, the insurer&#8217;s actual risk of monetary loss under outstanding policies is only a portion of the aggregate insured risk, or total face amount, of all policies in force. The lower risk results primarily from the reissuance of title insurance policies for the same property by other underwriters over time when such property is subsequently conveyed or refinanced. The coverage on a lender&#8217;s title insurance policy is reduced and eventually terminated as the mortgage loan it secures is paid. An owner&#8217;s policy is effective as long as the insured has an ownership interest in the property or has liability under warranties of title. Due to the variability of these factors, the aggregate contingent liability of a title underwriter on outstanding policies of the Company and its subsidiaries cannot be determined with precision. 

Losses and Reserves. While most other forms of insurance provide for the assumption of risk of loss arising from unforeseen events, title insurance is based upon a process of loss avoidance. Title insurance generally serves to protect the policyholder from the risk of loss from events that predate the issuance of the policy. &#32; Losses on policies typically occur when a title defect is not discovered during the examination and settlement process or upon the occurrence of certain hidden risks which cannot be determined from an accurate search of public land records. The maximum amount of liability under a title insurance policy is generally the face amount of the policy plus the cost of defending the insured&#8217;s title against an adverse claim, if agreed to by the insurer prior to payment of loss under the policy, and any inflation protection clause associated with the policy. Reserves for claim losses are established from known claims, as well as &#32; estimated &#32; losses incurred but not yet reported to the Company based upon historical experience and other factors. 

&#160; 

Title claims can often be complex, vary greatly in dollar amounts, are affected by economic and market conditions and may involve uncertainties as to ultimate exposure. Therefore, reserve estimates are subject to variability. For a more complete description of the Company&#8217;s reserves for claims, see &#8220;Item 7. Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations&#8221; in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Title Insurance Underwriting Operations. &#32;&#32;ITIC and NITIC issue title insurance through its home and branch offices and through a network of agents. Issuing agents are typically real estate attorneys, independent agents or subsidiaries of community and regional mortgage lending institutions, depending on local customs and regulations and the Company&#8217;s marketing strategy in a particular territory. The Company&#8217;s title insurance subsidiaries determine the terms and conditions upon which they will insure title to real property according to the Company&#8217;s underwriting standards, policies and procedures. Title insurance premiums written reflect a one-time premium payment, with no recurring premiums. 

Generally, premiums for title insurance are recorded and recognized as revenue at the closing of the related transaction, when the earnings process is considered complete. When the policy is issued directly through a branch office, the premiums collected are retained by the Company. When the policy is issued through a title insurance agent, the agent retains a majority of the premium as a commission and remits the net amount to the Company. Title insurance commissions earned by the Company&#8217;s agents are recognized as expenses concurrently with premium recognition. The percentage of the premium retained by agents varies by region and is sometimes regulated by the states where the property is located. 

For a description of the level of net premiums written by direct and agency operations, refer to &#8220;Item 7. Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations&#8221; in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Geographic Operations. ITIC was incorporated in North Carolina in 1972, and is licensed to write title insurance in 44 states and the District of Columbia. ITIC currently writes title insurance as a primary insurer in 21 states and the District of Columbia, primarily in the eastern half of the &#32; United States, and as a reinsurer for NITIC and third party title insurance companies. 

NITIC was incorporated in South Carolina in 1973, and is licensed to write title insurance in 20 states and the District of Columbia. In November 2014, NITIC redomesticated to the Texas. It currently writes title insurance as a primary insurer in Texas and New York, and as a reinsurer for ITIC. 

Premiums from title insurance written on properties located in North Carolina and Texas represent the largest source of revenue for the title insurance segment. In North Carolina, ITIC primarily &#32; issues title insurance commitments and policies through branch offices. In Texas and other states, title policies are primarily issued through issuing agents. For a description of the level of net premiums written geographically for significant states, refer to &#8220;Item 7. Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations&#8221; in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Each state license authorizing ITIC or NITIC to write title insurance must be renewed annually. These licenses are necessary for the companies to operate as a title insurer in each state in which they write premiums. 

&#32;&#32;&#32;&#32;&#32; 

Ratings. The Company&#8217;s title insurance subsidiaries are regularly assigned ratings by independent agencies designed &#32; to indicate their financial condition and/or their claims paying ability. The rating agencies determine ratings primarily by analyzing financial data. 

Reinsurance. The Company assumes and cedes reinsurance with other insurance companies in the normal course of business. Reinsurance is a contractual arrangement whereby one insurer assumes some or all of the risk exposure written by another insurer. Ceded reinsurance is comprised of excess of loss treaties, which outlines the conditions in which the reinsurance company will pay claims and protect the ceding insurer against losses over certain agreed amounts. 

In the ordinary course of business, ITIC and NITIC reinsure certain risks with other title insurers to limit their risk exposure and to comply with state insurance regulations. They also assume reinsurance for certain risks of other title insurers for which they receive additional income in the form of reinsurance premiums. For each of the last three years, revenues from reinsurance activities accounted for less than 1% of total premium volume. 

Exchange Services, Investment Management and Trust Services, and Management Services 

The Company&#8217;s other lines of business include services offered by wholly owned subsidiaries ITEC, ITAC, Investors Trust, and ITMS. 

In 1988, the Company established ITEC to provide services in connection with tax-deferred exchanges of like-kind property pursuant to Section 1031 of the Internal Revenue Code. ITEC acts as a qualified intermediary in tax-deferred exchanges of property held for productive use in a trade or business or for investments, and its income is derived from fees for handling exchange transactions and interest earned on client deposits held by the Company. ITAC provides services as an exchange accommodation titleholder for accomplishing reverse exchanges when taxpayers decide to acquire replacement property before selling the relinquished property. The services provided by the Company&#8217;s exchange division, ITEC and ITAC, are pursuant to provisions in the Internal Revenue Code. From time to time, these laws are subject to review and changes, which may negatively affect the demand for tax-deferred exchanges in general, and consequently the revenues and profitability of the Company&#8217;s exchange division. 

Investors Trust provides investment management and trust services to individuals, companies, banks and trusts. 

ITMS offers various consulting and management services to provide clients with the technical expertise to start and successfully operate a title insurance agency. 

None of these subsidiaries is currently a reportable segment for which separate financial information is presented; instead, they are collectively included and reported in the category &#8220;All Other&#8221; in the Company&#8217;s financial statements. 

&#160; 

CYCLICALITY AND SEASONALITY 

Real estate activity, home sales and mortgage lending are cyclical in nature. Title insurance premiums are closely related to the level of real estate activity and the average price of real estate sales. The availability of funds to finance purchases directly affects real estate sales. Other factors include mortgage interest rates, consumer confidence, economic conditions, supply and demand and family income levels. The Company&#8217;s premiums in future periods are likely to fluctuate due to these and other factors which are beyond management&#8217;s control. 

Historically, the title insurance business tends to be seasonal as well as cyclical. &#32;&#32; Because home sales are typically strongest in periods of favorable weather, the first calendar quarter tends to have the lowest activity levels, while the spring and summer quarters tend to be more active. Refinance activity is generally less seasonal, but is subject to interest rate fluctuations. 

MARKETING 

The Company markets its title insurance services to a broad range of customers in the residential and commercial market sectors of the real estate industry. Issuing agents are typically real estate attorneys, independent agents or subsidiaries of community and regional mortgage lending institutions, depending on local customs and regulations and the Company&#8217;s marketing strategy in a particular territory. 

ITIC and NITIC strive to provide superior service to their customers and consider this an important factor in attracting and retaining customers. Branch and corporate personnel strive to develop new business and agency relationships to increase market share while ITIC&#8217;s Commercial Services Division focuses on services provided to commercial clients. 

REGULATION 

Title Insurance 

The Company is an insurance holding company and therefore it is subject to regulation in the states in which its insurance subsidiaries do business. These regulations, among others, require insurance holding companies to register and file certain reports, and require prior regulatory approval of the payment of extraordinary dividends and other intercompany distributions or transfers. 

Title insurance companies are extensively regulated under applicable state laws. All states have requirements for admission to do business as an insurance company, including minimum levels of capital, surplus and reserves. State regulatory authorities monitor the stability and service of insurance companies and possess broad powers with respect to the licensing of title insurers and agents, approving rate schedules and policy forms, financial reporting and accounting practices, reserve requirements, investments &#32; and dividend restrictions, approving related party transactions, as well as examining and auditing title insurers. At December 31, 2015, both ITIC and NITIC met the statutory premium reserve requirements and the minimum capital and surplus requirements of the states where they are licensed. A substantial portion of the assets of the Company&#8217;s title insurance subsidiaries consists of their portfolios of investment securities. Both of these subsidiaries are required by various state laws to maintain assets of a defined minimum quality and amount. 

The Company&#8217;s insurance subsidiaries are subject to examination at any time by the insurance regulators in the states where they are licensed as well as required examinations every five years. These and other governmental authorities have the power to enforce state and federal laws to which the title insurance subsidiaries are subject. These governmental authorities include, but are not limited to, &#32; the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (&#8220;CFPB&#8221;), which enforces the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act (&#8220;RESPA&#8221;), the primary federal regulatory guidance covering the real estate settlement industry. The CFPB has the authority to identify and address, through regulation, unfair, deceptive and abusive practices in the mortgage industry and certain other settlement service industries. 

On November 20, 2013, the CFPB released a final rule to integrate mortgage disclosures under the RESPA and the Truth in Lending Act (&#8220;TILA&#8221;). The final rule went into effect on October 3, 2015. Under this rule, the early disclosure forms required by TILA and the good faith estimate required by RESPA have been combined into one form, titled the Loan Estimate. The final disclosure required by TILA and the HUD-1 settlement statement required by RESPA have been combined into one form, titled the Closing Disclosure. The Company actively prepared for any anticipated effect this rule would have on both its direct and agency operations, with respect to its processes and procedures, systems and compliance costs. The measures adopted by the Company to comply with the final rule did not have a material impact on the Company's financial position and results of operations. 

The CFPB, Office of the Comptroller of Currency and the Federal Reserve have issued memorandums to banks that communicated those agencies&#8217; heightened focus on vetting third party providers. Such increased regulatory involvement may affect the Company's agents and approved providers. Further proposals to change regulations governing insurance holding companies and the title insurance industry are often introduced in Congress, in state legislatures and before various insurance regulatory agencies. Although the Company regularly monitors such proposals, the likelihood and timing of passage of any such regulation, and the possible effects of any such regulation on the Company and its subsidiaries, cannot be determined at this time. 

Any material change in the Company&#8217;s regulatory environment may have an adverse effect on its business. 

Exchange Services, Investment Management and Trust Services, and Management Services 

Investors Trust is regulated by the North Carolina Commissioner of Banks. 

&#160; 

COMPETITION &#32;&#32;&#32;&#32; 

The title insurance industry is highly competitive. The four largest title insurance companies typically maintain greater than eighty-five percent of the market for title insurance in the United States, with smaller regional companies holding the balance of the market. The number and size of competing companies varies in the respective geographic areas in which the Company conducts business. Key competitive factors in the title insurance industry are the financial strength and size of the insurer, timeliness and quality of service, price and expertise in certain transactions. Title insurance underwriters also compete for agents based upon service and commission levels. Some title insurers currently have greater financial resources, larger distribution networks and more extensive computerized databases of property records and related information than the Company. In addition, there are numerous industry-related regulations and statutes that set out conditions and requirements to conduct business. Changes to or the removal of such regulations and statutes could result in additional competition from alternative title insurance products or new entrants into the industry that could materially affect the Company&#8217;s business operations and financial condition. 

CUSTOMER, LENDER AND AGENT CONCENTRATION 

The Company is not dependent upon any single title insurance customer or a few customers, and the loss of any single customer would not have a material adverse effect on the Company. 

Based on information from the Mortgage Daily Second Quarter 2015 Mortgage Origination Survey, there are ten lending institutions in the United States that account for approximately 49% of all mortgage originations in the country. These lending institutions benefit from title insurance policies that are purchased by borrowers on the lending institutions&#8217; behalf as a condition to the making of a loan. Refusal by major market lenders to accept our product offerings could have a material adverse effect on the Company. 

In 2015, 2014 and 2013, the Company had one agent that accounted for 10.3%, 23.6% and 16.4% of net premiums written, respectively. 

INVESTMENT POLICIES 

The Company and its subsidiaries derive a substantial portion of their income from investments in municipal government securities and investment grade corporate bonds and equity securities. The Company&#8217;s debt and equity securities are classified as available for sale and carried at fair market value. The Company&#8217;s investment policy is designed to maintain a high quality portfolio and maximize income. Some state laws impose restrictions upon the types and amounts of investments that can be made by the Company&#8217;s insurance subsidiaries. The Company&#8217;s investment portfolio is managed internally and via an affiliated entity. The securities in the Company&#8217;s portfolio are subject to economic conditions and normal market risks. Equity securities at December 31, 2015 and 2014 consisted of investments in various industry groups. There were not any significant investments in banks, trust or insurance companies at December 31, 2015 or 2014. Short-term investments, which consist primarily of money market instruments and certificates of deposit which have an original maturity of one year or less, are carried at cost, which approximates fair value due to the short duration to maturity. In addition, at December 31, 2015 and 2014, the Company held investments that are accounted for using the equity method (see Note 1 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.) 

See Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the major categories of investments, scheduled maturities, fair values of investment securities and earnings by category. 

ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS 

The title insurance policies ITIC and NITIC currently issue exclude any liability for environmental risks and contamination unless a notice of violation relating to an environmental protection law, ordinance or regulation is recorded prior to the date of such policy or the Company issues a specific policy endorsement providing coverage for environmental liens recorded prior to the date of such policy. The Company has not experienced and does not anticipate that it or its subsidiaries will incur any significant expenses related to environmental claims. 

In connection with tax-deferred exchanges of like-kind property, ITAC may temporarily hold title to property pursuant to an accommodation titleholder agreement. In order for ITAC to enter into such arrangements, each person or entity for which title is being held must first (i) execute an indemnification agreement under which it agrees to indemnify ITAC for any environmental or other claims which may arise as a result of the arrangement, and (ii) provide due diligence materials regarding any known environmental issues, in the form of an environmental questionnaire and/or applicable environmental engineering studies, if indicated for review by ITAC, as applicable. 

EMPLOYEES 

The Company and its subsidiaries had 237 full-time employees and 28 part-time employees as of December 31, 2015. None of the employees are covered by any collective bargaining agreements. Management considers its relationship with its employees to be favorable. 

ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 

The Company&#8217;s internet address is www.invtitle.com . The contents of the Company&#8217;s website are not and shall not be deemed a part of this document or any other Securities and Exchange Commission (&#8220;SEC&#8221;) filing. The Company makes available free of charge through its internet website its annual reports on Form 10-K, its quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, its current reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as soon as reasonably practicable after such materials are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC, and also makes available the Section 16 reports on Forms 3, 4 and 5 of its insiders no later than the end of the business day following such filings. The information is free of charge and may be reviewed and downloaded from the website at any time. The public may read any material it has filed with the SEC at the SEC&#8217;s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. The &#8220;Investor Relations&#8221; section of the Company&#8217;s website also includes its code of business conduct and ethics and the charters of the Audit, Compensation and Nominating Committees of its Board of Directors. 

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY 

Following is information regarding the executive officers of the Company as of February 26, 2016. Each officer is appointed at the annual meeting of the Board of Directors to serve until the next annual meeting of the Board or until his or her respective successor has been elected and qualified. 

Name 

&#160; 

Age 

&#160; 

Position with Registrant 

J. Allen Fine 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board 

James A. Fine, Jr. 

&#160; 

&#160; 

President, Treasurer, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Accounting Officer and Director 

W. Morris Fine 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Executive Vice President, Secretary and Director 

J. Allen Fine &#32;has been Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board of the Company since its incorporation in 1973. He also served as President of the Company until May 1997. He is the father of James A. Fine, Jr. and W. Morris Fine. 

James A. Fine, Jr. &#32;was named Vice President of the Company in 1987. In 1997, he was named President and Treasurer and appointed as a Director of the Company. In 2002, he was appointed as Chief Financial Officer and Chief Accounting Officer. He is the son of J. Allen Fine and the brother of W. Morris Fine. 

W. Morris Fine &#32;was named Vice President of the Company in 1992. In 1993, he was named Treasurer of the Company and served in that capacity until 1997. In 1997, he was named Executive Vice President and Secretary of the Company. In 1999, he was appointed as a Director of the Company. He is the son of J. Allen Fine and the brother of James A. Fine, Jr. 

