 ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

Company Overview 

We are a leading distributor of building products in North America. The Company is headquartered in Atlanta, Georgia, with executive offices located at 4300 Wildwood Parkway, Atlanta, Georgia, and we operate our distribution business through a network of 44 &#32;distribution centers located throughout the United States (&#8220;U.S.&#8221;). We serve most major metropolitan areas in the U.S, and deliver building products to a variety of wholesale and retail customers. 

Fiscal Year 

Fiscal 2015 &#32;comprised 52 weeks, fiscal 2014 &#32;comprised 52 weeks, and fiscal 2013 &#32;comprised 53 weeks. 

Products and Services 

We distribute products in two principal categories: structural products and specialty products. Structural products, which represented approximately 40% , 41% , and 44% &#32;of our fiscal 2015 , fiscal 2014 , and fiscal 2013 &#32;gross sales, respectively, include plywood, oriented strand board (&#8220;OSB&#8221;), rebar and remesh, lumber and other wood products primarily used for structural support, walls, and flooring in construction projects. Specialty products, which represented approximately 60% , 59% , and 56% &#32;of our fiscal 2015 , fiscal 2014 , and fiscal 2013 &#32;gross sales, respectively, include roofing, insulation, specialty panels, moulding, engineered wood products, vinyl products (used primarily in siding), outdoor living, particle board, and metal products (excluding rebar and remesh). In some cases, these products are branded by us. 

We also provide a wide range of value-added services and solutions to our customers and suppliers including: 

&#8226; providing &#8220;less-than-truckload&#8221; delivery services; 

&#8226; pre-negotiated program pricing plans; 

&#8226; inventory stocking; 

&#8226; automated order processing through an electronic data interchange, or &#8220;EDI&#8221;, that provides a direct link between us 

and our customers; 

&#8226; intermodal distribution services, including railcar unloading and cargo reloading onto customers&#8217; trucks; and 

&#8226; backhaul services, when otherwise empty trucks are returning from customer deliveries. 

Distribution Channels 

We sell products through three main distribution channels: warehouse sales, reload sales, and direct sales. 

Warehouse sales are delivered from our warehouses to dealers, home improvement centers, and industrial users. Warehouse sales accounted for approximately 73% &#32;of our fiscal 2015 &#32;gross sales, and 71% &#32;of both our fiscal 2014 &#32;and fiscal 2013 gross sales. 

Reload sales are similar to warehouse sales but are shipped from third-party warehouses where we store owned product to enhance operating efficiencies. This channel is employed primarily to service strategic customers that would be less economical to service from our warehouses, and to distribute large volumes of imported products from port facilities. Reload sales accounted for approximately 8% &#32;of our fiscal 2015 &#32;gross sales, and 10% &#32;of both our fiscal 2014 &#32;and fiscal 2013 &#32;gross sales. 

Direct sales are shipped from the manufacturer to the customer without our taking physical inventory possession. This channel requires the lowest amount of committed capital and fixed costs. Direct sales accounted for approximately 19% &#32;of our gross sales for fiscal years 2015 , 2014 , and 2013 . 

Competition 

The U.S. building products distribution market is a highly fragmented market, served by a small number of multi-regional distributors, several regionally focused distributors, and a large number of independent local distributors. Local and regional distributors tend to be closely held and often specialize in a limited number of segments, in which they offer a broader selection of products. Some of our multi-regional competitors are part of larger companies and therefore have access to greater financial and other resources than those to which we have access. We compete on the basis of breadth of product offering, consistent availability of product, product price and quality, reputation, service, and distribution facility location. 

Two of our largest competitors are Boise Cascade Company and Weyerhaeuser Company. Most major markets in which we operate are served by the distribution arm of at least one of these companies. 

Seasonality 

We are exposed to fluctuations in quarterly sales volumes and expenses due to seasonal factors common in the building products distribution industry. The first and fourth quarters are typically our slowest quarters due to the impact of poor weather on the construction market. Our second and third quarters are typically our strongest quarters, reflecting a substantial increase in construction due to more favorable weather conditions. Our working capital, accounts receivable, and accounts payable generally peak in the third quarter, while inventory generally peaks in the second quarter in anticipation of the summer building season. 

Employees 

As of January 2, 2016 , we employed approximately 1,600 &#32;employees. We consider our relationship with our employees generally to be good. 

Executive Officers 

The following are the current executive officers of our Company as of March 28, 2016 : 

Mitchell B. Lewis , age 53, has served as our President and Chief Executive Officer, and as a Director of BlueLinx Holdings Inc. since January 2014. Mr. Lewis has held numerous leadership positions in the building products industry since 1992, including President and Chief Executive Officer of Euramax Holdings, Inc. from February 2008, through November 2013. Mr. Lewis also served as Chief Operating Officer in 2005, Executive Vice President in 2002, and group Vice President in 1997, of Euramax Holdings, Inc. and its predecessor companies. Prior to being appointed group Vice President, Mr. Lewis served as President of Amerimax Building Products, Inc. Prior to 1992, Mr. Lewis served as Corporate Counsel with Alumax Inc. and practiced law with Alston &#38; Bird LLP, specializing in mergers and acquisitions. 

Susan C. O&#8217;Farrell , age 52, has served as our Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, Treasurer, and Principal Accounting Officer since May 2014. Prior to joining us, Ms. O&#8217;Farrell was a senior financial executive holding several roles with The Home Depot since 1999. As the Vice President of Finance, she led teams supporting the retail organization. Ms. O&#8217;Farrell was also responsible for the finance function for The Home Depot&#8217;s At Home Services Group. Ms. O&#8217;Farrell led the financial operations of The Home Depot, as well as served as the VP Finance for the Northern Division of the company. Ms. O&#8217;Farrell began her career with Andersen Consulting, LLP, leaving as an Associate Partner in 1996 for a strategic information systems role with AGL Resources. Ms. O&#8217;Farrell earned a Bachelor of Science degree in Business Administration from Auburn University and attended Emory University&#8217;s Executive Leadership program. 

Shyam K. Reddy , age 41, has served as our Senior Vice President, General Counsel, and Corporate Secretary since June 1, 2015. Prior to joining us, Mr. Reddy served in roles as Senior Vice President, Chief Administrative Officer, General Counsel, and Corporate Secretary of Euramax Holdings, Inc., from March 2013 to March 2015. Prior to joining Euramax, Mr. Reddy was the Regional Administrator of the Southeast Sunbelt Region of the U.S. General Services Administration from March 2010 to March 2013. Prior to accepting the Presidential Appointment at the U.S. General Services Administration, Mr. Reddy practiced corporate law as a partner in the Atlanta office of Kilpatrick Townsend &#38; Stockton. Mr. Reddy received a Juris Doctorate from the University of Georgia. 

Environmental and Other Governmental Regulations 

The Company is subject to various federal, state, provincial and local laws, rules, and regulations. We are subject to environmental laws, rules, and regulations that limit discharges into the environment, establish standards for the handling, generation, emission, release, discharge, treatment, storage and disposal of hazardous materials, substances and wastes, and require cleanup of contaminated soil and groundwater. These laws, ordinances, and regulations are complex, change frequently and have tended to become more stringent over time. Many of them provide for substantial fines and penalties, orders 

(including orders to cease operations), and criminal sanctions for violations. They may also impose liability for property damage and personal injury stemming from the presence of, or exposure to, hazardous substances. In addition, certain of our operations require us to obtain, maintain compliance with, and periodically renew permits. 

Certain of these laws, including the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act, may require the investigation and cleanup of an entity&#8217;s or its predecessor&#8217;s current or former properties, even if the associated contamination was caused by the operations of a third party. These laws also may require the investigation and cleanup of third-party sites at which an entity or its predecessor sent hazardous wastes for disposal, notwithstanding that the original disposal activity accorded with all applicable requirements. Liability under such laws may be imposed jointly and severally, and regardless of fault. 

We are also subject to the requirements of the U.S. Department of Labor Occupational Safety and Health Administration (&#8220;OSHA&#8221;). In order to maintain compliance with applicable OSHA requirements, we have established uniform safety and compliance procedures for our operations, and implemented measures to prevent workplace injuries. 

The U.S. Department of Transportation (&#8220;DOT&#8221;) regulates our operations in domestic interstate commerce. We are subject to safety requirements governing interstate operations prescribed by the DOT. Vehicle dimensions and driver hours of service also remain subject to both federal and state regulation. 

We incur and will continue to incur costs to comply with the requirements of environmental, health and safety, and transportation laws, ordinances, and regulations. We anticipate that these requirements could become more stringent in the future, and we cannot assure you that compliance costs will not be material. 

Securities Exchange Act Reports 

The Company maintains a website at www.BlueLinxCo.com. The information on the Company&#8217;s website is not incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We make available on or through our website certain reports, and amendments to those reports, that we file with or furnish to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the &#8220;SEC&#8221;) in accordance with the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These include our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and proxy statements. Additionally, our code of ethical conduct, the board committee charter for each of our audit committee, compensation committee, and nominating and governance committee, and our corporate governance guidelines are available on our website. If we make any amendment to our code of ethical conduct, or grant any waiver, including any implicit waiver, for any board member, our chief executive officer, our chief financial officer, or any other executive officer, we will disclose such amendment or waiver on our website. 

We make information available on our website free of charge as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file the information with, or furnish it to, the SEC. In addition, copies of this information will be made available, free of charge, on written request, by writing to BlueLinx Holdings Inc., Attn: Corporate Secretary, 4300 Wildwood Parkway, Atlanta, Georgia, 30339. 

