 Item 1. Business 

Overview 

We are an innovative biopharmaceutical company committed to the discovery and development of novel therapeutics that treat diseases caused by an imbalance in the proteostasis network, a set of pathways that control protein biosynthesis, folding, trafficking and clearance. Leveraging our unique and comprehensive expertise of the proteostasis network, we have developed the Disease Relevant Translation, or DRT, technology platform, a validated drug screening approach for identifying highly translatable therapeutics based on predictive and functionally pertinent phenotypic assays and disease relevant models. Using this proprietary platform, we identified a new class of small molecules, which we call amplifiers, that modulate proteins in the proteostasis network. Our initial therapeutic focus is cystic fibrosis, or CF, which is caused by defects in the cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator, or CFTR, protein and insufficient CFTR protein function. We are initially developing and intend to commercialize our lead amplifier of CFTR protein, PTI-428, to improve CFTR protein function. 

There is presently no cure for CF. CF affects an estimated 70,000 to 100,000 patients worldwide with the vast majority of the identified patients residing in the United States, Canada, Europe and Australia. CF is a progressive disease and the most common fatal inherited disease among Caucasians. Without normal CFTR protein activity, thick mucus accumulates in vital organs, particularly the lungs, pancreas and gastrointestinal tract, and causes many complications, including respiratory infections, chronic lung inflammation, poor absorption of nutrients and in most cases, progressive respiratory failure. CF patients require lifelong treatment with multiple daily medications, hours of self-care, and frequent hospitalizations. In 2014, the median age of death in the United States from CF was 29 years. 

Our lead product candidate PTI-428 is an orally bioavailable CFTR modulator belonging to the amplifier class. CFTR modulators are compounds that affect the folding, trafficking and clearance of CFTR protein and can be classified according to the ways in which they affect CFTR protein. Amplifiers, which include PTI-428, are CFTR modulators that selectively increase the amount of an immature form of CFTR protein, thereby providing additional substrate for other CFTR modulators, such as correctors and potentiators, to act upon. Correctors, such as lumacaftor or VX-661, are believed to improve protein folding and trafficking to enable abnormally folded CFTR protein to achieve some level of activity without repairing the actual protein. Potentiators, such as ivacaftor, are believed to increase the opening time of the CFTR protein channel resulting in higher ion flow across the cell membrane. Using industry-standard in vitro studies, we have demonstrated that co-administration of PTI-428 with these other CFTR modulators significantly improves the in vitro CFTR protein activity achieved by these CFTR modulators alone. Due to the unique ability of amplifiers to selectively increase the amount of an immature form of CFTR protein and its synergistic mechanism of action with certain other types of CFTR modulators, we believe that our amplifiers could become the anchor therapeutic agent for combination therapies comprising multiple classes of CFTR modulators for the treatment of CF. 

With the recent advent of CFTR modulators, the CF treatment paradigm is shifting from palliative care, which addresses only the symptoms of CF, to disease-modifying agents that target the genetic mutations and protein dysfunction that cause the disease. We are developing and intend to commercialize PTI-428 for CF patients with an F508del mutation of the CFTR gene, the most common CFTR gene mutation. In the United States, approximately 87% of all CF patients have an F508del mutation of the CFTR gene, of which approximately 55% are homozygous (having two copies of the F508del mutation), and approximately 45% are heterozygous (having an F508del mutation and one other mutation). 

Our analyses of published data by Vertex Pharmaceuticals Incorporated, or Vertex, of its CFTR modulators (the potentiator ivacaftor and the correctors lumacaftor and VX-661) and combinations thereof, show a strong correlation between the in vitro CFTR protein activity and lung function improvement. We have shown in vitro that PTI-428 increases the amount of available CFTR protein and, when combined with ivacaftor and either 

&#160;

lumacaftor or VX-661, nearly doubles the CFTR protein activity in the cell compared to a combination of only ivacaftor and either lumacaftor or VX-661. In December 2015, the investigational new drug application, or IND, that we submitted to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, for a Phase 1 clinical trial to evaluate our PTI-428 product candidate became effective. We plan to initiate a Phase 1 clinical trial in the first quarter of 2016, expect to have preliminary safety, pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics data from the Phase 1 clinical trial available in the first half of 2016 and aim to complete the Phase 1 clinical trial with the final report by the end of 2016. If our Phase 1 clinical trial results are favorable, we plan to initiate our Phase 2 clinical trial in the second half of 2016 with proof of concept data expected to be available in the first half of 2017. 

We have exclusive worldwide commercial rights to PTI-428. Initially, we plan to pursue regulatory approval for PTI-428 in regions where ivacaftor and lumacaftor are commercially available. Given the well-characterized and clearly identified patient populations with CF in the United States, Canada, Europe and Australia, we plan to independently commercialize PTI-428 in those regions. Outside of those regions, we may seek a partner to commercialize our products. Our commercialization strategy will target key prescribing physicians and advocacy groups, as well as provide patients with support programs, ensure product access and secure reimbursement. 

We are leveraging our DRT technology platform to design and develop our own correctors and potentiators that are optimized to work more synergistically with our amplifiers than third-party CFTR modulators. Internal screening against our own proprietary amplifiers has identified a number of novel proprietary correctors and potentiators that, when tested as a triple combination of corrector, potentiator and amplifier, restored in vitro CFTR protein activity to between 80% and 100% of normal in patient-derived human bronchial epithelial, or HBE, cells homozygous for F508del. There is significant potential for improvement in clinical outcomes beyond existing treatments and therapies presently in clinical development for the treatment of CF. We believe that the treatment paradigm in CF for the vast majority of patients will be based on combination therapies of CFTR modulators anchored by our amplifiers. 

We are using our platform to independently explore the activity of other CFTR modulators in additional respiratory-related diseases. PTI-130 is a novel small molecule CFTR modulator that we are developing for the treatment of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, or COPD, a progressive disorder characterized by poor airflow. COPD is a leading cause of morbidity and mortality worldwide. We believe the mechanism of action of PTI-130 can be complementary to drugs currently approved or in development for COPD. In order to further the development of PTI-130, we plan to collaborate with one or more biopharmaceutical companies that have capabilities in COPD development. 

In addition, we have partnered with major pharmaceutical companies for indications with large patient populations. Our Usp14 program with Biogen New Ventures Inc. (formerly Biogen Idec New Ventures Inc.), or Biogen, is intended to enhance the clearance of misfolded aggregation-prone proteins in neurodegenerative diseases, such as in Alzheimer&#146;s and Parkinson&#146;s disease. We have announced the achievement of our initial preclinical milestone in July 2014, and we continue to make progress in seeking orally available, potent, selective and brain-penetrant inhibitors of Usp14 as candidates for evaluation in the IND-enabling safety assessment studies required for transition to the clinic. Our unfolded protein response, or UPR, program with Astellas Pharma Inc., or Astellas, is intended to reduce the accumulation of unfolded proteins in the endoplasmic reticulum, or ER, which is observed in many diseases caused by an imbalance in the proteostasis network and characterized by defects in protein folding, trafficking and clearance, including genetic, neurodegenerative and retinal degenerative diseases. We are presently using our DRT technology platform to identify selective UPR activators and plan to initiate preclinical development in 2017. 

&#160;

Our Strategy 

Our mission is to improve the lives of patients who suffer from rare diseases for which there are limited or no available treatments, with an initial therapeutic focus on CF. To accomplish our objectives, we intend to: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Rapidly advance our lead amplifier candidate PTI-428 into clinical development. We are initially developing PTI-428, an orally bioavailable amplifier, for CF patients homozygous for F508del, the most common CFTR gene mutation. We have shown that PTI-428, combined with ivacaftor and either lumacaftor or VX-661, nearly doubles in vitro CFTR protein activity in cells homozygous for F508del compared to a combination of only ivacaftor and either lumacaftor or VX-661. Our IND became effective in December 2015. We plan to initiate a Phase 1 clinical trial in the first quarter of 2016, expect to have preliminary safety, pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics data from the Phase 1 clinical trial available in the first half of 2016 and aim to complete the Phase 1 clinical trial with the final report by the end of 2016. If our Phase 1 clinical trial results are favorable, we plan to initiate our Phase 2 clinical trial in the second half of 2016 with proof of concept data expected to be available in the first half of 2017. In January 2016, we received Fast Track designation from the FDA for the investigation of PTI-428 for the treatment of CF, and we intend to apply for orphan drug designation for PTI-428. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Advance PTI-428 into clinical development for additional mutation classes. We plan to generate additional evidence supporting the use of PTI-428 in combination with other CFTR modulators and broaden the patient population beyond the initially targeted F508del homozygous subjects. Based on preclinical studies to date, PTI-428, in combination with other CFTR modulators, has shown a consistent positive effect on in vitro CFTR protein activity across multiple CFTR gene mutation classes. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Develop our own proprietary combination therapies to address a broad spectrum of CFTR gene mutations. Utilizing our DRT technology platform, we have identified several novel correctors and potentiators that, when combined with an amplifier, have restored in vitro CFTR protein activity to between 80% and 100% of normal in cells homozygous for F508del. We are designing, and intend to advance into clinical development, proprietary combination therapies consisting of our own amplifiers, correctors and potentiators with optimal mechanistic synergy. We anticipate that the demonstrated ability of the combination therapy in vitro will translate into a more clinically meaningful benefit across a broader set of mutation classes than those addressed by presently approved therapies and those under clinical development. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Generate highly selective drug candidates, including amplifiers, in other rare disease conditions by leveraging our knowledge of the proteostasis network. We are focused on developing drugs based on our unique and comprehensive expertise regarding the proteostasis network and its role in protein biosynthesis, folding, trafficking and clearance. We believe that this expertise, together with our validated DRT technology platform, will enable us to identify and develop other transformative, disease-modifying therapies. We plan to initiate high throughput screening, or HTS, campaigns using our DRT technology platform to continue to discover novel drug candidates for rare diseases, including diseases where amplifiers can have a clinically meaningful impact. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Enter into additional collaborative partnerships to develop and commercialize novel compounds in indications outside of our key strategic areas. Our existing corporate alliances with Biogen and Astellas provide for future aggregate milestone payments of up to approximately $1.4 billion. We plan to enter into other arrangements that leverage our DRT technology platform to discover novel drug candidates. Partnership opportunities will be screened and evaluated based on their potential to generate additional value by giving us a stake in the resulting products&#146; future revenues and to maximize the value of our DRT technology platform in additional disease indications, including COPD for our product candidate PTI-130. &#160;

Industry Overview&#151;Cystic Fibrosis 

CF is an orphan disease that affects an estimated 70,000 to 100,000 patients worldwide, with the vast majority of affected individuals in the United States, Canada, Europe and Australia. CF is the most common fatal inherited disease in Caucasians. The incidence of CF varies across the globe. CF affects one out of 3,500 births in the United States, one out of 2,000 to 3,000 in Europe, and one out of 2,500 in Australia. 

There is presently no cure for CF. It is a progressive disease caused by a deficiency in CFTR protein activity, resulting in the accumulation of thick mucus in vital organs, particularly the lungs, pancreas and gastrointestinal tract. As a result, CF patients experience, among many other conditions, respiratory infections, chronic lung inflammation, poor absorption of nutrients and, in most cases, progressive respiratory failure. Although the life expectancy of CF patients has improved, the median age of death in the United States in 2014 was only 29 years, with a vast majority of such deaths resulting from respiratory failure. 

CF patients require lifelong treatment with multiple daily medications, hours of self-care, frequent hospitalizations and lung transplants, which if available, are life-extending but not curative. In the United States, estimated lifetime cost of care for CF patients not eligible for ivacaftor ranges from $1.1 to $2.3 million, including $50,000 to $63,000 per year in direct healthcare expenditures and substantial additional costs for frequent hospitalizations. 

These estimates exclude the estimated $300,000 annual cost of ivacaftor, marketed by Vertex as Kalydeco, and the estimated $250,000 annual cost of a combination therapy composed of ivacaftor and lumacaftor, marketed by Vertex as Orkambi. As of the end of the third quarter of 2015, more than 3,000 eligible patients in the United States have started the treatment with Orkambi, with product sales totaling $131 million for that quarter. In 2014, CF treatments in the United States and major markets in the European Union, including France, Germany, Italy, Spain and the United Kingdom, were estimated to cost approximately $1.4 billion, of which approximately $431 million was attributed to sales of ivacaftor. It is projected that in 2018, the market for CF therapeutics will exceed $5 billion, of which more than $4.3 billion will be attributable to CFTR modulators, including Kalydeco and Orkambi. 

Cause and Pathophysiology 

CF is caused by mutations in the gene that encodes CFTR protein, which plays a critical role in regulating the viscosity of the mucus layer that lines human organs. CFTR protein regulates the flow of ions in and out of the cells of vital organs such as the lungs, pancreas and gastrointestinal tract. We refer to this as ion flow. When CFTR protein expels the ions, osmosis draws water out of the cell and hydrates the cell surface. Through regulation of the location of the ions across the cell membrane, the amount of salts in the fluid both inside and outside the cell remains balanced. 

In CF patients, the CFTR gene is defective, and as a result, CF patients lack the functional CFTR protein necessary to regulate ion flow. Altered ion concentration gradient between the inside and the outside of the cell reduces the amount of water molecules outside the cell, causing the accumulation of thick mucus on the epithelial surface as shown in Figure 1. 

Figure 1: Ion Flow in Normal CFTR Protein Compared to Mutant CFTR Protein 

&#160;

&#160;

The deficiency in CFTR protein activity in CF patients is particularly problematic in the lungs, where the build-up of thick mucus obstructs air flow and impairs proper immune response, which leads to chronic infection and persistent inflammation. In the pancreas and the gastrointestinal tract, the build-up of mucus prevents the release of digestive enzymes that help the body break down food and impairs the absorption of nutrients, resulting in poor growth and development. 

Classes of CFTR Gene Mutations 

CF is an autosomal, recessive genetic disease caused by mutations in the CFTR gene. A person must have a mutation in both copies of the CFTR gene to be afflicted. If both mutations are the same, the person has a homozygous mutation. If the mutations on both copies of the genes are different from one another, the person has a heterozygous mutation. If someone has a mutation in only one copy of the CFTR gene and the other copy is normal, he or she is a carrier but will not suffer from CF. 

The vast majority of CF patients whose gene mutations have been identified have gene mutations that can be classified into five classes according to the biological process they affect: &#147;Stop Codon,&#148; &#147;Processing,&#148; &#147;Gating,&#148; &#147;Conductance,&#148; and &#147;Synthesis.&#148; 

Table 1: Overview of CFTR Gene Mutation Classes 

&#160;

Class &#160; I Stop Codon Mutation &#160; II Processing Mutation &#160; III Gating Mutation &#160; IV Conductance Mutation &#160; V Synthesis Mutation &#160; &#160;

&#160; &#160;

&#160; &#160;

&#160; &#160;

&#160; &#160;

Defect

&#160; Gene transcription prematurely stopped &#160; Misfolded protein fails to reach surface &#160; Regulation of ion flow is abnormal &#160; Faulty channel conductance slows ion flow &#160; Less CFTR protein is made Example Mutation

&#160; G542X &#160; F508del &#160; G551D &#160; R117H &#160; 3849+10kbC-&#62;T Prevalence in the

United States and Canada*

&#160; 12% &#160; 87% &#160; 5% &#160; 5% &#160; 5% CFTR Modulators with POC**

&#160; Read Through Compound &#160; Corrector and Potentiator

&#160; Potentiator &#160; Potentiator &#160; Potentiator Our Approach

&#160; &#252; &#160; &#252; &#160; &#252; &#160; &#252; &#160; &#252; &#160;

* The sum of the percentages in all classes exceeds 100% because individual CF patients might carry more than one mutation. ** &#147;POC&#148;, or proof of concept, means demonstrated statistically significant clinical benefit in a controlled clinical trial. Although F508del is the most common CFTR gene mutation, the frequency of its occurrence in CF patients can vary from region to region. For example, Table 2 summarizes the prevalence of F508del in CF patients in the regions where CF is most common. 

&#160;

Table 2: Summary of Largest CF Patient Populations by Region 

&#160;

&#160; &#160; Number of Patients in

National CF Registries

&#160; &#160; % of Patients Homozygous for F508del &#160; &#160; % of Patients Heterozygous for F508del &#160; United States

&#160; &#160; 28,000 &#160; &#160; &#160; 47 % &#160; &#160; 39 % Canada

&#160; &#160; 4,000 &#160; &#160; &#160; 49 % &#160; &#160; 38 % Europe (32 countries)

&#160; &#160; 40,000 &#160; &#160; &#160; 44 % &#160; &#160; 38 % Australia

&#160; &#160; 3,000 &#160; &#160; &#160; 52 % &#160; &#160; 33 % Epidemiological forecasts predict that the total number of CF patients will grow significantly in the near term due to improvements in the standard of care, which has improved life expectancy. It is anticipated that the European CF population will grow by approximately 40% by 2025, reaching over 57,000 patients. The improvements in life expectancy in the United States and Canada suggest similar trends in CF population growth will likely occur in those territories. 

Current Standard of Care 

There is presently no cure for CF. Kalydeco and Orkambi are the only products currently approved to treat the underlying cause of CF. Kalydeco is a potentiator believed to increase CFTR protein activity by keeping the ion channel of the CFTR protein open for longer periods of time. However, Kalydeco is presently approved only for the treatment of CF patients with Gating mutations and R117H Conductance mutations, which impact less than 10% of the CF patient population in the United States and Canada. Although other potentiators may be developed, it is expected that potentiators, when used alone as a monotherapy, would likely address only Gating, Conductance and some Synthesis mutations, impacting only approximately 15% of all CF patients in those regions. Orkambi includes a corrector believed to improve protein folding and trafficking to enable abnormally folded protein to achieve some level of activity without repairing the actual protein, which works together with the same potentiator in Kalydeco, to enhance overall CFTR protein activity. However, Orkambi is only approved for the treatment of CF in people ages 12 and older who are homozygous for F508del, which comprises approximately 45% of the CF patient population in the United States and Europe. 

The current standard of care for all other CF patients remains the management of the disease symptoms. The thick mucus that builds up in the lungs, the pancreas and gastrointestinal tract leads to airway obstruction and difficulty absorbing nutrients, resulting in poor growth and development. CF patients take numerous prescribed and over-the-counter medications to alleviate symptoms and reduce complications. Primary treatment options include inhaled therapies, which thin the mucus in the lungs, as well as pancreatic enzyme replacement therapy, which improves absorption of nutrients. In addition, because thick mucus in the lungs impairs CF patients&#146; immune response, they also often develop chronic bacterial lung infections that require treatment with inhaled antibiotics. 

Several companies are presently developing other small molecule CFTR modulators called correctors for the treatment of CF patients with Processing mutations. In addition to drug candidates targeting CFTR protein a number of other companies are pursuing different cellular targets that might have a beneficial effect on CF related symptoms. 

Correlation of CFTR Protein Activity to Clinical Benefit 

FEV 1 : Clinical Measurement of Lung Function 

Because CF causes significant loss of lung function, the severity of CF progression is often measured by FEV 1 (forced expiratory volume in one second), which is expressed as a percentage of the maximum volume of air that a healthy individual of the same height, sex and race could forcefully exhale from the lungs in one second. FEV 1 is considered to be the industry-standard efficacy endpoint in clinical trials of CF product 

&#160;

candidates. Rate of decline in FEV 1 has been demonstrated to correlate with life expectancy and to be the strongest clinical predictor of mortality. 

The decline in lung function is progressive and occurs throughout the life of a CF patient and in the vast majority of cases, leads to respiratory failure and death. The severity of lung disease is categorized as mild (FEV 1 &#62;70%), moderate (40%&#60; FEV 1 &#60;69%) or severe (FEV 1 &#60;40%). The ultimate goal of CF therapy is to halt and reverse the decline of lung function in the hope of extending the life expectancy of patients, eliminating the need for lung transplants, and reclassifying the disease from a lethal to a chronic condition. 

Ussing Chamber Assay: In vitro Measurement of CFTR Protein Activity 

CFTR modulators are typically evaluated by measuring CFTR protein activity in vitro using the Ussing Chamber Assay. In this assay, HBE cells derived from the lungs of CF patients are cultured in a manner to resemble the lung epithelium and then placed in the Ussing Chamber between two compartments filled with media, one containing ions that can only flow to the other compartment through the epithelium. The CFTR protein activity is measured by recording the electrical current generated by ions flowing across the cultured epithelium. CFTR protein activity is expressed as a percentage of the measured current relative to the current generated by ion flow in HBE cells with normal CFTR protein activity. 

Strong Correlation between CFTR Protein Activity and Lung Function 

Our analyses of published data on Vertex&#146;s CFTR modulators (the potentiator ivacaftor and correctors lumacaftor and VX-661) show a strong correlation between the in vitro CFTR protein activity as measured by the Ussing Chamber Assay and lung function improvement measured by FEV 1 improvement in clinical trials of these CF product candidates. Importantly, as shown in Figure 2, in vitro CFTR protein activity of these modulators at 50% of normal correlates with an absolute improvement of approximately 10% in FEV 1 as seen in clinical trials. 

Figure 2: CFTR Protein Activity is Highly Correlated with Observed Clinical Efficacy 

&#160;

&#160;

Our Solution 

We are developing and intend to commercialize amplifiers, a new class of CFTR modulators that have pharmacological characteristics and a mechanism of action that is distinct from, yet synergistic with, other CFTR modulators, including correctors and potentiators. Our in vitro studies demonstrate that our amplifiers selectively increase the amount of an immature form of CFTR protein in the cell, thereby providing additional substrate for other CFTR modulators, such as correctors and potentiators to act upon, leading to improved overall CFTR protein activity. The combined effect of amplifiers and marketed correctors and potentiators further increases the CFTR protein activity, which is correlated with improved clinical outcomes in CF. 

Figure 3: Amplifiers, Correctors and Potentiators on CFTR Protein Production 

&#160;

We are leveraging our DRT technology platform to develop our own correctors and potentiators that are designed to work more synergistically with our amplifiers than third-party CFTR modulators. There is significant potential for improvement in clinical outcomes beyond existing treatments and therapies presently in clinical development for the treatment of CF. We believe that the treatment paradigm in CF for the vast majority of patients will be based on combination therapies of CFTR modulators anchored by our amplifiers. 

Figure 4 illustrates the existing medical need across various CFTR gene mutation classes. The vertical axis represents the actual or predicted clinical benefit measured by absolute improvement in FEV 1 , and the horizontal axis spans across the different CFTR gene mutation classes, where the width of each bar delineated by the vertical dotted lines is proportional to the prevalence of the specific genotype or mutation class among CF patients in the United States and Canada. The total of the percentages indicated on the horizontal axis exceeds 100% because individual CF patients might carry more than one class of mutation. 

&#160;

Figure 4: Portion of CF Population Served or Expected to be Served by Existing Treatments and Therapies Presently in Development 

&#160;

We believe that PTI-428 first, and combinations of our own CFTR modulators later, will be able to address a significant portion of underserved patients by providing add-on therapy or novel treatment options, respectively. We have shown that PTI-428, when used in combination with ivacaftor and either lumacaftor or VX-661, nearly doubles in vitro CFTR protein activity in the Ussing chamber assay compared to treatment without PTI-428. Accordingly, based on the correlation between in vitro CFTR protein activity and clinical efficacy observed in Vertex&#146;s published data, we believe the addition of PTI-428 could have the potential to approximately double the improvement in FEV 1 observed with potentiator with or without corrector. 

We have also demonstrated that the combination of one of our proprietary amplifiers, together with a proprietary corrector and a proprietary potentiator, can achieve mechanistic synergy and restore in vitro CFTR protein activity to between 80% and 100% of normal in patient-derived HBE cells homozygous for F508del. We believe that with these results, our combination therapies have the potential to deliver a more clinically meaningful benefit to a broader set of mutation classes than those addressed by presently approved therapies and those under development. 

Our Product Candidates 

By combining our understanding of protein homeostasis with our discovery and development expertise, we have built a robust pipeline of programs targeting the key mechanisms underlying CF and other rare diseases, as well as neurodegeneration and protein conformational diseases. 

For our CF programs, we intend to maintain a proactive relationship with the Cystic Fibrosis Foundation. We will continue to access patient-derived HBE cells from the Foundation&#146;s database to conduct ongoing preclinical trials. In the short term, we intend to consult the Cystic Fibrosis Foundation&#146;s Therapeutics Development Network on the scope and design of our Phase 2 clinical trial. 

Our lead product candidate PTI-428, an orally bioavailable amplifier, is a novel, first-in-class drug candidate that, when used in combination with existing treatments and therapies presently in clinical development, has shown a consistent positive effect on CFTR protein activity in vitro . Our studies show that 

&#160;

amplifiers selectively increase an immature form of CFTR protein, thus increasing the amount of CFTR protein available for trafficking. When combined with ivacaftor and either lumacaftor or VX-661, PTI-428 nearly doubles the in vitro CFTR protein activity in cells homozygous for F508del in our Ussing Chamber Assays compared to a combination of only ivacaftor and lumacaftor. In December 2015, the IND we submitted for a Phase 1 clinical trial to evaluate our PTI-428 product candidate became effective. We plan to initiate a Phase 1 clinical trial in the first quarter of 2016, expect to have preliminary safety, pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics data from the Phase 1 clinical trial available in the first half of 2016 and aim to complete the Phase 1 clinical trial with the final report by the end of 2016. If our Phase 1 clinical trial results are favorable, we plan to initiate our Phase 2 clinical trial in the second half of 2016 with proof of concept data expected to be available in the first half of 2017. 

Our product pipeline is described in more detail in Figure 5. 

Figure 5: Our Product Pipeline 

&#160;

Mechanism of Action of Our Amplifiers 

While the specific molecular target for our amplifiers remains unknown, our in vitro studies show that our amplifiers have a unique effect on in vitro CFTR protein activity. Our amplifiers, including PTI-428 and PTI-130, have been observed to selectively increase the amount of an immature form of CFTR protein in the patient-derived HBE cells. 

As shown in Figure 6, during the translation process of mRNA into protein, the signal recognition particle, or SRP, binds to a special portion of the emerging chain of amino acids, called the signal sequence, and shuttles the entire mRNA-ribosome complex to the ER surface, where the emerging chain of amino acids can be properly folded into the protein. Increased SRP recognition of the signal sequence facilitates protein synthesis and, by blocking RNA degradation processes, stabilizes mRNA. Because our in vitro studies show that our amplifiers increase both the CFTR mRNA and the amount of the immature form of the CFTR protein, we believe that our 

&#160;

amplifiers improve the translation of CFTR protein at the ER membrane, resulting in more of the immature form of CFTR protein being made. By providing more CFTR protein, our amplifiers can significantly increase the effect of correctors and potentiators on in vitro CFTR protein activity in HBE cells homozygous and heterozygous for F508del. 

Figure 6: Model for Effect of PTI-428 on CFTR Translation Efficiency 

&#160;

Although the mechanism of action is not fully characterized, we have confirmed that our amplifiers, including PTI-428 and PTI-130, do not belong to a known class of potentiators or correctors. Potentiators, such as ivacaftor, are believed to increase CFTR protein activity by keeping the ion channel of the CFTR protein open for longer periods of time. The distinguishing feature of potentiators is the so-called &#147;acute effect&#148; observed in vitro as measured by increased CFTR protein activity immediately upon the addition of the molecule to the cells. However, our in vitro studies show that acute addition of our amplifiers does not immediately affect CFTR protein activity. 

Likewise, correctors, such as lumacaftor and VX-661, alter the ratio of mature to immature form of CFTR protein by acting on the protein folding process to increase the amount of the mature form. Our in vitro studies show that our amplifiers do not affect the ratio of the two protein forms but rather lead to increases in the total amount of both forms of CFTR protein in a dose-dependent fashion. 

Accordingly, we believe that our amplifiers represent a new class of CFTR modulator distinct from correctors and potentiators. Furthermore, the effect on CFTR mRNA is specific. Our amplifiers do not appear to increase mRNA levels in vitro for the so-called housekeeping genes that are needed for the normal functioning of the cell. In a surface and total protein expression assay, which measures changes in the abundance of proteins both on the plasma membrane and within the cell, our amplifiers were shown to increase the levels of CFTR, but not PgP, a closely related membrane protein. 

&#160;

PTI-428 

Our lead product candidate PTI-428, an orally bioavailable amplifier, is a novel, first-in-class drug candidate that, when used in combination with other CFTR modulators, has shown a consistent positive effect on CFTR protein activity and better pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic properties compared to our other amplifiers. 

In Vitro Studies 

An Ussing Chamber Assay with HBE cells homozygous for F508del was conducted to assess the effects of PTI-428 in combination with ivacaftor and lumacaftor on in vitro CFTR protein activity. HBE cells were incubated with lumacaftor with or without PTI-428 for 24 hours before adding ivacaftor during the measurement of ion flow in the Ussing Chamber. As shown in Figure 7, addition of PTI-428 to a combination of ivacaftor and lumacaftor resulted in an approximately 1.8-fold increase in in vitro CFTR protein activity, as measured by ion flow, compared to the potentiator and corrector combination alone. We then replicated the study with ivacaftor and another corrector, VX-661, with similar results as indicated in Figure 7. 

Figure 7: Ion Flow in Patient-Derived HBE Cells Homozygous for F508del 

&#160;

Furthermore, similar experiments using HBE cells heterozygous for F508del mutation (G542X/F508del) showed that the addition of PTI-428 to ivacaftor and lumacaftor led to a 1.9-fold increase in ion flow compared to ivacaftor and lumacaftor alone. Similarly, the addition of PTI-428 to ivacaftor in R117H/F508del HBE cells led to a greater than 1.9-fold increase in ion flow compared to ivacaftor alone. In addition, our experiments show that PTI-428 added to ivacaftor demonstrates a 1.6-fold increase in in vitro CFTR protein activity to that observed with ivacaftor in G551D/F508del HBE cells. 

Figure 8: Ion Flow of Patient-Derived HBE Cells Heterozygous for F508del 

&#160;

&#160;

Experiments using HBE cells homozygous for a Class I G542X showed that the addition of PTI-428 led to a 2.0-fold increase in ion flow compared to negative control and an additive effect with NB124, a molecule used as a research tool to study nonsense mutations. Similarly, the addition of PTI-428 to HBE cells carrying Class V and II mutations 3849+10kbC-&#62;T/N1303K led to a greater than 1.3-fold increase in ion flow compared to negative control and an additive effect with ivacaftor. 

Figure 9: Ion Flow of Patient-Derived HBE Cells with Mutations Other than F508del 

&#160;

Additionally, in experiments using patient-derived HBE cells homozygous for F508del, exposure to PTI-428 leads to an increase in CFTR mRNA and higher CFTR protein activity, with both changes in the 1.5 to 2.0-fold range, suggesting a positive correlation and predictive value of CFTR mRNA measurement for the drug&#146;s efficacy. 

We also have several other amplifier candidates in early-stage preclinical development. We are not aware of other compounds presently in development for the treatment of CF that increase the amount of CFTR mRNA or CFTR protein. 

&#160;

Preclinical Studies 

We conducted repeat oral-dose toxicity studies in rats and cynomolgus monkeys for up to 28 days at dose levels significantly higher than those intended for humans. Both of these species are routinely selected for toxicology testing. Both species exhibited hematological toxicities that were monitorable and reversible at doses higher than those intended for humans. The toxicology data generated thus far in the cynomolgus monkeys suggest the bone marrow may be a target organ. Based on the 28-day rat study, we noted that the expected safety margin was more than 14 times the starting dose to be tested in subjects with CF. Rat was also determined to be the most sensitive species. We believe these data provide support for human clinical trials with durations up to 4 weeks, but we plan to complete long-term toxicity studies prior to initiation of our Phase 3 clinical trial. 

Additionally, similar to the results of in vitro studies in HBE cells, CFTR mRNA levels in target tissues of rats and monkeys exposed to PTI-428 were also observed to increase proportionally with exposure to PTI-428. Monkey lung CFTR mRNA increased more than 2.4-fold following 28-day multiple dosing with PTI-428. Rat nasal epithelium CFTR mRNA increased 1.4-fold within six hours of dosing. The sustained mRNA increase and the magnitude of mRNA changes in monkeys were more robust than what has been observed in HBE cells, which supports using the mRNA as an exploratory biomarker for PTI-428. 

Our Clinical Development Program 

Because we plan to initially develop PTI-428 as a combination therapy with approved CFTR modulators, our clinical development will be conducted in countries where CFTR modulators such as Kalydeco and Orkambi will have received marketing authorization and reimbursement status. We believe that in such countries these approved CFTR modulators will likely be recognized as the standard therapy for the treatment of patients homozygous for F508del, which comprise our target enrollment population. If recognized as the standard of care, we expect that the cost of these CFTR modulators used in our clinical studies will be covered by insurers or payors. 

In December 2015, the IND we submitted for a Phase 1 clinical trial to evaluate our PTI-428 product candidate became effective. We plan to initiate a Phase 1 clinical trial in the first quarter of 2016 to assess safety, tolerability and pharmacokinetics in CF subjects. We expect to have preliminary data available in the first half of 2016 and aim to complete the Phase 1 clinical trial with the final report by the end of 2016. If our Phase 1 clinical trial results are favorable, we plan to initiate our Phase 2 clinical trial in the second half of 2016 with proof of concept data expected to be available in the first half of 2017. 

Phase 1 Clinical Trial. Our Phase 1 clinical trial will be randomized and placebo-controlled. We intend to test PTI-428 in SAD (single ascending dose) and MAD (multiple ascending dose) in CF subjects with any CFTR mutation class. At least 36 CF subjects will be treated with either PTI-428 or placebo. 

We will recruit eligible CF subjects that are not currently taking Kalydeco or Orkambi. In addition to safety, tolerability, pharmacokinetics and exploratory endpoints such as sweat chloride, we will measure the levels of CFTR mRNA in the nasal epithelial cells of study subjects as an exploratory biomarker for PTI-428 activity. 

We expect to have preliminary safety, pharmacokinetics and exploratory biomarker data from the Phase 1 clinical trial available in the first half of 2016 and aim to complete the Phase 1 clinical trial with the final report by the end of 2016. 

Proposed Phase 2 Clinical Trial. Upon confirmation of the safety and tolerability of PTI-428, we plan to initiate a Phase 2 proof of concept clinical trial to assess the safety, pharmacokinetics and efficacy in CF patients. We intend to consult the Cystic Fibrosis Foundation&#146;s Therapeutics Development Network on the scope and design of our Phase 2 clinical trial. If our Phase 1 results are favorable, we intend to initiate enrollment for this Phase 2 clinical trial by the second half of 2016. 

We currently expect our proof of concept clinical trial will be a randomized, placebo-controlled study of PTI-428. Based on our proposed design, eligible subjects will include CF patients homozygous for F508del 

&#160;

receiving approved CFTR modulators such as Orkambi and Kalydeco as a standard of care and who are 18 years of age or older at the time of enrollment. 

We expect that the primary endpoints will be to determine the safety, tolerability and pharmacokinetic profile of PTI-428 in the CF population. We expect that the secondary endpoints will be to determine the efficacy of PTI-428 including its effect on FEV 1 , sweat chloride (SC) and patient reported outcomes (CFQ-R). If we initiate our Phase 2 trial on time, we expect to report the results of this proof of concept trial in the first half of 2017. 

Commercialization 

We have exclusive worldwide commercial rights to PTI-428. Initially, we plan to pursue regulatory approval for PTI-428 in regions where ivacaftor and lumacaftor are commercially available. Given the well-characterized and clearly identified patient populations with CF in the United States, Canada, Europe and Australia, we plan to independently commercialize PTI-428 in those regions. Outside of those regions, we may seek a partner to commercialize our products. Our commercialization strategy will target key prescribing physicians and advocacy groups, as well as provide patients with support programs, ensure product access and secure reimbursement. 

Our pricing and reimbursement strategy for PTI-428 will be based on the efficacy and safety profile that will be collected during registrational studies. Pharmacoeconomic models that justify premium pricing for a CFTR modulator have been widely used in territories where the drug is approved and provide us with validated strategies to be used in future pricing and reimbursement negotiations. 

Manufacturing and Supply 

We do not own or operate, and presently have no plans to establish, any manufacturing facilities. We presently rely, and expect to continue to rely, on third parties for the manufacture of our product candidates for preclinical and clinical testing, as well as for commercial manufacture of any products that we may commercialize. We have outsourced the manufacturing of current Good Manufacturing Practice, or cGMP-grade PTI-428 for preclinical studies and clinical trials. Our contract manufacturers have had and we believe that they will have the capacity to produce adequate quantities of PTI-428 for both our preclinical studies and our clinical trials. We do not presently have arrangements in place for redundant supply for bulk drug substance. For all of our product candidates, we intend to identify and qualify additional manufacturers to provide the active pharmaceutical ingredient and fill-and-finish services prior to submission of an NDA to the FDA. 

We have entered into manufacturing and supply agreements with two vendors and these activities are ongoing. As of the date of this report, sufficient amounts of cGMP-certified material are available for use in the Phase 1 clinical trial. 

All of our compounds are organic compounds of low molecular weight, generally called small molecules. They can be manufactured in reliable and reproducible synthetic processes from inexpensive and readily available starting materials that can be supplied by a number of commercial vendors. The chemistry is amenable to scale-up and does not require unusual equipment in the manufacturing process. We expect to continue to develop drug candidates that can be produced cost-effectively at contract manufacturing facilities. 

PTI-NC-733, a Novel Combination Solution Built around PTI-428 

Combination Therapies Built around Our Amplifiers and other Proprietary CFTR Modulators 

Combination therapy of compounds that act synergistically on CFTR protein biosynthesis, folding, trafficking and conductance has been validated in preclinical models and clinical studies in CF patients. With the advent of CFTR modulators, the CF treatment paradigm is shifting from palliative care to the advancement of 

&#160;

disease-modifying modulators that target CFTR gene mutations. We are taking advantage of the potential ability of our amplifiers to enhance clinical efficacy of potentiators and correctors to develop novel proprietary combinations. 

Using our DRT technology platform to screen compounds against PTI-428 and our other amplifiers, we are designing and developing correctors and potentiators that are optimized to work more synergistically with our proprietary CFTR modulators than third-party CFTR modulators. For example, one of our proprietary potentiators, PTI-P271, has restored in vitro CFTR protein activity in cells homozygous for F508del in our Ussing Chamber assays to levels similar to those achieved by ivacaftor. One of our proprietary correctors, PTI-C1811, when combined with ivacaftor and one of our proprietary amplifiers, has demonstrated superior in vitro efficacy compared to a triple combination of lumacaftor, ivacaftor and the same proprietary amplifier, and appears to protect against the ivacaftor-induced destabilization of F508del-CFTR. In addition, we have shown that our corrector is synergistic in vitro with lumacaftor, likely due to a differentiated mechanism of action. 

Our Product Candidate 

We have also demonstrated that PTI-NC-733, a novel combination of PTI-428 together with a proprietary corrector and a proprietary potentiator, can achieve mechanistic synergy restoring in vitro CFTR protein activity to approximately 97% of normal in patient-derived HBE cells homozygous for F508del. Additionally, the combination of the corrector and potentiator in PTI-NC-733 has demonstrated superior in vitro efficacy compared to the combination of lumacaftor and ivacaftor. We anticipate that these findings will translate into a more clinically meaningful benefit to a broader set of mutation classes than those addressed by presently approved therapies and those under development. 

We plan to complete a full preclinical safety and efficacy profile of PTI-NC-733, the first of our proprietary combination therapies, by the end of 2016, and, if our Phase 2 clinical trial results for PTI-428 are favorable, we plan to initiate a clinical program with such combination therapy in 2017 where we investigate the use of PTI-NC-733 in CF patients already receiving other CFTR modulator-based therapy, such as Orkambi, Kalydeco or PTI-428. 

We believe PTI-NC-733 may command premium pricing as it will represent a new standalone therapy. 

PTI-130 for the Treatment of COPD 

We are using our DRT technology platform to independently explore the activity of other CFTR modulators in additional respiratory diseases. 

Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, or COPD, is a type of chronic lung disease characterized by poor airflow. The main symptoms include shortness of breath, cough, and sputum production. These symptoms are present for a prolonged period of time and typically worsen over time. People with COPD may be limited in their ability to work, exercise and perform routine activities. 

COPD is a leading cause of morbidity and mortality worldwide and it is projected to be the third most common cause of death by 2030. It is estimated that in 2014 there were 44.5 million cases of COPD in the population aged 40 years and above in the United States, Japan, and five major European Union, or EU, markets (France, Germany, Italy, Spain, and the UK). The number of cases of COPD is expected to rise to 55.0 million by 2034 which is an overall growth of 24%. This increase will be due to population growth and the aging of the population. 

In 2013, sales for COPD products were estimated to be $8.4 billion across the United States, Japan, and five major EU markets (France, Germany, Italy, Spain, and the UK). The market is predicted to grow in the period until 2022 with a positive compound annual growth rate, or CAGR, of 1.34%. In 2013, the market leaders were 

&#160;

Spiriva (tiotropium; Boehringer Ingelheim) and Advair (fluticasone/salmeterol; GlaxoSmithKline), which together were estimated to capture $3.5 billion and $1.8 billion of sales, respectively. 

There is no known cure for COPD, but the symptoms are treatable and its progression can be delayed. The major goals of management are to reduce risk factors, manage stable COPD, prevent and treat acute exacerbations, and manage associated illnesses. The mainstays of drug therapy for symptomatic relief in stable COPD are bronchodilators. The bronchodilator agents most often used are &#223;2 agonists, anticholinergics, and theophylline. Long-acting &#223;2 agonists, or LABA, or long-acting muscarinic antagonists, or LAMA, with or without inhaled corticosteroids, or ICS, are often used in combination for those with moderate to severe COPD. Recently, anti-inflammatory drugs, such as PDE-4 inhibitors, have also been used for the treatment of severe COPD. Supplemental therapies, such as oxygen, pulmonary rehabilitation and physiotherapy, immunizations, nutrition and exercise also play an important role in the management of COPD. 

However, no therapies definitively address mucus accumulation, which has been associated with lung function decline, exacerbation frequency, and early mortality. Experimental evidence also confirmed that cigarette smoking, a major risk factor for COPD, reduces CFTR activity and is causally related to reduced mucus transport in smokers due to inhibition of CFTR-dependent fluid transport. Accordingly, CFTR modulators have been suggested as a novel treatment strategy for the treatment of COPD given their ability to increase CFTR protein activity which could result in improved epithelial hydration and restoration of mucus formation to physiological levels. 

Our product candidate PTI-130 is a novel small molecule amplifier that has been shown to enhance the function of normal and mutated CFTR in human CF patient-derived primary lung epithelial cell cultures in vitro . Although the specific molecular target of PTI-130 has not yet been elucidated, we have collected evidence to show that our drug candidate improves CFTR protein activity. We believe that PTI-130 could potentially be formulated for inhalation by means of commonly used inhalers and nebulizers. Furthermore, PTI-130 is potentially amenable for co-formulation with other agents as a combination product since the mechanism of action of PTI-130 could be complementary to drugs currently approved or in development. 

PTI-130 is in advanced stages of preclinical development and has been tested in safety and toxicology studies in rodent and non-rodent species as an orally formulated product. Given that the majority of currently approved products or Phase III drug candidates for COPD are formulated for local delivery, we feel that in order to maximize the commercial potential of PTI-130, the compound should be re-formulated for administration with devices such as inhalers and nebulizers. We believe this new formulation and different route of administration will result in lower clinically efficacious doses and lower systemic exposure that will avoid any toxicology issues previously observed, but additional safety and toxicology studies will need to be completed on any new formulation of PTI-130 prior to IND submission. We plan to enter into one or more research, development and commercialization collaborations with biopharmaceutical companies that have capabilities in COPD development and access to compatible formulation and device technologies. Our objective is to enter into at least one such collaboration prior to IND submission for PTI-130. 

Our Partnered Programs 

The Usp14 Program 

The Usp14 program is intended to enhance clearance of misfolded and damaged proteins, which is essential for maintaining normal protein homeostasis, or proteostasis, in cells. A number of neurodegenerative diseases are caused by the deficient clearance of aggregation-prone proteins, such as &#097; -synuclein in Parkinson&#146;s disease and p-tau in Alzheimer&#146;s disease. The deficiency can result in the accumulation of damaged or misfolded aggregation-prone proteins, which can lead to loss of cell function and cell death. Prior research has shown that the inhibition of Usp14 can increase the clearance of such proteins. In December 2013, we entered into a worldwide research, development, and commercialization collaboration with Biogen around the Usp14 program. 

&#160;

See &#147;&#151;Licenses&#151;Biogen Agreement.&#148; In July 2014, we announced the achievement of our initial preclinical milestone. Our Usp14 program continues to seek orally available, potent, selective and brain-penetrant inhibitors of Usp14 as candidates for evaluation in the safety assessment studies required for transition to the clinic. We are aware of one commercial company that has a compound for which Usp14 is one of several proposed targets. That compound is currently in early clinical development for potential applications in oncology. See &#147;&#151;Competition.&#148; 

The UPR Program 

The unfolded protein response, or UPR, program is focused on developing therapies that modulate the cellular processes activated when proteins do not fold properly and is directed toward developing treatments for diseases caused by defects in protein folding, trafficking and clearance, which include neural and retinal degenerative disorders. The ER is an organelle in the cell that is important in biosynthesis and folding of proteins. Only properly folded and functional proteins are trafficked out from the ER. Misfolded, poorly functional proteins remain in the ER and are targeted for clearance. When misfolded proteins accumulate in the ER, the folding, trafficking and clearance capacity of the cell is increased through the activation of the UPR, and protein synthesis is arrested through activation of the protein kinase RNA-like ER kinase, or PERK, receptor. Nonclinical studies have shown that a selective pharmacologic activation of the UPR without activating the PERK pathway has improved the stress response and restored cellular function, suggesting that this process can be beneficial as a potential novel disease-modifying therapy for multiple diseases with high unmet medical needs. 

In November 2014, we announced our collaboration with Astellas to research, develop and commercialize therapies targeting UPR. See &#147;&#151;Licenses&#151;Astellas Agreement.&#148; By specific activation of the UPR, we aim to better fold and export mutant proteins out of the ER and reduce the accumulation of misfolded aggregation-prone proteins. We are presently using our DRT technology platform to identify selective UPR activators. Preclinical evidence suggests that selectively activating the UPR could have therapeutic benefit in patients in a variety of diseases. As of today, the vast majority of drug discovery and development efforts are focused on the therapy of cancer with molecules inhibiting specific elements of the UPR. See &#147;&#151;Competition.&#148; 

Our DRT Technology Platform 

We were founded around our unique and comprehensive expertise regarding the proteostasis network, which comprises pathways and cellular processes that control protein biosynthesis, folding, trafficking and clearance within a cell. Many diseases appear to be caused by an imbalance in the proteostasis network, including loss-of-function diseases, such as CF, and gain-of-toxic-function diseases, such as Alzheimer&#146;s and Parkinson&#146;s diseases. The decreased ability of the proteostasis network to cope with misfolded proteins from inherited gene mutations, aging, and metabolic or environmental stress appears to trigger or exacerbate proteostasis diseases. 

The proteostasis network is comprised of a number of integrated pathways totaling more than 1,000 proteins. A natural way to address this complex, interrelated network of pathways and proteins is through phenotypic screening where a desirable change in the cellular phenotype is monitored. A phenotypic screen is often viewed as more physiologically relevant and less artificial than a target-based screen, since it relies on cells with a native cellular environment close to the disease state, unlike other widely used approaches such as target-based assays that are based on genetically modified cells or artificial systems. For example, in CF screens, the change in phenotype is a functional readout for an increased ability of mutant CFTR protein to transport ions across the membranes of HBE cells from CF patients. 

We have developed and validated a phenotypic drug screening approach that is based on the use of highly predictive and functionally pertinent cellular assays. Our DRT technology platform is an integral part of our drug discovery and development approach used to discover compounds for other loss-of-function and gain-of-toxic-function diseases. We believe our DRT technology platform allows us to identify drug candidates with optimal pharmacological profiles to restore the proteostasis imbalance in the cell and thus address the cause of the disease. Our approach makes it also possible to identify active compounds that modulate a disease phenotype by acting on previously undescribed targets. 

&#160;

We have assembled a proprietary library of 150,000 highly curated compounds. These compounds have physicochemical properties optimized to have oral bioavailability, wide structural diversity and novelty. We have performed extensive filtering in order to remove potentially toxic and other unwanted structural characteristics. 

As part of the DRT technology platform, we perform a transcriptional analysis of our hit compounds in order to group them into similar modes of action and filter away compounds that activate undesired pathways. The most promising hits are then further optimized using medicinal chemistry, which includes pharmacophore and quantum chemical modeling. 

Competition 

The biopharmaceutical industry is highly competitive and subject to rapid and significant technological change. Key competitive factors affecting the commercial success of our product candidates are likely to be efficacy, safety and tolerability profile, reliability, convenience of dosing, price and reimbursement. Our potential competitors include large pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, specialty pharmaceutical and generic drug companies, academic institutions, government agencies and research institutions. Many of these potential competitors have significantly greater experience in the discovery and development of product candidates, obtaining FDA and other regulatory approvals of products and the commercialization of those products and have substantially greater financial, technical and human resources than we do. Mergers and acquisitions in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries may result in even more resources being concentrated among a small number of competitors. Accordingly, our competitors may be more successful than we may be in obtaining FDA approval for therapies and achieving widespread market acceptance more quickly than we will. Our competitors&#146; products may be more effective, or more effectively marketed and sold, than any product candidate we may commercialize and may render our therapies obsolete or non-competitive before we can recover development and commercialization expenses. See &#147;Risk Factors&#151;Risks Relating to Commercialization of Our Product Candidates.&#148; 

A number of companies are seeking to identify and develop drug candidates for the treatment of CF, including Vertex Pharmaceuticals Incorporated, AbbVie Inc., Galapagos NV, ProQR Therapeutics N.V., Nivalis Therapeutics, Inc., F. Hoffmann-LaRoche Ltd., Novartis AG, Gilead Sciences, Inc., Ampliphi Biosciences Corporation, Pfizer Inc., Parion Sciences, Inc., Genzyme Corporation, Bayer AG, Concert Pharmaceuticals Inc., Shire and several other companies. Of these, Vertex&#146;s Kalydeco and Orkambi are the only drugs approved to treat an underlying cause of CF, rather than the symptoms. 

A number of companies are seeking to identify and develop drug candidates for the treatment of various neurodegenerative disorders that could compete with the Usp14 program, including large biopharmaceutical companies, such as Merck &#38; Co. Inc., Eli Lilly and Company, AstraZeneca PLC, Biogen, Roche Holding AG and Takeda Pharmaceutical Company Limited. 

Other companies, such as Genentech (a subsidiary of Roche Holding AG), are evaluating other de-ubiquitinating enzymes as targets in Parkinson&#146;s disease. While recent research on these targets has been promising, information on the development of small molecule drug candidates for such targets is not yet publicly available. 

A number of companies are active in drug discovery and development for the treatment of diseases caused by protein misfolding by pursuing various pathways that regulate the fate of a misfolded protein within a cell. Such companies could be competitive with the UPR program and include, but are not limited to, Forma Therapeutics, Inc., Mission Therapeutics Ltd, Treventis Corporation, Arvinas, Inc., Progenra, Inc. and Proteologics Ltd. 

A number of companies are seeking to identify and develop novel drug candidates for the treatment of COPD. Companies with late-stage clinical trials include Boehringer Ingelheim, Orion Corporation, AstraZeneca, GlaxoSmithKline, Novartis AG and Chiesi Farmaceutici. The majority of currently approved and late-stage products are formulated as inhaled drugs. 

&#160;

Intellectual Property 

Our owned patent applications relate to our amplifiers and correctors and include patent applications directed to new compositions of matter and to methods of treating CF, including combination therapies with existing CFTR modulators. 

As of December 31, 2015, we own one Patent Cooperation Treaty patent application, and two pending U.S. provisional patent application families and we intend to seek patent protection in the U.S. and in selected jurisdictions worldwide for composition of matter, methods of use, and combination therapies relating to our lead candidate, PTI-428. If we continue to pursue protection, and if any patents issue based on these applications, we expect such patents, if issued, to expire between 2035 and 2036. We also own one pending U.S. patent application and foreign counterpart applications, and five Patent Cooperation Treaty patent applications, all of which generally relate to other compounds in our CF program. 

As of December 31, 2015, we own one Patent Cooperation Treaty patent application and two pending U.S. provisional patent application families and we intend to seek patent protection in the U.S. and in selected jurisdictions worldwide for composition of matter and methods of use relating to our product candidate, PTI-130, for COPD. If we continue to pursue protection, and if any patents issue based on these applications, we expect such patents, if issued, to expire between 2035 and 2036. 

As of December 31, 2015, we own one pending U.S. provisional patent application relating to new correctors. If we continue to pursue protection, and if any patents issue based on this application, we expect such patents to expire in 2036. 

With respect to our DRT technology platform, we primarily rely on trade secrets and know-how to protect the proprietary nature of our platform. However, trade secrets and know-how can be difficult to protect. We seek to protect our proprietary technology and processes, in part, by confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, scientific advisors and contractors. We also seek to preserve the integrity and confidentiality of our data, know-how and trade secrets by maintaining physical security of our premises and physical and electronic security of our information technology systems. While we have confidence in these individuals, organizations and systems, agreements or security measures may be breached, and we may not have adequate remedies for any breach. In addition, our trade secrets may otherwise become known or be independently discovered by competitors. To the extent that our consultants, contractors or collaborators use intellectual property owned by others in their work for us, disputes may arise as to the rights in related or resulting know-how and inventions. 

Licenses 

CFFT Agreement 

In March 2012, we entered into a research, development and commercialization agreement with Cystic Fibrosis Foundation Therapeutics, Inc., or CFFT, pursuant to which we have collaborated to research, develop and commercialize products for the treatment of CF, non-classical CF, and other pulmonary diseases in the United States or in the European Union. Under this agreement, CFFT provided financial support and continues to provide consultation and advice and certain research material and know-how for our research program. 

We expect to make milestone payments based on PTI-428 and PTI-130, if approved, and may need to make additional payments for our other product candidates in CF, if approved. We have agreed to make future sales-based milestone payments (which the agreement refers to as royalties) to CFFT of up to $34.2 million upon achieving specified commercialization milestones with respect to the first of any product developed utilizing any compound covered under the collaboration agreement. We have also agreed to pay to CFFT royalties of a mid single-digit percentage, up to an aggregate of $22.8 million, on any amounts received by us from the sale, license or transfer to a third party of rights in the technology developed as a result of this collaboration. Any such royalty payments shall be credited against the first three sales-based milestone payments owed by us through the second 

&#160;

anniversary of the first commercial sale of a product developed as a result of this collaboration. In the event of a change of control of our company, CFFT will receive certain payments, depending on the timing of the change of control and the size of the transaction. 

We have the exclusive right to develop, commercialize, market, sell and distribute products worldwide. All joint technology from of the research program is jointly owned by the parties, but we have a license from CFFT for all CFFT-owned inventions and patents and in the joint inventions and joint patents arising from the collaboration for all purposes. We control and cover the costs of the preparation, prosecution and maintenance and enforcement of all of our patents, CFFT-owned patents and joint patents, but CFFT is able to use compounds for non-commercial research purposes in the field of treatment of CF, non-classical CF, and other pulmonary diseases. 

The agreement will expire when there are no longer any payment obligations, unless terminated earlier. Each party may terminate for an uncured material breach of any material covenants or obligations or if any representation or warranty is materially untrue as of the date made and uncured after 30 days from notice. CFFT may also terminate if a case or proceeding under the bankruptcy laws is filed against our company and not dismissed within 60 days, or if we file for insolvency, reorganization, receivership, dissolution or liquidation of our company. 

If at any time prior to the first commercial sale, we cease to use commercially reasonable efforts to develop or commercialize any product in the field of treatment of CF, non-classical CF, and other pulmonary diseases, for a continuous period of 180 consecutive days, and fail to present a reasonable plan to resume commercially reasonable efforts, we will grant to CFFT an irrevocable, exclusive worldwide interruption license under all of our interest in the research plan technology to exploit such product, and CFFT will assume all costs and expenses relating to the prosecution, maintenance and enforcement of all joint patents and patents covering such product. Any third-party license granted by us shall be subject to such interruption license. 

Harvard Agreement 

In December 2013, we amended and restated an existing license agreement signed on March 29, 2011 with the President and Fellows of Harvard College, or Harvard, in order to enter into a sublicense agreement with Biogen, or the Usp14 agreement, to further develop and commercialize certain products under the Usp14 agreement and to retain the services of consultants Drs. Daniel Finley and Randall King for such purpose. 

We have worldwide, royalty-bearing licenses to certain technology and small molecule compounds related to Usp14 that are exclusive with respect to the composition of matter and non-screening method claims and certain related technology transfer materials and are non-exclusive with respect to the screening method claims. The licenses include the rights to develop, make, have made, offer to sell, sell, have sold and import products in the diagnosis, treatment or prevention of disease in humans or animals, but Harvard retains for itself and other non-profit research organizations the right to practice for research and education. Under the restated agreement, we and our affiliates and sublicensees may further sublicense our rights. 

All joint inventions created under the agreement will be jointly owned, but all consulting inventions will be owned solely by Harvard. Harvard is responsible for the prosecution and maintenance of all Harvard patent rights and we will reimburse Harvard for all documented, out-of-pocket expenses incurred. We are responsible for the prosecution and maintenance and protection of all joint patent rights and have the right, but not the obligation, to enforce any intellectual property developed under this agreement. 

We must use commercially reasonable efforts to develop, introduce and market licensed products and achieve certain development milestones specified in the development plan. We also agree to use commercially reasonable efforts to provide patients in developing countries with reasonable access to the licensed products. Additionally, if a third party proposes to develop a product for an alternative indication and we cannot agree on a 

&#160;

new development plan with Harvard for such indication or fail to enter into a sublicense to allow such third party to develop the indication, Harvard may terminate or convert our license into a non-exclusive license to the extent needed to allow such third party to develop and distribute such alternative indication product. 

In connection with the license, we paid a license fee and issued shares of our common stock. We are subject to annual license maintenance fees and have agreed to make future milestone payments of up to $3.5 million upon achieving specified development and clinical milestones and up to $6.0 million upon achieving specified commercialization milestones. If we do not exercise our co-development option under the Biogen collaboration agreement, the future development and clinical milestone payments we will owe under the Harvard license agreement increase to up to $15.4 million and the future commercialization milestone payments increase to up to $103.5 million. We have also agreed to pay Harvard tiered royalties, at rates in the single-digit percentages, on annual net sales, subject to adjustments under the Usp14 agreement with Biogen. We may offset royalties for third-party intellectual property necessary for the development and commercialization of licensed products. We are also required to pay a percentage of sublicensing revenue and upon achievement of certain sublicensing milestones. 

The agreement shall expire upon the expiration of the last to expire valid claim, which will vary on a country-by-country basis, but upon expiration, the licenses granted to us shall survive such expiration as perpetual, fully paid up licenses. Either party may terminate for an uncured material breach, which includes our failure to achieve development milestones. Harvard may also terminate for our failure to maintain liability insurance or for bankruptcy. Upon termination, sublicensees that are not then in breach of their sublicense agreement may have the right to obtain a license from Harvard directly on the same terms and conditions. 

Biogen Agreement 

In December 2013, we entered into a collaboration and license agreement, or the Usp14 agreement, with Biogen, where we collaborate to research, develop and commercialize licensed products to attack toxic proteins implicated in the development of Alzheimer&#146;s and Parkinson&#146;s diseases. Under the collaboration, Biogen will have the exclusive right to manufacture, and we will have the option to co-commercialize, any products developed under the collaboration. Biogen will, and cause any sublicensees to, and we will, to the extent we have rights to co-commercialize, use all commercially reasonable efforts to commercialize any developed products in each major market where it receives regulatory approval. 

In connection with the collaboration, we received an initial upfront payment, along with an equity investment, from Biogen. We are eligible for annual research funding support, subject to any co-development rights we may obtain or any third-party license fees we pay or need to pay. So long as the collaboration continues, we are entitled to certain research, development and sales milestone payments that could result in total payments of up to approximately $200 million, as well as tiered royalties ranging in the mid single-digit percentages. In July 2014, we announced the achievement of an initial preclinical milestone for which we received a milestone payment of $2.0 million. 

Both parties will jointly own all joint collaboration technology, but Biogen will be responsible for the prosecution and maintenance of all joint collaboration patent rights. Biogen will have the right of first negotiation for a license under any intellectual property necessary or useful in the collaboration that is developed or controlled by us and, at Biogen&#146;s request, we will transfer to Biogen the rights and responsibility for the prosecution and maintenance of all compound-related patents once a development candidate is designated. 

The agreement will remain in effect until the end of the royalty term, which will vary on a country-by-country basis, ending on the later of (a) ten years following the first commercial sale of a sole licensed product in such country, (b) the expiration of the last valid claim covering such sole licensed product in such country, or (c) the expiration of the data protection period for such sole licensed product, unless terminated earlier. Upon 

&#160;

expiration, but not termination of the collaboration and license agreement, the licenses granted will become fully-paid up and perpetual with the right to grant unlimited sublicenses. 

Biogen may terminate the Usp14 agreement at any time if certain milestones have not been met within a specified period of time, and following completion of the research term, by providing sixty days&#146; written notice. Either party may terminate the agreement in the event the other party is bankrupt or materially breaches the agreement, and that breach remains uncured within sixty days. Further, upon a change of control or a sale of a program, Biogen will have a right of first negotiation to purchase such controlling interest in our company, or to purchase the applicable assets in a program sale. 

Astellas Agreement 

In November 2014, we entered into a collaboration and license agreement with Astellas Pharma Inc., or Astellas, to develop cell assays for high throughput screening, and to identify, develop and commercialize drug candidates relating to the unfolded protein response pathway. 

Astellas will develop and have full control over, at its sole cost and expense, the commercialization of each licensed product. If we elect to co-develop a product candidate, we will be responsible for a percentage of the co-development costs for such development compound. We will also have the opportunity to co-promote licensed products with Astellas in the United States on a fee-for-service basis. 

In connection with the collaboration, we received an initial upfront investment from Astellas. We are entitled to certain research, development and sales milestone payments that could result in total payments of up to approximately $400 million, as well as royalties ranging in the mid single-digit to low double-digit percentages, subject to any third-party license fees we pay or need to pay. In addition, Astellas had the right to specify two additional projects to be conducted under the same terms, which, if it fully exercised this right, would bring the total potential payments under the collaboration to $1.2 billion. This right had not been exercised by Astellas as of November 30, 2015 and was initially set to lapse on May 4, 2015. Astellas has requested, and we have agreed, to extend the exercise period for this right through November 4, 2016. 

We will jointly own any collaboration technology and all intellectual property rights therein and will be jointly responsible for the prosecution and maintenance (including costs) of all collaboration patent rights, provided that our company will have final decision making authority until the time a development candidate is designated. 

The collaboration and license agreement will remain in effect until the end of the royalty term, which will vary on a country-by-country basis, ending on the later of (a) 11 years following the first commercial sale of a licensed product in such country, (b) the expiration of the last valid claim covering such licensed product in such country, or (c) the expiration of the data protection period for such licensed product, unless terminated earlier. Upon expiration, but not termination, the development and commercialization license will become fully-paid up and perpetual. Astellas may terminate the agreement at any time following completion of the research term on a licensed product-by-licensed product and a country-by-country basis, or terminate the agreement in its entirety, by providing written notice to us. Astellas may also terminate on a project-by-project basis upon 20 days&#146; to six months&#146; notice, depending on the phase of research in progress. Either party may terminate for a material breach by the other party which is uncured within 60 days or for bankruptcy of the other party. If Astellas challenges a patent right or collaboration patent right of ours, we may terminate the agreement upon written notice to Astellas. 

Upon a termination of the agreement other than by Astellas for cause, Astellas will grant to us a reverted product license, assign regulatory and clinical data and agreements with third parties that relate exclusively to reverted products and provide commercially reasonable assistance to permit us to develop or commercialize such reverted products in their reverted territory. 

&#160;

Government Regulation 

Government authorities in the United States at the federal, state and local levels, and in other countries, extensively regulate, among other things, the research, development, testing, manufacture, quality control, approval, labeling, packaging, storage, record-keeping, promotion, advertising, distribution, marketing, export and import of products such as those we are developing. 

A number of different regulatory agencies may be involved, depending on the product at issue, and the type and stage of activity. These include the FDA, the Drug Enforcement Administration, or DEA, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, or CMS, other federal agencies, state boards of pharmacy, state controlled substance agencies and more. 

U.S. Government Regulation 

Drug Development Process 

In the United States, the FDA is a primary regulator of drugs under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, or the FDCA, and implementing regulations. The process of obtaining regulatory approvals and other compliance with applicable federal, state, local and foreign statutes and regulations require the expenditure of substantial time and financial resources. Failure to comply with applicable requirements at any time during the drug development process, approval process, or after approval, may subject us to adverse consequences and administrative or judicial sanctions, any of which could have a material adverse effect on us. These sanctions could include refusal to approve pending applications; withdrawal or restriction of an approval; imposition of a clinical hold or other limitation on research; Warning Letters; product seizures; total or partial suspension of development, production, or distribution; or injunctions, fines, disgorgement, or civil or criminal payments or penalties. 

The process required before a drug may be marketed in the United States generally involves the following: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; completion of preclinical laboratory tests, animal trials and formulation trials conducted according to Good Laboratory Practice, or GLP, requirements, animal welfare laws and other applicable regulations; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; submission to the FDA of an investigational new drug application, or IND, which must become effective before clinical trials, meaning trials in human subjects, may begin in the United States, obtaining similar authorizations in other jurisdictions where clinical research will be conducted and maintaining these authorizations on a continuing basis throughout the time that trials are performed and new data are collected; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; performance of adequate and well-controlled clinical trials according to Good Clinical Practices, or GCP, requirements to demonstrate whether a proposed drug is safe and effective for its intended use; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; preparation and submission to the FDA of a marketing authorization application, such as a new drug application, or NDA, and submitting similar marketing authorization applications in other jurisdictions where commercialization will be pursued; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; satisfactory completion of an FDA inspection of the manufacturing facility or facilities at which the product will be produced to assess compliance with current good manufacturing practices, or cGMP, requirements to assure that the facilities, methods and controls are adequate to preserve the product&#146;s identity, strength, quality and purity; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; FDA review and approval of the NDA or other marketing authorization application; and &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; The development, testing and approval process requires substantial time, effort and financial resources and bears significant inherent risk that the individual products will not exhibit the relevant safety, effectiveness, or quality characteristics. We cannot be certain that any approvals for our product candidates will be granted on a timely basis, or with the specific terms that we desire, if at all. &#160;

Clinical trials typically are conducted in three sequential phases that may overlap or be combined: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Phase 1. The drug initially is introduced into a small number of patients or human volunteers and information is collected pertaining to the drug&#146;s safety, dosage tolerance, absorption, metabolism, distribution and elimination. These trials are designed to determine the metabolism and pharmacologic actions, side effects with increasing doses and if possible, early evidence of effectiveness. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Phase 2. Clinical trials include controlled clinical studies initiated in a limited patient population to identify possible adverse effects and safety risks, to preliminarily evaluate the effectiveness of the drug candidate for a particular indication in patients with the disease or condition under study, and to determine common short-term side effects and risks associated with the drug. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Phase 3. Clinical trials are expanded and controlled trials undertaken to further evaluate dosage, clinical efficacy and safety in an expanded patient population at geographically dispersed clinical trial sites. These clinical trials are intended to gather additional information about effectiveness and safety that is needed to evaluate the overall benefit-risk profile of the drug candidate and provide an adequate basis for physician labeling and regulatory approval. Progress reports related to clinical trials must be submitted at least annually to the FDA and participating institutional review boards, and more frequent safety reports must be submitted to the FDA and to investigators for serious and unexpected suspected adverse events, and certain other purposes. Phase 1, Phase 2 and Phase 3 testing may not be completed successfully within a specified period, if at all. The FDA or the sponsor may suspend a clinical trial at any time for a variety of reasons, including a finding that the healthy volunteers or patients are being exposed to an unacceptable health risk or that the investigational product apparently lacks efficacy. Similarly, an institutional review board can suspend or terminate approval of a clinical trial at its institution if the clinical trial is not being conducted in accordance with applicable requirements or if the drug candidate has been associated with unexpected serious harm to healthy volunteers or patients. 

We estimate that it generally takes 10 to 15 years, or possibly longer, to discover, develop and bring to market a new pharmaceutical product in the United States. Several years may be needed to complete each phase, including discovery, preclinical, Phase 1, 2 or 3, or marketing authorization. 

At times during the development of a new drug product, sponsors are given opportunities to meet with the FDA. This commonly occurs prior to submission of an IND, at the end of Phase 2 testing, and before an NDA is submitted. Meetings at other times may also be requested. These meetings provide an opportunity for the sponsor to share information about the data gathered to date, for the FDA to provide advice, and for the sponsor and the FDA to reach agreement on the next phase of development. A plan for pediatric assessment also must be discussed at the end of the Phase 2 meeting. Concurrent with clinical trials, companies usually complete additional animal trials and develop additional information about the chemistry and physical characteristics of the drug candidate and finalize a process for manufacturing the product in commercial quantities in accordance with cGMP requirements. The manufacturing process must be capable of consistently producing quality batches of the drug candidate, and the manufacturer must develop methods for confirming the identity, quality, purity, and potency of the final products. Additionally, appropriate packaging must be selected and tested and stability trials must be conducted to demonstrate that the drug candidate does not undergo unacceptable deterioration over its shelf-life and distribution pathway. 

Disclosure of Clinical Trial Information 

Sponsors of clinical trials (other than Phase 1 trials) of FDA-regulated products, including drugs, are required to register and disclose certain clinical trial information. Information related to the product, comparator, patient population, phase of investigation, trial sites and investigators and other aspects of the clinical trial is made public as part of the registration. Sponsors are also obligated to disclose the results of their clinical trials after completion. Disclosure of the results of certain trials may be delayed until the new product or new 

&#160;

indication being studied has been approved. However, there are evolving rules and increasing requirements for publication of trial-related information, and it is possible that data and other information from trials involving drugs that never garner approval could in the future be required to be disclosed. In addition, publication policies of major medical journals mandate certain registration and disclosures as a pre-condition for potential publication, even when this is not presently mandated as a matter of law. Competitors may use this publicly available information to gain knowledge regarding the progress of development programs. 

New Drug Application Review and Approval Processes 

The results of drug candidate development, preclinical trials and clinical trials, along with descriptions of the manufacturing process, analytical tests conducted on the drug candidate, proposed labeling and other relevant information are submitted to the FDA as part of a new drug application, or NDA, requesting approval to market the drug candidate. The submission of an NDA is subject to the payment of a substantial user fee, and the sponsor of an approved NDA is also subject to annual product and establishment user fees; a waiver of fees may be obtained under limited circumstances. 

The cost of preparing and submitting an NDA is substantial. Under federal law, NDAs are subject to substantial application user fees and the sponsor of an approved NDA is also subject to annual product and establishment user fees. Under PDUFA, each NDA must be accompanied by a user fee. The FDA adjusts the PDUFA user fees on an annual basis. According to the FDA&#146;s fee schedule, effective through September 30, 2016, the user fee for each NDA application requiring clinical data is $2,374,200. PDUFA also imposes an annual product fee for drugs ($114,450), and an annual establishment fee ($585,200) on facilities used to manufacture prescription drugs. Fee waivers or reductions are available in certain circumstances, including a waiver of the application fee for the first application filed by a small business. Additionally, no user fees are assessed on NDAs for products designated as orphan drugs, unless the product also includes a non-orphan indication. 

The FDA reviews each NDA to ensure that it is sufficiently complete for substantive review before it may be filed. Once the submission is accepted for filing, the FDA begins an in-depth review. The FDA reviews an NDA to determine, among other things, whether a drug candidate is safe and effective for its intended use and indication for use, including use of a drug as a combination therapy, and whether its manufacturing is cGMP-compliant to assure and preserve the drug candidate&#146;s identity, strength, quality and purity. The FDA may refer the NDA to an advisory committee consisting of a panel of external experts for review and recommendation as to whether the NDA should be approved and under what conditions. Before approving an NDA, the FDA will typically inspect the facility or facilities where the active ingredient and the formulated drug candidate are manufactured and tested. 

The approval process is lengthy and difficult and the FDA may refuse to approve an NDA if the applicable criteria are not satisfied, or it may require additional clinical or other data. Even if such data are submitted, the FDA may ultimately decide that the NDA does not satisfy the criteria for approval. Data obtained from clinical trials are not always conclusive and the FDA may interpret data differently than we interpret the same data. The FDA will issue a Complete Response Letter if the agency decides not to approve the NDA in its present form. The deficiencies identified may be minor, for example, requiring labeling changes, or major, for example, requiring additional clinical trials. Additionally, the Complete Response Letter may include recommended actions that the applicant might take to place the application in a condition for approval. If a product receives regulatory approval, the approval may be limited to specific diseases, dosages, or indications for use, which could restrict the commercial value of the product. Further, the FDA may require that certain contraindications, warnings or precautions be included in the product labeling. In addition, the FDA may require post-approval trials, including Phase 4 clinical trials, to further assess a drug&#146;s safety and effectiveness after NDA approval and may require testing and surveillance programs to monitor the safety of approved products that have been commercialized. 

&#160;

Expedited Development and Review Programs 

The FDA has various programs, including fast track, priority review, accelerated approval, and breakthrough therapy designation, that are intended to increase agency interactions, expedite or facilitate the process for reviewing drug candidates, and/or provide for initial approval on the basis of surrogate endpoints. We believe that PTI-428 and PTI-130 may qualify for some of these expedited development and review programs. Even if a drug candidate qualifies for one or more of these programs, the FDA may later decide that the drug candidate no longer meets the conditions for qualification. 

In January 2016, we received Fast Track designation from the FDA for the investigation of PTI-428 for the treatment of CF. The Fast Track program is intended to expedite or facilitate the process for reviewing new drugs that meet certain criteria. Specifically, new drugs are eligible for Fast Track designation if they are intended to treat a serious or life-threatening condition and demonstrate the potential to address unmet medical needs for the condition. Fast Track designation applies to the combination of the product and the specific indication for which it is being studied. The sponsor of a new drug may request the FDA to designate the drug as a Fast Track product at any time during the clinical development of the product. Unique to a Fast Track product, the FDA may consider for review sections of the marketing application on a rolling basis before the complete application is submitted, if the sponsor provides a schedule for the submission of the sections of the application, the FDA agrees to accept sections of the application and determines that the schedule is acceptable, and the sponsor pays any required user fees upon submission of the first section of the application. 

Any product submitted to the FDA for marketing, including under a Fast Track program, may be eligible for other types of FDA programs intended to expedite development and review, such as priority review and accelerated approval. Any product is eligible for priority review if it has the potential to provide safe and effective therapy where no satisfactory alternative therapy exists or a significant improvement in the treatment, diagnosis or prevention of a disease compared to marketed products. The FDA will attempt to direct additional resources to the evaluation of an application for a new drug designated for priority review in an effort to facilitate the review. Additionally, a product may be eligible for accelerated approval. Drug candidates studied for their safety and effectiveness in treating serious or life-threatening illnesses and that provide meaningful therapeutic benefit over existing treatments may receive accelerated approval, which means that they may be approved on the basis of adequate and well-controlled clinical trials establishing that the product has an effect on a surrogate endpoint that is reasonably likely to predict a clinical benefit, or on the basis of an effect on a clinical endpoint other than survival or irreversible morbidity. As a condition of approval, the FDA may require that a sponsor of a drug receiving accelerated approval perform adequate and well-controlled post-marketing clinical studies. Failure to conduct required post-approval trials, or the inability to confirm a clinical benefit during post-marketing trials, may allow the FDA to withdraw the drug from the market on an expedited basis. In addition, the FDA presently requires as a condition for accelerated approval pre-approval of promotional materials, which could adversely impact the timing of the commercial launch of the product. Fast Track designation, priority review and accelerated approval do not change the standards for approval but may expedite the development or approval process. 

The Food and Drug Administration Safety and Innovation Act of 2012 also amended the FDCA to require FDA to expedite the development and review of a breakthrough therapy. A drug can be designated as a breakthrough therapy if it is intended to treat a serious or life-threatening disease or condition and preliminary clinical evidence indicates that it may demonstrate substantial improvement over existing therapies on one or more clinically significant endpoints. A sponsor may request that a drug be designated as a breakthrough therapy at any time during the clinical development of the product. If so designated, FDA shall act to expedite the development and review of the product&#146;s marketing application, including by meeting with the sponsor throughout the product&#146;s development, providing timely advice to the sponsor to ensure that the development program to gather nonclinical and clinical data is as efficient as practicable, involving senior managers and experienced review staff in a cross-disciplinary review, assigning a cross-disciplinary project lead for the FDA review team to facilitate an efficient review of the development program and to serve as a scientific liaison between the review team and the sponsor, and taking steps to ensure that the design of the clinical trials is as efficient as practicable. 

&#160;

Post-Approval Requirements 

Any products for which we may receive future FDA approval are subject to continuing regulation by the FDA, including, among other things, record-keeping requirements, reporting and analysis of adverse experiences with the product, providing the FDA with updated safety, efficacy and quality information, product sampling and distribution requirements, maintaining up-to-date labels, warnings, and contraindications, and complying with promotion and advertising requirements. Products may be promoted only for the approved indications and in accordance with the approved label; products cannot be promoted for unapproved, or off-label, uses, although physicians may prescribe drugs for off-label uses in accordance with the practice of medicine. Manufacturers must continue to comply with cGMP requirements, which are extensive and require considerable time, resources and ongoing investment to ensure compliance. In addition, changes to manufacturing processes often require prior FDA approval before being implemented and other types of changes to the approved product, such as adding new indications and additional labeling claims, are also subject to further FDA review and approval. In addition, the FDA may require testing and surveillance programs to monitor the effect of approved products that have been commercialized, and the FDA has the power to prevent or limit further marketing of a product based on the results of these post-marketing programs. Manufacturers and other entities involved in the manufacturing and distribution of approved products are required to register their establishments with the FDA and certain state agencies, and are subject to periodic inspections for compliance with cGMPs and other laws. FDA and state inspections may identify compliance issues at manufacturing that may disrupt production or distribution or may require substantial resources to correct. 

Once an approval is granted, the FDA may withdraw the approval if compliance with regulatory standards is not maintained or if problems occur after the product reaches the market, such as adverse events, the existence or severity of which was unknown when the product was approved. Later discovery of previously unknown problems with a product may result in restrictions on the product or complete withdrawal from the market. Further, the failure to maintain compliance with regulatory requirements may result in administrative or judicial actions, such as fines, warning letters, holds on clinical trials, product recalls or seizures, product detention or refusal to permit the import or export of products, refusal to approve pending applications or supplements, restrictions on marketing or manufacturing, injunctions or civil or criminal payments or penalties. 

From time to time, new legislation is enacted that changes the statutory provisions governing the approval, manufacturing, and marketing of products regulated by the FDA. In addition, FDA regulations and guidance may be revised or reinterpreted by the agency in ways that may significantly affect our business and our products. It is impossible to predict whether further legislative or regulatory or policy changes will occur or be implemented and what the impact of such changes, if any, may be. 

Patent Term Restoration and Marketing Exclusivity 

Depending upon the timing, duration, and specifics of FDA approval of the use of our drug candidates, some of our U.S. patents, if issued, may be eligible for limited patent term extension under the Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act of 1984, referred to as the Hatch-Waxman Act. The Hatch-Waxman Act permits a patent term to be extended up to five years as compensation for patent term effectively lost due to the FDA&#146;s pre-market approval requirements. However, patent term restoration cannot extend the remaining term of a patent beyond a total of 14 years from the product&#146;s approval date. The patent term restoration period is generally one-half the time between the effective date of an IND and the submission date of an NDA, plus the time between the submission date of an NDA and the approval of that application, except that the review period is reduced by any time during which the applicant failed to exercise due diligence. Only one patent applicable to an approved drug is eligible for the extension. Extensions are not granted as a matter of right and the extension must be applied for prior to expiration of the patent and within a 60 day period from the date the product is first approved for commercial marketing. The U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, in consultation with the FDA, reviews and approves the application for any patent term extension or restoration. Where a product contains multiple active ingredients, if any one active ingredient has not been previously approved, it can form the basis of an extension of patent term provided the patent claims that ingredient or the combination. 

&#160;

In the future, we may apply for patent term restoration for some of our presently owned patents to add patent life beyond their current expiration date, depending on the expected length of clinical trials and other factors involved in the submission of the relevant NDA; however, there can be no assurance that any such extension will be granted to us. 

Market exclusivity provisions under the FDCA also can delay the submission or the approval of certain applications. The specific scope varies, but fundamentally the FDCA provides a five-year period of non-patent marketing exclusivity within the United States to the first applicant to gain approval of an NDA for a new chemical entity never previously approved by the FDA either alone or in combination. For a new chemical entity that was issued orphan drug designation, the FDCA provides marketing exclusivity for the &#147;same drug&#148; and &#147;same indication&#148; for a period of seven years. A drug is a new chemical entity if the FDA has not previously approved any other new drug containing the same active moiety, which is the compound responsible for the action of the drug substance. During the exclusivity period, the FDA may not accept for review an abbreviated new drug application, or ANDA, or a 505(b)(2) NDA submitted by another company for another version of such drug where the applicant does not own or have a legal right of reference to all the data required for approval. However, an application may be submitted after four years if it contains a certification of patent invalidity or non-infringement. The FDCA also provides three years of marketing exclusivity for an NDA, 505(b)(2) NDA, or supplement to an existing NDA if new clinical investigations, other than bioavailability trials, that were conducted or sponsored by the applicant are deemed by the FDA to be essential to the approval of the application, for example, for new indications, dosages, or strengths of an existing drug. This three-year exclusivity covers only the conditions associated with the new clinical investigations and does not prohibit the FDA from approving ANDAs for drugs containing the original active agent. Five-year and three-year exclusivity will not delay the submission or approval of a full NDA. However, an applicant submitting a full NDA would be required to conduct or obtain a right of reference to all of the preclinical trials and adequate and well-controlled clinical trials necessary to demonstrate safety and effectiveness. 

Pediatric Information and Exclusivity 

Under the FDCA, NDAs and certain supplements to NDAs must contain data adequate to assess the safety and effectiveness of the drug for the claimed indications in all relevant pediatric subpopulations and to support dosing and administration for each pediatric subpopulation for which the drug is safe and effective. Recently, the Food and Drug Administration Safety and Innovation Act, or FDASIA, which was signed into law on July 9, 2012, amended the FDCA. FDASIA requires that a sponsor who is planning to submit a marketing application for a drug or biological product that includes a new active ingredient, new indication, new dosage form, new dosing regimen or new route of administration submit an initial Pediatric Study Plan, or PSP, within 60 days of an end-of-phase 2 meeting or as may be agreed between the sponsor and the FDA. The initial PSP must include an outline of the pediatric study or studies that the sponsor plans to conduct, including study objectives and design, age groups, relevant endpoints and statistical approach, or a justification for not including such detailed information, and any request for a deferral of pediatric assessments or a full or partial waiver of the requirement to provide data from pediatric studies along with supporting information. The FDA and the sponsor must reach agreement on the PSP. A sponsor can submit amendments to an agreed-upon initial PSP at any time if changes to the pediatric plan need to be considered based on data collected from nonclinical studies, early phase clinical trials, and/or other clinical development programs. 

Orphan Drug Designation 

Under the Orphan Drug Act, the FDA may grant orphan drug designation to drug candidates intended to treat a rare disease or condition, which is generally a disease or condition that affects fewer than 200,000 individuals in the United States, or more than 200,000 individuals in the United States and for which there is no reasonable expectation that cost of research and development of the drug for the indication can be recovered by sales of the drug in the United States. Orphan drug designation must be requested before submitting an NDA. After the FDA grants orphan drug designation, the identity of the therapeutic agent and its potential orphan use 

&#160;

are disclosed publicly by the FDA. Although there may be some increased communication opportunities, orphan drug designation does not convey any advantage in or shorten the duration of the regulatory review and approval process. 

If a drug candidate that has orphan drug designation subsequently receives the first FDA approval for the disease for which it has such designation, the product is entitled to orphan drug exclusivity, which means that the FDA may not approve any other applications to market the same drug for the same indication for seven years, except in very limited circumstances, such as if the second applicant demonstrates the clinical superiority of its product. Orphan drug exclusivity does not prevent the FDA from approving a different drug for the same disease or condition, or the same drug for a different disease or condition. Among the other benefits of orphan drug designation are tax credits for certain research and a waiver of the NDA application user fee. Orphan drug exclusivity could block the approval of our drug candidates for seven years if a competitor obtains approval of the same product as defined by the FDA or if our drug candidate is determined to be contained within the competitor&#146;s product for the same indication or disease. 

The Orphan Products Grants Program in the FDA&#146;s Office of Orphan Products Development, with an annual budget of approximately $14.0 million, supports clinical development of products including drugs, biologics, medical devices and medical foods for use in rare diseases and conditions where no therapy exists or where the proposed product will be superior to the existing therapy. This program provides grants for clinical studies on safety and/or effectiveness that will either result in, or substantially contribute to, market approval of these products. 

From time to time, legislation is drafted and introduced in Congress that could significantly change the statutory provisions governing the approval, manufacturing and marketing of drug products. In addition, FDA regulations and guidance are often revised or reinterpreted by the agency or reviewing courts in ways that may significantly affect our business and development of our product candidates and any products that we may commercialize. It is impossible to predict whether additional legislative changes will be enacted, or FDA regulations, guidance or interpretations changed, or what the impact of any such changes may be. Federal budget uncertainties or spending reductions may reduce the capabilities of the FDA, extend the duration of required regulatory reviews, and reduce the availability of clinical research grants. 

As in the United States, we may apply for designation of a drug candidate as an orphan drug for the treatment of a specific indication in the European Union before the application for marketing authorization is made. Orphan drugs in the European Union enjoy economic and marketing benefits, including up to 10 years of market exclusivity for the approved indication unless another applicant can show that its product is safer, more effective or otherwise clinically superior to the orphan designated product. 

The FDA and foreign regulators expect holders of exclusivity for orphan drugs to assure the availability of sufficient quantities of their orphan drugs to meet the needs of patients. Failure to do so could result in the withdrawal of marketing exclusivity for the orphan drug. 

Pharmaceutical Coverage, Pricing, and Reimbursement 

United States 

Even if the FDA approves NDAs for our drug candidates, sales of our products will depend, in part, on the availability of coverage and reimbursement by third-party payors, such as government health programs, commercial or private insurance, and managed care organizations. The process for determining whether a payor will provide coverage for a drug product may be separate from the process for setting the reimbursement rate that the payor will pay for the drug product. Third-party payors may limit coverage to specific drug products on an approved list, or formulary, which might not include all of the FDA-approved drugs for a particular indication. Moreover, a payor&#146;s decision to provide coverage for a drug product does not imply that an adequate 

&#160;

reimbursement rate will be approved. Adequate third-party reimbursement may not be available to enable us to maintain price levels sufficient to realize an appropriate return on our investment in product development. 

The marketability of any products for which we receive regulatory approval for commercial sale may suffer if the government and third-party payors fail to provide adequate coverage and reimbursement. In addition, an increasing emphasis on cost containment measures in the United States has increased and we expect will continue to increase the pressure on pharmaceutical pricing. Coverage policies and third-party reimbursement rates may change at any time. Even if favorable coverage and reimbursement status is attained for one or more products for which we receive regulatory approval, less favorable coverage policies and reimbursement rates may be implemented in the future. 

European Union 

In Europe and many other foreign countries, the success of our drug candidates we may develop depends largely on obtaining and maintaining government reimbursement, because in many foreign countries patients are unlikely to use prescription pharmaceutical products that are not reimbursed by their governments. Negotiating reimbursement rates in foreign countries can delay the commercialization of a pharmaceutical product and generally results in a reimbursement rate that is lower than the net price that companies can obtain for the same product in the United States. 

In some countries, such as Germany, commercial sales of a product can begin while the reimbursement rate that a company will receive in future periods is under discussion. In other countries, a company must complete the reimbursement discussions prior to the commencement of commercial sales of the pharmaceutical product. The requirements governing drug pricing vary widely from country to country. For example, the European Union provides options for its member states to restrict the range of drugs for which their national health insurance systems provide reimbursement and to control the prices of drugs for human use. A member state may approve a specific price for the drug or it may instead adopt a system of direct or indirect controls on the profitability of the company placing the drug on the market. Recently, many countries in the European Union have increased the amount of discounts required on pharmaceuticals and these efforts could continue as countries attempt to manage healthcare expenditures, especially in light of the severe fiscal and debt crises experienced by many countries in the European Union. There can be no assurance that any country that has price controls or reimbursement limitations for pharmaceutical products will allow favorable reimbursement and pricing arrangements for any of our products, if approved in those countries. 

Other U.S. Healthcare Laws and Compliance Requirements 

Pharmaceutical companies also are subject to various federal and state laws pertaining to healthcare fraud and abuse, including anti-kickback laws and false claims laws, and the reporting of payments to physicians and teaching hospitals. In addition, we may be subject to patient privacy regulation by both the federal government and the states in which we conduct our business. In March 2010, the Patient Protection and Affordable Health Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010, collectively, PPACA, was enacted, which includes measures that have or will significantly change the way health care is financed by both governmental and private insurers. Among the provisions of PPACA of greatest importance to the biopharmaceutical industry are the following: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; The Medicaid Drug Rebate Program requires pharmaceutical manufacturers to enter into and have in effect a national rebate agreement with the Secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services, a condition for states to receive federal matching funds for the manufacturer&#146;s outpatient drugs furnished to Medicaid patients. Effective in 2010, PPACA made several changes to the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program, including increasing pharmaceutical manufacturers&#146; rebate liability by raising the minimum basic Medicaid rebate on most branded prescription drugs and biologic agents from 15.1% of average manufacturer price, or AMP, to 23.1% of AMP and adding a new rebate calculation for &#147;line 

&#160;

&#160; extensions&#148; (i.e., new formulations, such as extended release formulations) of solid oral dosage forms of branded products, as well as potentially impacting their rebate liability by modifying the statutory definition of AMP. PPACA also expanded the universe of Medicaid utilization subject to drug rebates by requiring pharmaceutical manufacturers to pay rebates on Medicaid managed care utilization as of 2010 and by expanding the population potentially eligible for Medicaid drug benefits, to be phased-in by 2014. The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, or CMS, have proposed to expand Medicaid rebate liability to the territories of the United States as well. In addition, PPACA provides for the public availability of retail survey prices and certain weighted average AMPs under the Medicaid program. The implementation of this requirement by the CMS may also provide for the public availability of pharmacy acquisition of cost data, which could negatively impact our sales. 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; In order for a pharmaceutical product to receive federal reimbursement under the Medicare Part B and Medicaid programs or to be sold directly to U.S. government agencies, the manufacturer must extend discounts to entities eligible to participate in the 340B drug pricing program. The required 340B discount on a given product is calculated based on the AMP and Medicaid rebate amounts reported by the manufacturer. Effective in 2010, PPACA expanded the types of entities eligible to receive discounted 340B pricing, although, under the present state of the law, with the exception of children&#146;s hospitals, these newly eligible entities will not be eligible to receive discounted 340B pricing on orphan drugs when used for the orphan indication. In addition, as 340B drug pricing is determined based on AMP and Medicaid rebate data, the revisions to the Medicaid rebate formula and AMP definition described above could cause the required 340B discount to increase. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Effective in 2011, PPACA imposed a requirement on manufacturers of branded drugs and biologic agents to provide a 50% discount off the negotiated price of branded drugs dispensed to Medicare Part D patients in the coverage gap ( i.e. , &#147;donut hole&#148;). &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Effective in 2011, PPACA imposed an annual, nondeductible fee on any entity that manufactures or imports certain branded prescription drugs and biologic agents, apportioned among these entities according to their market share in certain government healthcare programs, although this fee would not apply to sales of certain products approved exclusively for orphan indications. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; As part of efforts to further transparency of payments made by pharmaceutical companies to physicians, PPACA required manufacturers to track certain financial arrangements with physicians and teaching hospitals, including any &#147;transfer of value&#148; made or distributed to such entities, as well as any investment interests held by physicians and their immediate family members. Manufacturers were required to begin reporting this information to CMS beginning in 2014. Annual reporting is required and records of payments are publicly available for review on the CMS website. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; As of 2010, a new Patient-Centered Outcomes Research Institute was established pursuant to PPACA to oversee, identify priorities in, and conduct comparative clinical effectiveness research, along with funding for such research. The research conducted by the Patient-Centered Outcomes Research Institute may affect the market for certain pharmaceutical products. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; PPACA created the Independent Payment Advisory Board, or IPAB, which has authority to recommend certain changes to the Medicare program to reduce expenditures by the program that could result in reduced payments for prescription drugs. However, the IPAB implementation has been not been clearly defined. PPACA provided that under certain circumstances, IPAB recommendations will become law unless Congress enacts legislation that will achieve the same or greater Medicare cost savings. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; PPACA established the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Innovation within CMS to test innovative payment and service delivery models to lower Medicare and Medicaid spending, potentially including prescription drug spending. Funding has been allocated to support the mission of the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Innovation from 2011 to 2019. &#160;

Anti-kickback Laws 

U.S. federal laws, including the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, prohibit fraud and abuse involving state and federal healthcare programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid. These laws are interpreted broadly and enforced aggressively by various federal agencies, including CMS, the Department of Justice, and the Office of Inspector General for the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, or HHS, and various state agencies. These anti-kickback laws prohibit, among other things, knowingly and willfully offering, paying, soliciting, receiving, or providing remuneration, directly or indirectly, in exchange for or to induce either the referral of an individual, or the furnishing, arranging for, or recommending of an item or service that is reimbursable, in whole or in part, by a federal healthcare program. Remuneration is broadly defined to include anything of value, such as cash payments, gifts or gift certificates, discounts, or the furnishing of services, supplies, or equipment. The anti-kickback laws are broad and prohibit many arrangements and practices that are lawful in businesses outside of the healthcare and biopharmaceutical industry. A person or entity need not have actual knowledge of the federal Anti-Kickback Statute or specific intent to violate it in order to have committed a violation. 

The penalties for violating the anti-kickback laws can be severe. The sanctions include criminal and civil penalties, and possible exclusion from the federal healthcare programs. Many states have adopted laws similar to the federal anti-kickback laws, and some apply to items and services reimbursable by any payor, including third-party payors. 

Federal and State Prohibitions on False Claims 

The federal False Claims Act imposes liability on any person or entity that, among other things, knowingly presents, or causes to be presented, a false or fraudulent claim for payment under federal programs (including Medicare and Medicaid). Under the False Claims Act, a person acts knowingly if he has actual knowledge of the information or acts in deliberate ignorance or in reckless disregard of the truth or falsity of the information. Although we would not submit claims directly to government payors, manufacturers can be held liable under the False Claims Act if they are deemed to &#147;cause&#148; the submission of false or fraudulent claims by, for example, providing inaccurate billing or coding information to customers or promoting a product off-label. In addition, our future activities relating to the reporting of wholesaler or estimated retail prices for our products, the reporting of prices used to calculate Medicaid rebate information and other information affecting federal, state, and third-party reimbursement for our products, and the sale and marketing of our products, are subject to scrutiny under this law. 

Provisions of the False Claims Act allow a private individual to bring an action on behalf of the federal government and to share in any amounts paid by the defendant to the government in connection with the action. The number of filings under these provisions has increased significantly in recent years. Conduct that violates the False Claims Act may also lead to exclusion from the federal healthcare programs. In addition, various states have enacted similar laws modeled after the False Claims Act that apply to items and services reimbursed under Medicaid and other state healthcare programs, and, in several states, such laws apply to claims submitted to all payers. 

Federal Prohibitions on Healthcare Fraud and False Statements Related to Healthcare Matters 

There are numerous federal and state laws protecting the privacy and security of protected health information. Additionally, a number of related crimes can be prosecuted related to healthcare fraud, false statements relating to healthcare matters, theft or embezzlement in connection with a health benefit program, and obstruction of criminal investigation of healthcare offenses. The healthcare fraud statute prohibits knowingly and willfully executing a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program, including a private insurer. Violation of any of these laws is a felony and may result in fines or exclusion from the federal healthcare programs. 

&#160;

Physician Payment Sunshine Act 

The Physician Payment Sunshine Act requires most pharmaceutical manufacturers to report annually to the Secretary of HHS any and all financial arrangements, payments, or other transfers of value made by that entity to physicians and teaching hospitals. The payment information is made publicly available in a searchable format on a CMS website. Over the next several years, we will need to dedicate significant resources to establish and maintain systems and processes in order to comply with these regulations. Failure to comply with the reporting requirements can result in significant civil monetary penalties. Similar laws have been enacted or are under consideration in foreign jurisdictions, including France which has adopted the Loi Bertrand , or French Sunshine Act, which became effective in 2013. 

The Foreign Corrupt Practices Act 

The Foreign Corrupt Practices Act prohibits U.S. companies and their representatives from offering, promising, authorizing, or making payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business abroad. In many countries, the healthcare professionals we regularly interact with may meet the definition of a foreign government official for purposes of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. 

Other Regulations 

In addition to the statutes and regulations described above, we also are subject to regulation in the United States under the Occupational Safety and Health Act, the Environmental Protection Act, the Toxic Substances Control Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, and other federal, state, local and foreign statutes and regulations, now or hereafter in effect. 

Foreign Regulation 

In addition to regulations in the United States, we are subject to a variety of foreign regulations governing clinical trials, distribution, and future commercial sales of our products. Whether or not we obtain FDA approval for a drug candidate, we must obtain approval by the comparable regulatory authorities of foreign countries or economic areas, such as the European Union, before we can commence clinical trials or market products in those countries or areas. The approval process and requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials, product licensing, pricing and reimbursement vary greatly from place to place, and the time may be longer or shorter than that required for FDA approval. 

Under European Union regulatory systems, a company may submit marketing authorization applications either under a centralized or decentralized procedure. The centralized procedure, which is compulsory for medicines produced by biotechnology or those medicines intended to treat AIDS, cancer, neurodegeneration, or diabetes and optional for those medicines that are highly innovative, provides for the grant of a single marketing authorization that is valid for all European Union member states. The decentralized procedure provides for approval by one or more &#147;concerned&#148; member states based on an assessment of an application performed by one member state, known as the &#147;reference&#148; member state. Under the decentralized approval procedure, an applicant submits an application, or dossier, and related materials to the reference member state and concerned member states. The reference member state prepares a draft assessment and drafts of the related materials within 120 days after receipt of a valid application. Within 90 days of receiving the reference member state&#146;s assessment report, each concerned member state must decide whether or not to approve the assessment report and related materials. If a member state does not recognize the marketing authorization, the disputed points are eventually referred to the European Commission, whose decision is binding on all member states. 

Employees 

As of March 30, 2016, we employed 42 full-time employees, including 34 in research and development and 8 in general and administrative, and one part-time employee. We have never had a work stoppage, and none of our employees is represented by a labor organization or under any collective-bargaining arrangements. We consider our employee relations to be good. 

&#160;

Corporate and Available Information 

We were incorporated in Delaware on December 13, 2006 under the name Proteoguard, Inc. and subsequently changed our name to Proteostasis Therapeutics, Inc. on September 17, 2007. Our principal executive offices are located at 200 Technology Square, 4th Floor, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139, and our telephone number is (617) 225-0096. Our website address is www.proteostasis.com. We make our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports, available free of charge at our website as soon as reasonably practicable after they have been filed with the SEC. We do not incorporate the information on or accessible through our website into this report, and you should not consider any information contained in, or that can be accessed through, our website as part of this report. 

This report contains references to our trademarks and to trademarks belonging to other entities. Solely for convenience, trademarks and trade names referred to in this report, including logos, artwork, and other visual displays, may appear without the &#174; or &#153; symbols, but such references are not intended to indicate, in any way, that we will not assert, to the fullest extent under applicable law, our rights or the rights of the applicable licensor to these trademarks and trade names. We do not intend our use or display of other companies&#146; trade names or trademarks to imply a relationship with, or endorsement or sponsorship of us by, any other companies. Except where the context requires otherwise, the terms &#147;Company,&#148; &#147;Proteostasis,&#148; &#147;PTI,&#148; &#147;we,&#148; &#147;us&#148; and &#147;our&#148; used in this report refer to Proteostasis Therapeutics, Inc. 

The public may read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC&#146;s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains a website that contains the materials we file with the SEC at www.sec.gov. 

