 Item 1. Business 

Graco Inc., together with its subsidiaries (&#8220;Graco,&#8221; &#8220;us,&#8221; &#8220;we,&#8221; or &#8220;our Company&#8221;), is a multi-national manufacturing company. We design, manufacture and market equipment used to pump, meter, mix and dispense fluid and powder materials. Our equipment is used in construction, automotive, mining, oil and natural gas, process, public works and other industries. Graco is a Minnesota corporation and was incorporated in 1926. 

We specialize in providing equipment solutions for difficult-to-handle materials with high viscosities, abrasive or corrosive properties, and multiple component materials that require precise ratio control. We aim to serve niche markets, providing high customer value through product differentiation. Our products enable customers to reduce their use of labor, material and energy, improve quality and achieve environmental compliance. 

We make significant investments in developing innovative, high quality products. We strive to grow into new geographic markets by strategically adding commercial resources and third party distribution in growing and emerging markets. We have grown our third party distribution to have specialized experience in particular end-user applications. We leverage our product technologies for new applications and industries. 

We also make targeted acquisitions to broaden our product offering, enhance our capabilities in the end-user markets we serve and expand our manufacturing and distribution base. In 2015, we completed a number of acquisitions in the Industrial and Process segments and two acquisitions in early fiscal 2016. These acquisitions provided new products, such as an expanded high pressure valve line, ultra high purity diaphragm pumps and mortar pumps, as well as additional channel partners and manufacturing capabilities. 

We have particularly strong manufacturing, engineering and customer service capabilities that enhance our ability to provide premium customer experience, produce high quality and reliable products and drive ongoing cost savings. 

Our investment in new products, targeted acquisitions and strong manufacturing, engineering and customer service capabilities comprise our long-term growth strategies, which we coordinate and drive across our geographic regions. Values central to our identity - growth, product innovation, premium customer service, quality and continuous improvement - are leveraged to integrate and expand the capabilities of acquired businesses. 

We classify our business into three reportable segments, each with a worldwide focus: Industrial, Contractor and Process. Financial information concerning these segments is set forth in Part II, Item 7, Results of Operations &#32;and Note B (Segment Information) to the Consolidated Financial Statements of this Form 10-K. 

Beginning with the first quarter of 2015, we revised the presentation of our financial reporting segments. Operations of the Process and the Oil and Natural Gas divisions, historically included in the Industrial segment, are now aggregated with the Lubrication division (formerly reported as a separate segment) in the newly-formed Process segment. This change aligns the types of products and markets served within the segments. Prior year segment information has been restated to conform to 2015 reporting. 

Each segment sells its products in North, Central and South America (the &#8220;Americas&#8221;), Europe, Middle East and Africa (&#8220;EMEA&#8221;), and Asia Pacific. Sales in the Americas represent approximately 59 percent &#32;of our Company&#8217;s total sales. Sales in EMEA represent approximately 23 percent . Sales in Asia Pacific represent approximately 18 percent . Part II, Item 7, Results of Operations &#32;and Note B (Segment Information) to the Consolidated Financial Statements of this Form 10-K contain financial information about these geographic markets. We provide marketing and product design in each of these geographic regions. Our Company also provides application assistance to distributors and employs sales personnel in each of these geographic regions. 

For information about our Company and our products, services and solutions, visit our website at www.graco.com . The information on the website is not part of this report nor any other report filed or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission (&#8220;SEC&#8221;). 

Manufacturing and Distribution 

We manufacture a majority of our products in the United States. We manufacture some of our products in Switzerland (Industrial segment), the United Kingdom (Process segment), the People&#8217;s Republic of China (&#8220;P.R.C.&#8221;) (all segments), Belgium (all segments), Romania (Industrial segment) and Brazil (Industrial segment). Our manufacturing is aligned with our business segments and is co-located with product development to accelerate technology improvements and improve our cost structure. We perform critical machining, assembly and testing in-house for most of our products to control quality, improve response time and maximize cost- 

effectiveness. We make our products in focused factories and product cells. We source raw materials and components from suppliers around the world. 

For all segments, we primarily sell our equipment through third party distributors worldwide, positioned throughout our geographic regions, and through selected retailers. Our products are sold from our warehouse to our third party distributors or retailers who sell our products to end-users. Certain of our acquired businesses historically sold their products directly to end-user customers and continue to have direct relationships with customers. 

Outside of the United States, our subsidiaries located in Australia, Belgium, Japan, Italy, Korea, the P.R.C., Singapore and the United Kingdom distribute our Company&#8217;s products. Operations in Maasmechelen, Belgium; St. Gallen, Switzerland; Shanghai, P.R.C.; and Montevideo, Uruguay reinforce our commitment to their regions. 

During 2015, manufacturing capacity met business demand. Production requirements in the immediate future are expected to be met through existing facilities, the installation of new automatic and semi-automatic machine tools, efficiency and productivity improvements, the use of leased space and available subcontract services. We are evaluating alternatives to expand existing facilities by acquiring or leasing future additional space for our Contractor segment, which is nearing capacity at its existing facility in Rogers, Minnesota. For more details on our facilities, see Item 2, Properties. 

Product Development 

Our primary product development efforts are carried out in facilities located in Minneapolis, Anoka and Rogers, Minnesota; North Canton, Ohio; St. Gallen, Switzerland; Suzhou, P.R.C.; Dexter, Michigan; Erie, Pennsylvania; Kamas, Utah; and Brighouse, United Kingdom. The product development and engineering groups focus on new product design, product improvements, new applications for existing products and technologies for their specific customer base. Our product development efforts focus on bringing new and supplemental return on investment value to end users of our products. 

Our Company consistently makes significant investments in new products. Total product development expenditures for all segments were $59 million in 2015, $54 million in 2014 and $51 million in 2013. The amounts invested in product development represented approximately 4&#189; percent of sales in each of the last three years. Our product development activities are focused both on upgrades to our current product lines to provide features and benefits that will provide a return on investment to our end-user customers and development of products that will reach into new industries and applications to incrementally grow our sales. Sales of products that refresh and upgrade our product lines are measured and compared with actual results. Sales of products that provide entry into new industries and applications are also measured, with additional focus on commercial resources and activities to build specialized third party distribution and market acceptance by end users. 

Our Company measures the results of acquired businesses as compared to historical results and projections made at the time of acquisition. Our Company will invest in engineering, manufacturing and commercial resources for these businesses based on expected return on investment. 

Business Segments 

Industrial Segment 

The Industrial segment is our largest segment and represents approximately 48 percent of our total sales in 2015. It includes the Industrial Products and Applied Fluid Technologies divisions. The Industrial segment markets equipment and pre-engineered packages for moving and applying paints, coatings, sealants, adhesives and other fluids. Markets serviced include automotive and vehicle assembly and components production, wood and metal products, rail, marine, aerospace, farm, construction, bus, recreational vehicles and various other industries. 

Most Industrial segment equipment is sold worldwide through specialized third party distributors, integrators, design centers, original equipment manufacturers and material suppliers. Some products are sold directly to end users. We work with material suppliers to develop or adapt our equipment for use with specialized or hard-to-handle materials. Distributors promote and sell the equipment, hold inventory, provide product application expertise and offer on-site service, technical support and integration capabilities. Integrators implement large individual installations in manufacturing plants where products and services from a number of different manufacturers are aggregated into a single system. Design centers engineer systems for their customers using our products. Original equipment manufacturers incorporate our Company&#8217;s Industrial segment products into systems and assemblies that they then supply to their customers. 

Applied Fluid Technologies 

The Applied Fluid Technologies division designs and sells equipment for use by industrial customers and specialty contractors. This equipment includes two component proportioning systems that are used to spray polyurethane foam (spray foam) and polyurea coatings. Spray foam is commonly used for insulating building walls, roofs, water heaters, refrigerators, hot tubs and other items. Polyurea coatings are applied on storage tanks, pipes, roofs, truck beds, concrete and other items. We offer a complete line of pumps and proportioning equipment that sprays specialty coatings on a variety of surfaces for protection and fireproofing. This division also manufactures vapor-abrasive blasting equipment, as well as equipment that pumps, meters, mixes and dispenses sealant, adhesive and composite materials. Our advanced composite equipment includes gel coat equipment, chop and wet-out systems, resin transfer molding systems and applicators. This equipment bonds, molds, seals, vacuum encapsulates, and laminates parts and devices in a wide variety of industrial applications. 

Industrial Products 

The Industrial Products division makes finishing equipment that applies paint and other coatings to products such as motor vehicles, appliances, furniture and other industrial and consumer products. A majority of this division&#8217;s business is outside of North America. 

This division&#8217;s products include liquid finishing equipment that applies liquids on metals, wood and plastics. This equipment includes paint circulating and paint supply pumps, paint circulating advanced control systems, plural component coating proportioners, various accessories to filter, transport, agitate and regulate fluid, and spare parts such as spray tips, seals and filter screens. We also offer a variety of applicators that use different methods of atomizing and spraying the paint or other coatings depending on the viscosity of the fluid, the type of finish desired and the need to maximize transfer efficiency, minimize overspray and minimize the release of volatile organic compounds into the air. Manufacturers in the automotive, automotive feeder, commercial and recreational vehicle, military and utility vehicle, aerospace, farm, construction, wood and general metals industries use our liquid finishing products. 

We make powder finishing products that coat powder finishing on metals. These products are sold under the Gema&#174; trademark. Gema powder systems coat window frames, metallic furniture, automotive components and sheet metal. Primary end users of our powder finishing products include manufacturers in the construction, home appliance, automotive component and custom coater industries. We strive to provide innovative solutions in powder coating for end users in emerging and developed markets. 

Process Segment 

The Process segment represented approximately 21 percent of our total sales in 2015. It includes our Process, Oil and Natural Gas, and Lubrication divisions. The Process segment markets pumps, valves, meters and accessories to move and dispense chemicals, oil and natural gas, water, wastewater, petroleum, food, lubricants and other fluids. Markets served include food and beverage, dairy, oil and natural gas, pharmaceutical, cosmetics, semi-conductor, electronics, wastewater, mining, fast oil change facilities, service garages, fleet service centers, automobile dealerships and industrial lubrication applications. 

Most Process segment equipment is sold worldwide through third party distributors and original equipment manufacturers. Some products are sold directly to end users, particularly in the oil and natural gas and semi-conductor industries. 

Process 

Our Process division makes pumps of various technologies that move chemicals, water, wastewater, petroleum, food and other fluids. Manufacturers and processors in the food and beverage, dairy, pharmaceutical, cosmetic, oil and natural gas, semi-conductor, electronics, wastewater, mining and ceramics industries use these pumps. This division makes environmental monitoring and remediation equipment that is used to conduct ground water sampling and ground water remediation, and for landfill liquid and gas management. 

Subsequent to the 2015 fiscal year-end, we acquired Geotechnical Instruments (U.K.) Limited, which makes portable and fixed gas analyzers for landfill, biogas and medical applications and has facilities in the United Kingdom. Also subsequent to 2015 year-end, we purchased Landtec North America, Inc., which produces landfill gas wellheads and has facilities in the United States. These two companies will supplement our product line serving the environmental monitoring and remediation market. 

Oil and Natural Gas 

Our Oil and Natural Gas division has recently launched a new line of chemical injection pumping solutions for precise injection of chemicals into producing oil wells and pipelines. We also make high pressure and ultra-high pressure valves used in the oil and natural gas industry, other industrial processes and research facilities. 

Our line of chemical injection pumping solutions is sold through third party distributors. Our high and ultra-high pressure valves are sold directly to end-user customers as well as through distribution worldwide. 

Lubrication 

The Lubrication division designs and sells equipment for use in vehicle servicing. We supply pumps, hose reels, meters, valves and accessories for use by fast oil change facilities, service garages, fleet service centers, automobile dealerships, auto parts stores, truck builders and heavy equipment service centers. 

We also offer systems, components and accessories for the automatic lubrication of bearings, gears and generators in industrial and commercial equipment, compressors, turbines and on- and off-road vehicles. Automatic lubrication systems reduce maintenance need and down time and extend the life of the equipment. Industries served include gas transmission, petrochemical, pulp and paper, mining, construction, agricultural equipment, food and beverage, material handling, metal manufacturing, wind energy and oil and natural gas. 

Contractor Segment 

The Contractor segment represented approximately 31 percent of our total sales in 2015. Through this segment, we offer sprayers that apply paint to walls and other structures, with a range of product models that can be used by do-it-yourself homeowners to professional painting contractors. We also make sprayers that apply texture to walls and ceilings, and sprayers that apply highly viscous coatings to roofs. Contractor equipment also includes sprayers that apply markings on roads, parking lots, athletic fields and floors. 

This segment&#8217;s end users are primarily professional painters in the construction and maintenance industries, tradesmen and do-it-yourselfers. Contractor products are marketed and sold in all major geographic areas. We continue to add distributors throughout the world that specialize in the sale of Contractor products. Throughout the world, we are pursuing a broad strategy of converting contractors accustomed to manually applying paint and other coatings by brush-and-roller to spray technology. 

Our Contractor products are distributed primarily though distributor outlets whose main products are paint and other coatings. Certain sprayers and accessories are distributed globally through the home center channel. Contractor products are also sold through general equipment distributors outside of North America. 

Raw Materials 

The primary materials and components in our products are steel of various alloys, sizes and hardness; specialty stainless steel and aluminum bar stock, tubing and castings; tungsten carbide; electric and gas motors; injection molded plastics; sheet metal; forgings; powdered metal; hoses; electronic components and high performance plastics, such as polytetrafluoroethylene (PTFE). The materials and components that we use are generally adequately available through multiple sources of supply. To manage cost, we source significant amounts of materials and components from outside the United States, primarily in the Asia Pacific region. 

In 2015, our raw material and purchased component availability was strong, and our costs declined slightly in all major commodity categories, particularly in aluminum, stainless steel, carbon steel bar stock, plastics and copper. 

We endeavor to address fluctuations in the price and availability of various materials and components through adjustable surcharges and credits, close management of current suppliers, price negotiations and an intensive search for new suppliers. We have performed risk assessments of our key suppliers, and we factor the risks identified into our commodity plans. 

Intellectual Property 

We own a number of patents across our segments and have patent applications pending in the United States and other countries. We also license our patents to others and are a licensee of patents owned by others. In our opinion, our business is not materially dependent upon any one or more of these patents or licenses. Our Company also owns a number of trademarks in the United States and foreign countries, including registered trademarks for &#8220;GRACO,&#8221; &#8220;Gema,&#8221; several forms of a capital &#8220;G,&#8221; and various product trademarks that are material to our business, inasmuch as they identify Graco and our products to our customers. 

Sales to Major Customers 

Worldwide sales in the Contractor and Industrial segments to The Sherwin-Williams Company represented 10 percent of the Company&#8217;s consolidated sales for 2015. There were no customers that accounted for 10 percent or more of consolidated sales in 2014. 

Competition 

We encounter a wide variety of competitors that vary by product, industry and geographic area. Each of our segments generally has several competitors. Our competitors are both U.S. and foreign companies and range in size. We believe that our ability to compete depends upon product quality, product reliability, innovation, design, customer support and service, specialized engineering and competitive pricing. Although no competitor duplicates all of our products, some competitors are larger than our Company, both in terms of sales of directly competing products and in terms of total sales and financial resources. We also face competitors with different cost structures and expectations of profitability and these companies may offer competitive products at lower prices. We may have to refresh our product line and continue development of our distribution channel to stay competitive. We are also facing competitors who illegally sell counterfeits of our products or otherwise infringe on our intellectual property rights. We may have to increase our intellectual property and unfair competition enforcement activities. 

Environmental Protection 

Our compliance with federal, state and local laws and regulations did not have a material effect upon our capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position during the fiscal year ended December 25, 2015 . 

Employees 

As of December 25, 2015, we employed approximately 3,200 persons. Of this total, approximately 1,350 were employees based outside of the United States, and 950 were hourly factory workers in the United States. None of our Company&#8217;s United States employees are covered by a collective bargaining agreement. Various national industry-wide labor agreements apply to certain employees in various countries outside of the United States. Compliance with such agreements has no material effect on our Company or our operations. 

Acquisition and Divestiture of Liquid Finishing Businesses 

In April 2012, the Company purchased the finishing businesses of Illinois Tool Works Inc. The acquisition included finishing equipment operations, technologies and brands of the Powder Finishing and Liquid Finishing businesses. Results of the Powder Finishing businesses have been included in the Industrial segment since the date of acquisition. 

Under terms of a hold separate order from the Federal Trade Commission, the Company did not have the power to direct the activities of the Liquid Finishing businesses that most significantly impacted the economic performance of those businesses. Consequently, we reflected our investment in the Liquid Finishing businesses as a cost-method investment on our balance sheet, and their results of operations were not consolidated with those of the Company. Dividends received from after-tax earnings of the Liquid Finishing businesses were included in our statements of earnings as investment income. 

In April 2015, the Company sold the Liquid Finishing business assets. Net earnings in 2015 included after-tax gain on the sale and dividends totaling $141 million &#32;($2.40 per diluted share). Dividends included in investment income totaled $28 million &#32;in 2014 and $28 million &#32;in 2013. No further Liquid Finishing dividends will be received. 

