 ITEM 1. BUSINESS.

Our Business

Company Background and History

Alpine 4 Technologies Ltd. ("Alpine 4" or the "Company") was incorporated in Delaware on April 22, 2014, as ALPINE 4 Inc. From inception, the Company was in the developmental stage and conducted only limited business operations, and was formed as a vehicle to pursue a business combination. The Company selected December 31 as its fiscal year end.

On June 30, the Board and shareholders approved an amendment to the Company's Certificate of Incorporation to change the name of the Company to Alpine 4 Automotive Technologies Ltd. Subsequently, on June 1, 2015, the Company filed a Certificate of Amendment (the "Amendment") to the Certificate of Incorporation with the Secretary of State of Delaware to change the name of the Company to Alpine 4 Technologies Ltd. 

Business Strategy

Who We Are

Alpine 4 is a publicly held enterprise with four principles at the core of its business: Synergy, Innovation, Drive, and Excellence (S.I.D.E.). At Alpine 4, we believe synergistic innovation drives excellence. By anchoring these words to our combined experience and capabilities, we are able to aggressively pursue opportunities within and across vertical markets. We deliver solutions that not only drive industry standards, but also increase value for our shareholders.

At Alpine 4, we understand the nature of how technology and innovation can accentuate a business. We strive to develop strategic synergies between our holdings to create value and operational excellence within a unique long-term perspective.

Our Core Business

We are a technology holding company with a heavy concentration in the automotive industry. We provide a distinctive and powerful advantage to management, sales, finance and service departments at automotive dealerships in order to increase productivity, profitability and customer retention through 6 th Sense Auto. Our flagship program, 6 th Sense Auto, uses disruptive technology to improve inventory management, reduce costs, increase sales and enhance service. The 6 th Sense Auto program serves a two-fold solution addressing both business to business and business to consumer market needs. The 6 th Sense Auto product is discussed in more detail below.

Market Size and Growth

There are approximately 60,000 auto dealerships in the United States. This includes, new car dealerships affiliated with an auto manufacturer and independent used car dealerships ranging from small lots to megadealers such as AutoNation. In 2014, 40.5 million used vehicles were sold representing approximately two and half times the number of new vehicles sold. Total used vehicle sales by new car dealers increased 8 percent in 2014 to 15 million units, the highest level since 2005. Having almost 55.5 million vehicles sold each year, our 6 th Sense Auto program has a $12 billion dollar market opportunity.

Diversification

In addition to our push for marketplace adoption of our 6 th Sense Auto product, we have also been actively pursuing diversification through planned acquisitions of other businesses. It is our goal to help drive Alpine 4 into a leading multi-faceted holding company with diverse products and services that not only benefit from one another as whole but also have the benefit of independence. This type of corporate structure is about having our subsidiaries prosper through strong onsite leadership, while working synergistically with other Alpine 4 holdings. Alpine 4 has been set up with a holding company model, with Presidents who will run each business, and Managers with specific industry related experience who, along with Kent Wilson, the CEO of Alpine 4, will help guide our portfolio of companies as needed. Alpine 4 will work with our Presidents and Managers to ensure that our motto of S.I.D.E (Synergistic, Innovation, Drives, Excellence) is utilized. Further, we plan to work with our subsidiaries and capital partners to provide the proper capital allocation and, to work to make sure each business is executing at high levels. 

For the greater part of 2016, Alpine 4's primary interests will lie in the following: automotive and green energy technologies, logistics, companies that provide energy infrastructure manufacturing or those companies that support these industries. At the core of our acquisition strategy is our focus on existing smaller middle market operating companies with revenues of $5 to $50 million. In this target-rich environment, we believe that businesses generally sell at more reasonable multiples, present greater opportunities for operational and strategic improvements and have greater potential for growth.

Developed Products

Alpine 4 has a portfolio of consumer and professional software applications called 6thSenseAuto, which consists primarily of the Company's two products previously branded as LotWatch&#8482; and ServiceWatch&#8482;, which together are now presented as 6 th Sense Auto.

LotWatch &#8211; Integrated Inventory Management System

LotWatch&#8482; is a product that was designed and developed by Alpine 4 in the United States. By using information gathered from the OBD (On Board Diagnostics) port in almost any newer vehicle, and by utilizing both GPS technology and cellular based service, the LotWatch&#8482; module gives car dealerships vehicle-specific, real-time, accurate information about your fleet of new vehicles. This information can be easily accessed and viewed on Alpine 4's user-friendly interface anywhere the dealership has internet access. LotWatch&#8482; uses wireless data transmission technology.

LotWatch&#8482; provides better inventory management by:

-

Knowing when a vehicle has left a specific geo-fence that a dealership can establish in Alpine 4's proprietary system. With this product, dealership management can know the location of its inventory.

&#160; &#160; -

Knowing how many days any vehicle has been in the dealership's new car inventory. The dealership's sales team will know where the oldest vehicle on the lot is, resulting in a substantial savings in flooring fees.

&#160; &#160; -

Eliminating lost sales because the dealership team did not know a vehicle's battery needed to be charged or the vehicle refueled before the customer did. The LotWatch provides information about the vehicle's status, including battery charge, fuel status, and the last time it was driven.

&#160; &#160; -

Keeping the dealership informed of customer and employee driving habits when a new vehicle leaves the lot.

&#160; &#160; -

Recording events specific to each of the dealership's vehicles. Dealership management will know when and how many times any new vehicle on its lot has been driven!

&#160; &#160; -

Generating customized reports on a pre-determined basis. Dealership management can determine the scope and frequency of reports generated by the system.

ServiceWatch &#8211; Personalized Assistance and Diagnostic Solution

ServiceWatch is a product that uses information gathered from the OBD (On Board Diagnostics) port in almost any newer vehicle, and utilizes GPS technology and cellular based services. The ServiceWatch module provides personalized assistance and diagnostic solutions to both the vehicle owner and the dealership that sold the vehicle. ServiceWatch is also designed to transmit information to a dealership's service department to help improve customer service levels.

The benefits of ServiceWatch include:

-

Vehicle Awareness: real-time notifications of check-engine diagnostics and vehicle maintenance are sent to the owner of the vehicle and the selling dealership service department via text message or email.

&#160; &#160; -

Nationwide Service Support: the mobile application provides location-specific services, which can help refer a vehicle owner to the nearest dealership and recommend driving distances, based on diagnostics from the check-engine light and information obtained from the vehicle's on board computer.

&#160; &#160; -

Convenient Access: the mobile app and a proprietary web-based interface provide vehicle owners with 24-hour convenient and easy access to vehicle information or location.

&#160; &#160; -

Lost or Stolen Vehicle Support: the embedded GPS feature enables the vehicle owner to assist local police departments with locating a lost or stolen vehicle through Alpine 4's toll-free customer service line.

&#160; &#160; -

Personal Assistance: ServiceWatch includes Personal Assistance as an additional benefit. Services include directory assistance, driving directions, and dining suggestions and reservations are examples of features that are available. Typical arrangements include a three-year contract for the vehicle owner which can be renewed directly with Alpine 4 if the owner desires.

&#160; &#160; -

Usage Visibility: this feature permits parents to effectively manage the safety of younger drivers by utilizing GPS services online or via the mobile app. The ability to obtain new driver habits, top speeds, panic stops, quick accelerations, curfew notifications and geo-fence guidelines are examples of the features available in ServiceWatch.

As of the date of this Report, Alpine 4 had concluded installations at four automobile dealerships in Arizona, California, and Indiana for the 6 th Sense Auto Product. Ending in the 1 st quarter 2016 , Alpine 4 finished a beta launch of its 6 th Sense Auto product. That launch consisted of beta testing at the dealerships located in Arizona, California and Indiana.

Alpine 4 personnel provide training in the installation of the devices, creation of the customized user interface, and use of the inventory management system. Additionally, personnel introduce and explain the details of the products to a dealership's sales staff, train the finance managers on the benefits of 6 th Sense Auto and the registration process, and provide other training and support as agreed upon with the dealership.

Alpine 4 has an agreement with one principal manufacturer and supplier of the devices, CalAmp (discussed below).

Alpine 4 has an agreement with one principal manufacturer and supplier of the devices.

CalAmp Wireless Data Systems, Inc.

Additionally, in August 2014, Alpine 4 entered into a CalAmp Connect &#8211; PULS TM Master Service Agreement (the "CalAmp Agreement") with CalAmp Wireless Data Systems, Inc. ("CalAmp"), pursuant to which Alpine 4 is entitled to access the CalAmp Connect Device Enablement Platform, and the Programming Update Logistics System (PULS) Application Services platform and use CalAmp's services related to the devices. CalAmp sells hardware devices (the "CalAmp Devices") that collect and report real-time information about vehicles through the CalAmp platform of application services (the "CalAmp Application Services"). Pursuant to the CalAmp Agreement, CalAmp granted to Alpine 4 a license to use CalAmp's Application Services with CalAmp device(s) and ancillary accessories that directly interface with CalAmp's software application(s), including but not limited to PULS and the device enablement platform. CalAmp's Application Services include fleet management and tracking, features which, when incorporated with Alpine 4's proprietary software solutions, provide automobile dealerships with real-time information about vehicle inventory. Pursuant to the CalAmp Agreement, Alpine 4 agreed to pay monthly fees for each installed device. The fees include access to a set amount of pooled data per device, transmitted over CalAmp's contract network. The initial term of the CalAmp Agreement was for one year from the effective date (August 15, 2014), with automatic month-to-month renewals following the initial term. Alpine 4 has purchased devices from CalAmp, pursuant to purchase orders rather than a separate manufacturing agreement.

The agreement with CalAmp was previously filed as an exhibit to the Company's Registration Statement/Proxy Statement on Form S-4.

Business Seasonality and Product Introductions

Following the acquisition of the AutoTek source code assets, the Company expects to experience higher net sales in its first and third quarters compared to other quarters in its fiscal year due in part to seasonal holiday demand and the automotive industry model year end that typically concludes in the third quarter of each year. Additionally, new automotive models introductions can significantly impact our products ability to communicate properly and therefore product costs and operating expenses may rise. Product introductions can also impact the Company's net sales to its indirect distribution channels as these channels are filled with new product inventory following a product introduction, and often, channel inventory of a particular product declines as the next related major product launch approaches. Net sales can also be affected when consumers and dealerships anticipate a vehicle introduction.

Recent Developments

AutoTek Special Meeting, Results

On December 21, 2015, the Alpine 4 announced the positive results of a special meeting of the shareholders of AutoTek Incorporated ("AutoTek"), who voted to approve a transaction whereby Alpine 4 would purchase a source code asset (the "Source Code") from AutoTek. Prior to the shareholder meeting, the Company has been using the Source Code pursuant to a License Agreement with AutoTek.

The special meeting was held on December 21, 2015. At the special meeting, sufficient shares were represented in person or by proxy to constitute a quorum of the AutoTek shares, and the holders of a majority of the total outstanding shares of AutoTek common stock voted in favor of the entry into the Asset Purchase Agreement by AutoTek and the sale of the Source Code asset to the Company (the "Asset Purchase Transaction"). The Company and AutoTek worked together to close the Asset Purchase Transaction on February 4, 2016, in conjunction with the closing of the Share Exchange.

Share Exchange; Issuance of Shares

In light of the approval by the stockholders of AutoTek of the Asset Purchase Transaction, the Share Exchange Offer commenced on December 21, 2015, and was open for a period (the "Exchange Period") of forty-five (45) calendar days, or through Thursday, February 4, 2016. AutoTek stockholders could tender shares of AutoTek stock for participation in the Share Exchange during the Exchange Period. Any AutoTek stockholder who tendered AutoTek shares in the Share Exchange had the right to withdraw any such shares tendered at any time until the closing of the Exchange Period. The Company agreed to use its best efforts to issue the shares of Alpine 4 Class A common stock within fifteen (15) Business Days following the Close of the Exchange Period. The Company and AutoTek agreed that upon the expiration of the Exchange Period, the Share Exchange offer would be terminated, and any AutoTek shareholders who had not tendered their shares of AutoTek's common stock would not be able to participate in the Share Exchange. Additionally, any AutoTek stockholders who to elected to not participate in the Share Exchange would remain stockholders of AutoTek

The Share Exchange closed on February 4, 2016. As of the closing of the Exchange Period, AutoTek shareholders had tendered an aggregate of 25,000,000 shares of AutoTek common stock (representing 100% of the outstanding shares of AutoTek), and Alpine 4 issued 150,000,000 shares of Class A Common Stock to the former AutoTek shareholders pursuant to the Registration Statement on Form S-4 filed by Alpine 4 with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.

Acquisition of Quality Circuit Assembly

On March 15, 2016, Alpine 4 entered into a Stock Purchase Agreement (the "QCA SPA") with Quality Circuit Assembly, Inc., a California company ("QCA") and its two shareholders, Jeffrey Moss and Dwight Hargreaves (collectively, the "QCA Sellers").

Since 1988, QCA has been providing electronic contract manufacturing solutions delivered to its customers via strategic business partnerships. This relationship is core to the outsourcing process, and once established, drives efficiency, cost savings and continuous process improvement. Their abilities encompass a wide variety of skills, beginning with your prototypes and culminating in the ongoing manufacturing of a complete product or assembly. Turnkey solutions are tailored around each customer's specific requirements.

Pursuant to the QCA SPA, Alpine 4, QCA, and the QCA Sellers agreed on the terms pursuant to which Alpine 4 would purchase from the QCA Sellers all of the outstanding shares of common stock of both Quality Circuit Assembly entities (the "Quality Circuit Assembly Shares"). The purchase price to be paid by Alpine 4 for the Interests consists of cash, and a convertible promissory note. The "Cash Consideration" to be paid is the aggregate amount of $3,000,000, with $1,650,000 being paid to Mr. Moss, and $1,350,000 being paid to Mr. Hargreaves. The "Promissory Note Consideration" will consist of a secured promissory note (the "Quality Circuit Assembly Note") in the amount of $2,000,000, secured by a subordinated security interest in the assets of the Quality Circuit Assembly entities. Additionally, the Sellers will have the opportunity to convert the Quality Circuit Assembly Note into shares of Alpine 4's Class A common stock at a conversion price of $1 per share after 12 months. The Quality Circuit Assembly Note will bear interest at 5%, and will be payable in full on the 36-month anniversary of the closing date of the transaction.

Alpine 4 has also agreed to hire Terry Protto as the QCA Division President: Mr. Protto is a senior executive and entrepreneur with more than thirty years of senior executive management experience in several industries. Mr. Protto is a university graduate in business and law. He is a former field grade US Army officer, and received an ROTC scholarship. He has worked as an entrepreneur and as a small business owner. He is a Strategic planner and a highly effective tactician. His special interest and skills include being a business owner in the People's Republic of China, Taiwan and Hong Kong. He speaks functional Mandarin, Spanish and Italian.

In the QCA SPA, Mr. Moss and Mr. Hargreaves acknowledged and agreed that their entry into consulting agreements with Alpine 4 was an integral part of the transaction contemplated by the QCA SPA. As such, Mr. Moss and Mr. Hargreaves agreed to enter into consulting agreements with Alpine 4 and QCA, and continue to work with QCA for a period of time agreed upon by Alpine 4 and Mr. Moss and Mr. Hargreaves. The QCA Sellers, QCA, and Alpine 4 anticipate that they will complete the negotiation of the terms of the consulting agreements before the Closing Date.

Also pursuant to the QCA SPA, Alpine 4, QCA, and the QCA Sellers all acknowledged and agreed that between the execution of the Agreement and the date of the closing of the purchase of the Interests (the "Closing Date"), the QCA Sellers and QCA would continue to provide information to Alpine 4. Additionally, Alpine 4, QCA, and the QCA Sellers acknowledged and agreed that Alpine 4 has the right to terminate the Agreement in the event that information provided by the QCA Sellers or QCA to Alpine 4 differs materially from that information provided prior to the execution of the QCA SPA.

The QCA SPA includes certain conditions to the closing of the transaction, including certain working capital requirements, limits on accounts payable, requirements for accounts receivable, and payment of taxes. The QCA SPA also includes certain post-closing covenants relating to the transition period, confidentiality, and the entry into the consulting agreement by Mr. Moss and Mr. Hargreaves

QCA will provide information to Alpine 4, including financial statements, prior to the Closing Date, and the parties will continue to negotiate other agreements, including the consulting agreements, as necessary. Once Alpine 4 has closed the purchase of the QCA Shares, Alpine 4 will provide additional disclosures relating to QCA and the QCA Sellers, including required financial statements, as required by the rules of the Commission.

Change in Capital Structure

Pursuant to the Second Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, Alpine 4 is authorized to issue two classes of common stock: Class A common stock, which will have one vote per share, and Class B common stock, which will have ten votes per share. Any holder of Class B common stock may convert his or her shares at any time into shares of Class A common stock on a share-for-share basis. Otherwise the rights of the two classes of common stock will be identical. The rights of these classes of common stock are discussed in greater detail below.

Alpine 4's authorized capital stock consists of 605,000,000 shares, each with a par value of $0.0001 per share, of which:

&#8226;

500,000,000 shares are designated as Class A common stock. The previously issued shares of common stock are redesignated as Class A common stock

&#160; &#160; &#160;&#8226;

100,000,000 shares are designated as Class B common stock.

&#160; &#160; &#160;&#8226;

5,000,000 shares are designated as preferred stock.

Common Stock

Voting Rights 

Holders of our Class A and Class B common stock have identical rights, except that holders of our Class A common stock are entitled to one vote per share and holders of our Class B common stock are entitled to ten votes per share. Holders of shares of Class A common stock and Class B common stock will vote together as a single class on all matters (including the election of directors) submitted to a vote of stockholders, unless otherwise required by law. We have not provided for cumulative voting for the election of directors in our certificate of incorporation.

Dividends 

Subject to preferences that may apply to any shares of preferred stock outstanding at the time, the holders of Class A common stock and Class B common stock shall be entitled to share equally in any dividends that our board of directors may determine to issue from time to time. In the event a dividend is paid in the form of shares of common stock or rights to acquire shares of common stock, the holders of Class A common stock shall receive Class A common stock, or rights to acquire Class A common stock, as the case may be, and the holders of Class B common stock shall receive Class B common stock, or rights to acquire Class B common stock, as the case may be.

Liquidation Rights 

Upon our liquidation, dissolution or winding-up, the holders of Class A common stock and Class B common stock shall be entitled to share equally all assets remaining after the payment of any liabilities and the liquidation preferences on any outstanding preferred stock.

Conversion 

Our Class A common stock is not convertible into any other shares of our capital stock.

Each share of Class B common stock is convertible at any time at the option of the holder into one share of Class A common stock. In addition, each share of Class B common stock shall convert automatically into one share of Class A common stock upon any transfer, whether or not for value, except for certain transfers described in our certificate of incorporation.

Once transferred and converted into Class A common stock, the Class B common stock shall not be reissued. No class of common stock may be subdivided or combined unless the other class of common stock concurrently is subdivided or combined in the same proportion and in the same manner.

The foregoing description of the Second Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation is qualified in its entirety by reference to the text of the Amendment attached as Exhibit 3.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on August 27, 2015, and incorporated therein by reference. 

Employees

As of the date of this Report, we had 6 full-time and 2 part-time employees. We believe our relationships with our employees is good. Other than as disclosed in this Report, we have no employment agreements with our employees.

