 ITEM 1 &#150; BUSINESS 

Business Overview 

Headquartered in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, we are one of the largest diversified financial services companies in the United States. We have businesses engaged in retail banking, corporate and institutional banking, asset management, and residential mortgage banking, providing many of our products and services nationally, as well as other products and services in our primary geographic markets located in Pennsylvania, Ohio, New Jersey, Michigan, Illinois, Maryland, Indiana, Florida, North Carolina, Kentucky, Washington, D.C., Delaware, Virginia, Alabama, Georgia, Missouri, Wisconsin and South Carolina. We also provide certain products and services internationally. At December 31, 2015, our consolidated total assets, total deposits and total shareholders&#146; equity were $358.5 billion, $249.0 billion and $44.7 billion, respectively. 

We were incorporated under the laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania in 1983 with the consolidation of Pittsburgh National Corporation and Provident National Corporation. Since 1983, we have diversified our geographical presence, business mix and product capabilities through internal growth, strategic bank and non-bank acquisitions and equity investments, and the formation of various non-banking subsidiaries. 

Review of Business Segments 

In addition to the following information relating to our lines of business, we incorporate the information under the captions Business Segment Highlights and Business Segments Review in Item 7 of this Report here by reference. Also, we include the financial and other information by business in Note 23 Segment Reporting in the Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Report here by reference. 

Assets, revenue and earnings attributable to foreign activities were not material in the periods presented. We periodically refine our internal methodologies as management reporting practices are enhanced. To the extent significant and practicable, retrospective application of new methodologies is made to prior period reportable business segment results and disclosures to create comparability with the current period. 

See Note 23 Segment Reporting in the Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Report for information on enhancements made in the first quarter of 2015 to PNC&#146;s internal funds transfer pricing methodology. 

Retail Banking provides deposit, lending, brokerage, investment management and cash management services to consumer and small business customers within our primary geographic markets. Our customers are serviced through our branch network, ATMs, call centers, online banking and mobile channels. The branch network is located primarily in Pennsylvania, Ohio, New Jersey, Michigan, Illinois, Maryland, Indiana, Florida, North Carolina, Kentucky, Washington, D.C., Delaware, Virginia, Alabama, Georgia, Missouri, Wisconsin and South Carolina. 

Our core strategy is to acquire and retain customers who maintain their primary checking and transaction relationships with PNC. We also seek revenue growth by deepening our share of our customers&#146; financial assets, such as savings and liquidity deposits, loans and investable assets, including retirement assets. A strategic priority for PNC is to redefine the retail banking business in response to changing customer preferences. A key element of this strategy is to expand the use of lower-cost alternative distribution channels while continuing to optimize the traditional branch network. In addition, we have a disciplined process to continually improve the engagement of both our employees and customers, which is a strong indicator of customer growth, retention and relationship expansion. 

Corporate &#38; Institutional Banking provides lending, treasury management, and capital markets-related products and services to mid-sized and large corporations, government and not-for-profit entities. Lending products include secured and unsecured loans, letters of credit and equipment leases. Treasury management services include cash and investment management, receivables management, disbursement services, funds transfer services, information reporting and global trade services. Capital markets-related products and services include foreign exchange, derivatives, securities sales and underwriting, loan syndications, mergers and acquisitions advisory, equity capital markets advisory and related services. We also provide commercial loan servicing and technology solutions for the commercial real estate finance industry. 

&#160;

&#160; 

The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. &#150; Form 10-K &#160; 1 Products and services are generally provided within our primary geographic markets, with certain products and services offered nationally and internationally. 

Corporate &#38; Institutional Banking&#146;s strategy is to be the leading relationship-based provider of traditional banking products and services to its customers through the economic cycles. We aim to expand our market share and drive higher returns by growing and deepening customer relationships by driving solutions-based selling, while maintaining prudent risk and expense management. 

Asset Management Group includes personal wealth management for high net worth and ultra high net worth clients and institutional asset management. Wealth management products and services include investment and retirement planning, customized investment management, private banking, tailored credit solutions, and trust management and administration for individuals and their families. Our Hawthorn unit provides multi-generational family planning including wealth strategy, investment management, private banking, tax and estate planning guidance, performance reporting and personal administration services to ultra high net worth families. Institutional asset management provides investment management, custody administration and retirement administration services. The business also offers PNC proprietary mutual funds. Institutional clients include corporations, unions, municipalities, non-profits, foundations and endowments, primarily located in our geographic footprint. 

Asset Management Group is focused on being one of the premier bank-held individual and institutional asset managers in each of the markets it serves. The business seeks to deliver high quality banking, trust and investment management services to our high net worth, ultra high net worth and institutional client sectors through a broad array of products and services. Asset Management Group&#146;s primary goals are to service our clients, grow the business and deliver solid financial performance with prudent risk and expense management. 

Residential Mortgage Banking directly originates first lien residential mortgage loans on a nationwide basis with a significant presence within the retail banking footprint. Mortgage loans represent loans collateralized by one-to-four-family residential real estate. These loans are typically underwritten to government agency and/or third-party standards, and either sold, servicing retained, or held on PNC&#146;s balance sheet. Loan sales are primarily to secondary mortgage conduits of Federal National Mortgage Association (FNMA), Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation (FHLMC), Federal Home Loan Banks and third-party investors, or are securitized and issued under the Government National Mortgage Association (GNMA) program, as 

described in more detail in Note 2 Loan Sale and Servicing Activities and Variable Interest Entities in Item 8 of this Report and included here by reference. The mortgage servicing operation performs all functions related to servicing mortgage loans, primarily those in first lien position, for various investors and for loans owned by PNC. 

Residential Mortgage Banking is focused on adding value to the PNC franchise by building stronger customer relationships, providing quality investment loans and mortgage servicing opportunities, and delivering acceptable returns consistent with our desired risk appetite. A strategic priority for PNC is to build a stronger residential mortgage business offering seamless delivery to customers while improving efficiencies. Our national distribution capability provides volume that drives economies of scale, risk dispersion and cost-effective extension of the retail banking footprint for cross-selling opportunities. 

BlackRock , in which we hold an equity investment, is a leading publicly traded investment management firm providing a broad range of investment and risk management services to institutional and retail clients worldwide. Using a diverse platform of active and index investment strategies across asset classes, BlackRock develops investment outcomes and asset allocation solutions for clients. Product offerings include single- and multi-asset class portfolios investing in equities, fixed income, alternatives and money market instruments. BlackRock also offers an investment and risk management technology platform, risk analytics and advisory services and solutions to a broad base of institutional investors. Our equity investment in BlackRock provides us with an additional source of noninterest income and increases our overall revenue diversification. BlackRock is a publicly traded company, and additional information regarding its business is available in its filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). 

Non-Strategic Assets Portfolio includes a consumer portfolio of mainly residential mortgage and brokered home equity loans and lines of credit and a small commercial/commercial real estate loan and lease portfolio. We obtained a significant portion of these non-strategic assets through acquisitions of other companies. 

Subsidiaries 

Our corporate legal structure at December 31, 2015 consisted of one domestic subsidiary bank, including its subsidiaries, and approximately 70 active non-bank subsidiaries, in addition to various affordable housing investments. Our bank subsidiary is PNC Bank, National Association (PNC Bank), a national bank headquartered in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. For additional information on our subsidiaries, see Exhibit 21 to this Report. 

&#160;

&#160; 

2 The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. &#150; Form 10-K Statistical Disclosure By Bank Holding Companies 

The following statistical information is included on the indicated pages of this Report and is incorporated herein by reference: 

&#160;

&#160; &#160; &#160; Form 10-K page Average Consolidated Balance Sheet And Net Interest Analysis 

&#160; 214-215 Analysis Of Year-To-Year Changes In Net Interest Income 

&#160; 216 Book Values Of Securities 

&#160; 44-45 and 144-148 

Maturities And Weighted-Average Yield Of Securities 

&#160; 45 and 148 Loan Types 

&#160; 41-43, 127-128 and 217 

Selected Loan Maturities And Interest Sensitivity 

&#160; 220 Nonaccrual, Past Due And Restructured Loans And Other Nonperforming Assets 

&#160; 71-77, 113-116, 

126-139 and 218 

Potential Problem Loans And Loans Held For Sale 

&#160; 45-46 and 71-79 Summary Of Loan Loss Experience 

&#160; 77-79, 141-143 and 219 Allocation Of Allowance For Loan And Lease Losses 

&#160; 77-79 and 220 Average Amount And Average Rate Paid On Deposits 

&#160; 214-215 Time Deposits Of $100,000 Or More 

&#160; 220 Selected Consolidated Financial Data 

&#160; 32-33 Short-term borrowings &#150; not included as average balances during 2015, 2014, and 2013 were less than 30% of total shareholders&#146; equity at the end of each period. 

&#160; &#160; Supervision and Regulation 

PNC is a bank holding company (BHC) registered under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (BHC Act) and a financial holding company under the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (GLB Act). 

We are subject to numerous governmental regulations, some of which are highlighted below. See Note 19 Regulatory Matters in the Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Report for additional information regarding our regulatory matters. Applicable laws and regulations restrict our permissible activities and investments, impose conditions and requirements on the products and services we offer and 

the manner in which they are offered and sold, and require compliance with protections for loan, deposit, brokerage, fiduciary, investment management and other customers, among other things. They also restrict our ability to repurchase stock or pay dividends, or to receive dividends from our bank subsidiary, and impose capital adequacy and liquidity requirements. The consequences of noncompliance can include substantial monetary and nonmonetary sanctions. 

In addition, we are subject to comprehensive supervision and periodic examination by, among other regulatory bodies, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Federal Reserve) and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC). These examinations consider not only compliance with applicable laws, regulations and supervisory policies of the agency, but also capital levels, asset quality, risk management effectiveness, management ability and performance, earnings, liquidity and various other factors. The results of examination activity by any of our federal bank regulators potentially can result in the imposition of significant limitations on our activities and growth. These regulatory agencies generally have broad discretion to impose restrictions and limitations on the operations of a regulated entity and take enforcement action against a regulated entity where the relevant agency determines, among other things, that such operations fail to comply with applicable law or regulations or are conducted in an unsafe or unsound manner. This supervisory framework, including the examination reports and supervisory ratings (which are not publicly available) of the agencies, could materially impact the conduct, growth and profitability of our operations. 

The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) is responsible for examining PNC Bank and its affiliates (including PNC) for compliance with most federal consumer financial protection laws, including the laws relating to fair lending and prohibiting unfair, deceptive or abusive acts or practices in connection with the offer, sale or provision of consumer financial products or services, and for enforcing such laws with respect to PNC Bank and its affiliates. The results of the CFPB&#146;s examinations, which are not publicly available, also can result in restrictions or limitations on the operations of a regulated entity as well as enforcement actions against a regulated entity, including the imposition of substantial monetary penalties and nonmonetary requirements. 

We also are subject to regulation by the SEC by virtue of our status as a public company and by the SEC and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) due to the nature of some of our businesses. Our banking and securities businesses with operations outside the United States, including those conducted by BlackRock, are also subject to regulation by appropriate authorities in the foreign jurisdictions in which they do business. 

As a regulated financial services firm, our relationships and good standing with regulators are of fundamental importance 

&#160;

&#160; 

The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. &#150; Form 10-K &#160; 3 to the operation and growth of our businesses. The Federal Reserve, OCC, CFPB, SEC, CFTC and other domestic and foreign regulators have broad enforcement powers, and certain of the regulators have the power to approve, deny, or refuse to act upon our applications or notices to conduct new activities, acquire or divest businesses, assets or deposits, or reconfigure existing operations. 

We anticipate new legislative and regulatory initiatives over the next several years, focused specifically on banking and other financial services in which we are engaged. Legislative and regulatory developments to date, as well as those that come in the future, have had and are likely to continue to have an impact on the conduct of our business. The more detailed description of the significant regulations to which we are subject included in this Report is based on the current regulatory environment and is subject to potentially material change. See also the additional information included as Risk Factors in Item 1A of this Report discussing the impact of financial regulatory reform initiatives, including the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Dodd-Frank), and regulations promulgated to implement it, on the regulatory environment for PNC and the financial services industry. 

Among other areas that have been receiving a high level of regulatory focus over the last several years are compliance with the Bank Secrecy Act and anti-money laundering laws, the oversight of arrangements with third-party vendors and suppliers, the protection of confidential customer information, capital and liquidity management, the structure and effectiveness of enterprise risk management frameworks, and cyber-security. In addition, there is an increased focus on fair lending and other consumer protection issues. 

Additional legislation, changes in rules promulgated by federal financial regulators, other federal and state regulatory authorities and self-regulatory organizations, or changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and rules, may directly affect the method of operation and profitability of our businesses. The profitability of our businesses could also be affected by rules and regulations that impact the business and financial sectors in general, including changes to the laws governing taxation, antitrust regulation and electronic commerce. 

There are numerous rules governing the regulation of financial services institutions and their holding companies. Accordingly, the following discussion is general in nature and does not purport to be complete or to describe all of the laws, regulations and supervisory policies that apply to us. To a substantial extent, the purpose of the regulation and supervision of financial services institutions and their holding companies is not to protect our shareholders and our non-customer creditors, but rather to protect our customers (including depositors) and the financial markets in general. 

Dodd-Frank Act 

Dodd-Frank, which was signed into law on July 21, 2010, comprehensively reformed the regulation of financial institutions, products and services. Dodd-Frank requires various federal regulatory agencies to implement numerous new rules and regulations. Because federal agencies are granted broad discretion in drafting these rules and regulations, and many implementing rules have not yet been issued, have only been issued in proposed form, or have only recently been finalized, some of the details and the full impact of Dodd-Frank may not be known for months or years. Among other things, Dodd-Frank established the CFPB; provided for new capital standards that eliminate the treatment of trust preferred securities as Tier 1 regulatory capital; required that deposit insurance assessments be calculated based on an insured depository institution&#146;s assets rather than its insured deposits; raised the minimum Designated Reserve Ratio (the balance in the Deposit Insurance Fund divided by estimated insured deposits) to 1.35%; established a comprehensive regulatory regime for the derivatives activities of financial institutions; prohibited banking entities, after a transition period and subject to certain exceptions and exemptions, from engaging in proprietary trading, as well as acquiring or retaining ownership interests in, sponsoring, and having certain types of relationships with hedge funds, private equity funds, and other private funds (through provisions commonly referred to as the &#147;Volcker Rule&#148;); placed limitations on the interchange fees charged for debit card transactions; and established new minimum mortgage underwriting standards for residential mortgages. 

Financial Stability Oversight Council . Dodd-Frank also established the 10-member inter-agency Financial Stability Oversight Council (FSOC), which is charged with identifying and monitoring systemic risks and strengthening the regulation of financial holding companies and certain non-bank companies deemed to be &#147;systemically important.&#148; In extraordinary cases, the FSOC, in conjunction with the Federal Reserve, could order the break-up of financial firms that are deemed to present a grave threat to the financial stability of the United States. 

Banking Regulation and Supervision 

Enhanced Prudential Requirements . Dodd-Frank requires the Federal Reserve to establish enhanced prudential standards for BHCs with total consolidated assets of $50 billion or more, such as PNC, as well as systemically important non-bank financial companies designated by the FSOC for Federal Reserve supervision. For such BHCs, these enhanced standards must be more stringent than the standards and requirements applicable to BHCs with less than $50 billion in assets, and must increase in stringency based on the Federal Reserve&#146;s assessment of a BHC&#146;s risk to the financial system. The FSOC may make recommendations to the Federal Reserve concerning the establishment and refinement of these enhanced prudential standards. 

&#160;

&#160; 

4 The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. &#150; Form 10-K The Federal Reserve&#146;s enhanced prudential standards related to liquidity risk management and overall risk management took effect for PNC on January 1, 2015. These rules, among other things, require that covered BHCs conduct liquidity stress tests at least monthly, maintain a contingency funding plan and sufficient highly liquid assets to meet net stress cash-flow needs (as projected under the company&#146;s liquidity stress tests) for 30 days, and establish certain oversight and governance responsibilities for the chief risk officer, the board of directors, and the risk committee of the board of directors of a covered company. These standards also require the Federal Reserve to impose a maximum 15-to-1 debt to equity ratio on a BHC if the FSOC determines that the company poses a grave threat to the financial stability of the United States and that the imposition of such a debt-to-equity requirement would mitigate such risk. The Federal Reserve continues to work towards finalizing the other enhanced prudential standards that it must establish under Dodd-Frank, including counterparty credit exposure limits and early remediation requirements. For additional information see Item 1A Risk Factors of this Report. 

Regulatory Capital Requirements, Stress Testing and Capital Planning . PNC and PNC Bank are subject to the regulatory capital requirements established by the Federal Reserve and the OCC, respectively. Under the regulatory capital rules, a banking organization&#146;s risk-based capital ratios are calculated by allocating assets and specified off-balance sheet financial instruments into risk-weighted categories (with higher levels of capital being required for the categories perceived as representing greater risk), which are used to determine the amount of a banking organization&#146;s total risk-weighted assets. The foundation of the agencies&#146; regulatory capital rules is the international regulatory capital framework developed by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (Basel Committee), the international body responsible for developing global regulatory standards for banking organizations for consideration and adoption by national jurisdictions. In July 2013, the U.S. banking agencies adopted rules to implement the new international regulatory capital standards established by the Basel Committee, known as &#147;Basel III&#148;, as well as to implement certain provisions of Dodd-Frank. Many provisions are phased-in over a period of years, with the rules generally fully phased-in as of January 1, 2019. 

The rules adopted in July 2013 generally have three fundamental parts. The first part, referred to as the Basel III capital rule, among other things, narrows the definition of regulatory capital, requires banking organizations with $15 billion or more in assets (including PNC) to phase-out trust preferred securities from Tier 1 regulatory capital, establishes a new common equity Tier 1 (CET1) capital regulatory requirement for banking organizations, and revises the capital levels at which PNC and PNC Bank would be subject to prompt corrective action. These rules also require that significant common stock investments in unconsolidated financial institutions, as well as mortgage servicing rights and 

deferred tax assets, be deducted from CET1 regulatory capital to the extent such items individually exceed 10%, or in the aggregate exceed 15%, of the organization&#146;s adjusted Basel III CET1 regulatory capital. Our common stock investment in BlackRock is treated as a significant common stock investment in an unconsolidated financial institution for these purposes. We previously referred to Basel III CET1 capital as Basel III Tier 1 common capital. The Basel III capital rule also significantly limits the extent to which minority interests in consolidated subsidiaries (including minority interests in the form of REIT preferred securities) may be included in regulatory capital. In addition, for banking organizations, like PNC, which are subject to the advanced approaches (described below), the rule includes other comprehensive income related to both available for sale securities and pension and other post-retirement plans as a component of CET1 capital. The Basel III capital rule became effective on January 1, 2014 for PNC and PNC Bank, although many provisions are phased-in over a period of years. 

The second part of the rules adopted in July 2013 is referred to as the advanced approaches and materially revises the framework for the risk-weighting of assets under Basel II. The Basel II framework, which was adopted by the Basel Committee in 2004, seeks to provide more risk-sensitive regulatory capital calculations and promote enhanced risk management practices among large, internationally active banking organizations. Advanced approaches risk-weighted assets take account of credit, market and operational risk and rely to a significant extent on internal models. The advanced approaches modifications adopted by the U.S. banking agencies became effective on January 1, 2014, and generally apply to banking organizations (such as PNC and PNC Bank) that have $250 billion or more in total consolidated assets or that have $10 billion or more in on-balance sheet foreign exposure. Prior to fully implementing the advanced approaches to calculate risk-weighted assets, PNC and PNC Bank must successfully complete a &#147;parallel run&#148; qualification phase. PNC and PNC Bank entered this parallel run qualification phase on January 1, 2013. Although the minimum parallel run qualification period is four quarters, the parallel run period for PNC and PNC Bank, now in its fourth year, is consistent with the experience of other U.S. banks that have all had multi-year parallel run periods. 

The third major part of the rules adopted in July 2013 is referred to as the standardized approach and materially revises the framework for the risk-weighting of assets under Basel I. The standardized approach for risk-weighted assets takes into account credit and market risk. Under the standardized approach for credit risk, the nominal dollar amounts of assets and credit equivalent amounts of off-balance sheet items are generally multiplied by one of several risk adjustment percentages set forth in the rules and that increase as the perceived credit risk of the relevant asset increases. For certain types of exposures, such as securitization exposures, the standardized approach establishes one or more 

&#160;

&#160; 

The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. &#150; Form 10-K &#160; 5 methodologies that are to be used to calculate the risk-weighted asset amount for the exposure. The standardized approach took effect on January 1, 2015. 

The risk-based capital and leverage rules that the federal banking regulators have adopted require the capital-to-assets ratios of banking organizations, including PNC and PNC Bank, to meet certain minimum standards. The Basel III rule generally divides regulatory capital into three components: CET1 capital, additional Tier 1 capital (which, together with CET1 capital, comprises Tier 1 capital) and Tier 2 capital. CET1 capital is generally common stock, retained earnings, qualifying minority interest and, for advanced approaches banking organizations, accumulated other comprehensive income, less the deductions required to be made from CET1 capital. Additional Tier 1 capital generally includes, among other things, perpetual preferred stock and qualifying minority interests, less the deductions required to be made from additional Tier 1. Tier 2 capital generally comprises qualifying subordinated debt, less any required deductions from Tier 2 capital. Total capital is the sum of Tier 1 capital and Tier 2 capital, less the deductions required from total capital. 

As a result of the staggered effective dates of the final U.S. capital rules issued in July 2013, as well as the fact that PNC remains in the parallel run qualification phase for the advanced approaches, PNC&#146;s regulatory risk-based capital ratios in 2015 were based on the definitions of, and deductions from, capital under Basel III (as such definitions and deductions were phased-in for 2015) and the standardized approach for determining risk-weighted assets. Until PNC has exited parallel run, PNC&#146;s regulatory risk-based Basel III ratios will be calculated using the standardized approach for determining risk-weighted assets, and the definitions of, and deductions from, capital under Basel III (as such definitions and deductions are phased-in through 2019). Once PNC exits parallel run, its regulatory risk-based capital ratios will be the lower of the ratios calculated under the standardized approach and the advanced approaches. We refer to the capital ratios calculated using the phased-in Basel III provisions as the Transitional Basel III ratios. The Transitional Basel III regulatory capital ratios of PNC and PNC Bank as of December 31, 2015 exceeded the applicable minimum levels in effect for 2015. For additional information regarding the Transitional Basel III capital ratios of PNC and PNC Bank as of December 31, 2015, as well as the levels needed to be considered &#147;well capitalized&#148;, see the Capital portion of the Consolidated Balance Sheet Review section of Item 7 of this Report. 

The Basel III capital rule requires that banking organizations maintain a minimum CET1 ratio of 4.5%, a Tier 1 capital ratio of 6.0%, and a total capital ratio of 8.0% to be considered &#147;adequately capitalized.&#148; The Basel III capital rule also includes a capital conservation buffer requirement above the minimum risk-based capital ratio requirements that banking organizations must meet in order to avoid limitations on capital distributions (including dividends and repurchases of 

any Tier 1 capital instrument, including common and qualifying preferred stock) and certain discretionary incentive compensation payments. The multi-year phase-in of the capital conservation buffer requirement began on January 1, 2016, and, for 2016, banking organizations (including PNC and PNC Bank) are required to maintain a CET1 capital ratio of at least 5.125%, a Tier 1 capital ratio of at least 6.625%, and a total capital ratio of at least 8.625% to avoid limitations on capital distributions and certain discretionary incentive compensation payments. When fully phased-in on January 1, 2019, banking organizations must maintain a CET1 capital ratio of at least 7.0%, a Tier 1 capital ratio of at least 8.5%, and a total capital ratio of at least 10.5% to avoid limitations on capital distributions and certain discretionary incentive compensation payments. 

For banking organizations that are subject to the advanced approaches (such as PNC and PNC Bank), these higher capital conservation buffer levels above the regulatory minimums could be supplemented by a countercyclical capital buffer based on U.S. credit exposures of up to an additional 2.5% of risk-weighted assets (once fully phased-in), although this buffer is currently set at zero in the United States. In December 2015, the Federal Reserve issued for public comment a proposed policy statement on the framework and factors the Federal Reserve would use in setting and adjusting the amount of the U.S. countercyclical capital buffer. Under the Basel III rule, covered banking organizations would generally have 12 months after the announcement of any increase in the countercyclical capital buffer to meet the increased buffer requirement amount, unless the Federal Reserve determines to establish an earlier effective date. Under the phase-in schedule for the countercyclical capital buffer, the maximum potential countercyclical capital buffer amount is 0.625% in 2016, 1.25% in 2017, 1.875% in 2018, and 2.5% in 2019 and thereafter. When fully phased-in and if the full buffer amount is implemented, covered banking organizations would be required to maintain a CET1 capital ratio of at least 9.5%, a Tier 1 capital ratio of at least 11%, and a total capital ratio of at least 13% to avoid limitations on capital distributions and certain discretionary incentive compensation payments. 

In July 2015, the Federal Reserve adopted final rules to apply an additional risk-based CET1 capital surcharge of between 1.0% and 4.5% (when fully phased-in on January 1, 2019) to U.S. firms identified as globally systemically important banks (GSIBs) using a scoring methodology that is based on five measures of global systemic importance (size, interconnectedness, substitutability, complexity, and cross-jurisdictional activity). Based on the methodology, PNC is not subject to this GSIB surcharge. 

In October 2015, the Federal Reserve requested public comment on proposed rules that would require U.S. GSIBs and the U.S. operations of foreign-based GSIBs to meet a new minimum long-term debt requirement and a new minimum 

&#160;

&#160; 

6 The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. &#150; Form 10-K total loss-absorbing capacity (TLAC) requirement. Under the proposed rules, once the requirements are fully phased-in, U.S. GSIBs would be required to maintain at a minimum (i) a long-term debt amount of the greater of 6 percent plus its GSIB risk-based surcharge of risk-weighted assets or 4.5 percent of total leverage exposure; and (ii) a TLAC amount of the greater of 18 percent of risk-weighted assets or 9.5 percent of total leverage exposure. As proposed, these requirements would not apply to PNC. 

The regulatory capital framework adopted by the federal banking regulators also requires that banking organizations maintain a minimum amount of Tier 1 capital to average consolidated assets, referred to as the leverage ratio. Banking organizations are required to maintain a minimum leverage ratio of Tier 1 capital to total assets of 4.0%. As of December 31, 2015, the leverage ratios of PNC and PNC Bank were above the required minimum level. 

Under the Basel III capital rule, banking organizations subject to the advanced approaches (such as PNC and PNC Bank) also will be subject to a new minimum 3.0% supplementary leverage ratio that becomes effective on January 1, 2018. The supplementary leverage ratio is calculated by dividing Tier 1 capital by total leverage exposure and takes into account on balance sheet assets as well as certain off-balance sheet items, including loan commitments and potential future exposure under derivative contracts. BHCs with total consolidated assets of more than $700 billion or assets under custody of more than $10 trillion, as well as the insured depository institution subsidiaries of these BHCs, are subject to a higher supplementary leverage ratio requirement. These higher supplementary leverage requirements do not apply to PNC or PNC Bank. 

Failure to meet applicable capital guidelines could subject a banking organization to a variety of enforcement remedies available to the federal bank regulatory agencies, including a limitation on the ability to pay dividends or repurchase shares, the issuance of a capital directive to increase capital and, in severe cases, the termination of deposit insurance by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC), and the appointment of a conservator or receiver. In some cases, the extent of these powers depends upon whether the institution in question is considered &#147;well capitalized,&#148; &#147;adequately capitalized,&#148; &#147;undercapitalized,&#148; &#147;significantly undercapitalized&#148; or &#147;critically undercapitalized.&#148; Generally, the smaller an institution&#146;s capital base in relation to its risk-weighted or total assets, the greater the scope and severity of the agencies&#146; powers. Business activities may also be affected by an institution&#146;s capital classification. For instance, only a &#147;well capitalized&#148; insured depository institution may accept brokered deposits without prior regulatory approval. In addition, in order for PNC to remain a financial holding company and engage in the broader range of financial activities authorized for such a company, PNC and PNC Bank must remain &#147;well capitalized.&#148; At December 31, 2015, PNC 

and PNC Bank exceeded the required ratios for classification as &#147;well capitalized.&#148; The Basel III capital rule revised the thresholds at which an insured depositary institution is considered &#147;well capitalized,&#148; &#147;adequately capitalized,&#148; &#147;undercapitalized,&#148; &#147;significantly undercapitalized&#148; or &#147;critically undercapitalized.&#148; The revised thresholds, among other things, (i) include the CET1 capital metric; (ii) generally increase the amount of Tier 1 capital required to remain within each capital category (other than the &#147;critically undercapitalized&#148; category); and (iii) for institutions subject to the advanced approaches, include a supplementary leverage ratio threshold in the definitions of &#147;adequately capitalized&#148; and &#147;undercapitalized&#148; once the supplementary leverage ratio takes effect as a minimum requirement in 2018. The revised thresholds generally took effect on January 1, 2015. For additional discussion of capital adequacy requirements, we refer you to the Capital portion of the Consolidated Balance Sheet Review section of Item 7 of this Report and to Note 19 Regulatory Matters in the Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Report. 

In addition to these regulatory capital requirements, PNC is subject to the Federal Reserve&#146;s capital plan rule, annual capital stress testing requirements and Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review (CCAR) process, as well as the annual and mid-year Dodd-Frank capital stress testing (DFAST) requirements of the Federal Reserve and the OCC. As part of the CCAR process, the Federal Reserve undertakes a supervisory assessment of the capital adequacy of BHCs, including PNC, that have $50 billion or more in total consolidated assets. This capital adequacy assessment is based on a review of a comprehensive capital plan submitted by each participating BHC to the Federal Reserve that describes the company&#146;s planned capital actions, such as plans to pay or increase common stock dividends, reinstate or increase common stock repurchase programs, or redeem preferred stock or other regulatory capital instruments, during the nine quarter review period, as well as the results of stress tests conducted by both the company and the Federal Reserve under different hypothetical macro-economic scenarios, including a supervisory adverse scenario and severely adverse scenario provided by the Federal Reserve. The Federal Reserve can object to a BHC&#146;s capital plan for qualitative or quantitative reasons, in which case the BHC cannot make capital distributions without specific Federal Reserve approval. 

In evaluating a BHC&#146;s capital plan, the Federal Reserve considers a number of qualitative factors, which have become increasingly important in the CCAR process in recent years. The Federal Reserve&#146;s supervisory expectations for the capital planning and stress testing processes at large and complex BHCs, including PNC, are heightened relative to smaller and less complex BHCs. In assessing a BHC&#146;s capital planning and stress testing processes, the Federal Reserve considers whether the BHC has sound and effective governance to oversee these processes. The Federal Reserve&#146;s evaluation 

&#160;

&#160; 

The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. &#150; Form 10-K &#160; 7 focuses on whether a BHC&#146;s capital planning and stress testing processes are supported by a strong risk management framework to identify, measure and assess material risks and to provide a strong foundation to capital planning. The Federal Reserve also considers the comprehensiveness of a BHC&#146;s control framework and evaluates a BHC&#146;s policy guidelines for capital planning and assessing capital adequacy. A BHC&#146;s scenario design processes and approaches for estimating the impact of stress on its capital position are comprehensively reviewed to ensure that projections reflect the impact of appropriately stressful conditions on its capital position. Significant deficiencies in a BHC&#146;s capital planning and stress testing processes may result in a qualitative objection by the Federal Reserve to its capital plan. 

From a quantitative perspective, the Federal Reserve considers whether under different hypothetical macro-economic scenarios, including the supervisory severely adverse scenario, the company would be able to maintain throughout each quarter of the nine quarter planning horizon, even if it maintained its base case planned capital actions, projected regulatory risk-based and leverage capital ratios that exceed the minimums that are, or would then be, in effect for the company, taking into account the Basel III capital rules and any applicable phase-in periods. Failure to meet a minimum regulatory risk-based or leverage capital requirement on a projected stress basis is grounds for objection to a BHC&#146;s capital plan. In addition, the Federal Reserve evaluates a company&#146;s projected path towards compliance with the Basel III regulatory capital framework on a fully implemented basis. 

In connection with the 2016 CCAR exercise, PNC must file its capital plan and stress testing results using financial data as of December 31, 2015 with the Federal Reserve by April 5, 2016. PNC expects to receive the Federal Reserve&#146;s response (either a non-objection or objection) to the capital plan submitted as part of the 2016 CCAR in June 2016. 

As part of the CCAR and annual DFAST processes, both the Federal Reserve and PNC release certain revenue, loss and capital results from their stress testing exercises. For the 2016 exercises, the Federal Reserve has announced that it intends to publish its supervisory revenue, loss and capital projections for participating BHCs under the supervisory adverse and severely adverse macro-economic scenarios using the common assumptions concerning capital distributions established by the Federal Reserve in its DFAST regulations (DFAST capital action assumptions), as well as capital ratio information using the company&#146;s proposed base case capital actions. Within 15 days after the Federal Reserve publishes its DFAST results, PNC also is required to publicly disclose its own estimates of certain capital, revenue and loss information under the same hypothetical supervisory severely adverse macro-economic scenario and applying the DFAST capital action assumptions. 

Federal Reserve regulations also require that PNC and other large BHCs conduct a separate stress test using financial data 

as of June 30 and three company-derived macro-economic scenarios (base, adverse and severely adverse) and publish a summary of the results under the severely adverse scenario. For the 2016 stress test cycle, PNC must publish its results in the period between October 5 and November 4, 2016. 

The Federal Reserve&#146;s capital plan rule provides that a BHC must resubmit a new capital plan prior to the annual submission date if, among other things, there has been or will be a material change in the BHC&#146;s risk profile, financial condition, or corporate structure since its last capital plan submission. Under the &#147;de minimis&#148; safe harbor of the Federal Reserve&#146;s capital plan rule, PNC may make limited repurchases of common stock or other capital distributions in amounts that exceed the amounts included in its most recently approved capital plan, provided that, among other things, such distributions do not exceed, in the aggregate, 1% of PNC&#146;s Tier 1 capital and the Federal Reserve does not object to the additional repurchases or distributions. 

Basel III Liquidity and Other Requirements . The Basel III framework adopted by the Basel Committee included short-term liquidity standards (the &#147;Liquidity Coverage Ratio&#148; or &#147;LCR&#148;) and long-term funding standards (the &#147;Net Stable Funding Ratio&#148; or &#147;NSFR&#148;). 

The rules adopted by the U.S. banking agencies to implement the LCR took effect on January 1, 2015. The LCR rules are designed to ensure that covered banking organizations maintain an adequate level of cash and high quality, unencumbered liquid assets (HQLA) to meet estimated net liquidity needs in a short-term stress scenario using liquidity inflow and outflow assumptions provided in the rules (net cash outflow). A company&#146;s LCR is the amount of its HQLA, as defined and calculated in accordance with the haircuts and limitations in the rule, divided by its net cash outflow, with the quotient expressed as a percentage. 

Top-tier BHCs (like PNC) that are subject to the advanced approaches for regulatory capital purposes, as well as any subsidiary depository institution of such a company that has $10 billion or more in total consolidated assets (such as PNC Bank), are subject to the full LCR (rather than the less stringent modified LCR). However, the minimum required LCR is subject to a phase-in. The minimum LCR PNC and PNC Bank must maintain was 80% in 2015, increased to 90% in 2016 and increases to 100% when fully phased-in starting in 2017. PNC and PNC Bank are required to calculate the LCR on a month-end basis until June 30, 2016, and then on a daily basis beginning on July 1, 2016. An institution required to calculate its LCR on a month-end basis must consult with its primary federal regulator if its LCR falls below the required minimum for three consecutive days to determine whether the institution must provide a plan for achieving compliance with the minimum LCR. An institution required to calculate the LCR on a daily basis must promptly provide its 

&#160;

&#160; 

8 The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. &#150; Form 10-K regulator with a plan for achieving compliance with the minimum if its LCR is below the minimum for three consecutive business days. 

The Federal Reserve also has adopted new liquidity risk management requirements for BHCs with $50 billion or more in consolidated total assets (like PNC) that became effective on January 1, 2015. The new rules require covered BHCs to, among other things, conduct internal liquidity stress tests over a range of time horizons, maintain a buffer of highly liquid assets sufficient to meet projected net outflows under the BHC&#146;s 30-day liquidity stress test, and maintain a contingency funding plan that meets detailed requirements. 

For additional discussion of regulatory liquidity requirements, please refer to the Liquidity Risk Management portion of the Risk Management section of Item 7 of this Report. 

In November 2015, the Federal Reserve issued a proposed rule for public comment that would require large BHCs, including PNC, to publicly disclose quantitative and qualitative measures of their liquidity profile. The proposed disclosure would include a common disclosure template that would include the components used to calculate the LCR (e.g., HQLA, cash outflows and inflows for the consolidated parent company), and a qualitative discussion of the LCR results, including, among other things, key drivers of the results, composition of HQLA and concentration of funding sources. As proposed, PNC would be required to make these disclosures starting with the third quarter, 2017. 

The NSFR is designed to promote a stable maturity structure of assets and liabilities of banking organizations over a one-year time horizon. The Basel Committee, in October 2014, released the final NSFR framework. Under that framework, the NSFR would take effect as a minimum regulatory standard on January 1, 2018, although the U.S. banking agencies have not yet proposed rules to implement the NSFR. 

Parent Company Liquidity and Dividends . The principal source of our liquidity at the parent company level is dividends from PNC Bank. PNC Bank is subject to various restrictions on its ability to pay dividends to PNC Bancorp, Inc., its direct parent, which is a wholly-owned direct subsidiary of PNC. PNC Bank is also subject to federal laws limiting extensions of credit to its parent holding company and non-bank affiliates as discussed in Note 19 Regulatory Matters in the Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Report. Further information on bank level liquidity and parent company liquidity and on certain contractual restrictions is also available in the Liquidity Risk Management portion of the Risk Management section of Item 7 of this Report, and in Note 11 Borrowed Funds and Note 16 Equity in the Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Report. 

Federal Reserve rules provide that a BHC is expected to serve as a source of financial strength to its subsidiary banks and to commit resources to support such banks if necessary. Consistent with the &#147;source of strength&#148; policy for subsidiary banks, the Federal Reserve has stated that, as a matter of prudent banking, a BHC generally should not maintain a rate of cash dividends unless its net income available to common shareholders has been sufficient to fully fund the dividends and the prospective rate of earnings retention appears to be consistent with the corporation&#146;s capital needs, asset quality and overall financial condition. Further, in providing guidance to the large BHCs participating in the 2016 CCAR, discussed above, the Federal Reserve stated that it expects capital plans submitted in 2016 to reflect conservative dividend payout ratios and net share repurchase programs, and that requests that imply common dividend payout ratios above 30% of projected after-tax net income available to common shareholders will receive particularly close scrutiny. 

Additional Powers Under the GLB Act . The GLB Act permits a qualifying BHC to become a &#147;financial holding company&#148; and thereby engage in, or affiliate with financial companies engaging in, a broader range of activities than would otherwise be permitted for a BHC. Permitted affiliates include securities underwriters and dealers, insurance companies and companies engaged in other activities that are determined by the Federal Reserve, in consultation with the Secretary of the Treasury, to be &#147;financial in nature or incidental thereto&#148; or are determined by the Federal Reserve unilaterally to be &#147;complementary&#148; to financial activities. PNC became a financial holding company as of March 13, 2000. In order to be and remain a financial holding company, a BHC and its subsidiary depository institutions must be &#147;well capitalized&#148; and &#147;well managed.&#148; In addition, a financial holding company generally may not engage in a new financial activity authorized by the GLB Act, or acquire a company engaged in such a new activity, if any of its insured depository institutions received a less than Satisfactory rating at its most recent evaluation under the Community Reinvestment Act (CRA). Among other activities, we currently rely on our status as a financial holding company to conduct merchant banking activities and securities underwriting and dealing activities. As subsidiaries of a financial holding company under the GLB Act, our non-bank subsidiaries are generally allowed to conduct new financial activities, and PNC is generally permitted to acquire non-bank financial companies that have less than $10 billion in assets, with after-the-fact notice to the Federal Reserve. 

The Federal Reserve is the &#147;umbrella&#148; regulator of a financial holding company, with its operating entities, such as its subsidiary broker-dealers, investment advisers, insurance companies and banks, as well as investment companies advised by investment adviser subsidiaries of the financial holding company, also being subject to the jurisdiction of various federal and state &#147;functional&#148; regulators with normal regulatory responsibility for companies in their lines of business. 

&#160;

&#160; 

The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. &#150; Form 10-K &#160; 9 In addition, the GLB Act permits qualifying national banks to engage in expanded activities through the formation of a &#147;financial subsidiary.&#148; PNC Bank has filed a financial subsidiary certification with the OCC and currently engages in insurance agency activities through financial subsidiaries. PNC Bank may also generally engage through a financial subsidiary in any activity that is determined to be financial in nature or incidental to a financial activity by the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Federal Reserve (other than insurance underwriting activities, insurance company investment activities and merchant banking). In order to have a financial subsidiary, a national bank and each of its depository institution affiliates must be and remain &#147;well capitalized&#148; and &#147;well managed.&#148; In addition, a financial subsidiary generally may not engage in a new financial activity authorized by the GLB Act, or acquire a company engaged in such a new financial activity, if the national bank or any of its insured depository institution affiliates received a less than Satisfactory rating at its most recent evaluation under the CRA. 

Volcker Rule . In December 2013, the U.S. banking agencies, SEC and CFTC issued final rules to implement the &#147;Volcker Rule&#148; provisions of Dodd-Frank. The Volcker Rule&#146;s prohibitions and restrictions generally became effective on July 21, 2015. The rules prohibit banks and their affiliates (collectively, banking entities) from trading as principal on a short-term basis in securities, derivatives and certain other financial instruments, but also includes several important exclusions and exemptions from this prohibition. These exclusions and exemptions, for example, permit banking entities, subject to a variety of conditions and restrictions, to trade as principal for securities underwriting, market making and risk-mitigating hedging purposes, and to trade in U.S. government and municipal securities. We currently do not expect the proprietary trading aspects of the final rules to have a material effect on PNC&#146;s businesses or revenue. However, the limits and restrictions of the Volcker Rule could, depending on the agencies&#146; approach to interpreting the rules, cause PNC to forego engaging in hedging or other transactions that it would otherwise undertake in the ordinary course of business and, thus, to some extent, may limit the ability of PNC to most effectively hedge its risks, manage its balance sheet or provide products or services to its customers. 

The rules also prohibit banking entities from acquiring and retaining ownership interests in, sponsoring, and having certain relationships with private funds (such as, for example, private equity and hedge funds) that would be an investment company for purposes of the Investment Company Act of 1940 but for the exemptions in sections 3(c)(1) or 3(c)(7) of that act (covered funds). Again there are exemptions from these restrictions which themselves are subject to a variety of conditions. Moreover, the rules prohibit banking entities from engaging in permitted trading or covered fund activities if the activity would involve or result in a material conflict of interest between the banking entity and its clients, customers, 

or counterparties, result in a material exposure by the banking entity to a high-risk asset or a high-risk trading strategy, or pose a threat to the safety and soundness of the banking entity or to the financial stability of the United States. Banking entities, like PNC, that have $50 billion or more in total assets are required to establish and maintain an enhanced compliance program designed to ensure that the entity complies with the requirements of the final rules. 

In December 2014, the Federal Reserve granted an extension of the conformance period to give all banking entities until July 21, 2016 to conform their investments in, and relationships with, covered funds that were held or existed prior to December 31, 2013 (legacy covered funds). Moreover, the Federal Reserve indicated its intent to grant an additional one-year extension of the conformance period for legacy covered funds, which would give banking entities until July 21, 2017 to conform their ownership interests in, and relationships with, legacy covered funds subject to the Volcker Rule. The Federal Reserve also has the ability to provide up to an additional 5-year conformance period for investments held as of May 1, 2010 in qualifying illiquid funds. For additional information concerning the potential impact of the Volcker Rule on PNC&#146;s operations, please refer to Item 1A Risk Factors of this Report. 

Other Federal Reserve and OCC Regulation and Supervision . Laws and regulations limit the scope of our permitted activities and investments. The federal banking agencies also possess broad powers to take corrective action as deemed appropriate for an insured depository institution and its holding company. 

Moreover, examination ratings of &#147;3&#148; or lower, lower capital ratios than peer group institutions, regulatory concerns regarding management, controls, assets, operations or other factors, can all potentially result in practical limitations on the ability of a bank or BHC to engage in new activities, grow, acquire new businesses, repurchase its stock or pay dividends, or to continue to conduct existing activities. The OCC, moreover, has established certain heightened risk management and governance standards for large banks, including PNC Bank, as enforceable guidelines under section 39 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (FDI Act). The guidelines, among other things, establish minimum standards for the design and implementation of a risk governance framework, describe the appropriate risk management roles and responsibilities of front line units, independent risk management, internal audit, and the board of directors, and provide that a covered bank should have a comprehensive written statement that articulates its risk appetite and serves as a basis for the framework (a risk appetite statement). If the OCC determines that a covered national bank is not in compliance with these or other guidelines established under section 39 of the FDI Act (including the guidelines relating to information security standards), the OCC may require the bank to submit a corrective action plan and may initiate 

&#160;

&#160; 

10 The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. &#150; Form 10-K enforcement action against the bank if an acceptable plan is not submitted or the bank fails to comply with an approved plan. 

Sections 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act and the Federal Reserve&#146;s implementing regulation, Regulation W, place quantitative and qualitative restrictions on covered transactions between a bank and its affiliates (for example between PNC Bank, on the one hand, and PNC and its nonbank subsidiaries, on the other hand). In general, section 23A and Regulation W limit the total amount of covered transactions between a bank and any single affiliate to 10 percent of the bank&#146;s capital stock and surplus, limit the total amount of covered transactions between a bank and all its affiliates to 20 percent of the bank&#146;s capital stock and surplus, prohibit a bank from purchasing low-quality assets from an affiliate, and require certain covered transactions to be secured with prescribed amounts of collateral. Section 23B generally requires that transactions between a bank and its affiliates be on terms that are at least as favorable to the bank as the terms that would apply in comparable transactions between the bank and a third party. Dodd-Frank amended section 23A of the Federal Reserve Act to include as a covered transaction the credit exposure of a bank to an affiliate arising from a derivative transaction with the affiliate. The Federal Reserve has yet to propose rules to implement these revisions. 

The Federal Reserve&#146;s prior approval is required whenever we propose to acquire all or substantially all of the assets of any bank or savings association, to acquire direct or indirect ownership or control of more than 5% of any class of voting securities of any bank or savings association, or to merge or consolidate with any other BHC or savings and loan holding company. The BHC Act and other federal law enumerates the factors the Federal Reserve must consider when reviewing the merger of BHCs, the acquisition of banks, or the acquisition of voting securities of a bank or BHC. These factors include the competitive effects of the proposal in the relevant geographic markets; the financial and managerial resources and future prospects of the companies and banks involved in the transaction; the effect of the transaction on the financial stability of the United States; the organizations&#146; compliance with anti-money laundering laws and regulations; the convenience and needs of the communities to be served; and the records of performance under the CRA of the insured depository institutions involved in the transaction. In cases involving interstate bank acquisitions, the Federal Reserve also must consider the concentration of deposits nationwide and in certain individual states. Under Dodd-Frank, a BHC is generally prohibited from merging or consolidating with, or acquiring, another company if the resulting company&#146;s liabilities upon consummation would exceed 10% of the aggregate liabilities of the U.S. financial sector (including the U.S. liabilities of foreign financial companies). OCC prior approval is required for PNC Bank to acquire another insured bank or savings association by merger or to acquire deposits 

or substantially all of the assets of such institutions. In deciding whether to approve such a transaction, the OCC is required to consider factors similar to those that must be considered by the Federal Reserve. Approval of the FDIC is required to merge a nonbank entity into PNC Bank. Our ability to grow through acquisitions or reorganize our operations could be limited by these approval requirements. 

At December 31, 2015, PNC Bank had an &#147;Outstanding&#148; rating with respect to the CRA. 

As a national bank, PNC Bank is required to be a member of the Federal Reserve System. A member bank is required to subscribe to stock in its regional Federal Reserve Bank and receives an annual dividend on the amount of paid-in stock. Effective January 1, 2016, the annual dividend rate paid by a Federal Reserve Bank to stockholders with total consolidated assets of $10 billion or more, such as PNC Bank, was changed (from a flat 6 percent rate) to be the lower of (i) the rate equal to the high yield of the 10-year Treasury note auctioned at the last auction before the dividend is paid, or (ii) 6 percent. 

Because of PNC&#146;s ownership interest in BlackRock, BlackRock is subject to the supervision and regulation of the Federal Reserve. 

FDIC Insurance and Related Matters . PNC Bank is insured by the FDIC and subject to deposit premium assessments. Regulatory matters could increase the cost of FDIC deposit insurance premiums to an insured bank as FDIC deposit insurance premiums are &#147;risk based.&#148; Therefore, higher fee percentages would be charged to banks that have lower capital ratios or higher risk profiles. These risk profiles take into account, among other things, weaknesses that are found by the primary banking regulator through its examination and supervision of the bank and the bank&#146;s holdings of assets or liabilities classified as higher risk by the FDIC. For example, an insured depository institution&#146;s examination rating and the amount of brokered deposits (as defined under the FDI Act) held by an insured depository institution, among other things, can adversely affect the institution&#146;s deposit insurance assessments. A negative evaluation by the FDIC or a bank&#146;s primary federal banking regulator could increase the costs to a bank and result in an aggregate cost of deposit funds higher than that of competing banks in a lower risk category. The methodology for the deposit insurance base calculation currently uses average assets less average tangible equity. 

Federal banking laws and regulations also apply a variety of requirements or restrictions on insured depository institutions with respect to brokered deposits. For example, brokered deposits are generally subject to higher outflow assumptions than other types of deposits for purposes of the LCR. In 2015, the FDIC issued a set of frequently asked questions (FAQs) regarding the definition of brokered deposits under the FDI Act and then requested public comment on potential revisions to the FAQs. 

&#160;

&#160; 

The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. &#150; Form 10-K &#160; 11 The Dodd-Frank Act mandated an increase in the Designated Reserve Ratio (the balance in the Deposit Insurance Fund divided by estimated insured deposits) from 1.15% to 1.35% by September 30, 2020, and required that insured depository institutions with $10 billion or more in total assets, such as PNC, bear the cost of the increase. In October 2015, the FDIC requested comment on a proposed rule that would impose a surcharge, equal to 4.5 basis points of an institution&#146;s deposit insurance assessment base, on the quarterly deposit insurance assessments of all insured depository institutions with total consolidated assets of $10 billion or more (including PNC Bank) in order to fund this increase in the Designated Reserve Ratio. Under the proposal, the surcharge would take effect for assessments billed after the Designated Reserve Ratio reaches 1.15 percent (estimated by the FDIC to most likely occur in the first quarter of 2016) or such later date as the proposed rule is finalized, and would continue until the reserve ratio reached 1.35 percent (estimated by the FDIC to occur under the proposal before the end of 2018). Based on data as of December 31, 2015, we estimate that the net effect of the proposed surcharge, together with the scheduled reduction of regular assessments that will go into effect when the Designated Reserve Ratio reaches 1.15 percent, would increase PNC Bank&#146;s quarterly assessment by approximately $20 million. The comment period closed on January 5, 2016. 

Recovery and Resolution Planning . Dodd-Frank requires BHCs that have $50 billion or more in assets, such as PNC, to periodically submit to the Federal Reserve and the FDIC a resolution plan that includes, among other things, an analysis of how the company could be resolved in a rapid and orderly fashion if the company were to fail or experience material financial distress. The Federal Reserve and the FDIC may jointly impose restrictions on a covered BHC, including additional capital requirements or limitations on growth, if the agencies jointly determine that the company&#146;s plan is not credible or would not facilitate a rapid and orderly resolution of the company under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code (or other applicable resolution framework), and additionally could require the company to divest assets or take other actions if the company did not submit an acceptable resolution plan within two years after any such restrictions were imposed. The FDIC also requires large insured depository institutions, including PNC Bank, to periodically submit a resolution plan to the FDIC that includes, among other things, an analysis of how the institution could be resolved under the FDI Act in a manner that protects depositors and limits losses or costs to creditors of the bank in accordance with the FDI Act. Depending on how the agencies conduct their review of the resolution plans submitted by PNC and PNC Bank, these requirements could affect the ways in which PNC structures and conducts its business and result in higher compliance and operating costs. PNC and PNC Bank submitted their 2015 resolution plans under these rules in December 2015. 

In December 2015, the OCC issued for public comment proposed enforceable guidelines under section 39 of the FDI 

Act that would establish standards for recovery planning for insured national banks, with average total consolidated assets of $50 billion or more, including PNC Bank. The proposed guidelines would require a covered bank to develop and maintain a recovery plan that, among other things, identifies a range of options that could be undertaken by the banking organization to restore its financial and operational strength and viability should identified triggering events reflecting the banking organization&#146;s vulnerabilities occur. The proposal does not specify an effective date for the guidelines. The public comment period for the enforceable guidelines closed on February 16, 2016. 

CFPB Regulation and Supervision . As noted above, Dodd-Frank gives the CFPB authority to examine PNC and PNC Bank for compliance with a broad range of federal consumer financial laws and regulations, including the laws and regulations that relate to deposit products, credit card, mortgage, automobile and other consumer loans, and other consumer financial products and services we offer. The CFPB also has the power to issue regulations and take enforcement actions to prevent and remedy acts and practices relating to consumer financial products and services that it deems to be unfair, deceptive or abusive, and to impose new disclosure requirements for any consumer financial product or service. In addition to these authorities, on July 21, 2011, and pursuant to Dodd-Frank, the CFPB assumed authorities under other consumer financial laws in effect on that date governing the provision of consumer financial products and services. 

The CFPB has engaged in extensive rulemaking activities, including adopting comprehensive new rules on mortgage related topics required under Dodd-Frank, including borrower ability-to-repay and qualified mortgage standards, mortgage servicing standards and loan originator compensation standards. 

In October 2015, broad new regulations took effect that substantially revised the disclosures we provide to prospective residential mortgage customers. These regulations, among other things, require the provision of new disclosures near the time a prospective borrower submits an application and three days prior to closing of a mortgage loan. The CFPB is also engaged or expected to engage in rulemakings that impact products and services offered by PNC Bank, including regulations impacting prepaid cards, overdraft fees charged on deposit accounts and arbitration provisions included in customer account agreements. 

Securities and Derivatives Regulation 

Our registered broker-dealer and investment adviser subsidiaries are subject to rules and regulations promulgated by the SEC. 

Several of our subsidiaries are registered with the SEC as investment advisers and may provide investment advisory services to clients, other PNC affiliates or related entities, including registered investment companies. Certain of these 

&#160;

&#160; 

12 The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. &#150; Form 10-K advisers are registered as investment advisers to private equity funds under rules adopted under Dodd-Frank. 

Broker-dealer subsidiaries are registered with the SEC and subject to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and related regulations. The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA) is the primary self-regulatory organization (SRO) for our registered broker-dealer subsidiaries. Investment adviser subsidiaries are subject to the requirements of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 and related regulations. Our investment adviser subsidiary that serves as adviser to registered investment companies is also subject to the requirements of the Investment Company Act of 1940 and related regulations. Our broker-dealer and investment adviser subsidiaries also are subject to additional regulation by states or local jurisdictions. 

Over the past several years, the SEC and other regulatory agencies have increased their focus on the asset management, mutual fund and broker-dealer industries. Congress and the SEC have adopted regulatory reforms and are considering additional reforms that have increased, and are likely to continue to increase, the extent of regulation of the mutual fund, investment adviser and broker-dealer industries and impose additional compliance obligations and costs on our subsidiaries involved with those industries. Under provisions of the federal securities laws applicable to broker-dealers, investment advisers and registered investment companies and their service providers, a determination by a court or regulatory agency that certain violations have occurred at a company or its affiliates can result in fines, restitution, a limitation on permitted activities, disqualification to continue to conduct certain activities and an inability to rely on certain favorable exemptions. Certain types of infractions and violations can also affect a public company in its ability to expeditiously issue new securities into the capital markets. In addition, certain changes in the activities of a broker-dealer require approval from FINRA, and FINRA takes into account a variety of considerations in acting upon applications for such approval, including internal controls, capital levels, management experience and quality, prior enforcement and disciplinary history and supervisory concerns. 

Title VII of Dodd-Frank imposes new comprehensive and significant regulations on the activities of financial institutions that are active in the U.S. over-the-counter derivatives and foreign exchange markets. Title VII was enacted to (i) address systemic risk issues, (ii) bring greater transparency to the derivatives markets, (iii) provide enhanced disclosures and protection to customers, and (iv) promote market integrity. Among other things, Title VII: (i) requires the registration of both &#147;swap dealers&#148; and &#147;major swap participants&#148; with one or both of the CFTC (in the case of non security-based swaps) and the SEC (in the case of security-based swaps); (ii) requires that most standardized swaps be centrally cleared through a regulated clearing house and traded on a centralized exchange or swap execution facility; (iii) subjects swap 

dealers and major swap participants to capital and margin requirements in excess of historical practice; (iv) subjects swap dealers and major swap participants to comprehensive new recordkeeping and real-time public reporting requirements; (v) subjects swap dealers and major swap participants to new business conduct requirements, including the provision of daily marks to counterparties and disclosing to counterparties (pre-execution) the material risks, material incentives, and any conflicts of interest associated with their swap; and (vi) imposes special duties on swap dealers and major swap participants when transacting a swap with a &#147;special entity&#148; ( e.g. , governmental agency (federal, state or local) or political subdivision thereof, pension plan or endowment). 

Based on the definition of a &#147;swap dealer&#148; under Title VII, PNC Bank registered with the CFTC as a swap dealer on January 31, 2013. As a result, PNC Bank is subject to the regulations and requirements imposed on registered swap dealers, and the CFTC (and for certain delegated responsibilities, the National Futures Association) will have a meaningful supervisory role with respect to PNC Bank&#146;s derivatives and foreign exchange businesses. Because of the limited volume of our security-based swap activities, PNC Bank has not registered with the SEC as a security-based swap dealer. The regulations and requirements applicable to swap dealers will collectively impose implementation and ongoing compliance burdens on PNC Bank and will introduce additional legal risks (including as a result of newly applicable antifraud and anti-manipulation provisions and private rights of action). 

As originally enacted, the so-called &#147;swap push-out&#148; provisions of Section 716 of Dodd-Frank required an insured depository institution that is a &#147;swaps entity&#148; (defined to include a registered swap dealer like PNC Bank) to cease engaging in certain types of swaps by July 16, 2013, although the institution&#146;s appropriate Federal banking agency could extend this transition period. In 2013, PNC Bank received such an extension of the transition period to July 16, 2015 from its appropriate Federal banking agency. In December 2014, the U.S. Congress significantly narrowed the &#147;push-out&#148; restrictions of Section 716. These amendments generally allow insured depository institutions that are a swaps entity to engage in all types of swaps other than structured finance swaps (defined as a swap that references either an asset-backed security or a group or index primarily comprised of asset-backed securities). However, an insured depository institution is permitted to engage in structured finance swaps for hedging or other risk mitigating purposes. An insured depository institution that fails to comply with the restrictions in Section 716 could face restrictions on the institution&#146;s access to the Federal Reserve&#146;s discount window or FDIC deposit insurance or guarantees. These provisions, as amended, do not prohibit PNC Bank from engaging in its current swap activities. 

&#160;

&#160; 

The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. &#150; Form 10-K &#160; 13 BlackRock has subsidiaries in securities and related businesses subject to SEC, other governmental agencies, state, local and FINRA regulation, and a federally chartered nondepository trust company subsidiary subject to supervision and regulation by the OCC. For additional information about the regulation of BlackRock by these agencies and otherwise, we refer you to the discussion under the &#147;Regulation&#148; section of Item 1 Business in BlackRock&#146;s most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K, which may be obtained electronically at the SEC&#146;s website at www.sec.gov. 

Competition 

We are subject to intense competition from other regulated banking organizations, as well as various other types of financial institutions and non-bank entities that can offer a number of similar products and services without being subject to bank regulatory supervision and restrictions. 

In making loans, PNC Bank competes with traditional banking institutions as well as consumer finance companies, leasing companies and other non-bank lenders, and institutional investors including collateralized loan obligation (CLO) managers, hedge funds, mutual fund complexes and private equity firms. Loan pricing, structure and credit standards are extremely important in the current environment as we seek to achieve appropriate risk-adjusted returns. Traditional deposit-taking activities are also subject to pricing pressures and to customer migration as a result of intense competition for deposits and investments. 

PNC Bank competes for deposits with: 

&#160; &#149; &#160; Other commercial banks, 

&#160; &#149; &#160; Savings banks, 

&#160; &#149; &#160; Savings and loan associations, 

&#160; &#149; &#160; Credit unions, 

&#160; &#149; &#160; Treasury management service companies, 

&#160; &#149; &#160; Insurance companies, and 

&#160; &#149; &#160; Issuers of commercial paper and other securities, including mutual funds. 

Our various non-bank businesses engaged in investment banking and alternative investment activities compete with: 

&#160; &#149; &#160; Commercial banks, 

&#160; &#149; &#160; Investment banking firms, 

&#160; &#149; &#160; Merchant banks, 

&#160; &#149; &#160; Insurance companies, 

&#160; &#149; &#160; Private equity firms, and 

&#160; &#149; &#160; Other investment vehicles. 

In providing asset management services, our businesses compete with: 

&#160; &#149; &#160; Investment management firms, 

&#160; &#149; &#160; Large banks and other financial institutions, 

&#160; &#149; &#160; Brokerage firms, 

&#160; &#149; &#160; Mutual fund complexes, and 

&#160; &#149; &#160; Insurance companies. 

Competitors may seek to compete with us through traditional channels (such as physical locations) or primarily through on-line or mobile channels. We include here by reference the additional information regarding competition and factors affecting our competitive position included in the Item 1A Risk Factors of this Report. 

Employees 

Employees totaled 52,513 at December 31, 2015. This total includes 49,148 full-time and 3,365 part-time employees, of which 21,896 full-time and 2,877 part-time employees were employed by our Retail Banking business. 

SEC Reports and Corporate Governance Information 

We are subject to the informational requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Exchange Act) and, in accordance with the Exchange Act, we file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements, and other information with the SEC. Our SEC File Number is 001-09718. You may read and copy this information at the SEC&#146;s Public Reference Room located at 100 F Street NE, Room 1580, Washington, D.C. 20549. You can obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. 

You can also obtain copies of this information by mail from the Public Reference Section of the SEC, 100 F Street NE, Washington, D.C. 20549, at prescribed rates. 

The SEC also maintains an internet website that contains reports, including exhibits, proxy and information statements, and other information about issuers, like us, who file electronically with the SEC. The address of that site is www.sec.gov. You can also inspect reports, proxy statements and other information about us at the offices of the New York Stock Exchange, 20 Broad Street, New York, New York 10005. 

We also make our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed with or furnished to the SEC pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act available free of charge on our internet website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. PNC&#146;s corporate internet address is www.pnc.com and you can find this information at www.pnc.com/secfilings. Shareholders and bondholders may also obtain copies of these filings without charge by contacting Shareholder Services at 800-982-7652 or via the online contact form at www.computershare.com/contactus for copies without exhibits, and by contacting Shareholder Relations at 800-843-2206 or via e-mail at investor.relations@pnc.com for copies of exhibits, including financial statement and schedule exhibits where applicable. The interactive data file (XBRL) exhibit is only available electronically. 

&#160;

&#160; 

14 The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. &#150; Form 10-K Information about our Board of Directors and its committees and corporate governance at PNC is available on PNC&#146;s corporate website at www.pnc.com/corporategovernance. Our PNC Code of Business Conduct and Ethics is available on our corporate website at www.pnc.com/corporategovernance. In addition, any future amendments to, or waivers from, a provision of the PNC Code of Business Conduct and Ethics that applies to our directors or executive officers (including our principal executive officer, principal financial officer, and principal accounting officer or controller) will be posted at this internet address. 

Shareholders who would like to request printed copies of the PNC Code of Business Conduct and Ethics or our Corporate Governance Guidelines or the charters of our Board&#146;s Audit, Nominating and Governance, Personnel and Compensation, or Risk Committees (all of which are posted on the PNC corporate website at www.pnc.com/corporategovernance) may do so by sending their requests to PNC&#146;s Corporate Secretary at corporate headquarters at The Tower at PNC Plaza, 300 Fifth Avenue, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15222-2401. Copies will be provided without charge to shareholders. 

Our common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) under the symbol &#147;PNC.&#148; 

Internet Information 

The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc.&#146;s financial reports and information about its products and services are available on the internet at www.pnc.com. We provide information for investors on our corporate website under &#147;About Us &#150; Investor Relations.&#148; We use our Twitter account, @pncnews, as an additional way of disseminating public information from time to time to investors. 

We generally post the following under &#147;About Us &#150; Investor Relations&#148; shortly before or promptly following its first use or release: financially-related press releases, including earnings releases, and supplemental financial information, various SEC filings, including annual, quarterly and current reports and proxy statements, presentation materials associated with earnings and other investor conference calls or events, and access to live and recorded audio from earnings and other 

investor conference calls or events. In some cases, we may post the presentation materials for other investor conference calls or events several days prior to the call or event. When warranted, we will also use our website to expedite public access to time-critical information regarding PNC in advance of distribution of a press release or a filing with the SEC disclosing the same information. For earnings and other conference calls or events, we generally include in our posted materials a cautionary statement regarding forward-looking and adjusted information and we provide GAAP reconciliations when we refer to adjusted information and results. Where applicable, we provide GAAP reconciliations for such additional information in materials for that event or in materials for other prior investor presentations or in our annual, quarterly or current reports. 

PNC is required to provide additional public disclosure regarding estimated income, losses and pro forma regulatory capital ratios under supervisory and PNC-developed hypothetical severely adverse economic scenarios, as well as information concerning its capital stress testing processes, pursuant to the stress testing regulations adopted by the Federal Reserve and the OCC. PNC is also required to make certain additional regulatory capital-related public disclosures about PNC&#146;s capital structure, risk exposures, risk assessment processes, risk-weighted assets and overall capital adequacy, including market risk-related disclosures, under the regulatory capital rules adopted by the Federal banking agencies. Under these regulations, PNC may satisfy these requirements through postings on its website, and PNC has done so and expects to continue to do so without also providing disclosure of this information through filings with the SEC. 

Other information posted on our corporate website that may not be available in our filings with the SEC include information relating to our corporate governance and quarterly and annual communications from our chairman to shareholders. 

Where we have included web addresses in this Report, such as our web address and the web address of the SEC, we have included those web addresses as inactive textual references only. Except as specifically incorporated by reference into this Report, information on those websites is not part hereof. 

&#160;

&#160; 

The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. &#150; Form 10-K &#160; 15 