 ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

Overview 

We are a minerals company in the business of acquiring and advancing mineral properties to the discovery point, where we believe maximum shareholder returns can be realized. Although we have conducted limited extraction of gold on one of our gold prospects, Goldrich is an exploration stage company as defined by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (&#147;SEC&#148;) in Industry Guide 7.

Incorporated in 1959, Goldrich Mining Company (OTCQB trading symbol &#147;GRMC&#148;) has been a publicly traded company since October 9, 1970. Our executive offices are located at 2607 Southeast Blvd, Suite B211, Spokane, WA 99223, and our phone number there is (509) 535-7367. Our website address is www.goldrichmining.com. Information contained on our website is not part of this annual report.

At this time, our major mineral exploration prospects are contained within our wholly owned Chandalar property, located approximately 190 air miles north of Fairbanks, Alaska, a full-service support center for the oil and mining industry, and 48 air miles east of the Dalton Highway, the major all-weather north-south route that links Fairbanks to the Prudhoe Bay oil fields on the Arctic Ocean to the north. The property is largely on land owned by the State of Alaska, which is one of the active and highly ranked mining jurisdictions in the world. The Chandalar property is approximately 22,858 acres, consisting of 426.5 acres of patented federal mining claims (21 lode claims, one placer claim and one mill site) and 22,432 acres of unpatented State of Alaska mining claims (197 claims). The claims are contiguous, comprising a block covering approximately 35.7 square miles. Both patented federal mining claims and Alaska state mining claims provide exploration and mining rights to lode and placer mineral deposits.

We have established a substantial exploration infrastructure at our Chandalar property, including a 25-person camp, heavy and light-duty equipment, a 4,400-foot airstrip, and a network of roads that offer all-weather access to all of the major gold prospects. Current surface access to the camp from the Dalton Highway is restricted to the winter months via a winter trail from Coldfoot along the Dalton Highway. The State of Alaska has a right-of-way to construct a permanent all-season road along this trail which, when built, will allow year-around surface access to the project site. We are not aware of any plans to build this road at the present time.

&#160;

The Chandalar property contains both our Chandalar hard-rock (lode) gold project and the Little Squaw Creek alluvial gold mine. The area has a long prospecting and mining history dating to the discovery of placer gold deposits in 1905, soon followed by the discovery of more than 30 separate high-grade lode gold mineralization prospects. Over the next 80 years the lode gold mineralization occurrences were intermittently explored or mined by various small operators, but because of the district&#146;s remote location the readily mineable alluvial gold deposits received the most attention.

&#160;

The Chandalar lode occurrences are part of a regionally mineralized schist belt that extends east-west across the 600-mile width of Alaska along the south flank of the Brooks Range. The geology and mineralization of the Chandalar lode gold systems are quite similar to many important productive gold deposits that have been variously categorized as greenstone-hosted, orogenic, shear-zone related, low-sulfide, mesothermal, amongst other names and which, collectively, account for a major part of the world&#146;s gold production. Although there is a history of past lode and alluvial extraction on our Chandalar property, it currently does not contain any known proven or probable ore reserves as defined in SEC Industry Guide 7. The probability that ore reserves that meet SEC Industry Guide 7 guidelines will be discovered on an individual hard rock prospect at Chandalar cannot be determined at this time.

Subject to available financing, our focus is two-fold: (1) Continued gold extraction from a substantial alluvial gold deposit discovered on the property. To date, Goldrich has completed approximately 15,000 feet of drilling and outlined 10.5 million cubic yards of mineralized alluvial material, at an average head grade of approximately 0.025 ounces of gold per cubic yard. (2) Continue exploration of our Chandalar property where we have discovered and identified 

drilling targets for a potentially large sedimentary-type bulk tonnage hard-rock gold deposit as well as a possible intrusion-related source of lode mineralization. 

Concerning our placer operations, in 2012, Goldrich and NyacAU LLC (&#147;NyacAU&#148;) formed Goldrich NyacAU Placer LLC (&#147;GNP&#148;), a 50/50 joint-venture company, managed by NyacAU, to mine Goldrich&#146;s various placer properties at Chandalar. In 2013, an independent mining permit was received to expand the mining operation from 10 to approximately 350 acres. All costs up to commercial production (as defined in the joint venture agreement) are required to be funded by NyacAU and will be paid back from cash flow from gold production (as defined in the joint venture agreement). As of 2015, total mining preparation expenditures by GNP were approximately $23.8 million. In 2015, the plant was completed and extraction began in early August and continued through September 12th. The plant will normally run from June to mid-September of each year. The plant began shakedown procedures during the first week of August. Initial gold extraction of approximately 53 ounces of fine gold was on August 9th and average daily extraction rose to approximately 103 ounces of fine gold per day for the season. The 2015 extraction season was 35 days but the normal extraction season is approximately 107 days, subject to weather. A total of approximately 4,400 ounces of alluvial gold, equivalent to approximately 3,600 ounces of gold, were extracted. Experience with the equipment and the mineralized deposit should improve the average. Plant modifications and additional equipment are also being considered.

Concerning exploration, during the last several years, weak financial markets have been an important factor affecting the level of our exploration activities and we were unable to obtain sufficient finances for drilling exploration in 2014 and 2015, but conducted an airborne radiometric and magnetic survey over the entire property. As the placer mine begins commercial production (as defined in the joint venture agreement), we look forward to internal cash flow and additional opportunities for financing that will give us a unique advantage for growth over other junior mining exploration companies. We also intend to list our shares on a recognized stock exchange in Canada in addition to maintaining our listing on the OTCQB in the United States. We believe these factors will increase our access to financial markets and positively affect our ability to raise the funds necessary to add value to our property and increase shareholder value.

History and Chandalar Exploration Project Background 

Gold was discovered in the Chandalar district in 1905, and over the years various operators have extracted small amounts of gold mainly from placer deposits, and also from bedrock lodes consisting of high-grade gold-quartz veins. We were incorporated in 1959 for the purpose of acquiring and consolidating diversely owned gold mining claims in the Chandalar mining district. Our operations during the 1960s resulted in the establishment of a mining camp, a mill, several airstrips, and exploitation of a small amount of gold from underground workings, which was marginally profitable.

Total recorded gold extraction from the Chandalar property, as contained in our historical records, currently stands at about 91,542 ounces of fine gold, although actual historic extraction was probably much greater than the recorded extraction. Of this total, recorded lode gold extraction from high-grade gold-quartz vein-shear zone deposits is 8,351 ounces. Historical records in our files contain engineering reports showing the amount of remaining mineralized material in the lodes to be at least 17,646 tons at a grade of 1.50 ounces of gold per ton. These are not proven or probable ore reserves as defined in the SEC Industry Guide 7. Approximately 83,191 ounces of the total gold extraction came from placer deposits of which 6,302 ounces were from gold extraction since 2009 from the Little Squaw Creek alluvial gold mine. Most of the remaining placer extraction was mined by lessees and derived from the Big Creek, Tobin Creek and Little Squaw Creek drainages.

Between 1929 and 1938, the previous owners of the Chandalar property obtained U.S. patents to federal mining claims totaling 426.5 acres. In 1972 and 1976, we acquired all patented and unpatented federal lode mining claims in the Chandalar district except for seven unpatented federal lode mining claims held by the Anderson Partnership. The patented federal claims are fee simple land. In 1978, we acquired all of the unpatented federal placer mining claims in the Chandalar district. In 1987 the federal government deeded all the land in the Chandalar district to the State of Alaska in partial fulfillment of a land conveyance quota established in the Alaska Statehood Act. During 1987, all of the 105 unpatented federal lode and placer mining claims were re-staked as State of Alaska Traditional mining claims. Unlike the federal government, the State of Alaska does not distinguish between lode and placer mining claims and 

accordingly all state mining claims are treated the same under the Alaska mining statutes. We relinquished 86 of our State of Alaska mining claims during 2000 and 2001 due to financial considerations. 

In the beginning of 2003, we owned nineteen 40-acre Traditional mining claims at Chandalar. During 2003, we purchased seven traditional mining claims, which had been re-staked as State of Alaska mining claims from the Anderson Partnership for $35,000. In September of 2003, we staked fifty-five 160-acre MTRSC (meridian, township, range, section, and claim location system) state mining claims. In 2004, we staked one traditional 40-acre claim and eight 160-acre MTRSC claims. In 2005, we staked one 160-acre MTRSC claim. In 2006, we staked twenty-nine 160-acre MTRSC claims of which five were subsequently dropped after being evaluated in 2007. In 2007, we staked five 160-acre MTRSC claims, with twelve 160-acre MTRSC claims and two 40-acre MTRSC claims in 2008. In 2009, we staked an additional 40-acre MTRSC claim and were awarded twenty 40-acre MTRSC claims by a Superior Court for the State of Alaska. These claims had been located and held by Gold Dust Mines, Inc. In 2010, we purchased nine 40-acre MTRSC claims at a public auction. In 2011, we staked additional claims to expand our Chandalar mining claims based on recent exploration results and aeromagnetic data published by the United States Geological Survey. The aeromagnetic survey showed that all known gold prospects in the Chandalar district are associated with a large, northeast-trending, magnetic high. As a result, we located new mining claims covering 4,800 acres, completing our coverage of this northeast mineral trend. With the new acquisition, our total land area at Chandalar increased to approximately 22,858 acres, consisting of 23 patented Federal mining claims and 197 unpatented State of Alaska mining claims. Based on the same survey, we also staked a new and separate 25,600 acre block of state mining claims known as Thazzik Mountain, located 30 miles southeast of Chandalar, the significance of which is discussed above. We relinquished our Thazzik Mountain claims during 2013 due to financial considerations.

During the 1970s and early 1980s the lode and placer properties were leased to various parties for exploration and gold extraction. The quartz lodes were last worked from 1970 to 1983, when about 8,192 ounces of fine gold were recovered from the milling of 11,884 tons which averaged about one ounce of gold per ton. The material was extracted from surface and underground workings on three mineralized quartz veins lying mostly on our patented federal mining claims. Between 1979 and 1999, our lessees produced 15,735.5 ounces of raw gold (impure or unrefined gold, i.e. not pure or 1000 fine gold) from placer operations, which is equivalent to about 13,287 ounces of fine gold. We estimate that approximately another 1,400 ounces of raw gold were produced by a lessee between 2004 and 2009 that was not reported to us. All past extraction of raw gold on the property has been previously reported as being 848 fineness. Analyses from our recent extraction indicate that the gold produced averaged 844 fineness, or 84.45%, and contained 13.88% silver plus 1.68% impurities such as copper and iron.

During 1988, a consulting mining engineer was hired to compile historical information on the entire placer and lode gold district. His comprehensive report was completed in January 1990, and is available for review at our office. A few conclusions from that report are incorporated in this section.

In November of 1989, we entered into a ten year mining lease, extendable for an additional forty years, with Gold Dust Mines, Inc. for all our Chandalar placer mining interests located on the Big Creek, St. Mary's Creek, Little Squaw Creek, Big Squaw Creek, and Tobin Creek. The mining lease provided for annual advance lease payments of $22,500 plus a ten percent (10%) royalty of all raw (placer) gold extraction to be paid in kind. Twenty percent (20%) of the 10% royalty, two percent (2%) overall, were to be paid directly to the underlying royalty interest holders (i.e. Anderson Partnership), and was to consist of the coarsest and largest particles of all gold produced. Goldrich received the remaining eight percent (8%) of the gold royalty.

During the spring of 1990, Gold Dust Mines, Inc., as lessee transported about $2.6 million in capital equipment to our Chandalar mining claims over the winter haul road from the town of Coldfoot, located on the Alaska pipeline highway, also known as the Dalton highway. This machinery included a large gravity-type alluvial mineral treatment plant (an IHC-Holland wash plant) together with a Bucyrus-Erie dragline, two big Caterpillar tractors, front end loaders, a churn drill and other large pieces of placer gold mining equipment. During the last part of the 1993 season, Gold Dust Mines moved its placer operations to the Big Creek and St. Mary's Creek drainages. In 1994, placer mining operations were concentrated on the St. Mary's Creek drainage. During 1995, placer mining operations were conducted on the St. Mary's Creek and Big Creek drainages. During 1996 to 1999, placer mining operations were conducted only on the St. Mary&#146;s Creek and Big Creek drainages.

An amendment to the mining lease in 1996 reduced Gold Dust Mines, Inc.&#146;s Chandalar placer mining rights to only Big Creek and its tributary, St. Mary&#146;s Creek. As a result of this amendment, the annual advance lease payment was reduced to $7,500. From 1996 to 1999, placer mining operations were conducted only on the St. Mary&#146;s Creek and Big Creek drainages. There were no mining operations conducted in 2000, 2001 or 2003. However, beginning in 1999, Gold Dust Mines, Inc. failed to pay both the $7,500 annual lease fee and the annual rental payments on the state mining claims it was mining on, as required by the mining lease, in all a sum of $32,380. A portion of the 1999 production royalties owed to us in the amount of eleven ounces of gold nuggets was also not paid. In February 2000, the owners of Gold Dust Mines, Inc., Mr. and Mrs. Delmer Ackels (guarantors of Gold Dust Mines, Inc.&#146;s obligations to us) filed for bankruptcy pursuant to Chapter 7 of the United States Bankruptcy Code, as amended. Our mining lease with Gold Dust Mines, Inc. was the sole asset of Gold Dust Mines, Inc. 

In the late summer of 1997, we executed a placer mining lease with Day Creek Mining Company, Inc., an Alaskan corporation. The lease included the placer mining claims only for the Tobin Creek, Big Squaw Creek and Little Squaw Creek drainages. The lease did not include the Big Creek and St. Mary&#146;s Creek drainages, which were leased to Gold Dust Mines, Inc. The lessee was to have performed minimum exploratory drilling during each year of the lease. Only a minimum amount of drilling was performed the first year, with some good results downstream from the Mello Bench on upper Little Squaw Creek. Due to lack of financing, the lessee could not comply with the drilling requirements in 1998, and the lease was terminated by us giving a declaration of forfeiture to the lessees in February of 1999. The lessee did not contest the declaration of forfeiture.

We allowed most of our state mining claims on Big Creek and Little Squaw Creek to lapse in 2000 for lack of funds to pay the State of Alaska annual rental fees required to maintain the mining claims. Our inability to pay the State of Alaska annual rental fees was precipitated by Gold Dust Mines, Inc.&#146;s failure to make its 1999 annual mining lease payment to us and their failure to pay the annual state mining claim rental on the claims covered by the mining lease as required by the lease. The owners of Gold Dust Mines, Inc. continued to do the annual assessment work on the remaining claims on our behalf through 2002 on the basis of a verbal agreement between our former management and Gold Dust Mines, Inc. to extend its mining lease. The existence of this extension of the lease was later contested by the Gold Dust Mines, Inc. in civil court proceedings whereby a jury determined in our favor that the lease had been extended by the course of conduct of the parties from October 1999 to October 2003. Consequently and subsequently, a final ruling by the civil court awarded us title to the 20 claims staked in this interim on Big Creek and Little Squaw Creek. In 2010, Gold Dust, Inc. appealed the civil court&#146;s final ruling in the Alaska Supreme Court. In September 2012, the Alaska Supreme Court issued its final ruling. All appeals have been exhausted and all rulings have been in our favor. To the extent possible, we have perfected our interests in all claims, including the 20 awarded claims.

In 2004, we contracted an independent geological consulting company to review and analyze previous work done on Chandalar. The consultants concluded that the gold mineralization at Chandalar is mesothermal, which can be described as formed at moderate to high temperatures and moderate to high pressures by deposition from hydrothermal fluids. A technical report produced by the consultants recommended an initial exploration program to better assess the gold lodes and the placer gold deposits.

In 2004, we also commissioned a remote sensing technical study of the Chandalar district by another independent contractor who studied high altitude air photography available for the region. The purpose of the study was to identify geological structures that may be associated with gold occurrences in a schist belt containing greenstones. Numerous geological features, mostly linear and curvilinear, were identified. Major linears, especially where they may form a regional rift, are an excellent exploration tool in the search for gold. The consultant recommended making field examinations of known gold occurrences associated with the linears and other structural features identified by the study.

During the 2004 summer field season at Chandalar, using independent certified professional geologists, we followed up on the work recommended by the remote sensing consultant&#146;s studies. This program ended a twenty-year hiatus of hard-rock exploration on the property. It involved a photo geologic lineament study, expansion of the claim block to cover outlying vein showings and reconnaissance sampling of rocks, soils and stream sediments for geochemical analyses. The lineament study identified fifty-nine sites thought to be favorable for discovery of mineralization. The objective of the field program was to assess the validity of historic records, refine known drilling targets and identify new drilling targets. Several prospects of previously unevaluated or unknown gold mineralization were found.

During 2005, we completed a modest prospecting and geologic mapping program at Chandalar, which was limited by our lack of funds. In all, 189 exploratory samples of stream sediments, soils and rock chips were taken, and mapping was completed on a series of ten prospects. That work was successful in identifying additional gold prospects within our claim block, and also in developing specific drilling targets on several of the prospects.

During early 2006, we acquired sufficient funds to undertake a substantial exploration program on the Chandalar property. During the 2006 summer field season, a geological contractor completed a 1:20,000 scale geologic map of the Chandalar district, and we drilled 39 reverse circulation drill holes for 7,763 feet on nine of some thirty gold prospects within our Chandalar claim block. In the process, several miles of old roads were repaired and three miles of new roads were constructed. We established an exploration base camp (Mello Bench camp) capable of housing 20 people, and accomplished environmental clean ups of two abandoned mining campsites that predate our management takeover in 2003.

The 2007 Chandalar exploration program expanded our understanding of several hard-rock gold prospects through trenching and associated sampling. In all, forty prospect areas were mapped in detail and 1,342 samples of rock (including trench and placer drill holes to bedrock) and soil were collected and analyzed. Forty-five trenches for 5,927 feet were accomplished using an excavator, of which 4,954 feet cut into bedrock and were sampled. Some 534 trench samples were taken continuously along the lengths of all trenches. Additionally, ground magnetic surveys on fifteen of the prospects were conducted with survey lines totaling 28 miles.

Also in 2007, we conducted a reverse circulation drilling program on the Little Squaw Creek drainage. A total of 15,304 feet were drilled. Of 107 holes collared, 87 were completed to their targeted depths. We engaged an independent geological contractor to conduct all sampling in our drilling program, complete all drill sample gold recovery, ore valuation, maintain drill sample security and report the results of their work. 

The analytical processing of the 3,031 drill samples and report on the final results of the samples gold contents was completed by March of 2008. From these results, we concluded that we discovered a relatively large alluvial gold deposit of sufficient grade to be potentially economical to mine under prevailing gold prices.

In 2009, we successfully completed an alluvial gold mining test on Little Squaw Creek. The pilot program involved a mining test that extracted approximately 594 &#147;raw&#148; ounces of placer gold, equivalent to about 500 ounces of fine gold. The test mining yielded valuable geologic, mining and engineering data that encouraged us to ramp-up the project into extraction in the spring of 2010.

During the summer of 2010, we were able to start a small mining operation at our Little Squaw Creek alluvial deposit, the site of our previous test mining operation, known as the Little Squaw Creek Gold Mine. This was a major milestone for us, although full realization of the intended project was inhibited by a shortage of working capital. By the end of the 2010 mining season we had extracted 1,906 ounces of gold concentrate from which approximately 1,522 ounces of fine gold and 259 ounces of fine silver were extracted, bringing us gross sales proceeds of $1,904,124. In 2011, we suspended extraction of the Little Squaw Creek Gold Mine to refocus our efforts on hard-rock exploration at Chandalar. In 2012, GNP was formed for the purpose of exploiting the alluvial deposit on Little Squaw, as well as the other alluvial deposits at Chandalar. 

During the 2011 exploration season, we successfully completed an exploratory drilling program, soil survey program, and geophysical survey at Chandalar. We drilled 25 HQ size core holes totaling approximately 14,500 feet in five target areas. Drill results are presented in &#147; 2011 Exploration Activities &#148; section of this Annual Report. The soil sampling, prioritized to first cover known mineralized trends, consisted of over 1,100 samples collected on a reconnaissance scale grid over approximately 65 percent of the 23,000-acre Chandalar property. In the airborne geophysical survey, approximately 750 line miles (1,246 line kilometers) were flown by an international geophysical contractor over the entire Chandalar property along flight lines 100 meters apart. Preliminary magnetic data reveals known mineralized structures with good clarity and, more importantly, identifies sharp new prospect-scale and district-scale anomalies and mineralized trends.

During 2011, we staked a new and separate 25,600-acre block of state mining claims known as Thazzik Mountain, located 30 miles southeast of Chandalar. Geologically, Thazzik Mountain lies within the same schist belt as Chandalar on the south flank of the Brooks Range. Fieldwork identified a multitude of quartz-bearing structures, including sheeted quartz veinlets. We took approximately 100 reconnaissance samples for geochemical analyses. Based upon the results from the analyses, during 2012 we chose to release 76 of the 160 claims staked in 2011, reducing the total acre block to 13,440 acres. Due to financial considerations, the Company chose to release the remaining 84 claims in 2013.

During the last several years, weak financial markets have been an important factor affecting the level of our exploration activities and we were unable to obtain sufficient finances for major exploration programs in 2012, 2013, 2014 and 2015. Focus was therefore put on our placer deposit, where significant funds for development were available. However, our main focus in the future will continue to be the exploration of the hard-rock targets of our Chandalar property as funds become available.

In 2014 we conducted a property-wide airborne radiometric and magnetic survey to generate and further refine exploration targets for bulk-tonnage low-grade mineralization and possible deeper sources of intrusion-related mineralization.

In 2015 we performed reclamation on our claims as required by the Army Corps of Engineers (&#147;ACE&#148;) to remedy and remove a mine road and tailings from an area considered wetlands. That reclamation was completed to the satisfaction of the ACE. 

Competition 

There is aggressive competition within the minerals industry to discover and acquire mineral properties considered to have commercial potential. We compete for the opportunity to participate in promising exploration projects with other entities. In addition, we compete with others in efforts to obtain financing to acquire and explore mineral properties, acquire and utilize mineral exploration equipment and hire qualified mineral exploration personnel. 

We may compete with other junior mining companies for mining claims in regions adjacent to our existing claims, or in other parts of the world should we dedicate resources to doing so in the future. These companies may be better capitalized than us and we may have difficulty in expanding our holdings through additional mining claims. 

In competing for qualified mineral exploration personnel, we may be required to pay compensation or benefits relatively higher than those paid in the past, and the availability of qualified personnel may be limited in high-demand mining periods, such as have been experienced during the increased price of gold in recent years.

Employees 

In October 2009, William Schara began employment as our President and Chief Executive Officer (&#147;CEO&#148;). We rely on consulting contracts for some of our management and administrative personnel needs, including for our Chief Financial Officer (&#147;CFO&#148;), Mr. Ted Sharp. The contract for Mr. Sharp expired on December 31, 2009, however Mr. Sharp continues to provide services to the Company under the same terms provided in the contract. We employ individuals and contractors on a seasonal basis to conduct exploration, mining and other required company activities, mostly during the late spring through early fall months.

We currently have 2 full-time employees; our CEO and Controller. We had as many as 23 part-time employees and contractors during 2011, 5 part-time employees and contractors during 2012, and one employee at the mine site for logistics and other company activities during 2013, 2014 and 2015. In addition to the employees of Goldrich, GNP had as many as 10 employees during 2012, 46 employees during 2013, 10 employees during 2014 and 67 employees during 2015.

Seasons 

We conduct exploration activities at Chandalar between late spring and early autumn. Access during that time is exclusively by airplane. All fuel is supplied to the campsite by air transport. Access during winter months is by ice road, snowmobile and ski-plane. All heavy supplies and equipment are brought in by trucking over the ice road from Coldfoot. Snow melt generally occurs toward the end of May, followed by an intensive, though short, 90-day growing season with 24 hours of daylight and daytime temperatures that range from 60&#176; to 80&#176; Fahrenheit. Freezing temperatures return in late August and freeze-up typically occurs by early October. Winter temperatures, particularly in the lower elevations, can drop to -50&#176; F or colder for extended periods. Annual precipitation is 15 to 20 inches, coming mostly in late summer as rain and during the first half of the winter as snow. Winter snow accumulations are modest. The area is essentially an arctic desert.

Regulation 

Our mineral exploration activities are subject to various federal, state, and local laws and regulations governing prospecting, exploration, production, labor standards, occupational health and mine safety, control of toxic substances, land use, water use, land claims of local people and other matters involving environmental protection and taxation. New rules and regulations may be enacted or existing rules and regulations may be applied in a manner that could limit or curtail exploration at our property. It is possible that future changes in these rules or regulations could have a significant impact on our business, causing those activities to be economically re-evaluated at that time.

Taxes Pertaining to Mining 

Alaska&#146;s tax and regulatory policy is widely viewed by the mining industry as offering the most favorable environment for establishing new mines in the United States. The mining taxation regimes in Alaska have been stable for many years. There is regular discussion of taxation issues in the legislatures but no changes have been proposed that would significantly alter their current state mining taxation structures. The economics of any potential mining operation on our properties would be particularly sensitive to changes in the State of Alaska's tax regimes. Amendments to current laws, regulations and permits governing our operations and the general activities of mining and exploration companies, or more stringent implementation thereof, could cause unanticipated increases in our exploration expenses, capital expenditures or future production costs, or could result in abandonment or delays in establishing operations at our Chandalar property. Although management has no reason to believe that new mining taxation laws that could adversely impact our Chandalar property will materialize, such an event could and may happen in the future.

At present, Alaska has a 7% net profits mining license tax on all mineral production (AS 43.65), a 3% net profits royalty on minerals from state lands (AS 38.05.212) (where we hold unpatented state mining claims), and a graduated annual mining claim rental beginning at $0.88/acre. Alaska state corporate income tax is 9.4% if net profit is more than a set threshold amount. Alaska has an exploration incentive credit program (AS 27.30.010) whereby up to $20 million in approved accrued exploration credits can be deducted from the state mining license tax, the state corporate income tax, and the state mining royalty. All qualified new mining operations are exempt from the mining license tax for 3 1/2 years after production begins.

Environmental Regulations 

Our Chandalar property contains an inactive small mining mill site on Tobin Creek with tailings impoundments, last used in 1983. The mill was capable of processing 100 tons of ore per day. A total of 11,884 tons were put through the mill, and into two small adjacent tailings impoundments. A December 19, 1990 letter from the Alaska Department of Environmental Conservation (the &#147;Alaska DEC&#148;) to the Alaska Division of Mining of the Department of Natural Resources (the &#147;Alaska DNR&#148;) states: &#147;Our samples indicate the tailings impoundments meet Alaska DEC standards requirements and are acceptable for abandonment and reclamation.&#148; The Alaska DNR conveyed acknowledgement of receipt of this report to us in a letter dated December 24, 1990. We subsequently reclaimed the tailings impoundments, and expect that no further remedial action will be required. Vegetation has established itself on the tailings impoundments, thereby mitigating erosional forces.

In 1990, the Alaska DEC notified us that soil samples taken from a gravel pad adjacent to our Tobin Creek mill site contained elevated levels of mercury. In response to the notification, we engaged a professional mineral engineer to evaluate procedures for remediating contamination at the site. In 1994, the engineer evaluated the contamination and determined that it consists of approximately 160 cubic yards of earthen material that could be cleansed by processing it through a simple gravity washing plant. This plan was subsequently approved by the state. In 2000, the site was listed in the Alaska DEC&#146;s contaminated sites database as a &#147;medium&#148; priority contaminated site. We are not aware of any changes in state environmental laws that would affect our state approved cleanup plan or impose a time table for it to be done. During 2008, our employees took a suite of samples at the contamination site to update the readings taken in 1990 or prior. The results of this sampling reconfirmed the earlier findings, and also suggest that some attenuation of the mercury contamination has occurred. An independent technical consultant assessed those results and believes that proper procedures for sampling and testing were followed. During 2011, 2013 and 2014, we took additional samples that showed an overall reduction of mercury in the previously sampled area. However, one sample on the margin of the sampled area yielded high mercury content, and that may necessitate continued expansion of the area to be sampled in the future. The 2011, 2013 and 2014 sample results were submitted to the State for analysis and determination of what additional sampling the State may require on the area around the mill. In 2013, we received a letter request from the Alaska DEC to update our plan for remediating the contaminated site and in 2014 and 2015 continued communication with the Alaska DEC to determine what remediation is necessary. We have engaged an independent environmental engineering company to perform an evaluation of the remediation requirements based on locality, latitude, altitude, permafrost and other factors. At December 31, 2015, we have accrued a liability of $50,000 in our financial statements to remedy this site.

During 2009 and 2010, we engaged in permitted open pit mining operations on Little Squaw Creek. The Small Mines permit restricts ground disturbance to a total maximum of ten acres and requires a specified reclamation plan for the disturbed area to be completed prior to additional acreage being disturbed. We joined the State of Alaska reclamation bond pool to assure the minimum legal reclamation requirements could be met. During the 2010 mining operations, we experienced a situation where it was not practical to concurrently mine and reclaim without wasting (or sacrificing) a significant portion of the mineralized material we intended to mine. During 2012, GNP completed certain corrective actions required by the ACE. In 2013, GNP received a new permit to expand the mine site from 10 to approximately 350 acres. The new mining permit provided an increased area for stockpiling topsoil, a larger settling pond system with greater capacity to ensure water quality and availability, and room to allow concurrent mine reclamation as the project advances. In addition the permit also allows for construction of a new airstrip. The new plant will employ a recirculating closed-loop water system to minimize water usage and protect the environment.

Although GNP received a new permit to expand the mine, Goldrich was still required to remove a mine waste road built in 2010. Remediation activities were completed during the year ended December 31, 2015, and the Company received a confirmation of completion and satisfaction from the ACE on September 23, 2015. 

Title to Properties 

We hold 220 mining claims of which 23 are patented claims and 197 are State of Alaska unpatented mining claims. Alaska state unpatented mining claims are unique property interests in that they are subject to the paramount title of the State of Alaska, and rights of third parties to non-interfering uses of the surface within their boundaries, and are generally considered to be subject to greater title risk than other real property interests. There are few public records that definitively determine the issues of validity and ownership of unpatented state mining claims and possible conflicts with other claims are not always determinable from the descriptions contained in public records. The rights to deposits of minerals lying within the boundaries of the unpatented state claims are subject to Alaska Statues 38.05.185 &#150; 38.05.280, and are governed by Alaska Administrative Code 11 AAC 86.100 &#150; 86.600.

The validity of an Alaska state unpatented mining claim depends on: (1) the claim having been located on state land open to appropriation by mineral location, which is the act of physically going on the land and making a claim by putting stakes in the ground; (2) compliance with all applicable state statutes in terms of the contents of claim location notices or certificates and the timely filing and recording of the same; (3) timely payment of annual claim rental fees; and (4) the timely filing and recording of proof of annual assessment work. In the absence of a discovery of valuable minerals, the ground covered by an unpatented mining claim is open to location by others unless the owner is in actual possession of and diligently working the claim. We are diligently working and are in actual possession of all our claims at Chandalar. 

The locator of a mining claim on land belonging to the State of Alaska does not have an option to patent the claim. Instead, rights to deposits of minerals on Alaska state land that is open to claim staking may be acquired by discovery, location and recording as prescribed in Alaska state statutes, as previously noted. The locator has the exclusive right of possession and extraction of the minerals in or on the claim, subject to state statutes governing mining claims. We are not in default of any annual assessment work filing or annual claim rental payment required by the state of Alaska to keep our title to the mining rights at Chandalar in good standing.

An important part of our Chandalar property is patented federal mining claims owned by us. Patented mining claims, which are real property interests that are owned in fee simple, are subject to less risk than unpatented mining claims. We have done a title chain search of our patented federal mining claims and believe we are the owner of the private property, and that the property is free and clear of liens and other third party claims except for the 2% mineral production royalty. The 2% mineral production royalty was formerly held by our previous management (Anderson Partnership, also known as Jumbo Basin). During 2012, NyacAU loaned $250,000 to GNP and GNP purchased the royalty from Anderson Partnership. The loan to GNP for the royalty will carry interest at the greater of prime plus 2% or 10% and will be repaid from Goldrich&#146;s portion of production (as defined in the joint venture agreement). Goldrich will also have the exclusive right to purchase back the royalty at any time. The royalty will be extinguished upon payback of the loan or purchase by Goldrich.

