 ITEM 1. BUSINESS. In General NVE Corporation, referred to as NVE, we, us, or our, develops and sells devices that use spintronics, a nanotechnology that relies on electron spin rather than electron charge to acquire, store and transmit information. We manufacture high-performance spintronic products including sensors and couplers that are used to acquire and transmit data. We have also licensed our spintronic magnetoresistive random access memory technology, commonly known as MRAM. NVE History and Background NVE is a Minnesota corporation headquartered in a suburb of Minneapolis. We were founded in 1989 by James M. Daughton, Ph.D., a spintronics pioneer. Our common stock became publicly traded in 2000 through a reverse merger and became NASDAQ listed in 2003. Since our founding, we have been awarded more than $50 million in government research contracts. These contracts have helped us develop products and build our intellectual property portfolio. We have adopted a March 31 fiscal year, so fiscal years referenced in this report end March 31. Industry Background Much of the electronics industry is devoted to the acquisition, storage, and transmission of information. We have focused on three applications for our spintronic technology: magnetic sensors, couplers, and memories. Sensors acquire information, couplers transmit information, and memories store information. In that sense, our technology can provide the eyes, nerves, and brains of electronic systems. Magnetic sensors can be used for a number of purposes including detecting the position or speed of robotics and mechanisms, or for communicating with implantable medical devices. We believe our spintronic sensors are smaller, more precise, and more reliable than competing devices. Couplers are widely used in factory automation, providing reliable digital communication between electronic subsystems in factories. For example, couplers are used to send high-speed data between robots and central controllers. As manufacturing automation expands, there is a need for higher speed data and more channel density. Because of their unique properties, we believe our couplers transmit more data at higher speeds and over longer distances than conventional devices. Near-term potential MRAM applications include mission-critical storage such as military, industrial, and antitamper applications. Long term, MRAM could address the market for ubiquitous high-density memory. Our Enabling Technology Our designs are generally based on either giant magnetoresistance or tunneling magnetoresistance. These structures produce a large change in electrical resistance depending on the electron spin orientation in a free layer. In giant magnetoresistance (GMR) devices, resistance changes due to conduction electrons scattering at interfaces within the devices. The GMR effect is only significant if the layer thicknesses are less than the mean free path of conduction electrons, which is approximately five nanometers. Our critical GMR conductor layers may be less than two nanometers, or five atomic layers, thick. 3 

The second type of spintronic structure we use is based on tunneling magnetoresistance (TMR). Such devices are known as Spin-Dependent Tunnel (SDT) junctions or Magnetic Tunnel Junctions (MTJs). SDT junctions use tunnel barriers that are so thin that electrons can &#147;tunnel&#148; through a normally insulating material to cause a resistance change. SDT barrier thicknesses can be in the range of one to four nanometers (less than ten molecular layers). In our products, the spintronic elements are connected to integrated circuitry and packaged in much the same way as conventional integrated circuits. Our Strategy Our vision is to become the leading developer of practical spintronics technology and devices. Our spintronic technology provides eyes, nerves, and brains for electronic systems, breathing life and intelligence into inanimate objects. Our unique products support global trends of smarter and smaller connections and an &#147;Internet of Things.&#148; We plan to monetize our technology by selling the products described below and licensing our MRAM technology. To grow product sales, we plan to broaden our sensor and coupler product lines, and longer term to target larger markets such as consumer electronics, automotive electronics, and biosensors. Our Products and Markets We operate in one reportable segment. Sensor Products and Markets Our sensor products detect the strength or gradient of magnetic fields and are often used to determine position or speed. The GMR changes its electrical resistance depending on the magnetic field. In our devices, GMR is combined with conventional foundry integrated circuitry and packaged in much the same way as conventional integrated circuits. We sell standard or catalog sensors, and custom sensors designed to meet customers&#146; exact requirements. Our sensors are quite small, very sensitive to magnetic fields, precise, and reliable. Standard sensors Our standard, or catalog, sensors are generally used to detect the presence of a magnetic or metallic material to determine position or speed. We believe our spintronic sensors are smaller, more precise, and more reliable than competing devices. Our major market for standard sensors is factory automation. Custom and medical sensors Our primary custom products are sensors for medical devices, which are customized to our customers&#146; requirements and manufactured under stringent medical device quality standards. Most are used to replace electromechanical magnetic switches. We believe our sensors have important advantages in medical devices compared to electromechanical switches, including no moving parts for inherent reliability, and being smaller, more sensitive, and more precise. Our sensors can be customized using customer-specific integrated signal processing and design variations that can include the range and sensitivity to magnetic fields, electrical resistance, and multisensor elements configuration. Future custom sensor target markets include consumer electronics, automotive electronics, and biosensors. Coupler Products and Markets Our spintronic couplers combine a GMR sensor element and an &#147;IsoLoop&#148; integrated microscopic coil. The coil creates a small magnetic field that is picked up by the spintronic sensor, transmitting data almost instantly. Couplers are also known as &#147;isolators&#148; because they electrically isolate the coupled systems. Our IsoLoop couplers are faster than the fastest optical couplers. We have five lines of coupler products: cost-effective IL500-Series couplers; IL600-Series passive-input couplers; IL700/IL200-Series high-speed couplers; and IL4/IL3-Series isolated network couplers; and IL800-Series top-of-the-line couplers. MRAM Products and Markets MRAM uses spintronics to store data. It has been called the ideal or universal memory because of its potential to combine the speed of SRAM, the density of DRAM, and the nonvolatility of flash memory. Data is stored in the spin of the electrons in thin metal alloy films, and read with spin-dependent tunnel junctions. Unlike electrical charge, the spin of an electron is inherently permanent. We have invented several types of MRAM memory cells including inventions related to advanced MRAM designs and MRAM for tamper prevention or detection. Our strategy is to develop, manufacture, and sell low bit-density MRAM for applications such as tamper prevention and detection. For high bit-density MRAM, our strategy is to license our technology to companies with large-scale memories manufacturing capabilities. 4 

Product Manufacturing The heart of our fabrication facility is a cleanroom area with specialized equipment to deposit, pattern, etch, and process spintronic materials. Most of our products are fabricated in our facility using either raw silicon wafers or foundry wafers. Foundry wafers contain conventional electronics that perform housekeeping functions such as voltage regulation and signal conditioning in our products. Each wafer may include thousands of devices. We build spintronics structures on wafers in our fabrication facility. We either saw wafers to be sold in die form, or send wafers to Asia for dicing and packaging. Other production operations include wafer-level inspection and testing. Packaged parts are returned to us to be tested, inventoried, and shipped. Sales and Product Distribution We rely on distributors who stock our products and sell them in more than 75 countries. Distributors of our products include America II Electronics, Inc., Digi-Key Corporation, Premier Farnell plc companies, and Rhopoint Components Ltd. Our distributor agreements generally renew annually. In addition, Avago Technologies, a Broadcom Limited Company and a leading supplier of solid-state couplers, distributes versions of some of our couplers under its brand under an agreement that expires June 27, 2016. We may add other private-brand coupler partners in the future. New Product Status In the past year we began marketing a number of new products, including: &#160; &#149; new network transceivers for the &#147;Internet of Things&#148;; &#149; new angle sensors for energy and resource management; &#149; ultrahigh isolation-voltage couplers for medical instruments and smart grids; &#149; new sensors for medical devices; and &#149; antitamper sensors &#160; Long-term product development programs in fiscal 2016 included: &#160; &#149; &#147;smart sensor&#148; interfaces for connection to the &#147;Internet of Things&#148;; &#149; biosensors for food safety and medical diagnostics; &#149; low-power sensors and couplers; and &#149; MRAM for antitamper and security applications. &#160; Our Competition Industrial Sensor Competition Several other companies either make or may have the capability to make GMR or TMR sensors. Also, several competitors make solid-state industrial magnetic sensors including silicon Hall-effect sensors and anisotropic magnetoresistive (AMR) sensors. We believe those types of sensors are not as sensitive as our GMR or TMR sensors. Medical Sensor Competition Our sensors for medical devices face competition from electromechanical magnetic sensors and from other solid-state magnetic sensors. Electromechanical magnetic sensors such as reed and micro-electromechanical system (MEMS) switches have been in use for several decades. Because our sensors have no moving parts, we believe they are inherently more reliable than electromechanical magnetic sensors. We also believe our sensors are smaller than the smallest electromechanical magnetic sensors, more precise in their magnetic switch points, and more sensitive. Compared to other solid-state sensors, our medical sensors may have advantages in size, sensitivity to small magnetic fields, or electrical interface simplicity. Coupler Competition Competing coupler technologies include optical couplers, inductive couplers (transformers), capacitive couplers, and radio-frequency modulation couplers. In addition to being a customer, Avago Technologies is a leading producer of high-speed optical couplers. Other prominent optical coupler suppliers are Fairchild Semiconductor International, Lite-On Technology Corporation, Renesas Electronics Corporation, Toshiba Corporation, and Vishay Intertechnology. Our strategy is to compete based on product features rather than to compete solely on price. IsoLoop couplers are smaller and therefore require less circuit board space per channel than most competing couplers. Our other advantages over competing technologies may include less signal distortion, longer product life, and lower power consumption. MRAM Competition A number of companies compete or may compete with us for MRAM research and development or service business, or may be attempting to develop MRAM intellectual property for licensing to others. Emerging technologies that could compete with MRAM include graphene and carbon nanotubes, phase-change memory (PCM; also known as PRAM, PCRAM, chalcogenide, CRAM, or Ovonic memory), resistive RAM (ReRAM or RRAM), conductive bridge RAM (CBRAM), memory resistors (&#147;memristors&#148;), and conductive metal oxide (CMOx) memory. MRAM may have advantages over these technologies in either manufacturability, speed, bit density, data retention, or endurance. 5 

Sources and Availability of Raw Materials Our principal sources of raw materials include suppliers of raw silicon and semiconductor foundry wafers that are incorporated into our products, and suppliers of device packaging services. Our wafers sources are based around the world; most of our packaging services take place in Asia. Intellectual Property Patents As of March 31, 2016 we had more than 50 issued U.S. patents assigned to us. We also have a number of foreign patents, a number of U.S. and foreign patents pending, and we have licensed patents from others. There are no patents we regard as critical to our current business owned by us or licensed to us that expire in the next 12 months. Much of our intellectual property has been developed with U.S. Government support. Under federal legislation, companies normally may retain the principal worldwide patent rights to any invention developed with U.S. Government support. Certain of our patents cover inventions we believe may be necessary for successful high-density, high-performance MRAMs. We believe U.S. patents 6,538,921 titled &#147;Circuit Selection of Magnetic Memory Cells and Related Cell Structures,&#148; and 6,744,086 titled &#147;Current switched magnetoresistive memory cell&#148; are particularly important. The 6,538,921 patent expires August 14, 2021. On September 16, 2012 the United States Patent and Trademark Office granted a request by Everspin Technologies, Inc. for an inter partes reexamination of patent 6,538,921. On December 30, 2015 the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office Patent Trial and Appeal Board affirmed an examiner&#146;s decision to reject the claims of patent 6,538,921. The 6,744,086 patent has been reissued as RE 44,878 and expires May 15, 2022. We also have patents on advanced MRAM designs that we believe are important, including patents that relate to magnetothermal MRAM, spin-momentum MRAM, and synthetic antiferromagnetic storage. Trademarks &#147;NVE&#148; and &#147;IsoLoop&#148; are our registered trademarks. Other trademarks we claim include &#147;GMR Switch&#148; and &#147;GT Sensor.&#148; Seasonality In some years, including the two most recent fiscal years, we have observed weak product sales late in the calendar year, possibly due to ordering patterns or customer vacations and shutdowns. We cannot predict whether this seasonal pattern will occur in future years. Working Capital Items Like other companies in the electronics industry, we have historically invested in capital equipment for manufacturing and testing our products, as well as research and development equipment. We have also deployed significant capital in inventories to have finished products available from stock, to receive more favorable pricing for raw materials, and to guard against raw material shortages. Dependence on Major Customers We rely on several large customers for a significant percentage of our revenue, including St. Jude Medical, Inc., Sonova AG, certain other medical device manufacturers, and certain distributors. The loss of one or more of these customers could have a material adverse effect on us. Firm Backlog As of March 31, 2016 we had $2,117,547 of contract research and development backlog we believed to be firm, compared to $2,198,062 as of March 31, 2015. We expect the firm backlog as of March 31, 2016 to be filled in fiscal 2017. Certain contracts have performance requirements and milestones, and there can be no assurance that backlog will result in future revenue. Our product sales are made primarily under standard purchase orders, which are generally cancellable. Therefore product order backlog is not included in &#147;firm backlog,&#148; and product sales backlog as of any particular date may not be indicative of future results. We also have certain agreements that require customers to forecast purchases; however, these agreements do not generally obligate the customer to purchase any particular quantity of products. Based on semiconductor industry practice and our experience, we do not believe that such agreements are meaningful for determining backlog amounts. 6 

Research and Development Activities Over the past three fiscal years our research and development activities have included development of new sensors, couplers, and memories, as well as related underlying technologies. We spent $2,691,303 for fiscal 2016, $2,472,341 for fiscal 2015, and $3,131,430 for fiscal 2014 in company-sponsored research and development activities. Additionally, we spent $2,762,406 for fiscal 2016, $1,112,813 during fiscal 2015, and $794,071 during fiscal 2014 on customer-sponsored research and development contract activities. These research and development contracts were with various agencies of the U.S. Government as well as non-government entities. Environmental Matters We are subject to environmental laws and regulations, particularly with respect to industrial waste and emissions. Compliance with these laws and regulations has not had a material impact on our capital expenditures, earnings, or competitive position to date. Existing and future environmental laws and regulations could result in expenses related to emission abatement or remediation, but we are currently unable to estimate such expenses. Number of Employees We had 47 employees as of March 31, 2016. Our employment can fluctuate due to a variety of factors. None of our employees are represented by a labor union or are subject to a collective bargaining agreement, and we believe we maintain good relations with our employees. Financial Information About Geographic Areas Foreign sales accounted for approximately 55% of our revenue in fiscal 2016. More information about geographic areas is contained in &#147;Note 8 &#150; Concentrations&#148; to the Financial Statements included in this report. Available Information All reports we file with the SEC, including our annual reports on Form 10-K , quarterly reports on Form 10-Q , current reports on Form 8-K , and proxy statements and additional proxy materials on Schedule 14A, as well as any amendments to those reports and schedules, are accessible at no cost through the &#147;Investors&#148; section of our Website (www.nve.com). We make those filings available as soon as reasonably practicable after filing. These filings are also accessible through the SEC&#146;s Website (www.sec.gov). 