 ITEM 1. BUSINESS. Overview 

YOU On Demand is a premium content Video On Demand (&#147;VOD&#148;) service provider with primary operations in the People&#146;s Republic of China. YOU On Demand Holdings, Inc. was incorporated in the State of Nevada on October 19, 2004. 

YOU On Demand, through its subsidiaries and variable interest entity, provides premium content and integrated value-added service solutions for the delivery of VOD and paid video programming to digital cable providers, Internet Protocol Television (&#147;IPTV&#148;) providers, Over-the-Top (&#147;OTT&#148;) streaming providers, mobile manufacturers and operators, as well as direct customers. By leveraging and optimizing its existing operations, we have positioned ourselves to evolve into a mobile-driven, &#147;new media&#148; platform for both enterprises and consumers. 

We launched our VOD service through acquisition of YOD Hong Kong, formerly Sinotop Group Limited, in July 30, 2010. Through a series of contractual arrangements, YOD WFOE, the subsidiary of YOD Hong Kong, controls Sinotop Beijing, a corporation established in the PRC. Sinotop Beijing is the 80% owner of Zhong Hai Video, the entity though which we provide: 1) integrated value-added business-to-business (&#147;B2B&#148;) service solutions for the delivery of VOD and enhanced premium content for digital cable; 2) integrated value-added business-to-business-to-customer (&#147;B2B2C&#148;) service solutions for the delivery of VOD and enhanced premium content for IPTV and OTT providers and; 3) direct to user, or B2C, mobile video service apps. As a result of the contractual arrangements with Sinotop Beijing, we have the right to control management decisions and direct the economic activities that most significantly impact Sinotop Beijing and Zhong Hai Video, and, accordingly, under generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (&#147;U.S. GAAP&#148;), we consolidate these operating entities in our consolidated financial statements. 

Our OTT, Mobile App, IPTV and Digital Cable VOD Businesses 

YOU On Demand is a leading multi-platform entertainment company delivering premium content, including leading Hollywood and China-produced movie titles as well as children&#146;s programming, to customers&#146; mobile and TV screens across China via Subscription Video On Demand (&#147;SVOD&#148;) and Transactional Video On Demand (&#147;TVOD&#148;) paid content services. The Company&#146;s current distribution partners include digital cable operators, IPTV operators, OTT streaming operators and mobile smartphone manufacturers and operators. Our subscribers can watch our content anytime, anywhere and have full DVD-like control as they can play, pause and resume watching, all without commercial and advertising interruptions. Our core revenues are being generated from both minimum guarantee payments and revenue sharing arrangements with our distribution partners as well as subscription or transactional fees from our subscribers. 

We have distribution agreements with several OTT, IPTV and mobile distributors, manufacturers and operators. In 2015, the YOU Cinema movie subscription service made its commercial debut on the Xiaomi OTT set-top box as part of YOU On Demand&#146;s previously announced distribution deal with China Network Television's (&#147;CNTV&#148;) subsidiary, Future TV Co. Ltd. (the official online division of Chinese national public broadcaster China Central Television [&#147;CCTV&#148;]). Other distribution partners of ours include: Huawei, a leading global information and communications technology solutions provider and one of the largest global smartphone manufacturers; Dr. Peng Telecom and Media Group, Ltd and its OTT box, the Domy Box; Southern Media Corporation&#146;s 3GTV mobile video platform which currently serves 6 million subscribers through China Mobile, China Unicom and China Telecom in Guangdong, a province which has the largest mobile service and movie box office in China 

Specifically, for digital cable, through the acquisition of YOD Hong Kong and its VIE, Sinotop Beijing, YOU On Demand has an exclusive 20-year joint venture (approximately 15 years remaining) with CCTV-6's China Home Cinema (&#147;CHC&#148;), making us the first national VOD platform in China. We operate under a national government license obtained by CHC to serve as their exclusive agent in the PRC for operating and marketing TVOD, SVOD, Near Video On Demand (&#147;NVOD&#148;) and related Value-Added Services (&#147;VAS&#148;). 

YOU On Demand has and continues to license increasing amounts of entertainment and educational content that enables our subscribers to enjoy premium and diverse entertainment directly on their mobile and TV screens. We have content agreements with Disney Media Distribution, Paramount Pictures, Twentieth Century Fox Television Distribution, NBC Universal, Miramax Films, Lionsgate, Screen Media Ventures, among other independent studios. 

Recent Developments 

In November 2015, we entered into a series of agreements with Beijing Sun Seven Stars Culture Development Limited (&#147;SSS&#148;), a PRC company, and its affiliate Tianjin Enternet Network Technology Limited (&#147;Tianjin Enternet&#148;), which were later amended and restated in December 2015. Under the agreements with SSS, among other things, (i) SSS purchased 4,545,454 shares of our common stock for $2.20 per share, or total purchase price of $10.0 million, (ii) we issued a two-year warrant to SSS to acquire an additional 1,818,182 shares of our common stock at an exercise price of $2.75 per share, and (iii) we were granted a non-exclusive, royalty-free content distribution right for certain assets valued at approximately $29.1 million, in exchange for a promissory note that is convertible into 9,208,860 shares of common stock. The promissory note has a stated principal amount of $17.7 million, bears interest at the rate of 0.56% per annum and matures May 21, 2016. In the event of default, the promissory note will become immediately due and payable. As of December 31, 2015, no shares, warrants or promissory note was issued by the Company as the transaction was subject to certain closing conditions. On March 28, 2016, we completed this transaction with SSS.

Until receipt of necessary shareholder approvals for the transactions contemplated by these agreements, SSS&#146;s warrant may not be exercised and the promissory note may not be converted, to the extent that such conversion would result in SSS and its affiliates beneficially owning more than 19.99% of our outstanding shares of common stock. Once the necessary shareholder approval is received, the unpaid principal and interest on the promissory note will automatically convert into shares of common stock. If shareholder approval is obtained, SSS and its affiliates will own 33.7% of our outstanding shares of common stock, after taking into account the warrants and conversion of promissory note. 

In addition, we purchased the equity interest in a newly formed subsidiary of Tianjin Enternet, Tianjin Sevenstarsflix Network Technology Limited (&#147;SSF&#148;), that will offer a branded pay content service delivered to consumers ubiquitously through all its platform partners, will track and share consumer payments and other behavior data, will operate a customer management and data-based service and will develop mobile social TV-based customer management portals. In exchange for the sale of the equity interest in SSF and subject to certain conditions and performance thresholds, Tianjin Enternet will receive shares of our common stock over three years, with the exact amount based on an earn-out provision, such amounts not to exceed 5.0 million shares of common stock for each of 2016, 2017 and 2018. The issuance of such earn out shares is subject to certain shareholder approvals. In the event we do not obtain such approvals before applicable target thresholds have been met, we will not issue shares of common stock to Tianjin Enternet, but will instead issue a promissory note to Tianjin Enternet, with a principal amount equal to the quotient obtained by multiplying 5.0 million by our applicable stock price as defined in the promissory note. As of December 31, 2015, the transfer of SSF to the Company was still subject to certain closing conditions. 

In the event that the entire amount of earn out shares are received by Tianjin Enternet, SSS and its affiliates will then own approximately 49.9% of our outstanding shares of common stock, after taking into account the warrants and conversion of promissory note. 

For a more detailed description of the agreements with SSS and its affiliates, see our Current Reports on Form 8-K filed on November 24 and December 24, 2015, respectively, as well as Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report. 

Corporate Structure 

The following chart depicts our corporate structure as of March 30, 2016: 

Note: Bing Wu, holder of 95% equity ownership in Sinotop Beijing and a party to certain VIE arrangements between YOD WFOE and Sinotop Beijing, is the brother of Bruno Zheng Wu, our Chairman. Yun Zhu, holder of 5% equity ownership in Sinotop Beijing and a party to certain VIE arrangements between YOD WFOE and Sinotop Beijing, is the Vice President of SSS, a significant shareholder as described under the &#147;Recent Development&#148; section above. 

1. Sinotop Beijing VIE Agreements, including with Bing Wu and Yun Zhu, the nominee shareholders of Sinotop Beijing (together, the &#147;Nominee Shareholders&#148;).

&#160; (i) Management Services Agreement between Sinotop Beijing and YOD Hong Kong, dated as of March 9, 2010.

&#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; (ii) Call Option Agreement among YOD WFOE, Sinotop Beijing, Bing Wu and Yun Zhu, dated as of January 25, 2016.

&#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; (iii) Equity Pledge Agreement among YOD WFOE, Sinotop Beijing, Bing Wu and Yun Zhu, dated as of January 25, 2016.

&#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; (iv) Power of Attorney agreements among YOD WFOE, Sinotop Beijing and Bing Wu and YOD WFOE, Sinotop Beijing and Yun Zhu, both dated as of January 25, 2016

&#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; (iv) Technical Services Agreement among YOD WFOE and Sinotop Beijing, dated as of January 25, 2016.

2. Cooperation Agreement, by and among, Sinotop Beijing, Hua Cheng Hu Dong (Beijing) Film and Television Communication Co., Ltd. (&#147;Hua Cheng&#148;) and Zhong Hai Shi Xun Information Technology Co., Ltd. (&#147;Zhong Hai Video&#148;), dated September 30, 2010. The controlling party of Hua Cheng is Hua Cheng Film and Television Digital Programs Co. Ltd. (&#147;Hua Cheng Digital&#148;). Hua Cheng Digital is not related to us or our principles. 

VIE Structure and Arrangements 

On July 30, 2010, we acquired YOD Hong Kong through CB Cayman. Through a series of contractual arrangements, we control Sinotop Beijing. Sinotop Beijing, a corporation established in the PRC, is the 80% owner of Zhong Hai Video, which was established to provide integrated value-added service solutions for the delivery of VOD, PPV and enhanced premium content for digital cable, IPTV and OTT providers, mobile manufacturers and operators, as well as direct customers. 

In March 2010, YOD Hong Kong entered into a management services agreement with Sinotop Beijing pursuant to which Sinotop Beijing pays consulting and service fees, equal to 100% of net profits of Sinotop Beijing, to YOD Hong Kong for various management, technical, consulting and other services in connection with its business. Payment of the fees under the management services agreement is secured through an equity pledge agreement, dated June 4, 2012, by and among Sinotop Beijing, YOD WFOE and the sole shareholder of Sinotop Beijing, pursuant to which the sole shareholder of Sinotop Beijing pledged all equity interests in Sinotop Beijing to YOD WFOE. In addition, on June 4, 2012, YOD WFOE entered into a voting rights agreement with Sinotop Beijing and the sole shareholder of Sinotop Beijing, whereby YOD WFOE was entrusted with all of the voting rights of the sole shareholder of Sinotop Beijing. Through these contractual arrangements, we acquired control over and rights to 100% of the economic benefit of Sinotop Beijing. Accordingly, Sinotop Beijing is considered a VIE and, therefore, is consolidated in our financial statements. 

On January 22, 2016, the Company entered into a Termination Agreement (the &#147;Termination Agreement&#148;) with Sinotop Beijing and Zhang Yan to terminate certain contractual arrangements, including the Option Agreement, dated March 9, 2010, among YOD HK, Sinotop Beijing and Zhang Yan, the sole shareholder of Sinotop Beijing, the Termination, Assignment and Assumption Agreement among YOD HK, YOD WFOE, Sinotop Beijing and Zhang Yan dated June 4, 2012, Voting Rights Proxy Agreement among YOD HK, YOD WFOE, Sinotop Beijing and Zhang Yan dated June 4, 2012, Equity Pledge Agreement among YOD HK, YOD WFOE, Sinotop Beijing and Zhang Yan dated June 4, 2012 and Power of Attorney Agreement among YOD HK, YOD WFOE, Sinotop Beijing and Zhang Yan dated June 4, 2012 (collectively, the &#147;Old Sinotop VIE Agreements&#148;). On January 25, 2016, Zhang Yan entered into an Equity Transfer Agreement with Bing Wu and Yun Zhu, whereby Zhang Yan transferred 100% of her equity ownership in Sinotop Beijing to Bing Wu and Yun Zhu. The equity transfer application was accepted by the State Administration of Industry and Commerce (&#147;SAIC&#148;) on March 30, 2016 and became effective upon acceptance. Upon the conclusion of the transfer arrangement, Bing Wu and Yun Zhu will hold 95% and 5%, respectively, of equity ownership in Sinotop Beijing. 

On the same day, the Company entered into the following contractual arrangements with Bing Wu and Yun Zhu (collectively, the &#147;New Sinotop VIE Agreements&#148;), also effective on March 30, 2016 when the above mentioned transfer arrangements were approved by the SAIC: 

Call Option Agreement among YOD WFOE, Sinotop Beijing, Bing Wu and Yun Zhu, dated as of January 25, 2016. 

Equity Pledge Agreement among YOD WFOE, Sinotop Beijing, Bing Wu and Yun Zhu, dated as of January 25, 2016. 

Power of Attorney agreements among YOD WFOE, Sinotop Beijing and Bing Wu and YOD WFOE, Sinotop Beijing and Yun Zhu, both dated as of January 25, 2016. 

Technical Service Agreement among YOD WFOE and Sinotop Beijing, dated as of January 25, 2016. 

Spousal Consent by the spouse of Bing Wu and Yun Zhu, respectively, both dated January 25, 2016.

Letter of Indemnification among YOD WFOE and Bing Wu and YOD WFOE and Yun Zhu, both dated as of January 25, 2016.

The terms of the New Sinotop VIE Agreements are detailed as follows: 

Equity Pledge Agreement 

Pursuant to the Equity Pledge Agreement among YOD WFOE, Sinotop Beijing, Bing Wu and Yun Zhu, the Nomineee Shareholders, dated January 25, 2016, the Nominee Shareholders pledged all of their equity interests in Sinotop Beijing (the &#147;Collateral&#148;) to YOD WFOE as security for the performance of the obligations of Sinotop Beijing to make all the required technical service fee payments pursuant to the Technical Services Agreement and for performance of the Nominee Shareholders&#146; obligation under the Call Option Agreement. The terms of the Equity Pledge Agreement expire upon satisfaction of all obligations under the Technical Services Agreement and Call Option Agreement. 

Call Option Agreement 

Pursuant to the Call Option Agreement among YOD WFOE, Sinotop Beijing and the Nominee Shareholders, dated January 25, 2016, and entered into in connection with the Technical Services Agreement, the Nominee Shareholders granted an exclusive option to YOD WFOE, or its designee, to purchase, at any time and from time to time, to the extent permitted under PRC law, all or any portion of the Nominee Shareholders&#146; equity in Sinotop Beijing. The exercise price of the option shall be determined by YOD WFOE at its sole discretion, subject to any restrictions imposed by PRC law. The term of the agreement is until all of the equity interest in Sinotop Beijing held by the Nominee Shareholders are transferred to YOD WFOE, or its designee and may not be terminated by any part to the agreement without consent of the other parties. 

Power of Attorney 

Pursuant to the Power of Attorney agreements among YOD WFOE, Sinotop Beijing and each of the respective Nominee Shareholders, dated January 25, 2016, each of the Nominee Shareholders granted YOD WFOE the irrevocable right, for the maximum period permitted by law, all of its voting rights as shareholders of Sinotop Beijing. The Nominee Shareholders may not transfer any of its equity interest in Sinotop Beijing to any party other than YOD WFOE. The Power of Attorney agreements may not be terminated except until all of the equity in Sinotop Beijing has been transferred to YOD WFOE or its designee. 

Technical Service Agreement 

Pursuant to the Technical Service Agreement, dated January 25, 2016, between YOD WFOE and Sinotop Beijing, YOD WFOE has the exclusive right to provide technical service, marketing and management consulting service, financial support service and human resource support services to Sinotop Beijing, and Sinotop Beijing is required to take all commercially reasonable efforts to permit and facilitate the provision of the services by YOD WFOE. As compensation for providing the services, YOD WFOE is entitled to receive service fees from Sinotop Beijing equivalent to YOD WFOE&#146;s cost plus 30% of such costs. YOD WFOE and Sinotop Beijing agree to periodically review the service fee and make adjustments as deemed appropriate. The term of the Technical Services Agreement is perpetual, and may only be terminated upon written consent of both parties. 

Spousal Consent Pursuant to the Spousal Consent, dated January 25, 2016, undersigned by the respective spouse of Nominee Shareholders (collectively, the &#147;Spouses&#148;), the Spouses unconditionally and irrevocably agreed to the execution of the Equity Pledge Agreement, Call Option Agreement and Power of Attorney agreement. The Spouses agreed to not make any assertions in connection with the equity interest of Sinotop Beijing and to waived consent on further amendment or termination of the Equity Pledge Agreement, Call Option Agreement and Power of Attorney agreement. The Spouses further pledge to execute all necessary documents and take all necessary actions to ensure appropriate performance under these agreements upon YOD WFOE&#146;s request. In the event the Spouses obtain any equity interests of Sinotop Beijing which are held by the Nominee Shareholders, the Spouses agreed to be bound by the New Sinotop VIE Agreements, including the Technical Services Agreement, and comply with the obligations thereunder, including sign a series of written documents in substantially the same format and content as the New Sinotop VIE Agreements. Letter of Indemnification Pursuant to the Letter of Indemnification among YOD WFOE and Bing Wu and YOD WFOE and Yun Zhu, both dated as of January 25, 2016, YOD WFOE agreed to indemnify Nominee Shareholders against any personal, tax or other liabilities incurred in connection with their role in equity transfer to the greatest extent permitted under PRC law. YOD WFOE further waived and released Nominee Shareholders from any claims arising from, or related to, their role as the legal shareholder of Sinotop Beijing, provided that their actions as a nominee shareholder are taken in good faith and are not opposed to YOD WFOE&#146;s best interests. Conversely, the Nominee Shareholders will not be entitled to dividends or other benefits generated therefrom, or receive any compensation in connection with this arrangement. The Letter of Indemnification will remain valid until either Nominee Shareholders or YOD WFOE terminates the agreement by giving the other party hereto sixty (60) days&#146; prior written notice.

In addition, the Management Service Agreement between Sinotop Beijing and YOD Hong Kong, dated as of March 9, 2010 continued to remain in effect, the key terms of which is as follows: Management Services Agreement 

Pursuant to a Management Services Agreement, as of March 9, 2010, between Sinotop Beijing and YOD Hong Kong (the &#147;Management Services Agreement&#148;), YOD Hong Kong has the exclusive right to provide to Sinotop Beijing management, financial and other services related to the operation of Sinotop Beijing&#146;s business, and Sinotop Beijing is required to take all commercially reasonable efforts to permit and facilitate the provision of the services by YOD Hong Kong. As compensation for providing the services, YOD Hong Kong is entitled to receive a fee from Sinotop Beijing, upon demand, equal to 100% of the annual net profits of Sinotop Beijing during the term of the Management Services Agreement. YOD Hong Kong may also request ad hoc quarterly payments of the aggregate fee, which payments will be credited against Sinotop Hong Kong&#146;s future payment obligations.

The Management Services Agreement also provides YOD Hong Kong, or its designee, with a right of first refusal to acquire all or any portion of the equity of Sinotop Beijing upon any proposal by the sole shareholder of Sinotop Beijing to transfer such equity. In addition, at the sole discretion of YOD Hong Kong, Sinotop Beijing is obligated to transfer to YOD Hong Kong, or its designee, any part or all of the business, personnel, assets and operations of Sinotop Beijing which may be lawfully conducted, employed, owned or operated by YOD Hong Kong, including: (a) business opportunities presented to, or available to Sinotop Beijing may be pursued and contracted for in the name of YOD Hong Kong rather than Sinotop Beijing, and at its discretion, YOD Hong Kong may employ the resources of Sinotop Beijing to secure such opportunities; (b) any tangible or intangible property of Sinotop Bejing, any contractual rights, any personnel, and any other items or things of value held by Sinotop Beijing may be transferred to YOD Hong Kong at book value;

(c) real property, personal or intangible property, personnel, services, equipment, supplies and any other items useful for the conduct of the business may be obtained by YOD Hong Kong by acquisition, lease, license or otherwise, and made available to Sinotop Beijing on terms to be determined by agreement between YOD Hong Kong and Sinotop Beijing; (d) contracts entered into in the name of Sinotop Beijing may be transferred to YOD Hong Kong, or the work under such contracts may be subcontracted, in whole or in part, to YOD Hong Kong, on terms to be determined by agreement between YOD Hong Kong and Sinotop Beijing; and (e) any changes to, or any expansion or contraction of, the business may be carried out in the exercise of the sole discretion of YOD Hong Kong, and in the name of and at the expense of, YOD Hong Kong; provided, however, that none of the foregoing may cause or have the effect of terminating (without being substantially replaced under the name of YOD Hong Kong) or adversely affecting any license, permit or regulatory status of Sinotop Beijing. The term of the Management Services Agreement is 20 years, and may not be terminated by Sinotop Beijing, except with the consent of, or a material breach by, YOD Hong Kong. Although the New Sinotop VIE Agreements resulted in a change to the legal shareholders of Sinotop Beijing, it does not change YOD WFOE&#146;s ability to control Sinotop Beijing or YOD WFOE&#146;s rights to the economic benefits of Sinotop Beijing. YOD WFOE was the primary beneficiary of Sinotop Beijing prior to the signing of the New Sinotop VIE Agreements and remained as the primary beneficiary of Sinotop Beijing after the signing of the New Sinotop VIE Agreements.

The foregoing description of the New Sinotop VIE Agreements is not purported to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the complete text of such agreements attached to this Annual Report as Exhibits 10.33 through 10.39.

Our Unconsolidated Equity Investment 

We hold 30% ownership interest in Shandong Media, our print-based media business, and account for our investment in Shandong Media under the equity method. The business of Shandong Media includes a television programming guide publication, the distribution of periodicals, the publication of advertising, the organization of public relations events, the provision of information related services, copyright transactions, the production of audio and video products, and the provision of audio value added communication services. 

Our Industry 

Mobile 

China's smartphone market is now the world's largest. According to the International Data Corporation (IDC), 107.5 million smartphones were shipped to China in the fourth quarter of 2014, representing a 2% Quarter-on-Quarter growth. This is in accumulation to the 420.7 million smartphones being shipped to China in 2014 alone. In addition, China&#146;s three mobile telecom carriers have created a new company, China Tower, which will take over ownership of the three firms&#146; telecom infrastructure while ambitiously planning to build 1 million new towers in the next two years. The coming physical improvements to the network are meant to accommodate the expansion of 4G mobile services. 

OTT &#38; IPTV 

China plans to invest 2 trillion yuan ($323 billion) to improve its broadband infrastructure by 2020 with the aim of taking the nearly entire population online, according to the Ministry of Information and Industry on the government&#146;s official website www.gov.cn. The government is trying to improve fixed-line and wireless connectivity throughout China, where only 45 percent of the population have Internet access. China's broadband strategy will ensure that the number of 3G and LTE users will increase to 1.2 billion by 2020, four times of the current figure. 

Cable 

Until 2005, there were over 3,000 independent cable operators in the PRC. While the State Administration of Press, Publication, Radio, Film and Television (&#147;SAPPRFT&#148;), an executive branch under the State Council of the PRC, has advocated for national consolidation of the country&#146;s sprawling cable networks, the consolidation has primarily occurred at the provincial level. The 30 provinces are highly variable in their consolidation efforts and processes. To expedite consolidation, SAPPRFT announced in 2010 that it would permit and encourage state-owned cable operators to expand and consolidate through mergers and acquisitions. We believe that as consolidation proceeds it will smooth the way to two-way digitization through common technical standards. 

We believe that SAPPRFT and its broadcasters are currently focusing on increasing subscription revenues by converting Chinese television viewers from &#147;analog&#148; service to &#147;digital&#148; (pay TV) service. The digitalization efforts include providing upgraded digital set-top-boxes free of charge that will provide the bandwidth to deliver pay channels and services beyond the basic tier as part of a digital television service bundling initiative. 

Our Competition 

The market for video entertainment is subject to continuous change and aggressive competition. Our primary competitors include Internet-based content providers and the DVD market, both of which include those that provide legal and pirated (illegal) content. Specifically, our primary competitors include companies that operate online video websites in China where we compete with these entities for customers and users. Some of these competitors include iQiyi.com, Youku, Tencent and Sohu. As far as digital cable distribution, although we can provide no assurances that other companies will not enter the market of providing such services, we believe that we will have a competitive advantage over any new market entrant because of our exclusive joint venture partnership with CCTV-6&#146;s pay channel, CHC, and first to market advantage. We also have some indirect competition from the pirated DVD market. 

Intellectual Property 

We are not a party to any royalty agreements, labor contracts or franchise agreements. We own the trademark &#147;YOU On Demand&#148; and &#147;( &#20248;&#28857;&#20114;&#21160; ) &#148; which are both registered in the PRC. The duration of our trademarks is ten years and trademarks are generally subject to an indefinite number of renewals upon appropriate application.

Our Employees 

As of December 31, 2015, we had a total of 51 full-time employees including one located in the United States. The following table sets forth the number of our employees by function at December 31, 2015. 

Function &#160; Number of Employees Business Development &#160; 6 Service Operations &#160; 9 Technology &#160; 11 Content Production &#160; 10 Financial and Legal &#160; 8 Human Resource &#160; 2 Administrative &#160; 5 TOTAL &#160; 51 Our employees are not represented by a labor organization or covered by a collective bargaining agreement. We have not experienced any work stoppages. 

We are required under PRC law to make contributions to employee benefit plans at specified percentages of after-tax profit. In addition, we are required by the PRC law to cover employees in China with various types of social insurance. We believe that we are in compliance with the relevant PRC laws. 

Seasonality 

Our operating results and operating cash flows historically have not been subject to seasonal variations. This pattern may change, however, as a result of new market opportunities or new product introductions. 

Regulation 

General Regulation of Businesses 

Our PRC-based operating subsidiaries and VIE is regulated by the national and local laws of the PRC. The radio and television broadcasting industries are highly regulated in China. Local broadcasters including national, provincial and municipal radio and television broadcasters are 100% state-owned assets. SAPPRFT regulates the radio and television broadcasting industry in China. In China, the radio and television broadcasting industries are designed to serve the needs of government programming first, and to make profits second. The SAPPRFT and the upper level government bodies controls broadcasting assets and broadcasting content in China. 

The Ministry of Industry and Information Technology (&#147;MIIT&#148;) plays a similar role to SAPPRFT in the telecom industry in China. China&#146;s telecom industry is comparatively more deregulated than the broadcasting industry. While China&#146;s telecom industry has substantial financial backing, SAPPRFT, and its regulator, the Propaganda Ministry under China&#146;s Communist Party Central Committee, never relinquished ultimate regulatory control over content and broadcasting control. 

The major internet regulatory barrier for cable operators to migrate into multiple-system operators and to be able to offer telecom services is the license barrier. Few independent cable operators in China are able to acquire full and proper broadband connection licenses from MIIT. The licenses, while awarded by MIIT, are given on very-fragmented regional market levels. With cable operators holding the last mile to access end users, cable operators are believed to pose a competitive threat to local telecom carriers. While internet connection licenses are deregulated to even the local private sector, MIIT still tries to utilize the relevant licenses as a barrier to entry from cable operators that fall under the administration of SAPPRFT. 

We are required to obtain government approval from the Ministry of Commerce of the People&#146;s Republic of China (&#147;MOFCOM&#148;), and other government agencies in China for transactions such as our acquisition or disposition of business entities in China. Additionally, foreign ownership of business and assets in China is not permitted without specific government approval. For this reason, Sinotop Beijing was acquired through our acquisition of YOD Hong Kong, which controls Sinotop Beijing through a series of contractual agreements with YOD Hong Kong and YOD WFOE. We use voting control agreements among the parties so as to obtain equitable and legal ownership or control of our subsidiaries and VIE. 

Licenses and Permits 

Video on Demand 

Zhong Hai Video holds the following licenses: 

Description &#160; License/Permit Cable Television &#38; Operations Permit &#160; Beijing No. 1413 Internet Content Provider &#160; Beijing No. 140351 Shandong Media 

Shandong Media holds the following licenses: 

Description &#160; License/Permit PRC Newspaper Publication License for Shandong Broadcast &#38; TV Weekly &#160; National Unified Publication CN 37-0014 PRC Magazine Publication License for View Weekly &#160; Ruqichu No:1384 PRC Magazine Publication License for Modern Movie &#38; TV Biweekly &#160; Ruqichu No:1318 Advertising License for Shandong Broadcast &#38; TV Weekly &#160; 3700004000093 Advertising License for View Weekly &#160; 3700004000186 Advertising License for Modern Movie &#38; TV Biweekly &#160; 3700004000124 Taxation 

On March 16, 2007, the National People&#146;s Congress of China passed the EIT Law, and on November 28, 2007, the State Council of China passed its implementing rules which took effect on January 1, 2008. The EIT Law and its implementing rules impose a unified earned income tax (&#147;EIT&#148;) rate of 25.0% on all domestic-invested enterprises and foreign invested enterprises (&#147;FIEs&#148;) unless they qualify under certain limited exceptions. In addition, under the EIT Law, an enterprise established outside of China with &#147;de facto management bodies&#148; within China is considered a resident enterprise and will normally be subject to an EIT of 25% on its global income. The implementing rules define the term &#147;de facto management bodies&#148; as &#147;an establishment that exercises, in substance, overall management and control over the production, business, personnel, accounting, etc., of a Chinese enterprise.&#148; If the PRC tax authorities subsequently determine that we should be classified as a resident enterprise, then our organization&#146;s global income will be subject to PRC income tax of 25%. For detailed discussion of PRC tax issues related to resident enterprise status, see &#147;Risk Factors &#150; Risks Related to Doing Business in China &#150; Under the New Enterprise Income Tax Law, we may be classified as a &#147;resident enterprise&#148; of China.&#148; Such classification will likely result in unfavorable tax consequences to us and our non-PRC shareholders.&#148; 

Foreign Currency Exchange 

All of our sales revenue and significant expenses are denominated in RMB. Under the PRC foreign currency exchange regulations applicable to us, RMB is convertible for current account items, including the distribution of dividends, interest payments, trade and service-related foreign exchange transactions. Currently, our PRC operating entities may purchase foreign currencies for settlement of current account transactions, including payments of dividends to us, without the approval of the PRC State Administration of Foreign Exchange (&#147;SAFE&#148;), by complying with certain procedural requirements. Conversion of RMB for capital account items, such as direct investment, loan, security investment and repatriation of investment, however, is still subject to the approval of SAFE. In particular, if our PRC operating entities borrow foreign currency through loans from us or other foreign lenders, these loans must be registered with SAFE, and if we finance the subsidiaries by means of additional capital contributions, these capital contributions must be approved by certain government authorities, including the MOFCOM, or their respective local branches. These limitations could affect our PRC operating entities&#146; ability to obtain foreign exchange through debt or equity financing. 

Dividend Distributions 

All of our revenues are earned by our PRC entities. However, PRC regulations restrict the ability of our PRC entities to make dividends and other payments to their offshore parent company. PRC legal restrictions permit payments of dividends by our PRC entities only out of their accumulated after-tax profits, if any, determined in accordance with PRC accounting standards and regulations. Each of our PRC subsidiaries is also required under PRC laws and regulations to allocate at least 10% of our annual after-tax profits determined in accordance with PRC GAAP to a statutory general reserve fund until the amounts in such fund reaches 50% of its registered capital. These reserves are not distributable as cash dividends. Our PRC subsidiaries have the discretion to allocate a portion of their after-tax profits to staff welfare and bonus funds, which may not be distributed to equity owners except in the event of liquidation. 

In addition, under the new EIT law, the Notice of the State Administration of Taxation on Negotiated Reduction of Dividends and Interest Rates (&#147;Notice 112&#148;), which was issued on January 29, 2008, and the Notice of the State Administration of Taxation Regarding Interpretation and Recognition of Beneficial Owners under Tax Treaties (&#147;Notice 601&#148;), which became effective on October 27, 2009, dividends from our PRC operating subsidiaries paid to us through our entities will be subject to a withholding tax at a rate of 10%. Furthermore, the ultimate tax rate will be determined by treaty between the PRC and the tax residence of the holder of the PRC subsidiary. Dividends declared and paid from before January 1, 2008 on distributable profits are grandfathered under the EIT Law and are not subject to withholding tax. 

The Company intends on reinvesting profits, if any, and does not intend on making cash distributions of dividends in the near future. 

