 Item 1 &#151; Business 

a. General Development of Business 

John B. Sanfilippo &#38; Son, Inc. was formed as a corporation under the laws of the State of Delaware in 1979 as the successor by merger to an Illinois corporation that was incorporated in 1959. As used throughout this annual report on Form 10-K, unless the context otherwise indicates, the terms &#147;we&#148;, &#147;us&#148;, &#147;our&#148; or &#147;Company&#148; refer collectively to John B. Sanfilippo &#38; Son, Inc. and its wholly-owned subsidiaries, JBSS Ventures, LLC and Sanfilippo (Shanghai) Trading Co. Ltd. Our fiscal year ends on the final Thursday of June each year, and typically consists of fifty-two weeks (four thirteen week quarters). However, the fiscal year ended June 30, 2016 consisted of fifty-three weeks with our fourth quarter containing fourteen weeks. Additional information on the comparability of the periods presented is as follows: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; References herein to fiscal 2017 are to the fiscal year ending June 29, 2017. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; References herein to fiscal 2016, fiscal 2015 and fiscal 2014 are to the fiscal years ended June 30, 2016, June 25, 2015 and June 26, 2014, respectively. We are one of the leading processors and distributors of peanuts, pecans, cashews, walnuts, almonds and other nuts in the United States. These nuts are sold under a variety of private brands and under the Fisher, Orchard Valley Harvest, Fisher Nut Exactly and Sunshine Country brand names. We also market and distribute, and in most cases manufacture or process, a diverse product line of food and snack products, including peanut butter, almond butter, candy and confections, snacks and trail mixes, snack bites, sunflower kernels, dried fruit, corn snacks, sesame sticks and other sesame snack products under private brands and brand names. Our website is accessible to the public at http://www.jbssinc.com. Information about us, including our code of ethics, annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports are made available free of charge through our website as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports have been filed with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (the &#147;SEC&#148;). Our materials filed with the SEC are also available on the SEC&#146;s website at http://www.sec.gov . The public may read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC&#146;s public reference room at 100 F St., NE, Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information about the reference room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. References to our website addressed in this Form 10-K are provided as a convenience and do not constitute, and should not be viewed as, an incorporation by reference of the information contained on, or available through, the website. Therefore, such information should not be considered part of this Form 10-K. 

Our headquarters and executive offices are located at 1703 North Randall Road, Elgin, Illinois 60123, and our telephone number for investor relations is (847) 289-1800, extension 4612. 

b. Segment Reporting 

We operate in a single reportable operating segment that consists of selling various nut and nut related products through four distribution channels, however, we discontinued our export distribution channel at the end of fiscal 2016. See Part II, Item 8 &#151; &#147;Financial Statements and Supplementary Data&#148; for our net sales, net income and total assets. 

c. Narrative Description of Business 

(i) General 

As stated above, we are one of the leading processors and distributors of tree nuts and peanuts in the United States. Through a deliberate strategy of focused capital expenditures and complementary acquisitions, we have built a generally vertically integrated nut processing operation that enables us to control almost every step of the process for pecans, peanuts and walnuts, including procurement from growers, shelling, processing, packaging and marketing. Vertical integration allows us to enhance product quality and, in most crop years, purchase inshell pecans, peanuts and walnuts at lower costs as opposed to purchasing these nut meats from other shellers. We believe that our generally vertically integrated business model typically works to our advantage in terms of cost savings and provides us with better insight into crop development. Our generally vertically integrated model, however, can under certain circumstances result in reduced earnings or losses. See Part I, Item 1A &#151; &#147;Risk Factors&#148;. 

Our products are sold through the major distribution channels to significant buyers of nuts, including food retailers, commercial ingredient users, contract packaging customers and international customers. Selling through multiple distribution channels allows us to generate multiple revenue opportunities for the nuts we process. For example, pecan halves could be sold to food retailers, and pecan pieces could be sold to commercial ingredient users. We process and sell all major nut types consumed in the United States, including peanuts, pecans, cashews, walnuts and almonds (our major nut types) in a wide variety of packaging, thus offering our customers a complete nut product offering. 

&#160;

(ii) Principal Products 

Our principal products are raw and processed nuts. These products accounted for approximately 83%, 84% and 83% of our gross sales for fiscal 2016, fiscal 2015 and fiscal 2014, respectively. The nut product line includes almonds, pecans, peanuts, black walnuts, English walnuts, cashews, macadamia nuts, pistachios, pine nuts, Brazil nuts, and filberts. Our nut products are sold in numerous package styles and sizes, from stand-up bags, poly-cellophane packages, environmentally friendly packages, composite and clear-plastic cans, plastic tubs and plastic jars for retail sales, to large cases and sacks for bulk sales to commercial ingredient customers. In addition, we offer our nut products in a variety of different styles and seasonings, including non-blanched, blanched, oil roasted, dry roasted, salted, unsalted, honey roasted, flavored, spicy, chocolate and yogurt coated, butter toffee, praline and cinnamon toasted. We sell our products domestically to retailers and wholesalers as well as to commercial ingredient and contract packaging customers. We also sell certain of our products to foreign customers in the retail, contract packaging and commercial ingredient markets. For more information about our revenues in our various distribution channels, see Part II, Item 8 &#151; &#147;Financial Statements and Supplementary Data&#148;. 

We acquire a substantial portion of our peanut, pecan and walnut requirements directly from domestic growers. The balance of our raw nut supply is purchased from importers, trading companies and domestic processors. 

We manufacture and market peanut butter in several sizes and varieties. We also market and distribute, and in many cases process and manufacture, a wide assortment of other food and snack products. These other products include snack mixes, salad toppings, snacks, snack bites, trail mixes, dried fruit and chocolate and yogurt coated products sold to retailers and wholesalers; baking ingredients sold to retailers, wholesalers, and commercial ingredient customers; bulk food products sold to retail and commercial ingredient users; an assortment of sunflower kernels, pepitas, snack mixes, almond butter, cashew butter, sesame sticks and other sesame snack products sold to retail supermarkets, mass merchandisers and commercial ingredient users and a wide variety of toppings for ice cream and yogurt sold to commercial ingredient users. 

(iii) Customers and Channels 

We sell our products to approximately 550 customers through the consumer, commercial ingredient, contract packaging and export distribution channels. The consumer channel supplies nut-based products, including consumer-packaged and bulk products, to retailers including supermarket chains, wholesalers, supercenters, and other retail food outlets, across the United States. We sell products through the consumer channel under our brand name products, including the Fisher , Orchard Valley Harvest, Fisher Nut Exactly and Sunshine Country brands, as well as under our customers&#146; private brands. The commercial ingredient channel supplies nut-based products to other manufacturers to use as ingredients in their final food products such as bakery, confection, cereal and ice cream, and produces nut-based products that are customized to the specifications of chefs, national restaurant chains, food service distributors, fast food chains, institutions and hotel kitchens. We sell products through the commercial ingredient channel under our Fisher brand and our customers&#146; private brands. Our contract packaging channel produces and packages nut-based snacks for manufacturers under their brand name. Finally, our export distribution channel distributes our complete product portfolio of Fisher branded snack nuts, private brand snack nuts and commercial ingredients to approximately 80 customers worldwide, which accounted for approximately 3.3% of our net sales in fiscal 2016. 

We are dependent on a few significant customers for a majority of our total net sales, particularly in the consumer channel. Sales to our five largest customers represented approximately 62% of net sales in fiscal 2016, 61% of net sales in fiscal 2015 and 57% of net sales in fiscal 2014. Net sales to Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. accounted for approximately 26% of our net sales for fiscal 2016 and 24% of our net sales for both fiscal 2015 and fiscal 2014. Net sales to Target Corporation accounted for approximately 14% in both fiscal 2016 and fiscal 2015 and 12% in fiscal 2014. Net sales to The WhiteWave Foods Company accounted for approximately 10% of our net sales for fiscal 2016. Net sales to PepsiCo, Inc. accounted for approximately 10% of our net sales for fiscal 2014. No other customer accounted for more than 10% of net sales for any period presented. 

(iv) Sales and Distribution 

We market our products through our own sales department and through a network of approximately 70 independent brokers and various independent distributors and suppliers. 

We distribute products from each of our principal facilities. The majority of our products are shipped from our production and warehouse facilities by contract and common carriers. 

We operate a retail store at our Elgin production facility. This store sells Fisher snack and baking products, Orchard Valley Harvest products, bulk foods and other products produced by us and other vendors. 

&#160;

(v) Marketing 

Marketing strategies are developed for each distribution channel and focus primarily on branded products. Branded consumer efforts concentrate on building brand awareness, identifying and introducing new products, attracting new customers, increasing distribution and increasing consumption in the snack nut, recipe nut and produce categories. Private brand and commercial ingredient channel efforts are focused on category management, new product identification and introduction, brand awareness, and merchandising support. 

A significant portion of our branded marketing efforts are focused on consumer promotional campaigns that include advertisements (e.g., social media, magazine, newspaper, internet and television) and coupon offers. Our integrated marketing efforts for the Fisher brand include sponsorships of celebrity chefs and professional sports franchises. Additionally, shipper display units are utilized in retail stores in an effort to gain additional temporary product placement and to drive sales volume. We work with third-party information agencies, such as Information Resources, Inc. (&#147;IRi&#148;), to monitor the effectiveness of our marketing and measure product growth. 

Commercial ingredient trade promotion includes periodically attending regional and national trade shows, trade publication advertising and one-on-one marketing. These promotional efforts highlight our processing capabilities, broad product portfolio, product customization and packaging innovation. 

Through participation in several trade associations, funding of industry research and sponsorship of educational programs, we support efforts to increase awareness of the health benefits, convenience and versatility of nuts as both a snack and a recipe ingredient among existing and future consumers of nuts. 

(vi) Competition 

Our nuts and other snack food products compete against products manufactured and sold by numerous other companies in the snack food industry, some of whom are substantially larger and have greater resources than us. In the nut industry, we compete with, among others, The Kraft Heinz Company (Planters brand), Snyder&#146;s-Lance, Inc. (who recently acquired the Emerald and Diamond brands), Treehouse Foods, Inc. and numerous regional snack food processors. Competitive factors in our markets include price, product quality, customer service, breadth of product line, brand name awareness, method of distribution and sales promotion. The combination of our generally vertically integrated operating model with respect to pecans, peanuts and walnuts, our product quality, product offering, brand strength, distribution model and the fact that we focus on nut and nut related products generally enable us to compete in each of these categories, but there can be no guarantee that our products will continue to be competitive with many of our larger competitors. See Part I, Item 1A &#151; &#147;Risk Factors&#148; below. 

(vii) Raw Materials and Supplies 

We purchase nuts from domestic and foreign sources. In fiscal 2016, all of our walnuts, almonds and peanuts were purchased from domestic sources. We purchase our pecans from the southern United States and Mexico. Cashew nuts are imported from Vietnam, India, Brazil and certain West African countries. For fiscal 2016, approximately 30% of the dollar value of our total nut purchases was from foreign sources. 

Competition in the nut shelling industry is driven by shellers&#146; ability to access and purchase raw nuts, to shell the nuts efficiently and to sell the nuts to processors. We shell all major domestic nut types, with the exception of almonds, and are among a few select shellers who further process, package and sell nuts to the end-user. Raw material pricing pressure and the high cost of equipment automation have previously contributed to a consolidation among shellers across all nut types, especially peanuts and pecans. 

We are generally vertically integrated with respect to pecans, peanuts and walnuts and, unlike our major consumer distribution channel competitors who purchase nuts on the open market, we purchase a substantial portion of our pecans, peanuts and walnuts directly from growers. However, there are risks associated with vertical integration, such as susceptibility to market declines for pecans, peanuts and walnuts. See Part I, Item 1A &#151; &#147;Risk Factors&#148; below. 

Due, in part, to the seasonal nature of the industry, we maintain significant inventories of peanuts, pecans and walnuts at certain times of the year, especially in the second and third quarters of our fiscal year. Fluctuations in the market price of pecans, peanuts and walnuts and other nuts may affect the value of our inventory and thus may also affect our gross profit and gross profit margin. See Part I, Item 1A &#151; &#147;Risk Factors&#148;. 

&#160;

We purchase some of our packaging and labels from a related party. We purchase other inventory items such as roasting oils, seasonings, plastic jars, labels, stand-up bags, composite and clear-plastic cans and other packaging materials from other third parties. Material costs, including tree nuts, peanuts, other commodities and other inventory items represented approximately 85% of our total cost of sales for fiscal 2016. 

(viii) Trademarks and Patents 

We market our products primarily under name brands, including the Fisher, Orchard Valley Harvest, Fisher Nut Exactly and Sunshine Country brand names. Fisher, Orchard Valley Harvest and Sunshine Country are registered as trademarks with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office as well as in various other foreign jurisdictions. We do not own any trademarks for any private brands, which are owned by the respective private brand customer. Our trademarks are important as they provide our customers with information about the quality of our products. However, registration and use of our trademarks in foreign jurisdictions may be subject to certain risks in addition to other risks generally related to our intellectual property. See Part I, Item 1A &#151; &#147;Risk Factors&#148; below. We also own several patents of various durations. We expect to continue to renew for the foreseeable future those trademarks that are important to our business and expand registration of our trademarks into new jurisdictions. We intend to protect our intellectual property rights vigorously. 

(ix) Employees 

As of June 30, 2016, we had approximately 1,350 full-time employees, including approximately 230 corporate staff employees. Due to the seasonality of our business, our labor requirements typically peak during the last quarter of the calendar year. 

(x) Seasonality 

Our business is seasonal. Demand for peanut and tree nut products is highest during the last four months of the calendar year. Peanuts, pecans and walnuts, three of our principal raw materials, are primarily purchased between September and February and are processed throughout the year until the following harvest. As a result of this seasonality, our personnel requirements rise during the last four months of the calendar year. Our working capital requirements generally peak during the third quarter of our fiscal year. 

(xi) Backlog 

Because the time between order and shipment is usually less than three weeks, we believe that any backlog as of a particular date is not material to an understanding of our business as a whole. 

(xii) Operating Hazards and Uninsured Risks 

The sale of food products for human consumption involves the risk of injury to consumers as a result of product contamination or spoilage, including the presence of shell fragments, foreign objects, insects, foreign substances, pathogens, chemicals, aflatoxin and other agents, or residues introduced during the growing, storage, handling or transportation phases. We (i) maintain what we believe to be rigid quality control standards and food safety systems and are SQF 2000 Code Level 2 certified, (ii) generally inspect our nut and other food products by visual examination, metal detectors or electronic monitors at various stages of our shelling and processing operations, (iii) work with the United States Department of Agriculture (&#147;USDA&#148;) in its inspection of peanuts shipped to and from our peanut shelling facilities, (iv) maintain environmental pathogen programs, and (v) seek to comply with the Nutrition Labeling and Education Act by labeling each product that we sell with labels that disclose the nutritional value and content of each of our products; however, no assurance can be given that some nut or other food products sold by us may not contain or develop harmful substances. In order to mitigate this risk, we strive to select high-quality nut suppliers and currently maintain product liability and contaminated product insurance at amounts we believe are adequate in light of our operations. 

&#160;

