 ITEM 1. BUSINESS. 

Background

Empire Petroleum Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the "Company" or "Empire"), was incorporated in the State of Utah in August 1983 under the name Chambers Energy Corporation and domesticated in Delaware in March 1985 under the name Americomm Corporation. The Company's name was changed to Americomm Resources Corporation in July 1995. On May 29, 2001, Americomm Resources Corporation acquired Empire Petroleum Corporation, which became a wholly owned subsidiary of Americomm Resources Corporation. On August 15, 2001, Americomm Resources Corporation and Empire Petroleum Corporation merged and the Company's name was changed to Empire Petroleum Corporation.

Lease Option Agreements

During 2015, the Company entered into two Lease Option Agreements primarily in South Dakota.

In the first, with BHPP Group, the Company has an exclusive option for a period of two years ending April 8, 2017 to enter into oil and gas leases with respect to mineral interests owned by BHPP in Haakon, Meade, and Pennington Counties in South Dakota. The Lease Option Agreement covers approximately 150,000 gross leasable acres. The Company granted BHPP the option to acquire 1,000,000 shares of the Company's stock at an exercise price of $0.25 per share.

Under Lease Option Agreement II, with Anderson Brothers, the Company has an exclusive option for a period of two years ending April 30, 2017 to enter into oil and lease leases with respect to mineral interests owned by the Anderson Brothers in Perkins and Harding Counties in South Dakota and Adams County in North Dakota. The Lease Option Agreement covers approximate 10,000 gross leasable acres. The Company granted Anderson Brothers the option to acquire 250,000 shares of the Company's stock at an exercise price of $0.25 per share.

Gabbs Valley Prospect

Until December 30, 2014, the Company owned a working interest in oil and gas leases in Nye County, Nevada (the "Gabbs Valley Prospect"). The Albert E. Whitehead Living Trust (the " Whitehead Trust " ) had advanced funds to the Company from time to time in the past. As of December 30, 2014, the total outstanding indebtedness owed by the Company to the Whitehead Trust was $196,451. Albert E. Whitehead, the Chief Executive Officer of the Company and Chairman of its Board until January 20, 2015, is the trustee of the Whitehead Trust. Effective as of December 30, 2014, the Company exchanged its leasehold interest in its Gabbs Valley Prospect to Mr. Whitehead in exchange for the debt owed to the Whitehead Trust. At the time of such exchange, the Company's interest in the Gabbs Valley Prospect was carried on its books at $191,715. The Company did not have the funds to pay rentals on such properties as they came due in 2015 and intended to let them expire. The exchange was approved by the disinterested directors at that time. 

South Okie Prospect

Until September 10, 2014, the Company owned a working interest in oil and gas leases in Natrona County, Wyoming (the "South Okie Prospect"). On August 4, 2009, the Company purchased, for $25,000 and payment of lease rentals of $4,680, a nine month option to purchase oil and gas leases known as the South Okie Prospect in Natrona County, Wyoming. The option allowed the Company to purchase the leasehold interests for $35,000. The Tensleep Sand at depths from 3,300 feet to 4,500 feet was the primary target. As of December 31, 2009, the Company had acquired 11 miles of seismic data and studies of this data were completed in early January 2010. An additional geological study was also completed early January 2010. Based on these studies, the Company exercised its option in 2010. In October, 2012, the Company allowed one of the leases to terminate on the South Okie Prospect, Wyoming. As of December 31, 2013, the Company's interest in the South Okie Prospect consisted of approximately 110 net acres of leases. On September 10, 2014, the Company re-assigned the aforementioned leases to the original owner, Viking Exploration, LLC, as required by the option agreement, since the Company had not drilled a well on the site.

New Directors and Executive Officers

On December 30, 2014, each of Albert E. Whitehead, the Company's Chief Executive Officer and the Chairman of the Board, and Montague H. Hackett, Jr., a member of the Company's Board of Directors, transferred and assigned all of the common stock owned by them to Empire Petroleum Holdings, LLC, an Oklahoma limited liability company ("Empire Holdings"). In connection with such transaction, each of Montague H. Hackett, Jr. and Kevin R. Seth resigned from the Board of Directors effective as of January 16, 2015 and Albert E. Whitehead appointed two designees of Empire Holdings to fill such vacancies effective as of January 19, 2015. Empire Holdings designated J. C. Whorton, Jr., and Michael R. Morrisett to be appointed to the Board. Messrs. Whorton and Morrisett each own 45% of the equity interest of and are managers of Empire Holdings. Albert E. Whitehead resigned from the Company's Board of Directors effective as of January 20, 2015. Effective as of January 21, 2015, the reconstituted Board of the Company appointed J. C. Whorton, Jr., as the new Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive and Michael R. Morrisett, as President, of the Company.

- 4 - 

Competition

The oil and gas business is extremely competitive. The Company must compete with many long-established companies with greater financial resources and technical capabilities. The Company is not a significant participant in the oil and gas industry.

Markets; Price Volatility

The market price of oil and gas is volatile, subject to speculative movement and depends upon numerous factors beyond the control of the Company, including expectations regarding inflation, global and regional demand, political and economic conditions and production costs. Future profitability, if any, will depend substantially upon the prevailing prices for oil and gas. If the market price for oil and gas remains depressed in the future, it could have a material adverse effect on the Company's ability to raise additional capital necessary to finance operations. Lower oil and gas prices may also reduce the amount of oil and gas, if any, that can be produced economically from the Company's properties. The Company anticipates that the prices of oil and gas will fluctuate somewhat in the near future.

Regulation

The oil and gas industry is subject to extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the production, transportation and sale of hydrocarbons as well as the taxation of income resulting therefrom.

Legislation affecting the oil and gas industry is constantly changing. Numerous federal and state departments and agencies have issued rules and regulations applicable to the oil and gas industry. In general, these rules and regulations regulate, among other things, the extent to which acreage may be acquired or relinquished; spacing of wells; measures required for preventing waste of oil and gas resources; and, in some cases, rates of production. The heavy and increasing regulatory burdens on the oil and gas industry increase the Company's cost of doing business and, consequently, affect profitability.

Many times leases are granted by the federal government and administered by the BLM and the Minerals Management Service ("MMS") of the U.S. Department of the Interior, both of which are federal agencies. Such leases are issued through competitive bidding, contain relatively standardized terms and require compliance with detailed BLM and MMS regulations and orders (which are subject to change by the BLM and the MMS). Leases are also accompanied by stipulations imposing restrictions on surface use and operations. Operations to be conducted by the Company on federal oil and gas leases must comply with numerous regulatory restrictions, including various nondiscrimination statutes. Federal leases also generally require a complete archaeology and environmental impact assessment prior to the authorization of an exploration or development plan.

The oil and gas operations are also subject to numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to environmental protection. These laws govern, among other things, the amounts and types of substances and materials that may be released into the environment, the issuance of permits in connection with exploration, drilling and production activities, the reclamation and abandonment of wells and facility sites and the remediation of contaminated sites. These laws and regulations may impose substantial liabilities if the Company fails to comply or if any contamination results from the Company's operations.

Employees

The Company has no employees. Mr. Albert E. Whitehead, the Company's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer until January 20, 2015, devoted a considerable amount of time to the affairs of the Company and received no compensation. On January 21, 2015, J.C. Whorton was appointed as the Company's Chief Executive Officer and Michael R. Morrisett was appointed as the Company's President. During 2015, Messrs. Whorton and Morrisett each received $6,000 as partial compensation for services provided to the Company. The fair value of these services in excess of compensation paid is estimated by management and is recognized as a capital contribution by its executive officers.

&#160;

