 ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

Unless the context indicates otherwise, or unless specifically stated otherwise, references to the &#8220;Company&#8221;, &#8220;AP Gaming&#8221;, &#8220;Successor&#8221;, &#8220;we,&#8221; &#8220;our&#8221; and &#8220;us&#8221; refer to AP Gaming Holdco Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries, including AGS Capital, LLC (&#8220;AGS Capital&#8221;) and AGS, LLC. 

Overview 

AP Gaming Holdco, Inc. is a leading designer and supplier of gaming products and services for the gaming industry. The Company is a leader in the Class II Native American and Mexican gaming jurisdictions and has expanded its product lines to include Class III Native American, commercial and charity jurisdictions. We supply electronic gaming machines (&#8220;slot machines&#8221;), server-based systems and back-office systems that are used by casinos and various gaming locations. Over the past 18 months, the Company has significantly broadened and diversified its product portfolio through both organic development and strategic acquisitions. We launched a new table products division in mid-2014 to provide live felt table games to casino operators. Through the acquisition of Cadillac Jack (defined below) on May 29, 2015, we greatly expanded our games library and slot machine offerings. The Company also acquired online developer Gamingo Limited in June 2015, expanding its offerings to include interactive products such as social casino games, available on desktop and mobile devices. 

We are a Delaware corporation that was formed in August 2013 to acquire, through an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, 100% of the equity in AGS Capital, LLC (&#8220;AGS Capital&#8221;, &#8220;Predecessor&#8221;) from AGS Holdings, LLC (&#8220;AGS Holdings&#8221;). AGS Capital was a supplier of slot machines primarily to Class II Native American gaming jurisdictions. 

Impact of Current Year Acquisitions 

On May 29, 2015, we acquired 100% of the equity of Amaya Americas Corporation (&#8220;Cadillac Jack&#8221;), a leading provider of Class II gaming machines for the North American tribal gaming market, with key regions of operation including Alabama, Mexico, and Wisconsin. Our consolidated results of operations include the impact of this acquisition and the related transaction costs, as well as the results of operations of Cadillac Jack, from the date of acquisition through December 31, 2015 . 

On June 15, 2015, the Company purchased 100% of Gamingo Limited (formerly known as &#8220;RocketPlay&#8221;, currently known as &#8220;AGSi&#8221;), a leading developer of social casino games for mobile devices. With primary offices in San Francisco and Tel Aviv, AGSi&#8217;s flagship product, Lucky Play Casino, gives players a casino-quality experience with slots, table games, tournaments, and live events. The results of operations from AGSi have been included in our consolidated results from the date of acquisition through December 31, 2015 . 

Business Strategy 

We have invested and expect to continue to invest in new business strategies and services, and innovative products and technologies. We intend to pursue the following strategic initiatives as part of our overall business strategy: 

1. 

Expand and Diversify Our Library of Content 

We plan to continue to expand and diversify our library of proprietary content across all platforms - slots, tables and social casino. We will continue our focused efforts to develop games, both internally and through partnerships with third parties, tailored to our current and target markets. As of December 31, 2015, our Company had over 250 active slot machine titles and approximately 20 table game titles in our content library and we expect our current pool of development talent to create more than 40 titles on an annual basis. 

2. 

Optimize Mix of Game Titles 

We plan to improve yield by managing game title mix across our domestic installed base of participation slot machines. We believe that more effective management of the title mix represents an opportunity to generate incremental earnings growth without requiring growth in our installed base of participation gaming machines. In addition, we expect improved game performance will likely drive incremental slot machine placements within our customers&#8217; facilities. 

3. 

Expand Our Footprint Through Strategic Acquisitions 

We are actively seeking acquisition opportunities that will: 1) have a positive effect on long-term earnings growth, 2) generate strong recurring revenue, 3) provide for expansion into new gaming jurisdictions, 4) bolster our library of proprietary content, and 5) diversify our existing product mix. Our acquisitions of Cadillac Jack and Rocketplay are great examples of this strategy. 

4. 

Focus on Development of Unique Niche Products 

With over 1,000 casino facilities throughout the United States as of December 31, 2015, and the slot machine replacement cycle at a cyclical low, we believe the market potential for unique new games and concepts is favorable. We will target the introduction of a small number of niche gaming products to a large number of casinos. 

5. 

Build Momentum in Class III Markets and Pursue Class II Market Leadership 

With the inclusion of Cadillac Jack units, we have a foothold of approximately 3,600 Class III placements in total, which represents approximately 1% of the total U.S. Class III market. We believe significant growth potential exists for our Company to further penetrate this market. Utilizing new, recently-issued gaming licenses, we expect to begin placing and selling Class III products in five new jurisdictions (Nevada, Mississippi, Louisiana, New Jersey and Connecticut) in 2016. We also anticipate growing our presence in Class III markets where we currently operate, such as Oklahoma, Florida and California, by placing additional content from our expanding library of games in these states. In addition, we believe that our existing core Class II product offering is among the strongest in the industry today. We expect to continue gaining market share in existing Class II jurisdictions and are focused on penetrating newly licensed jurisdictions. 

6. 

Focus on Innovation and New Product Verticals For the Next Generation of Casino Players &#32; 

In the third quarter of 2014, we began developing table games products through the acquisitions of War Blackjack and other related intellectual property. The extension of our business into table games, as well as our entry into the social casino space through our acquisition of Rocketplay, demonstrates our commitment to evolving our business to adapt to the preferences of the next-generation gambler. As of December 31, 2015, the Company had approximately 815 table game units under lease arrangements. We plan to continue expanding our table games offerings through acquisitions and internal development. We have already introduced our proven land-based casino content into online and mobile formats for social gaming. Our popular land-based slot machine games - such as So Hot , Colossal Diamonds , and Monkey in the Bank , to name a few - have been among the strongest performers in our social casino game catalog. 

Apollo Overview 

Founded in 1990, Apollo is a leading global alternative investment manager with offices in New York, Los Angeles, Houston, Bethesda, Chicago, Toronto, London, Frankfurt, Luxembourg, Singapore, Hong Kong, Shanghai and Mumbai. Apollo&#8217;s assets under management are invested in its private equity, credit, and real estate businesses. 

Apollo has a long history of successfully investing funds it manages in leisure and site-based entertainment. Investments include resorts, cruise lines, gaming, theme parks, spas, golf and restaurants. Apollo has a deep understanding and significant experience in the development / construction, marketing and cross-selling activities for these assets, as well as a broad network of industry professionals. 

Apollo is currently invested in Caesars Entertainment Corporation, the world&#8217;s largest and most diversified casino-entertainment provider and the most geographically diverse U.S. casino-entertainment company, Gala Coral Group, one of Europe&#8217;s pre-eminent betting and gaming businesses, and Norwegian Cruise Line Holdings Ltd., a leading cruise line operator with casinos across multiple ships. 

Our Operations 

Under our participation agreements, we provide customers with gaming machines, table games, ancillary table game equipment, systems software, computer hardware, signage and other equipment for operation within their gaming facilities. In return we receive either a share of the revenue generated by these products and systems, a flat monthly fee, or a daily fee. The determination of whether our agreement results in a revenue share, monthly fee, or daily fee arrangement is generally governed by local gaming jurisdictions. For our revenue share arrangements on slot machine products, we have historically shared between 15 - 20% of the revenues generated by the gaming machines. Under our participation agreements for slot machines, we participate in selecting the mix of titles, maintain and service the equipment and oversee certain promotional efforts. For licensed table games and related equipment, we typically receive monthly royalty payments. In support of our business and operations, we employ a professional staff including field service technicians, production, sales, account management, marketing, technology and game development, licensing and compliance and finance. 

Our corporate headquarters are located in Las Vegas, which serves as the primarily location for the executive management and administrative functions such as finance, legal, licensing and compliance. Our licensing and compliance division oversees the application and renewal of our corporate gaming licenses, findings of suitability for key officers and directors and certification of our gaming equipment and systems for specific jurisdictions, human resources, as well as coordinating gaming equipment and software shipping and on-site and remote service of our equipment with gaming authorities. 

Our field service technicians are responsible for installing, maintaining and servicing our gaming products and systems. Our field service operation including our call center, which operates 24 hours a day, seven days a week, is managed out of our Oklahoma facility. We can also access most of our gaming machines and systems remotely from approved remote locations to provide software updates and routine maintenance. In addition, our gaming machine and system production facilities are located in and managed out of Oklahoma, Atlanta, and Mexico City. Our table game service is primarily managed from Las Vegas. 

Sales, product management and account management are managed through our various locations and are located throughout the jurisdictions in which we do business. Sales and account management oversee the customer relationship both at the individual location and corporate level and are responsible for developing new customer relationships. Account management is in charge of running on-site promotions and corporate sponsorship programs. In addition, our marketing team is in charge of general corporate marketing, including advertisements and participation at industry trade shows. 

Our technology and game development division operates primarily out of our Atlanta location and to a lesser extent in Las Vegas, Nevada and Austin, Texas. Through the acquisition of AGSi we have a development team in Tel Aviv as well. We employ game developers, software and system programmers, project managers and other development and administrative staff that oversee our internal game development efforts and manage third party relationships. 

Products 

&#160; 

We provide our casino customers with gaming machines, table games, ancillary table game equipment, systems software, computer hardware, signage and other equipment for operation within their gaming facilities. We also offer social casino products directly to players. 

Gaming Machine Platforms 

Roadrunner Platform 

We received regulatory approval for our proprietary Roadrunner &#32;(&#8220;Roadrunner&#8221;) platform in 2012. Roadrunner &#32;represented a substantial advancement from our legacy Encore &#32;platform, both in terms of user interface and platform architecture. We designed Roadrunner &#32;to be a leading Class II gaming platform with the capability to port Class III outcomes within a Class II construct with limited degradation in game play. Therefore, we are able to develop both Class II and Class III titles for Roadrunner and can also easily retrofit the platform to certain of our existing products. 

Utilizing both in-house and third party providers, we created a portfolio of new titles for Roadrunner . The platform was designed with our revenue-share model in mind, and title conversions can be executed by loading software off of a USB drive. Roadrunner &#32;is also compatible with downloadable conversions, however, regulatory standards in most jurisdictions do not currently permit this technology. 

Colossal Platform 

In September 2012, we entered into an exclusive distribution agreement with C2 Gaming, LLC (&#8220;C2 Gaming&#8221;, &#8220;Colossal&#8221;) to distribute their Class II and Class III games in California, Florida, New York, Oklahoma, Texas and Washington. In May 2014, we acquired C2 Gaming which provided for the distribution of C2 Gaming&#8217;s platform and content to an increased number of markets in the United States (see &#8220;Acquisitions and Divestitures&#8221;). C2 Gaming&#8217;s products offer a unique selling proposition with creatively-designed oversized games. For example, the Colossal Diamonds cabinet (&#8220;Big Red&#8221;) is over eight feet wide and we believe it is one of the top performing games in every market in which it has been introduced. 

Cadillac Jack Platform 

We have strategically shifted our focus to create new internal content and leverage the newly acquired Cadillac Jack Platform &#32;(&#8220;CJ Platform&#8221;) as a conduit for our current and future products. We will continue porting our legacy games onto the CJ Platform &#32;in the upcoming year, enhancing both our Class II and III offerings. We expect internally-generated content to be a larger source of our installed base going forward. 

Gaming Machine Titles 

We categorize our gaming machine titles into two main groups: &#8220;Core&#8221; and &#8220;Premium and Specialty&#8221;. Our Core titles have a proven track record of success and are targeted at maintaining and growing our current installed base. Our Premium titles include unique and niche titles that provide a distinctive player experience and are targeted at increasing floor space in both existing and new jurisdictions. Specialty titles describe our jumbo games, such as Colossal Diamonds , and games made specifically for high-limit. 

Our Atlanta game development studio is responsible for creating Core video slot content as well as new hardware designs and concepts. Our Las Vegas development team focuses primarily on premium and specialty games. 

Core Titles 

Historically, our Core titles primarily include Royal Reels , Cool Catz, &#32;and Liberty 7&#8217;s , which still continue to be some of the top-performing Class II games in the market today. As a result of the Cadillac Jack acquisition, we have enhanced our core library with titles such as; So Hot &#32;family titles, Star Phoenix , Monkey in the Bank , Geckos Gone Wild &#32;and Double the Devil . These titles have historically been the highest-gross earners in our product portfolio and as of December 31, 2015, represented the majority of our total revenue. 

Premium and Specialty Titles 

Our Premium and Specialty titles operate on both our Roadrunner &#32;and C2 Gaming platforms but we are in the process of integrating this content onto the CJ Platform . Some of the titles that operate on Roadrunner &#32;are presented in different formats, such as a mechanical wheel top box and a 42&#8221; vertical slant top, which is our Skytower &#32;cabinet. These self-merchandising cabinet formats are premium in nature in that they have more appealing features, such as vibrant lighting, enhanced sound quality, and attractive facades. The variety of formats allows for an appropriate level of unique selling propositions within our Premium portfolio. 

We have licensing agreements in place with a number of popular brands, such as Ripley&#8217;s Believe it or Not! &#32;and Family Feud . These titles are part of our series of trivia-based games, which we market as the It Pays to Know &#32;series. These brands remained top performers for 2015. 

Other Premium and Specialty titles operating on our C2 Gaming &#32;platform offer a unique selling proposition in that they are creatively-designed oversized games. For example, Colossal Diamonds &#32;is a simple and classic 3-reel, 1-line game that comes in the Big Red &#32;cabinet, which is over eight feet wide. 

In total, our development teams are producing approximately 45 games per year. We believe this strategy of diversified content will allow us to both maintain and grow our market leadership within our current Class II base, as well as expand into Class III casinos in other key jurisdictions. Going forward into 2016, we expect to continue to penetrate domestic and foreign jurisdictions. 

Table Games Products 

Our table games products include live proprietary table games and side bets, as well as ancillary table game products. Products include both internally developed and acquired proprietary table games, side bets, and table technology related to blackjack, poker, baccarat, craps and roulette. We have acquired a number of popular brands, including In-Bet, Buster Blackjack, Double Draw Poker &#32;and Criss Cross Poker &#32;that are based on traditional well-known public domain games such as blackjack and poker; however, these proprietary games provide intriguing betting options that offer more excitement and greater volatility to the player, ultimately enhancing our casino customers&#8217; profitability. Our Tornado &#32;product is unique in that it allows players to control the spin of the roulette ball by pressing a remote ball activation device. We believe this mechanism enhances player interaction without altering traditional roulette rules and procedures; similarly, our Double Ball Roulette game creates a unique game experience by allowing players to use two balls instead of one. 

In September 2015, we announced the acquisition of critical card shuffler intellectual property and technology with the intention of entering into the card shuffler market in 2016. 

Interactive Products 

Our social gaming products are primarily delivered through our mobile apps, Lucky Play Casino &#32;and Vegas Fever . The apps contain several game titles available for consumers to play for fun and with coins that they purchase through the app. Some of our most popular social games include content that is also popular in land-based settings such as Colossal Diamonds , So Hot , and Monkey in the Bank . 

Manufacturing 

We have manufacturing agreements with Cole Kepro International, LLC (&#8220;Cole&#8221;), VSR Industries (&#8220;VSR&#8221;), Elite Manufacturing Technologies (&#8220;Elite&#8221;) and Trend Technologies, LLC (&#8220;Trend&#8221;) to build our gaming cabinets. We believe we have limited concentration risk with any one of these vendors, since we own the rights to our cabinet designs and thus have the ability to change manufacturers in the event of a dispute. Cole and VSR are based in Las Vegas, Nevada, while Elite and Trend are based in the Chicago area. Cole primarily manufactures our gaming cabinets for titles on our Roadrunner platform, while VSR primarily manufactures gaming cabinets for titles on our Colossal platform. Trend and Elite primarily manufacture gaming cabinets for the platforms we acquired in the Cadillac Jack acquisition. We believe any of these companies would be able to build our gaming cabinets for titles on any platform. As the supplier base is large, we are able to gain competitive pricing and delivery on any of our cabinets and have limited risk in supply disruptions. 

Our primary gaming machine production facility is located in and managed out of Oklahoma. Production at this facility includes assembling and refurbishing gaming machines (excluding gaming cabinets), parts support and purchasing. System production is located in our Atlanta office which they share with the system design team and our research and development team. Field service technicians are located in various jurisdictions throughout the U.S. and are dispatched from a central call center located in our Oklahoma facility. They are responsible for installing, maintaining and servicing the gaming machines and systems. 

Manufacturing commitments are generally based on projected quarterly orders from customers. Due to uneven order flow from customers, we bring the cabinets in with minimal components so that we can delay the cash outlay for the most costly components until closer to the point of sale. 

Customers 

We believe the quality and breadth of our customer base is a strong testament to the effectiveness and quality of our product offerings, technological innovation and customer service. At the core of our relationship with our customers is our participation model, which aligns our financial incentives with those of our customers through a shared dependence on the games&#8217; performance. The combination of our customer-aligned participation model, quality customer service and strong game performance has allowed us to develop long-term relationships with our tribal and commercial casino customers. Our top ten participation customers have been with us for an average of over eight years, and we believe that we maintain long-term relationships with key customer decision-makers. 

Oklahoma is our largest market and our participation gaming machines in the state accounted for approximately 40% of our total revenue for the year ended December 31, 2015. Our largest customer is the Chickasaw Nation, a Native American gaming operator in Oklahoma, which accounted for approximately 20% of our gaming operations revenue for the year ended December 31, 2015. The revenues we earn from the Chickasaw Nation are derived from numerous agreements, which are 

scheduled to expire in 2019. We have historically offered select existing and prospective customers an upfront payment, or placement fee, in exchange for exclusive rights to a percentage of their floor space. To a lesser extent, we have offered financing for casino development and expansion projects. In addition to our long-term relationships and contractual arrangements, the consistent demand for our titles from the loyal, repeat players of our titles further ensures our strong presence on our customers&#8217; casino floors. 

Within the Native American market, we provide both Class II and Class III games. We also serve customers in commercial, video lottery terminal, charity bingo and route-based markets. 

Customer Contracts 

We derive the majority of our gaming revenues from participation agreements whereby we place gaming machines and systems, along with our proprietary and other licensed game content, at a customer&#8217;s facility in return for either a share of the revenues that these gaming machines and systems generate or a daily fee. For licensed table games and related equipment, we typically receive monthly royalty payments. We measure the performance of our domestic installed base of participation gaming machines on the net win per day per machine, often referred to as the win per day, or &#8220;WPD&#8221;. Under our participation agreements, we earn a percentage of the WPD of our domestic installed base of participation gaming machines. 

Our standard contracts are one to three years in duration and may contain auto-renewal provisions for an additional term. Our contracts generally specify the number of gaming machines and other equipment to be provided, revenue share, daily fee or other pricing, provisions regarding installation, training, service and removal of the machines, and other terms and conditions standard in the industry. In some circumstances, we enter into trial agreements with customers that provide a free or fee-based trial period during which such customers may use our gaming machines or table game. Each trial agreement lays out the terms of payment should the customer decide to continue using our machines. 

Our placement fee, development or similar agreements in the Native American and other markets have involved both a loan or advance of funds and a gaming equipment lease agreement. These agreements have typically been longer term contracts, ranging from four to ten years depending on the amount of financing provided, market and other factors. These contracts specified the amount and timing of the advances that we will be provided, the uses of those funds and target timing for the construction or remodeling of the gaming facility, if applicable. In addition, the contracts specified the repayment terms of the financing which vary by customer and agreement. Typical terms contained in these agreements included the percentage of the floor, minimum number of gaming machines, or percentage of the route operation allocated to us, the associated term or period of exclusivity for that allocation or number of gaming machines, minimum game performance thresholds, cure periods and resulting obligations, if any, and other general terms and conditions. Certain of these development agreements also contained a buyout option, which provides that upon written notice and payment of a buyout fee, the customer can terminate our floor space privileges. 

We generally make efforts to obtain waivers of sovereign immunity in our contracts with Native American customers. However, we do not always obtain these provisions and where we do they can be limited in scope. There is no guarantee that we will continue or improve our ability to get this term in future contracts. While we have not had any experience with contract enforceability vis-&#224;-vis our Native American customers, we are cognizant of recent cases involving other parties dealing with waivers of sovereign immunity. Those cases put into question how sovereign immunity may be viewed by courts in the future. In the event that we enter into contracts with Native American customers in the future that do not contain a waiver of sovereign immunity, such contracts may be practically unenforceable. 

Our game sale contracts are typical of those in the industry. They specify the general terms and conditions of the sale, equipment and services to be provided, as well as pricing and payment terms. In some cases, we provide the central server that is used to operate the purchased equipment on a lease and charge a fee per day based on the number of gaming machines connected to the server. 

Our interactive social gaming revenue is generated from a high volume of consumers&#8217; purchases of virtual coins which are used to play the games. 

Research and Development 

We conduct research and development through an internal team to develop new gaming systems and gaming content. Research and development costs consist primarily of salaries and benefits, travel and expenses and other professional services. We employ approximately 150 game developers, software and system programmers, project managers and other development and administrative staff that oversee internal game development efforts and manage third party relationships. The technology and game development division operates primarily out of our Atlanta location as well as in Las Vegas. 

Competition 

&#160; 

We encounter intense competition from other designers, manufacturers and operators of electronic gaming machines, table products and social casino games. Our competitors range from small, localized companies to large, multi-national corporations, several of which have substantial resources and market share. 

Our competitors for the live casino floor gaming machines include, but are not limited to, International Game Technologies (&#8220;IGT&#8221;), Scientific Games Corporation (&#8220;Scientific Games&#8221;), Aristocrat Technologies Inc. (&#8220;Aristocrat&#8221;), Everi Holdings Inc. (&#8220;Everi&#8221;), which was formerly Multimedia Games, Inc. and Global Cash Access Holdings, Inc., Konami Co. Ltd. (&#8220;Konami&#8221;), Ainsworth Game Technology Ltd., and Galaxy Gaming, Inc. Additionally, there are hundreds of non-gaming companies that design and develop social casino games and apps. Many of our competitors are large, well-established companies with substantially larger operating staffs and greater capital resources and have been engaged in the design, manufacture and operation of gaming products for many years. Some of these companies contain significant intellectual property including patents in gaming technology and hardware design, systems and game play and trademarks. In addition, the larger competitors contain significantly larger content portfolios and content development capability and resources, are licensed in markets throughout the United States, and have international distribution. Scientific Games, IGT, Konami, and Aristocrat all have a presence in the back-office accounting and player tracking business which expands their relationship with casino customers. Everi and Aristocrat are our primary competitors in the Class II market. 

To compete effectively, we must, among other things, continue to develop high-performing, innovative games for the Class II and Class III markets, provide excellent service and support to our existing customers, effectively manage our installed base of participation gaming machines, expand our library of proprietary content, develop niche products with strong appeal to both local and next-generation players, be first to market in new non-traditional markets, implement effective marketing and sales functions, and offer competitive pricing and terms on our participation and sale agreements. 

Intellectual Property 

We have a combination of internally developed and third-party intellectual property, all of which we believe maintain and enhance our competitive position and protect our products. Such intellectual property includes owned or licensed patents, patent applications, trademarks and trademark applications in the United States, Mexico and Canada. In addition, pursuant to our license agreements with third-party game developers, we license and distribute gaming software. 

Seasonality 

We may experience fluctuations in revenues and cash flows from month to month, however, we do not believe that our business is materially impacted by seasonality. 

Inflation 

Our operations have not been, nor are they expected to be in the future, materially affected by inflation. However, our operational expansion is affected by the cost of hardware components, which are not considered to be inflation sensitive, but rather, sensitive to changes in technology and competition in the hardware markets. In addition, we expect to continue to incur increased legal and other similar costs associated with regulatory compliance requirements and the uncertainties present in the operating environment in which we conduct our business. 

Employees 

&#160; 

As of December 31, 2015 , we had approximately 500 full-time equivalent employees, with approximately 115 employed internationally and 385 employed domestically. 

&#160; 

We are not a party to any collective bargaining agreements in the U.S. and have not experienced any strikes or work stoppages in the past. 

Regulation and Licensing 

We operate in numerous gaming jurisdictions, and our business operations, which include the manufacture, sale, and distribution, of gaming devices and gaming related equipment and/or the provision of gaming related services, are subject to extensive federal, state, local, tribal and foreign government regulation as applicable in each of the gaming jurisdictions in which we operate. A significant portion of our operations take place at facilities conducting gaming activities on the tribal lands of Native American tribes resulting in our operations being subject to tribal and/or federal and sometimes state regulation depending on the classification of gaming being conducted in each such case as defined in the Indian Gaming Regulatory Act, or &#8220;IGRA&#8221;. In states where commercial gaming has been legalized, our operations are conducted subject to the applicable federal, state, and local government regulation. 

While the specific regulatory requirements of the various jurisdictions vary, most require licenses, permits, findings of suitability and financial ability, and other forms of approval for our operational entities and, in some jurisdictions, the entities or individuals who hold some level of beneficial interest in Company or its affiliates as well our lenders and other individuals or entities affiliated with us (contractually or otherwise). Our officers, directors, managers and key employees who are actively engaged in the administration or supervision of our gaming related operations may also be required to file for licensure, findings of suitability or other approvals. Regulators may determine such a person is unsuitable to participate in the gaming industry in such jurisdiction, and could require us to limit, suspend, or terminate or our relationship with such a person. In addition, many jurisdictions require our products to be tested for compliance with the jurisdiction&#8217;s technical standards and regulations prior to our being permitted to distribute our products. The various jurisdictions&#8217; gaming regulators typically have broad power over our business operations and may deny, revoke, suspend, condition, limit, or not renew our gaming or other licenses, permits or approvals, impose substantial fines and take other action, any one of which could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operation. We believe we and our officers, directors, managers, key employees and affiliates have obtained all required gaming related licenses, permits, findings of suitability and other forms of approvals necessary to carry on our business. 

It is common for gaming regulators to monitor, or to require us to disclose, our activities and any disciplinary action against us in other gaming jurisdictions. Consequently, the business activities or disciplinary action taken against us in one jurisdiction could result in disciplinary action in other jurisdictions. 

In most jurisdictions, even once licensed or approved, we remain under the on-going obligation to provide financial information and reports as well as to keep the applicable gaming regulators informed of any material changes in the information provided to regulators as part of the licensing and approval process. All licenses and approvals must be periodically renewed, in some cases as often as annually. In connection with any initial application or renewal of a gaming license or approval, we (and individuals or entities required to submit to background review or licensure in connection with our application or renewal) are typically required to make broad and comprehensive disclosures concerning our history, finances, ownership and corporate structure, operations, compliance controls and business relationships. We must regularly report changes in our officers, key employees and other licensed positions to applicable gaming regulators. 

Certain gaming jurisdictions in which we are licensed may prohibit us from making a public offering of our securities without their prior approval. Similarly, changes in control of a licensee through merger, consolidation, acquisition of assets or stock, management or any form of takeover typically cannot occur without the prior approval of applicable gaming regulators. Such regulators may also require controlling beneficial owners, managers, officers, directors, and other persons or entities having a material relationship or involvement with the person proposing to acquire control, to be investigated, and licensed, found suitable or otherwise approved as part of the approval process relating to the transaction. 

Gaming regulators often have the power to investigate the holders of our debt or equity securities. If any holder of our debt or equity securities is found unsuitable by any gaming regulator in a jurisdiction in which we conduct business, our licensure or approval to conduct business in such jurisdiction could be subject to non-renewal, suspension or revocation. 

Most gaming jurisdictions impose fees and taxes that are payable by us in connection with our application, maintenance and renewal of our licensure or our approval to conduct business. Laws, regulations, and ordinances governing our gaming related activities and the obligations of gaming companies in any jurisdiction in which we have or in the future may have gaming operations are subject to change that could impose additional operating, financial, or other burdens on the our business. 

Federal Registration 

The Gambling Devices Act of 1962 makes it unlawful for a person to manufacture, transport, or receive gaming devices, or components across interstate lines unless that person has first registered with the Attorney General of the U.S. Department of Justice. This act also imposes gambling device identification and record keeping requirements. Violation of this act may result in seizure and forfeiture of the equipment, as well as other penalties. As an entity involved in the manufacture and transportation of gaming devices, we are required to register annually. 

Native American Gaming 

The rules for Native American gaming were established in 1988 under the IGRA. Under the IGRA, gaming activities conducted by federally recognized Native American tribes are segmented into three classes of gaming activities: 

Class I . Class I gaming represents traditional forms of Native American gaming as part of, or in connection with, tribal ceremonies or celebrations (e.g., contests and games of skill) and social gaming for minimal prizes. Class I gaming is regulated only by individual Native American tribes. We do not participate in any Class I gaming activities. 

Class II . Class II gaming involves the game of chance commonly known as bingo (whether or not electronic, computer, or other technological aids are used in connection therewith to facilitate play) and if played in the same location as the bingo, also includes pull tabs, punch board, tip jars, instant bingo, and other games similar to bingo. Class II gaming also includes non-banked card games, that is, games that are played exclusively against other players rather than against the house or a player acting as a bank. However, the definition of Class II gaming specifically excludes slot machines or electronic facsimiles of Class III games. Class II gaming is regulated by the National Indian Gaming Commission (the &#8220;NIGC&#8221;) and the laws of the Native American tribe conducting such gaming. Subject to the detailed requirements of the IGRA, including NIGC approval of such Native American tribe&#8217;s gaming ordinance, federally recognized Native American tribes are typically permitted to conduct Class II gaming on Indian lands pursuant to tribal ordinances approved by the NIGC. 

Class III . Class III gaming includes all other forms of gaming that are neither Class I nor Class II and includes a broad range of traditional casino games such as slot machines, blackjack, craps and roulette, as well as wagering games and electronic facsimiles of any game of chance. The IGRA generally permits a Native American tribe to conduct Class III gaming activities on reservation lands subject to the detailed requirements of the IGRA and the entering into of a compact between such Native American tribe and the state in which the Native American tribe intends to conduct Class III gaming activities on its trust lands. 

The IGRA is administered by the NIGC and the Secretary of the U.S. Department of the Interior. The NIGC has authority to issue regulations related to tribal gaming activities, approve tribal ordinances for regulating gaming, approve management agreements for gaming facilities, conduct investigations and monitor tribal gaming generally. The IGRA is subject to interpretation by the NIGC and may be subject to judicial and legislative clarification or amendment. The gaming ordinance of each Native American tribe conducting gaming under the IGRA and the terms of any applicable tribal/state compact establish the regulatory requirements under which we must conduct business on Native American tribal lands. 

Under the IGRA, the NIGC&#8217;s authority to approve gaming-related contracts is limited to management contracts and collateral agreements related to management contracts. A &#8220;management contract&#8221; includes any agreement between a Native American tribe and a contractor if such contract or agreement provides for the management of all or part of a gaming operation. To the extent that any of our agreements with Native American tribes are deemed to be management contracts, such agreements would require the approval of the NIGC in order to be valid. To our knowledge, none of our current agreements with Native American tribes qualify as management contracts under the IGRA. 

In addition, to the extent that any of our agreements with Native American tribes are deemed by the NIGC to create an impermissible proprietary interest, such agreements are void and unenforceable. To our knowledge, none of our current agreements with Native American tribes create an impermissible proprietary interest in Indian gaming. 

International Regulation 

Certain foreign countries permit the importation, sale, and operation of gaming equipment in casino and non-casino environments. Some countries prohibit or restrict the payout feature of the traditional slot machine or limit the operation and the number of slot machines to a controlled number of casinos or casino-like locations. Each gaming machine must comply with the individual country&#8217;s regulations. Certain jurisdictions do not require the licensing of gaming machine operators and manufacturers. 

