 ITEM 1. BUSINESS. 

Overview and Business Strategy 

Heron Therapeutics, Inc. is a biotechnology company focused on improving the lives of patients by developing best-in-class medicines that address major unmet medical needs. We are developing novel, patient-focused solutions that apply our innovative science and technologies to already-approved pharmacological agents. Our goal is to build on therapeutics with well-known pharmacology by improving their tolerability and efficacy as well as broadening their potential field of use. 

We are currently developing pharmaceutical products for patients suffering from cancer or pain. SUSTOL is being developed for the prevention of both acute and delayed CINV associated with moderately emetogenic chemotherapy (&#147;MEC&#148;) or highly emetogenic chemotherapy (&#147;HEC&#148;). Our NDA for SUSTOL is pending review with the FDA and was assigned a Prescription Drug User Fee Act (&#147;PDUFA&#148;) goal date of January 17, 2016. In January 2016, we were notified by the FDA that it would not take action on the SUSTOL NDA by the PDUFA goal date and that the FDA anticipates taking action on the SUSTOL NDA in late February 2016. 

In addition to SUSTOL, we are currently developing several other pharmaceutical products for patients suffering from cancer or pain. HTX-019, also being developed for the prevention of CINV, is an intravenous formulation of aprepitant, a neurokinin-1 (&#147;NK 1 &#148;) receptor antagonist. HTX-011, a long-acting formulation of the local anesthetic bupivacaine in a fixed-dose combination with the anti-inflammatory meloxicam, is being developed for the prevention of post-operative pain. 

Development Pipeline: 

&#160;

Product Candidates 

&#160; Target Indication &#160; Development Status SUSTOL 

&#160; Chemotherapy-induced nausea and vomiting &#160; Pending NDA action HTX-019 

&#160; Chemotherapy-induced nausea and vomiting &#160; Bioequivalence study complete HTX-011 

&#160; Post-operative pain management &#160; Phase 2 ongoing Chemotherapy-Induced Nausea and Vomiting 

CINV is one of the most debilitating side effects of chemotherapy, often attributed as a leading cause of premature discontinuation of cancer treatment. Most chemotherapy agents cause some degree of nausea and vomiting. However, the chemotherapy 

&#160; 

regimens that cause the worst degree of nausea and vomiting are categorized into two groups: MEC and HEC. Despite advancements in the field, CINV remains a major problem for cancer patients and their caregivers. 

Two of the systems that regulate the body&#146;s emetic (nausea and vomiting) response are the 5-hydroxytryptamine type 3 (&#147;5-HT 3 &#148;) receptor system and the NK 1 receptor system. Chemotherapy triggers the release of 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) (also known as serotonin) from cells in the small intestine, which acts on two sites: stimulating 5-HT 3 receptors on neurons in the gastrointestinal tract and stimulating 5-HT 3 receptors in the brain that control vomiting. Chemotherapy also causes the release of a molecule known as substance P, which acts on the NK 1 receptors in the brain to reinforce the desire to vomit. These systems, along with other central and peripheral neurotransmitters such as dopamine and prostaglandins, work in concert to escalate the sensation of nausea and induce vomiting, constituting the body&#146;s natural reflex to try to protect itself from foreign toxins. 5-HT 3 receptor antagonists, such as SUSTOL, and NK 1 receptor antagonists, such as HTX-019, act synergistically on two of the critical pathways involved in the vomiting reflex to alleviate one of the key treatment-limiting side effects of chemotherapy. 

In its 2011 guidelines for the prevention of CINV following the administration of MEC or HEC regimens, the American Society of Clinical Oncology (&#147;ASCO&#148;) recommends the use of 5-HT 3 receptor antagonists, often in combination with other agents such as corticosteroids and/or NK 1 receptor antagonists to achieve optimal control of CINV symptoms (&#147;2011 ASCO CINV Guidelines&#148;). 

Nausea and vomiting that occurs within the first 24 hours following the administration of chemotherapy regimens is considered acute CINV, while nausea and vomiting on days 2-5 following the administration of chemotherapy regimens is considered delayed CINV. A particular unmet medical need exists for patients suffering from CINV during the delayed phase. None of the currently available 5-HT 3 receptor antagonists have demonstrated sufficient efficacy to gain approval for the prevention of delayed CINV associated with HEC. 

Current CINV Therapies 

Currently available 5-HT 3 receptor antagonists include: ALOXI &#174; (palonosetron, marketed by Eisai, Inc. in conjunction with Helsinn Healthcare S.A.); AKYNZEO &#174; (palonosetron combined with the NK 1 receptor antagonist netupitant, marketed by Eisai); SANCUSO &#174; (granisetron transdermal patch, marketed by ProStrakan Group Plc); and generic products including ondansetron (formerly marketed by GlaxoSmithKline plc as ZOFRAN) and granisetron (formerly marketed by Hoffman-La Roche, Inc. as KYTRIL). Generic palonosetron may become available in the third quarter of 2018. Currently, ALOXI is the only 5-HT 3 receptor antagonist approved for the prevention of delayed CINV associated with MEC regimens. No 5-HT 3 receptor antagonist is approved for the prevention of delayed CINV associated with HEC regimens. 

NK 1 receptor antagonists are also administered for the prevention of CINV, in combination with 5-HT 3 receptor antagonists, to augment the therapeutic effect of the 5-HT 3 receptor antagonist. Currently available NK 1 receptor antagonists include: EMEND &#174; (aprepitant, marketed by Merck &#38; Co, Inc.); EMEND &#174; for Injection (fosaprepitant, marketed by Merck &#38; Co); and VARUBI&#153; (rolapitant, marketed by Tesaro, Inc.). 

According to Transparency Market Research, sales of therapeutics for the prevention of CINV approximated $620 million in 2013, and sales of such therapeutics are expected to reach approximately $1 billion in 2020. 

&#160; 

SUSTOL 

SUSTOL, which utilizes our Biochronomer technology, is our novel, long-acting formulation of granisetron for the prevention of CINV. Granisetron, an FDA-approved 5-HT 3 receptor antagonist, was selected due to its broad use by physicians based on a well-established record of safety and efficacy. SUSTOL has been shown to maintain therapeutic drug levels of granisetron for five days with a single subcutaneous injection and is being developed for the prevention of both acute and delayed CINV associated with MEC or HEC. While other 5-HT 3 receptor antagonists are indicated for the prevention of CINV, we believe SUSTOL is the first agent in the class to demonstrate efficacy in reducing the incidence of delayed CINV in patients receiving HEC in a randomized Phase 3 study. 

SUSTOL New Drug Application Resubmission 

In May 2009, we filed an NDA for SUSTOL with the FDA under Section 505(b)(2) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act. In March 2010, we received our first Complete Response Letter (&#147;CRL&#148;), which stated that the May 2009 NDA requesting approval of SUSTOL could not be approved as it was initially submitted. The primary points raised in the initial CRL were: certain points related to the dosing system; certain identified deficiencies in the chemistry, manufacturing, and controls (&#147;CMC&#148;) review; the request that we perform additional studies regarding bioequivalence and metabolic rates and human factors; and the request that we perform a thorough QT study. In September 2012, we resubmitted the NDA seeking approval for SUSTOL, and, in March 2013, the FDA issued a second CRL. In the March 2013 CRL, the FDA identified several issues precluding the approval of SUSTOL, including an issue related to the CMC review and deficiencies at certain of our contract manufacturers. The FDA also requested that we repeat human factors testing using commercially equivalent material and provide data to allow reanalysis of our 2008 Phase 3 pivotal clinical trial results under the revised 2011 ASCO CINV Guidelines. In July 2015, we resubmitted our NDA for SUSTOL to the FDA. In our recent resubmission, we believe that we addressed the issues raised in the March 2013 CRL. In addition, the resubmission included the results of our Phase 3 MAGIC study. We currently expect the FDA to complete its review of our SUSTOL NDA in late February 2016. 

SUSTOL Phase 3 MAGIC Clinical Trial 

Our MAGIC study was a prospective, randomized, placebo-controlled, two-arm, Phase 3 study that randomized 942 patients undergoing HEC treatment for various tumor types. The study was initiated in 2014 and completed in May 2015. In the study, HEC regimens were defined by the 2011 ASCO CINV Guidelines and included cisplatin regimens of &#179; 50 mg/m 2 among other agents. MAGIC, which was conducted entirely in the U.S. at 83 community oncology centers, is the first and only Phase 3 CINV study in which patients in the comparator arm received the standard-of-care, three-drug regimen used for prophylaxis in a HEC population. 

On day 1 of the first treatment cycle, patients were randomized 1:1 to receive either: (i) SUSTOL administered subcutaneously plus IV fosaprepitant 150 mg and IV dexamethasone 12 mg; or (ii) IV ondansetron 0.15 mg/kg (up to 16 mg) plus IV fosaprepitant 150 mg and IV dexamethasone 12 mg. On day 2 following administration of chemotherapy, all study patients received oral dexamethasone 8 mg once (QD), and, on days 3 and 4 following administration of chemotherapy, all study patients received oral dexamethasone 8 mg twice daily (BID). The primary endpoint of the study was the proportion of patients who achieved a Complete Response, defined as no emesis and no rescue medications, during the delayed phase of CINV, occurring 24-120 hours following administration of HEC regimens. 

&#160; 

The study&#146;s primary endpoint was achieved. The percentage of patients who achieved a Complete Response was significantly higher in the SUSTOL group (64.7%) compared to the ondansetron group (56.6%), which produced an absolute treatment difference of 8% (95% CI 1.7-14.4; p = 0.014), equating to a relative 14% Complete Response rate improvement. Among patients within the high-risk cisplatin stratum, delayed-phase Complete Response was greater in the SUSTOL group (65.3%) versus the ondansetron group (54.7%), demonstrating an absolute treatment difference of 11% (95% CI -1.4-22.7), equating to a relative 19% Complete Response rate improvement. The study&#146;s secondary endpoints demonstrated numerical superiority in the SUSTOL group compared to the ondansetron group, but failed to reach statistical superiority. Key additional endpoints demonstrated that a significantly greater proportion of patients did not require rescue medication in the delayed phase with the SUSTOL regimen versus the ondansetron regimen (p = 0.013), patient-reported satisfaction with nausea and vomiting control was significantly greater with the SUSTOL regimen versus the ondansetron regimen in the delayed phase (p = 0.040), rates of no nausea were numerically higher in the SUSTOL regimen versus the ondansetron regimen in the delayed and overall phases, and a post hoc analysis indicated SUSTOL was associated with significantly less frequent nausea in the delayed (p = 0.032) and overall phases (p = 0.048). Adverse events reported in the study were generally mild-to-moderate in severity and of short duration, with the most common being injection site reactions. 

SUSTOL 2008 Phase 3 Pivotal Clinical Trial 

SUSTOL was previously the subject of a pivotal Phase 3 clinical trial, which was completed in 2008. The results from this study comprised the foundation for the original SUSTOL NDA. In this study, we enrolled more than 1,300 patients and successfully demonstrated that SUSTOL&#146;s efficacy in preventing CINV was statistically non-inferior to that of ALOXI. The study was designed to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of SUSTOL in the treatment of CINV following the administration of HEC or MEC regimens and to establish an effective dose for SUSTOL. Four primary efficacy endpoints were selected: non-inferiority to ALOXI for the prevention of acute and delayed CINV following administration of MEC regimens and acute CINV following administration of HEC regimens; and superiority for the prevention of delayed CINV following administration of HEC regimens. 

The trial stratified patients into two groups, one receiving MEC regimens and the other receiving HEC regimens. In each emetogenic group, patients were randomized during Cycle 1 to receive SUSTOL high dose (10 mg granisetron), SUSTOL low dose (5 mg granisetron) or the currently approved dose of ALOXI. For up to three subsequent treatment cycles (Cycles 2&#150;4), the patients were re-randomized to receive either of the two SUSTOL doses. 

Patients in the SUSTOL high-dose group achieved Complete Response rates numerically higher than, and statistically non-inferior to, ALOXI across all four assessments. A pharmacokinetic analysis conducted in a sub-group of patients showed that a single SUSTOL 10 mg dose maintained blood levels of granisetron at therapeutic level for the entire five-day period. Patients receiving the 5 mg dose of SUSTOL did not demonstrate non-inferiority to ALOXI for all endpoints, and SUSTOL did not achieve the superiority endpoint for the delayed CINV assessment following administration of HEC regimens in either group. ALOXI is not FDA approved for the prevention of delayed CINV following administration of HEC regimens; therefore, in order to receive FDA approval for this indication, we were required to demonstrate that SUSTOL was statistically superior to ALOXI. Collectively, the Phase 3 efficacy and safety data demonstrated that the 10 mg dose is the most effective dose, and, therefore, it was selected for the SUSTOL NDA. SUSTOL was generally well tolerated, with a side effect profile consistent with previous human use of granisetron, and only one serious adverse event was reported as possibly attributed to SUSTOL. 

&#160; 

Other Clinical Programs 

HTX-019 (NK 1 Receptor Antagonist for CINV Prevention) 

HTX-019 is a proprietary intravenous formulation of aprepitant, an NK 1 receptor antagonist, for the prevention of CINV. NK 1 receptor antagonists are used in combination with 5-HT 3 receptor antagonists. At present, the only injectable NK 1 receptor antagonist approved in the U.S., EMEND for Injection (fosaprepitant), contains polysorbate 80, a surfactant, which may cause hypersensitivity reactions, infusion site reactions or other adverse reactions in some patients. HTX-019 is formulated without polysorbate 80, and, in a recently completed bioequivalence study in healthy volunteers, HTX-019 was shown to have a substantially improved safety profile compared to IV fosaprepitant. An assessment of safety found HTX-019 to be safe and well-tolerated, and the pharmacokinetic profile of HTX-019 was comparable to IV fosaprepitant in the study. The FDA has stated that achieving bioequivalence to IV fosaprepitant would be sufficient for regulatory approval of HTX-019 under the 505(b)(2) pathway. As such, we intend to file an NDA for HTX-019 in the second half of 2016. According to FactSet Research Systems, Inc., in 2015, Merck &#38; Co&#146;s EMEND and EMEND for Injection generated U.S. sales of approximately $535 million. 

HTX-011 (Post-Operative Pain Management) 

HTX-011, which utilizes our Biochronomer technology, is a long-acting formulation of the local anesthetic bupivacaine in a fixed-dose combination with the anti-inflammatory meloxicam for the prevention of post-operative pain. By delivering sustained levels of both a potent anesthetic and an anti-inflammatory agent, HTX-011 was designed to provide extended pain relief while potentially reducing the need for systemically administered pain medications such as opioids, which carry the risk of abuse, addiction and other harmful side effects. 

In September 2015, we reported positive, top-line results from a randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind, Phase 2 clinical trial of HTX-011 in patients undergoing bunionectomy. The primary and all key secondary endpoints in this study were achieved with a high degree of statistical significance. The primary endpoint, the difference as compared to placebo in pain intensity as measured by the Summed Pain Intensity (SPI) score in the first 24 hours post-surgery (SPI 0-24), was achieved (p &#60; 0.0001). HTX-011 also produced significantly reduced pain intensity scores after the first 48 hours and 72 hours post-surgery. In addition, the time to first use of opioid rescue medication was significantly increased in the HTX-011 group compared to the placebo group (p &#60; 0.0001), and there were significantly more patients receiving no opioid rescue medication in the HTX-011 group compared to the placebo group (p &#60; 0.0001). HTX-011 was generally well-tolerated in the study. The most frequent adverse events reported were headache, nausea, vomiting, erythema, cellulitis, dizziness and hypoxia, none of which were considered drug-related. 

In February 2016, we initiated a placebo-controlled, dose-finding, Phase 2 clinical trial in approximately 100 patients undergoing abdominoplasty, which is evaluating the safety and efficacy of HTX-011. HTX-011 is also currently being evaluated in a placebo-controlled, dose-finding, Phase 2 clinical trial in approximately 100 patients undergoing inguinal hernia repair. 

We plan to further develop HTX-011 within a broad-based development program targeting the wide range of surgical procedures with significant potential for post-operative pain. We plan to target several surgical settings in the first half of 2016 in preparation for an End-of-Phase 2 meeting with the FDA in the second half of 2016. According to Decision Resources Group, 

&#160; 

the addressable market for HTX-011 consisted of approximately 23 million procedures annually in the U.S. in 2012 and is expected to increase to 29 million in 2021. 

Biochronomer Technology 

All of our product candidates utilize our innovative science and technology platforms, including our proprietary Biochronomer technology, which can deliver therapeutic levels of a wide range of otherwise short-acting pharmacological agents over a period of days to weeks with a single subcutaneous injection. Our Biochronomer technology consists of bioerodible polymers that have been the subject of comprehensive animal and human toxicology studies that have established them to be safe and well tolerated. When injected into subcutaneous tissue, the polymers undergo controlled hydrolysis, resulting in a controlled, sustained release of the pharmacological agent encapsulated within the Biochronomer-based composition. Furthermore, more than one pharmacological agent can be incorporated into our Biochronomer technology such that multimodal therapy can be delivered with a single injection. 

Clinical Supplies and Manufacturing 

We do not currently own or operate manufacturing facilities for the production of clinical or commercial quantities of any of our product candidates. We rely on a small number of third-party manufacturers to produce our compounds and expect to continue to do so to meet the preclinical and clinical requirements of our product candidates and for all of our commercial needs. We currently have long-term commercial supply agreements with certain third-party manufacturers. Our manufacturing and processing agreements require that all third-party contract manufacturers and processors produce active pharmaceutical ingredients and finished products in accordance with the FDA&#146;s current Good Manufacturing Practices (&#147;cGMP&#148;) and all other applicable laws and regulations. We maintain confidentiality agreements with potential and existing manufacturers in order to protect our proprietary rights related to our drug candidates. 

With regard to SUSTOL, we use third-parties for each stage of the manufacturing process. We source the granisetron from independent suppliers. We use a different third-party supplier to manufacture our proprietary polymer, and another third-party supplier formulates, fills and packages our final product. To date, SUSTOL has been manufactured in small quantities for preclinical studies and clinical trials. If SUSTOL is approved for commercial sale, we will need to manufacture the product in larger quantities than produced for these preclinical and clinical trials. Significant scale-up of manufacturing requires additional process development and validation studies, which the FDA must review and approve. We are currently in the process of completing this scale-up and validation work. If approved, the commercial success of SUSTOL, in the near-term, will be dependent upon the ability of our contract manufacturers to produce a product in commercial quantities at competitive costs of manufacture. If SUSTOL receives regulatory approval, we plan to scale-up manufacturing through our third-party manufacturers for SUSTOL with the objective of realizing important economies of scale. These scale-up activities could take time to implement, require additional capital investment, process development and validation studies, and FDA approval. We cannot guarantee that we will be successful in achieving competitive manufacturing costs through such scale-up activities. 

Sales and Marketing 

We have completed building our sales and marketing organization to support the commercial launch of SUSTOL, if approved, in the U.S. in the second quarter of 2016. Because of the early stage of our other pharmaceutical development programs, we have not yet developed sales and marketing strategies for any other product candidates that we may successfully develop. 

&#160; 

Customers, Distribution and Markets 

We do not currently sell or distribute pharmaceutical products and consequently there is no market for our products. 

Competition 

The biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries are extremely competitive. Our potential competitors in the field are many in number and include major and mid-sized pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. Many of our potential competitors have significantly more financial, technical and other resources than we do, which may give them a competitive advantage. In addition, they may have substantially more experience in effecting strategic combinations, in-licensing technology, developing drugs, obtaining regulatory approvals and manufacturing and marketing products. We cannot give any assurances that we can compete effectively with these other biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies. Any products that we may develop or discover will compete in highly competitive markets. Our potential competitors in these markets may succeed in developing products that could render our product candidates obsolete or non-competitive. 

SUSTOL, if approved, will face significant competition upon commercial launch. In particular, competition may come from ALOXI, a 5-HT 3 receptor antagonist, and AKYNZEO, an oral formulation of palonosetron combined with the NK 1 receptor antagonist netupitant, both manufactured by Eisai; ProStrakan&#146;s SANCUSO , as well as generic forms of granisetron (formerly marketed as KYTRIL) and ondansetron (formerly marketed as ZOFRAN). If we are able to successfully develop HTX-019 for the treatment of CINV, we will compete with other NK 1 receptor antagonists, such as Merck&#146;s EMEND &#174; for Injection (fosaprepitant) and Tesaro&#146;s VARUBI&#153; (rolapitant). 

With respect to our pain management program, if we are able to successfully develop HTX-011 for the treatment of post-operative pain, we will compete with marketed products such as Pacira Pharmaceuticals Inc.&#146;s EXPAREL &#174; (bupivacaine liposome injectable suspension). 

Intellectual Property 

Our success will depend in large part on our ability to: 

&#149; obtain and maintain international and domestic patent and other legal protections for the proprietary technology, inventions and improvements we consider important to our business; 

&#149; prosecute and defend our patents; 

&#149; preserve our trade secrets; and 

&#149; operate without infringing the patents and proprietary rights of other parties. 

We intend to continue to seek appropriate patent protection for the product candidates in our research and development programs and their uses by filing patent applications in the United States and other selected countries. We intend for these patent applications to cover, where possible, claims for composition of matter, medical uses, processes for preparation and formulations. 

&#160; 

We have filed a number of U.S. patent applications on inventions relating to the composition of a variety of polymers, specific products, product groups and processing technology. As of December 31, 2015, we had a total of 15 issued U.S. patents and an additional 47 issued (or registered) foreign patents. The patents on the bioerodible technologies expire between January 2017 and March 2026. The product SUSTOL is covered by patents in the U.S. and in foreign countries. Currently, the product SUSTOL is covered by seven patents issued in the U.S. and by 24 patents issued in foreign countries including Austria, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, the EU, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Taiwan, and United Kingdom. U.S. patents covering SUSTOL have expiration dates ranging from May 2021 to November 2024; foreign patents covering SUSTOL have expiration dates ranging from May 2021 to September 2025. Granted patents include claims covering the product composition, methods of use and methods of preparation. Our policy is to actively seek patent protection in the United States and to pursue equivalent patent claims in selected foreign countries, thereby seeking patent coverage for novel technologies and compositions of matter that may be commercially important to the development of our business. 

Although we believe that our rights under patent applications we own provide a competitive advantage, the patent positions of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies are highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. We may not be able to develop patentable products or processes, and may not be able to obtain patents from pending applications. Even if patent claims are allowed, the claims may not issue, or in the event of issuance, may not be sufficient to protect the technology owned by or licensed to us. Any patents or patent rights that we obtain may be circumvented, challenged or invalidated by our competitors. 

We also rely on trade secrets, proprietary know-how and continuing innovation to develop and maintain our competitive position. We seek protection of these trade secrets, proprietary know-how and any continuing innovation, in part, through confidentiality and proprietary information agreements. However, these agreements may not provide meaningful protection for, or adequate remedies to protect, our technology in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of information. Furthermore, our trade secrets may otherwise become known to, or be independently developed by, our competitors. 

Government Regulation 

Pharmaceutical Regulation 

If and when we market any pharmaceutical products in the U.S., they will be subject to extensive government regulation. Likewise, if we seek to market and distribute any such products abroad, they would also be subject to extensive foreign government regulation. 

In the United States, the FDA regulates pharmaceutical products. FDA regulations govern the testing, research and development activities, manufacturing, quality, storage, advertising, promotion, labeling, sale and distribution of pharmaceutical products. Accordingly, there is a rigorous process for the approval of new drugs and ongoing oversight of marketed products. We are also subject to foreign regulatory requirements governing clinical trials and drug products if products are tested or marketed abroad. The approval process outside the United States varies from jurisdiction to jurisdiction and the time required may be longer or shorter than that required for FDA approval. 

See Item 1A. Risk Factors of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a discussion of the factors that could adversely impact our development of commercial products and industry regulation. 

&#160; 

Regulation in the United States 

The FDA testing and approval process requires substantial time, effort and money. We cannot assure you that any of our product candidates will ever obtain approval. The FDA approval process for new drugs includes, without limitation: 

&#149; preclinical studies; 

&#149; submission in the U.S. of an Investigational New Drug application (&#147;IND&#148;), for clinical trials conducted in the U.S.; 

&#149; adequate and well-controlled human clinical trials to establish safety and efficacy of the product; 

&#149; review of an NDA in the U.S.; and 

&#149; inspection of the facilities used in the manufacturing of the drug to assess compliance with the FDA&#146;s current cGMP regulations. 

The FDA monitors the progress of trials conducted in the U.S. under an IND and may, at its discretion, re-evaluate, alter, suspend or terminate testing based on the data accumulated to that point and the FDA&#146;s risk/benefit assessment with regard to the patients enrolled in the trial. The FDA may also place a hold on one or more clinical trials conducted under an IND for a drug if deems warranted. Furthermore, even after regulatory approval of an NDA is obtained, under certain circumstances, such as later discovery of previously unknown problems, the FDA can withdraw approval or subject the drug to additional restrictions. 

Preclinical Testing 

Preclinical studies include laboratory evaluation of the product and animal studies to assess the potential safety and effectiveness of the product. Most of these studies must be performed according to Good Laboratory Practices, a system of management controls for laboratories and research organizations to ensure the consistency and reliability of results. 

An IND is the request for authorization from the FDA to administer an investigational new drug product to humans. The IND includes information regarding the preclinical studies, the investigational product&#146;s chemistry and manufacturing, supporting data and literature and the investigational plan and protocol(s). Clinical trials may begin 30 days after an IND is received, unless the FDA raises concerns or questions about the conduct of the clinical trials. If concerns or questions are raised, an IND sponsor and the FDA must resolve any outstanding concerns before clinical trials can proceed. An IND must become effective before human clinical trials begin. We have filed INDs in the U.S. and Clinical Trial Applications (&#147;CTAs&#148;) in the EU, and we may file additional INDs and CTAs in the future. We cannot assure that submission of any additional IND or CTAs for any of our preclinical product candidates will result in authorization to commence clinical trials. 

Clinical Trials 

Clinical trials involve the administration of the product candidate that is the subject of the trial to volunteers or patients under the supervision of a qualified principal investigator and in accordance with a clinical trial protocol, which sets forth details, such as the study objectives, enrollment criteria and the safety and effectiveness criteria to be evaluated. Each clinical trial must be 

&#160; 

reviewed and approved by an independent institutional review board (&#147;IRB&#148;) in the U.S. or ethics committee in the EU at each institution at which the study will be conducted. The IRB or ethics committee will consider, among other things, ethical factors, safety of human subjects and the possible liability of the institution arising from the conduct of the proposed clinical trial. In addition, clinical trials in the U.S. must be performed according to good clinical practices, which are enumerated in FDA regulations and guidance documents. Some studies include oversight by an independent group of experts, known as a data safety monitoring board, which authorizes whether a study may move forward based on certain data from the study and may stop the clinical trial if it determines that there is an unacceptable safety risk for subjects or other grounds. 

The FDA may order the temporary, or permanent, discontinuation of a clinical trial at any time, or impose other sanctions, if it believes that the clinical trial is not being conducted in accordance with FDA requirements or presents an unacceptable risk to the clinical trial patients. An IRB may also require the clinical trial at the site to be halted, either temporarily or permanently, for failure to comply with the IRB&#146;s requirements, or it may impose other conditions. 

Clinical trials in the U.S. typically are conducted in sequential phases: Phases 1, 2, 3 and 4. The phases may overlap. The FDA may require that we suspend clinical trials at any time on various grounds, including if the FDA makes a finding that the subjects participating in the trial are being exposed to an unacceptable health risk. 

In Phase 1 clinical trials, the investigational product is usually tested on a small number of healthy volunteers to determine safety, any adverse effects, proper dosage, absorption, metabolism, distribution, excretion and other drug effects. Follow-on Phase 1b clinical trials may also evaluate efficacy with respect to trial participants. 

In Phase 2 clinical trials, the investigational product is usually tested on a limited number of patients (generally up to several hundred) to preliminarily evaluate the efficacy of the drug for specific, targeted indications, to determine dosage tolerance and optimal dosage, and to identify possible adverse effects and safety risks. Multiple Phase 2 clinical trials may be conducted to obtain information prior to beginning Phase 3 clinical trials. 

In Phase 3 clinical trials, the investigational product is administered to an expanded patient population to confirm proof of concept and efficacy claims, provide evidence of clinical efficacy and to further test for safety, generally at multiple clinical sites. 

In Phase 4 clinical trials or other post-approval commitments, additional studies and patient follow-up are conducted to gain experience from the treatment of patients in the intended therapeutic indication. The FDA may require a commitment to conduct post-approval Phase 4 studies as a condition of approval. Additional studies and follow-up may be conducted to document a clinical benefit where drugs are approved under accelerated approval regulations and based on surrogate endpoints. In clinical trials, surrogate endpoints are alternative measurements of the symptoms of a disease or condition that are substituted for measurements of observable clinical symptoms. Failure to timely conduct of Phase 4 clinical trials and follow-up could result in withdrawal of approval for products approved under accelerated approval regulations. 

We cannot assure that any of our current or future clinical trials will result in approval to market our products. 

Clinical Data Review and Approval in the U.S. 

The data from the clinical trials, together with preclinical data and other supporting information that establishes a drug candidate&#146;s safety, are submitted to the FDA in the form of an NDA, or NDA supplement (for approval of a new indication if the 

&#160; 

product candidate is already approved for another indication). Under applicable laws and FDA regulations, the FDA reviews the NDA within 60 days of receipt of the NDA to determine whether the application will be accepted for filing based on the FDA&#146;s threshold determination that the NDA is sufficiently complete to permit substantive review. If deemed complete, the FDA will &#147;file&#148; the NDA, thereby triggering substantive review of the application. The FDA can refuse to file any NDA that it deems incomplete or not properly reviewable. 

The FDA has established internal substantive review goals of ten months for most NDAs. The FDA has various programs, including Fast Track, priority review, and accelerated approval, which are intended to expedite or simplify the process for reviewing drugs, and/or provide for approval based on surrogate endpoints. Even if a drug qualifies for one or more of these programs, the FDA may later decide that the drug no longer meets the conditions for qualification or that the period for FDA review or approval will not be shortened. Generally, drugs that may be eligible for these programs are those for serious or life-threatening conditions, those with the potential to address unmet medical needs, and those that offer meaningful benefits over existing treatments. For example, Fast Track is a process designed to facilitate the development, and expedite the review, of drugs to treat serious diseases and fill an unmet medical need. The request may be made at the time of IND submission and generally no later than the pre-NDA meeting. The FDA will respond within 60 calendar days of receipt of the request. Priority review, which is requested at the time of an NDA submission, is designed to give drugs that offer major advances in treatment or provide a treatment where no adequate therapy exists, an initial review within six months as compared to a standard review time of ten months. Although Fast Track and priority review do not affect the standards for approval, the FDA will attempt to facilitate early and frequent meetings with a sponsor of a Fast Track designated drug and expedite review of the application for a drug designated for priority review. Accelerated approval provides an expedited approval of drugs that treat serious diseases and that fill an unmet medical need based on a surrogate endpoint. The FDA, however, is not legally required to complete its review within these periods, and these performance goals may change over time. 

If the FDA approves the NDA, it will issue an approval letter authorizing the commercial marketing of the drug with prescribing information for specific indications. As a condition of NDA approval, the FDA may require a risk evaluation and mitigation strategy (&#147;REMS&#148;), to help ensure that the benefits of the drug outweigh the potential risks. REMS can include medication guides, communication plans for healthcare professionals, and elements to assure safe use. Additionally, the FDA will inspect the facility or the facilities at which the drug is manufactured. Moreover, product approval may require substantial post-approval testing and surveillance to monitor the drug&#146;s safety or efficacy. Once granted, product approvals may be withdrawn if compliance with regulatory standards is not maintained or problems are identified following initial marketing. In many cases, the outcome of the review, even if generally favorable, is not an actual approval, but a &#147;complete response&#148; that generally outlines the deficiencies in the submission, which may require substantial additional testing or information before the FDA will reconsider the application. If, or when, those deficiencies have been addressed to the FDA&#146;s satisfaction in a resubmission of the NDA, the FDA will issue an approval letter. We currently expect to receive correspondence from the FDA with respect to the potential regulatory approval of SUSTOL for commercial sale in late February 2016. 

Satisfaction of FDA requirements or similar requirements of state, local and foreign regulatory agencies typically takes several years and requires the expenditure of substantial financial resources. Information generated in this process is susceptible to varying interpretations that could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval at any stage of the process. Accordingly, the actual time and expense required to bring a product to market may vary substantially. Data obtained from clinical activities is not always conclusive and may be susceptible to varying interpretations, which could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. 

&#160; 

Success in early stage clinical trials does not ensure success in later stage clinical trials. Even if a product candidate receives regulatory approval, the approval may be significantly limited to specific disease states, patient populations and dosages, or have conditions placed on it that restrict the commercial applications, advertising, promotion or distribution of these products. 

Once issued, the FDA may withdraw product approval if ongoing regulatory standards are not met or if safety problems occur after the product reaches the market. In addition, the FDA may require testing and surveillance programs to monitor the safety or effectiveness of approved products which have been commercialized, and the FDA has the power to prevent or limit further marketing of a product based on the results of these post-marketing programs. The FDA may also request or require additional Phase 4 clinical trials after a product is approved. The results of Phase 4 clinical studies can confirm the effectiveness of a product candidate and can provide important safety information to augment the FDA&#146;s voluntary adverse drug reaction reporting system. Any products manufactured or distributed by us pursuant to FDA approvals would be subject to continuing regulation by the FDA, including record-keeping requirements and reporting of adverse experiences with the drug. Drug manufacturers and their subcontractors are required to register their establishments with the FDA and certain state agencies and are subject to periodic unannounced inspections by the FDA and certain state agencies for compliance with cGMPs, which impose certain procedural and documentation requirements upon us and our third-party manufacturers. We cannot be certain that we, or our present or future suppliers, will be able to comply with the cGMP regulations and other FDA regulatory requirements. 

In addition, both before and after approval is sought, we are required to comply with a number of FDA requirements. For example, we are required to report certain adverse reactions and production problems, if any, to the FDA, and to comply with certain limitations and other requirements concerning advertising and promotion for our products. In addition, quality control and manufacturing procedures must continue to conform to cGMP after approval, and the FDA periodically inspects manufacturing facilities to assess compliance with continuing cGMP. In addition, discovery of problems, such as safety problems, may result in changes in labeling or restrictions on a product manufacturer or NDA holder, including removal of the product from the market. 

The FDA closely regulates the marketing and promotion of drugs. Approval may be subject to post-marketing surveillance and other record-keeping and reporting obligations, and involve ongoing requirements. Product approvals may be withdrawn if compliance with regulatory standards is not maintained or if problems occur following initial marketing. A company can make only those claims relating to safety and efficacy that are approved by the FDA. Failure to comply with these requirements can result in adverse publicity, warning letters, corrective advertising and potential civil and criminal penalties. 

Clinical Trial Conduct and Product Approval Regulation in Non-U.S. Jurisdictions 

In addition to regulations in the United States, we may be subject to a variety of foreign regulations governing clinical trials and commercial sales and distribution of our products. Our clinical trials conducted in the EU must be done under an IMPD, and the oversight of an ethics committee. If we market our products in foreign countries, we also will be subject to foreign regulatory requirements governing marketing approval for pharmaceutical products. The requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials, product approval, pricing and reimbursement vary widely from country to country. Whether or not FDA approval has been obtained, approval of a product by the comparable regulatory authorities of foreign countries must be obtained before manufacturing or marketing the product in those countries. The approval process varies from country to country and the time required for such approvals may differ substantially from that required for FDA approval. There is no assurance that any future 

&#160; 

FDA approval of any of our product candidates will result in similar foreign approvals or vice versa. The process for clinical trials in the EU is similar, and trials are heavily scrutinized by the designated ethics committee. 

Section 505(b)(2) Applications 

Some of our product candidates may be eligible for submission of applications for approval under the FDA&#146;s Section 505(b)(2) approval process, which provides an alternate path to FDA approval for new or improved formulations or new uses of previously approved products. Section 505(b)(2) was enacted as part of the Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act of 1984, also known as the Hatch-Waxman Act, and allows approval of NDAs that rely, at least in part, on studies that were not conducted by or for the applicant and to which the applicant has not obtained a right of reference. Such studies can be provided by published literature, or the FDA can rely on previous findings of safety and efficacy for a previously approved drug. If the 505(b)(2) applicant can establish that reliance on the FDA&#146;s previous approval is scientifically appropriate, it may eliminate the need to conduct certain preclinical or clinical studies of the new product. Section 505(b)(2) applications may be submitted for drug products that represent a modification (e.g., a new indication or new dosage form) of an eligible approved drug. In such cases, the additional information in 505(b)(2) applications necessary to support the change from the previously approved drug is frequently provided by new studies submitted by the applicant. Because a Section 505(b)(2) application relies in part on previous studies or previous FDA findings of safety and effectiveness, preparing 505(b)(2) applications is generally less costly and time-consuming than preparing an NDA based entirely on new data and information from a full set of clinical trials. The FDA may approve the new product candidate for all, or some, of the label indications for which the referenced product has been approved, as well as for any new indication sought by the Section 505(b)(2) applicant. The law governing Section 505(b)(2) or FDA&#146;s current policies may change in such a way as to adversely affect our applications for approval that seek to utilize the Section 505(b)(2) approach. Such changes could result in additional costs associated with additional studies or clinical trials and delays. 

The FDA provides that reviews and/or approvals of applications submitted under Section 505(b)(2) will be delayed in various circumstances. For example, the holder of the NDA for the listed drug may be entitled to a period of market exclusivity during which the FDA will not approve, and may not even review, a Section 505(b)(2) application from other sponsors. If the listed drug is claimed by one or more patents that the NDA holder has listed with the FDA, the Section 505(b)(2) applicant must submit a certification with respect to each such patent. If the 505(b)(2) applicant certifies that a listed patent is invalid, unenforceable or not infringed by the product that is the subject of the Section 505(b)(2) application, it must notify the patent holder and the NDA holder. If, within 45 days of providing this notice, the NDA holder sues the 505(b)(2) applicant for patent infringement, the FDA will not approve the Section 505(b)(2) application until the earlier of a court decision favorable to the Section 505(b)(2) applicant or the expiration of 30 months. The regulations governing marketing exclusivity and patent protection are complex, and it is often unclear how they will be applied in particular circumstances. 

Drug Enforcement Agency Regulation 

Our research and development processes involve the controlled use of hazardous materials, including chemicals. Some of these hazardous materials are considered to be controlled substances and subject to regulation by the U.S. Drug Enforcement Agency (&#147;DEA&#148;). Controlled substances are those drugs that appear on one of five schedules promulgated and administered by the DEA under the Controlled Substances Act (&#147;CSA&#148;). The CSA governs, among other things, the distribution, 

&#160; 

recordkeeping, handling, security and disposal of controlled substances. We must be registered by the DEA in order to engage in these activities, and we are subject to periodic and ongoing inspections by the DEA and similar state drug enforcement authorities to assess ongoing compliance with the DEA&#146;s regulations. Any failure to comply with these regulations could lead to a variety of sanctions, including the revocation, or a denial of renewal, of the DEA registration, injunctions or civil or criminal penalties. 

Third-Party Payor Coverage and Reimbursement 

Although none of our current product candidates have been approved or commercialized for any indication, if they are approved for marketing, commercial success of our product candidates will depend, in part, upon the availability of coverage and reimbursement from third-party payors at the federal, state and private levels. Government payor programs, including Medicare and Medicaid, private health care insurance companies and managed care plans have attempted to control costs by limiting coverage and the amount of reimbursement for particular procedures or drug treatments. The U.S. Congress and state legislatures, from time to time, propose and adopt initiatives aimed at cost containment. Ongoing federal and state government initiatives directed at lowering the total cost of health care will likely continue to focus on health care reform, the cost of prescription pharmaceuticals and on the reform of the Medicare and Medicaid payment systems. Examples of how limits on drug coverage and reimbursement in the United States may cause reduced payments for drugs in the future include: 

&#149; changing Medicare reimbursement methodologies; 

&#149; fluctuating decisions on which drugs to include in formularies; 

&#149; revising drug rebate calculations under the Medicaid program or requiring that new or additional rebates be provided to Medicare, Medicaid and other federal or state healthcare programs; and 

&#149; reforming drug importation laws. 

Some third-party payors also require pre-approval of coverage for new drug therapies before they will reimburse health care providers that use such therapies. While we cannot predict whether any proposed cost-containment measures will be adopted or otherwise implemented in the future, the announcement or adoption of these proposals could have a material adverse effect on our ability to obtain adequate prices for our product candidates and to operate profitably. 

Reimbursement systems in international markets vary significantly by country and, within some countries, by region. Reimbursement approvals must be obtained on a country-by-country basis. In many foreign markets, including markets in which we hope to sell our products, the pricing of prescription pharmaceuticals is subject to government pricing control. In these markets, once marketing approval is received, pricing negotiations could take significant additional time. As in the United States, the lack of satisfactory reimbursement or inadequate government pricing of any of our products would limit widespread use and lower potential product revenues. 

Anti-Kickback, Fraud and Abuse and False Claims Regulation 

Upon commercial launch of a product in the United States, we will be subject to health care fraud and abuse regulation and enforcement by both the federal government and the states in which we conduct our business. Healthcare providers, 

&#160; 

physicians and third-party payors play a primary role in the recommendation and prescription of any product candidates for which we obtain marketing approval. Arrangements with third-party payors and customers may expose us to applicable fraud and abuse and other healthcare laws and regulations that may constrain the business or financial arrangements and relationships through which we market, sell and distribute our products for which we obtain marketing approval. 

Regulations under applicable federal and state healthcare laws and regulations include the federal health care programs&#146; Anti-Kickback Law, which prohibits, among other things, persons from knowingly and willfully soliciting, receiving, offering or paying remuneration, directly or indirectly, in exchange for or to induce either the referral or purchase of any good or service for which payment may be made under federal health care programs such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs. Remuneration has been broadly defined to include anything of value, including cash, improper discounts, and free or reduced price items and services. Many states have similar laws that apply to their state health care programs as well as private payors. In addition, the False Claims Act (&#147;FCA&#148;) imposes liability on persons who, among other things, present or cause to be presented false or fraudulent claims for payment by a federal health care program. The FCA has been used to prosecute persons submitting claims for payment that are inaccurate or fraudulent, that are for services not provided as claimed, or for services that are not medically necessary. Actions under the FCA may be brought by the Attorney General or as a qui tam action by a private individual in the name of the government. Violations of the FCA can result in significant monetary penalties and treble damages. The federal government is using the FCA, and the accompanying threat of significant liability, in its investigation and prosecution of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies throughout the country, for example, in connection with the promotion of products for unapproved uses and other sales and marketing practices. 

The risk of being found in violation of these laws is increased by the fact that many of them have not been fully interpreted by the regulatory authorities or the courts, and their provisions are open to a variety of interpretations. Moreover, recent health care reform legislation has strengthened many of these laws. For example, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (&#147;PPACA&#148;), among other things, amends the intent requirement of the federal anti-kickback and criminal health care fraud statutes to clarify that a person or entity does not need to have actual knowledge of this statute or specific intent to violate it. In addition, PPACA provides that a claim including items or services resulting from a violation of the federal anti-kickback statute constitutes a false or fraudulent claim for purposes of the false claims statutes. 

The continuing interpretation and application of these laws could have a material adverse impact on our business and our ability to compete should we commence marketing a product. 

Federal and State Sunshine Laws 

In the event we receive approval of a product candidate for marketing, we will need to comply with federal &#147;sunshine&#148; laws, now known as Open Payments, that require transparency regarding financial arrangements with health care providers. This would include the reporting and disclosure requirements imposed by the PPACA on drug manufacturers regarding any &#147;payment or transfer of value&#148; made or distributed to physicians and teaching hospitals. Failure to submit required information can result in civil monetary penalties. A number of states have laws that require the implementation of commercial compliance programs, impose restrictions on drug manufacturer marketing practices and/or require pharmaceutical companies to track and report payments, gifts and other benefits provided to physicians and other health care professionals and entities. 

&#160; 

Foreign Corrupt Practices Act 

In addition, we may in the future be subject to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1997 (&#147;FCPA&#148;). The FCPA and other similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions, such as the U.K. Bribery Act, generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from providing money or anything of value to officials of foreign governments, foreign political parties, or international organizations with the intent to obtain or retain business or seek a business advantage. Recently, there has been a substantial increase in anti-bribery law enforcement activity by U.S. regulators, with more frequent and aggressive investigations and enforcement proceedings by both the Department of Justice and the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (&#147;SEC&#148;). A determination that our operations or activities are not, or were not, in compliance with United States or foreign laws or regulations could result in the imposition of substantial fines, interruptions of business, loss of supplier, vendor or other third-party relationships, termination of necessary licenses and permits and other legal or equitable sanctions. Other internal or government investigations or legal or regulatory proceedings, including lawsuits brought by private litigants, may also follow as a consequence. 

Patient Privacy and Data Security 

We are required to comply, as applicable, with numerous federal and state laws, including state security breach notification laws, state health information privacy laws and federal and state consumer protection laws, and to govern the collection, use and disclosure of personal information. Other countries also have, or are developing, laws governing the collection, use and transmission of personal information. In addition, most healthcare providers who may prescribe products we may sell in the future and from whom we may obtain patient health information are subject to privacy and security requirements under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (&#147;HIPAA&#148;), as amended by the Health Information Technology and Clinical Health Act, and its implementing regulations. We are not a HIPAA covered entity, do not intend to become one, and we do not operate as a business associate to any covered entities. Therefore, these privacy and security requirements do not apply to us. However, we could be subject to civil and criminal penalties if we knowingly obtain individually identifiable health information from a covered entity in a manner that is not authorized or permitted by HIPAA or for aiding and abetting the violation of HIPAA. The legislative and regulatory landscape for privacy and data protection continues to evolve, and there has been an increasing amount of focus on privacy and data protection issues with the potential to affect our business, including recently enacted laws in a majority of states requiring security breach notification. These laws could create liability for us or increase our cost of doing business, and any failure to comply could result in harm to our reputation, and potentially fines and penalties. 

In addition, state laws govern the privacy and security of health information in certain circumstances, many of which differ from each other in significant ways and may not have the same effect, thus complicating compliance efforts. 

Environmental, Health and Safety Laws 

Our operations are subject to complex and increasingly stringent environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. Further, in the future, we may open manufacturing facilities that would likely be subject to environmental and health and safety authorities in the relevant jurisdictions. These authorities typically administer laws which regulate, among other matters, the emission of pollutants into the air (including the workplace), the discharge of pollutants into bodies of water, the storage, use, handling and disposal of hazardous substances, the exposure of persons to hazardous substances, and the general health, 

&#160; 

safety and welfare of employees and members of the public. Violations of these laws could subject us to strict liability, fines or liability to third parties. 

Other Laws 

We are subject to a variety of financial disclosure and securities trading regulations as a public company in the U.S., including laws relating to the oversight activities of the SEC and the regulations of The NASDAQ Stock Exchange, on which our shares are traded. We are also subject to various laws, regulations and recommendations relating to safe working conditions, laboratory practices and the experimental use of animals. 

Employees 

As of February 4, 2016, we had 148 full-time employees; 74 are involved in our research and development activities, 54 are involved in our commercial activities and 20 are involved in administration, human resources, finance, legal and information technology. We believe that we are able to attract skilled and experienced personnel, but competition for personnel is intense and there can be no assurance that we will be able to attract and retain the individuals needed. None of our employees are covered by a collective bargaining agreement and management considers relations with our employees to be good. 

Company Information 

We were founded in February 1983 as a California corporation under the name AMCO Polymerics, Inc. (&#147;AMCO&#148;). AMCO changed its name to Advanced Polymer Systems, Inc. (&#147;APS&#148;) in 1984 and was reincorporated in the state of Delaware in 1987. APS changed its name to A.P. Pharma, Inc. (&#147;APP&#148;) in May 2001. In January 2014, APP changed its name to Heron Therapeutics, Inc. 

Our common stock is traded on The NASDAQ Capital Market under the symbol HRTX. 

Our principal offices are located at 123 Saginaw Drive, Redwood City, California 94063. Our telephone number is (650) 366-2626. Our website address is www.herontx.com. We make available free of charge through our website our Annual Report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. 

&#160; 

