 ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

General 

CloudCommerce, Inc. (&#34;CloudCommerce,&#34; &#34;we,&#34; &#34;us,&#34; &#34;our,&#34; or the &#34;Company&#34;) is a global provider of cloud-driven e-commerce and mobile commerce solutions. Through our wholly-owned subsidiaries, we provide online merchants and leading brands with complete solutions for successfully conducting business with customers anytime, anywhere and on any device. Whether it is selling products or services online or making business processes available on the cloud, we deliver solutions that maximize user experience with real-time integration to enterprise applications. We focus primarily on four main areas to deliver exceptional value to our customers: engaging frontend design, robust backend integration, effective digital marketing and analytics, and complete solutions management. 

To better serve our customers and create value for our shareholders, we strategically acquire profitable cloud commerce solutions providers with strong management teams. 

Company History 

CloudCommerce, Inc. (&#34;CloudCommerce,&#34; &#34;we,&#34; &#34;us,&#34; &#34;our,&#34; or the &#34;Company&#34;) was incorporated in Nevada on January 22, 2002 and was formerly known as Warp 9, Inc., Roaming Messenger, Inc., and Latinocare Management Corporation. On August 24, 2006, the Company's board of directors (the &#34;Board of Directors&#34;) and majority shareholders voted to change the name of the Company from Roaming Messenger, Inc. to Warp 9, Inc. to reflect a new strategic plan of focusing primarily on the business of the Company's wholly-owned subsidiary, Warp 9, Inc., a Delaware corporation that is an e-commerce Software-as-a-Service (&#34;SaaS&#34;) provider. On July 9, 2015, the Company's Board of Directors and majority shareholders voted to change the name of the Company from Warp 9, Inc. to CloudCommerce, Inc. to reflect the Company's current business plan of strategically acquiring profitable CloudCommerce solutions providers with strong management teams. On October 1, 2015, our operating subsidiary, Warp 9, Inc., merged with and into Indaba Group, LLC, with Warp 9, Inc. being the surviving entity. The name of the subsidiary was changed on October 6, 2015 to Indaba Group, Inc. (&#34;Indaba&#34;). 

Industry Overview 

Growth of Mobile and Digital Commerce 

We believe there are a number of factors that are contributing to the growth of mobile and digital commerce, including the following: (i) accessibility and adoption of smartphone devices throughout the world; (ii) rapid advancements in high-speed internet and 4G cellular networks making the internet more available, reliable, and efficient; (iii) shoppers are more comfortable with the process of browsing and buying products from their mobile devices; (iv) the functionality of both mobile and desktop e-commerce sites continues to improve, a greater range of mobile payment options are available, and special offers and shipping discounts are making online shopping more attractive; (v) businesses are placing more emphasis on their digital commerce strategies as mobile and desktop commerce can reach a larger audience at a comparatively lower cost than the methods used to drive traffic to traditional brick-and-mortar retail stores. As a result of these growth drivers, we believe retailers and wholesalers have begun to build large, global customer bases that can be reached cost-effectively, potentially resulting in higher sales and profitability. 

Opportunities for Outsourced e-Commerce 

We believe there are advantages to outsourcing mobile and desktop e-commerce development and management that will continue to make solutions like those of CloudCommerce an attractive alternative to building and maintaining this capability in-house. These advantages include: (i) eliminating the substantial up-front and ongoing costs of computer hardware, network infrastructure and specialized application software and personnel; (ii) reducing the time it takes to get online stores live and productive; (iii) shifting the 

ongoing technology, financial, regulatory and compliance risks to a proven service provider; (iv) leveraging the expertise of a mobile and desktop e-commerce service provider to accelerate growth of an online business; and (v) allowing businesses to focus on their specific core competencies. 

Core Services 

Our core solutions are creating optimal front-end user experiences, building enterprise back-end application integrations, driving traffic mobile e-commerce, desktop e-commerce and managed hosting. 

Front-End User Experience 

Without an optimal user interface, even the most technically advanced solution will not achieve great business results. Therefore, we design our solutions with the end-user first. From fast loading webpages, to user-friendly navigation, to high quality graphic designs, to useful organization of information, we apply industry best practices along with our deep internal expertise to deliver solutions that delight the customers in their online experience of a company's brand. 

Back-End Enterprise Application Integration 

In an increasingly omni-channel world, seamless integration between web channels, mobile channels, and brick-and-mortar channels, are critical in serving the demanding and technically savvy customers of the 21st century. For example, an e-commerce site without real-time inventory data will frustrate customers with backorders, impedes a company's growth, and erodes brand loyalty. These channels can integrate to each other through the cloud, or centrally through cloud-connected back-end business systems. Whether the back-end system is a full-blown enterprise resource planning (ERP) software like SAP and Oracle, or a medium size system such as Brightpearl, our expert teams can customize a solution using best-of-breed middleware, or custom engineering, to achieve any level of integration our customers desire. 

Digital Marketing And Analytics 

Once a solution is deployed, regardless of whether it's for business-to-consumer (B2C) or business-to-business (B2B) transactions, effective digital marketing and analytics are absolutely essential to ensuring online success. Our teams can perform a myriad of digital marketing services such as, search engine optimization, e-mail campaign creation, or social promotions. In addition to digital marketing services, we also apply data analytics to help businesses understand the behavior of their online customers to derive actionable refinements to business or marketing programs. 

Complete Solutions Management 

Our mission is to be a full service provider of cloud commerce solutions to medium, large, and global enterprises. From front-end design, to back-end integration, to digital marketing, our solutions are as complete as our customers want them to be. In addition to development, we can also fully manage our client solutions with services such as technology consulting, ongoing maintenance, hosting infrastructure build out and management. We are constantly expanding our base of talents and expertise to deliver a full range of solutions such as social, mobile, e-commerce, and e-business. 

Revenue Model 

We have a variety of revenue-generating models. We charge fixed or variable implementation fees to design, build and launch websites. In addition, we have several retainer arrangements for other services that vary in term length that provides reliable income. Our professional services are billed at hourly or monthly rates, depending on the customer's needs. We believe this flexibility allows us to attract customers while maximizing profits based on billable hours. 

Benefits to Clients 

Our complete solution of providing robust technology along with complementary professional services delivers many benefits to our customers. 

Reduced Total Cost of Ownership and Risk 

Utilizing our services, businesses can dramatically reduce or eliminate upfront and ongoing hardware, software, maintenance and support costs associated with developing, customizing, deploying and upgrading an in-house e-commerce solution. They can have a global e-commerce presence without assuming the costs and risks of developing it themselves and take immediate advantage of the investments we continually make in our e-commerce systems and associated services. Our commitment to the latest technologies and e-commerce functionality helps ensure that our clients maintain pace with industry advances. 

Revenue Growth 

We help our clients grow their businesses by leveraging our experience to (i) increase the acquisition, retention and lifetime value of new customers; (ii) extending their businesses into new geographic markets; and (iii) expanding the visibility and sales of their products through new online sales channels. We have developed substantial expertise in online marketing and merchandising which we apply to help our clients increase traffic to their online stores and improve order close ratios, average order sizes and repeat purchases, all of which are designed to generate higher revenues for our clients' businesses and greater revenue for the Company. 

Deployment Speed 

Businesses can reduce the time required to develop an e-commerce presence by utilizing our outsourced business model. Typically, a new client can have an online store live much more quickly than if they decided to build, test and deploy the e-commerce capability in-house. Once they are operational, clients can make real-time changes to their online store, allowing them to address issues and take advantage of opportunities without technical assistance. 

Focus on Core Competency 

By utilizing our outsourced e-commerce model, businesses can focus on developing, marketing and selling their products rather than devoting time and resources to building and maintaining an e-commerce infrastructure. Management can focus their time on their core business while ensuring they have access to the latest technologies, tools and expertise for running a successful e-commerce operation. 

Sales and Marketing 

Our objective is to be a leading global provider of cloud-driven e-commerce and mobile commerce solutions. To achieve this objective, we have assembled a team of experts working collectively for the best interest of our customers. 

During the client sales process, our team delivers demonstrations, presentations, proposals and contracts. Many new customers have been retained through email marketing, direct sales, and word-of-mouth referrals. Our direct sales efforts are aimed at senior marketing and information technology (IT) executives within a retailer or B2B company who are looking to create or expand their mobile and e-commerce operations. Word-of-mouth referrals have been very valuable to us and we intend to continue nurturing our customer and industry relationships to maximize these referrals. 

In addition to our direct sales efforts and referrals, we have established and continue to explore channel partnerships to expand our customer base. Prospective channel partners include existing Magento development companies, hosting providers, ERP vendors, and e-commerce marketing professionals. With the growing maturity of multi-channel 

mobile and desktop e-commerce strategies, many of the robust backend systems providers are looking for robust mobile and desktop e-commerce solutions, such as what CloudCommerce provides. &#160; 

Competition 

The market for e-commerce solutions is highly fragmented with vendors providing expertise in specific areas. Usually, merchants or online sellers must manage multiple vendors that supply specific services. We compete with other outsourced e-commerce providers as well as with companies that maintain their own internal teams and build their solutions themselves. The competition we encounter includes: 

In-house development of e-commerce capabilities using tools or applications from companies including, but not limited to, Art Technology Group, Netsuite, and IBM; 

E-Commerce capabilities custom-developed by companies including, but not limited to, IBM Global Services, and Accenture, Inc.; 

Other providers of outsourced e-commerce solutions including, but not limited to Demandware, Volusion, UniteU and MarketLive; 

Companies that provide technologies, services or products that support a portion of the e-commerce process, such as payment processing, including, but not limited to, CyberSource Corporation, PayPal Corporation and Authorize.net; 

High-traffic branded websites that generate a substantial portion of their revenue from e-commerce and may offer or provide to others the means to offer their products for sale, including, but not limited to, Amazon.com, Inc.; and 

Web hosting, web services and infrastructure companies that offer portions of our solution and are seeking to expand the range of their offering, including, but not limited to, Network Solutions, LLC, Akamai Technologies, Inc., Yahoo! Inc., eBay Inc. and Hostopia.com Inc. 

Government Regulation 

We are subject to various federal, state, and local laws affecting e-commerce and communication businesses. The Federal Trade Commission and equivalent state agencies regulate advertising and representations made by businesses in the sale of their products, which apply to us. We are also subject to government laws and regulations governing health, safety, working conditions, employee relations, wrongful termination, wages, taxes and other matters applicable to businesses in general. 

Employees 

As of September 27, 2016, we had 28 full time employees, four of whom are employed in administrative positions, three in sales and marketing positions, and 21 employees in technical positions. All but seven employees are located in Colorado, with five located in California, one in Montana and one in Texas. 

All of our employees have executed agreements that impose nondisclosure obligations on the employee and assign to us (to the extent permitted by state and federal laws) all copyrights and other inventions created by the employee during his employment with us. Additionally, we have a trade secret protection policy in place that management believes to be adequate to protect our intellectual property and trade secrets. 

Seasonality 

We do not anticipate that our business will be substantially affected by seasonality. 

We have registered trademarks for Warp 9&#174; and CloudCommerce&#174;. 

