 Item 1. Business 

Our Company 

Verint &#174; &#32;Systems Inc. (together with its consolidated subsidiaries, &#8220;Verint&#8221;, the &#8220;Company&#8221;, &#8220;we&#8221;, &#8220;us&#8221;, and &#8220;our&#8221;, unless the context indicates otherwise) is a global leader in Actionable Intelligence &#174; &#32;solutions. 

Actionable Intelligence is a necessity in a dynamic world of massive information growth because it empowers organizations with crucial insights and enables decision makers to anticipate, respond, and take action. With Verint solutions and value-added services, organizations of all sizes and across many industries can make more timely and effective decisions. Today, more than 10,000 organizations in 180 countries, including over 80 percent of the Fortune 100, use Verint solutions to improve enterprise performance and make the world a safer place. Verint&#8217;s vision is to create A Smarter World with Actionable Intelligence &#174; . 

Our Actionable Intelligence solutions help organizations address three important challenges: Customer Engagement Optimization; Security Intelligence; and Fraud, Risk and Compliance. We help our customers capture large amounts of information from numerous data types and sources, use analytics to glean insights from the information, and leverage the resulting Actionable Intelligence to help optimize customer engagement, enhance security, and mitigate risk. 

We have established leadership positions in our respective markets by developing highly-scalable, enterprise-class solutions with advanced, integrated analytics for both unstructured and structured information. Our innovative solutions are developed by a large research and development (&#8220;R&#38;D&#8221;) team comprised of approximately 1,400 professionals and backed by more than 700 patents and patent applications worldwide. 

To help our customers maximize the benefits of our technology over the solution lifecycle and provide a high degree of flexibility, we offer a broad range of services, such as strategic consulting, implementation services, training, maintenance, and 24 x 7 support, as well as a broad range of deployment models, including on premises, hosted, managed services, and software as a service (&#8220;SaaS&#8221;). 

Headquartered in Melville, New York, we support our customers around the globe directly and with an extensive network of selling and support partners. 

Company Background 

We were incorporated in Delaware in February 1994 and completed our initial public offering (&#8220;IPO&#8221;) in May 2002. Over the last two decades, we have grown our revenue and expanded our portfolio of Actionable Intelligence solutions through a combination of organic innovation and acquisitions. 

We have three operating segments: Enterprise Intelligence Solutions &#8482; &#32;(&#8220;Enterprise Intelligence&#8221;), Cyber Intelligence Solutions &#8482; &#32;(&#8220;Cyber Intelligence&#8221;), and Video and Situation Intelligence Solutions &#8482; &#32;(&#8220;Video Intelligence&#8221;), each of which is described in greater detail below and in &#8220;Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations&#8221; under Item 7 of this report. See also Note 17, &#8220;Segment, Geographic, and Significant Customer Information&#8221; to our consolidated financial statements included under Item 8 of this report for additional information and financial data about each of our operating segments and geographic regions. 

Through our website at www.verint.com, we make available our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K, as well as amendments to those reports, filed or furnished by us pursuant to Section 13(a) or Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act, free of charge, as soon as reasonably practicable after we file such materials with, or furnish such materials to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (&#8220;SEC&#8221;). Our website address set forth above is not intended to be an active link and information on our website is not incorporated in, and should not be construed to be a part of, this report. 

&#160; 

Our Market&#8212;Actionable Intelligence 

Actionable Intelligence is a necessity in a dynamic world of massive information growth because it empowers organizations with crucial insights and enables decision makers to anticipate, respond, and take action. Organizations are now more aware of the value they can create by using insights gleaned from large data sets. The amount and types of structured and unstructured data available to them is growing rapidly and presents new and increasing challenges and complexities. At the same time, organizations that are able to generate Actionable Intelligence from big data are better positioned to create value and achieve their strategic objectives. 

Verint has been focused on Actionable Intelligence for more than a decade. Our solutions address three areas of the market: 

&#8226; 

Customer Engagement Optimization&#8212; solutions that help organizations enrich customer interactions, improve business processes, and optimize their workforces in order to enhance loyalty, increase revenue, mitigate risk, and manage operational costs. 

&#8226; 

Security Intelligence&#8212; solutions that help organizations prevent, detect, neutralize, and investigate crime, terror, and cyber threats, as well as protect people, property, and assets . 

&#8226; 

Fraud, Risk and Compliance&#8212; solutions that help organizations prevent loss; comply with regulations; investigate cyber, retail, and financial crime; help ensure continuity of business and protect private information. Our solutions for this area of the market are discussed within the Customer Engagement Optimization and the Security Intelligence sections below. 

To address the Actionable Intelligence market, over the last decade, we have spent more than $1.0 billion in R&#38;D, creating the foundation for Verint&#8217;s advanced Actionable Intelligence platform. We use our Actionable Intelligence platform internally to efficiently develop innovative, highly-scalable, enterprise-class analytical solutions for the markets we serve. We define our platform as having the following four components: 

&#8226; 

Data Capture &#8212; Our Actionable Intelligence platform enables the capture of a wide range of data, including both structured and unstructured data such as operational, transactional, network, and web data. Our platform is designed to support big data applications which depend on the ability to capture, store, and manage very large data sets from multiple data sources. 

&#8226; 

Data Processing &#8212; Our &#32; Actionable Intelligence platform facilitates the process of taking structured and unstructured data from multiples sources and then cleansing, fusing, and preparing the data for analysis. This data processing stage is particularly important in applications that require data capture and fusion from multiple sources, different systems, and numerous environments. 

&#8226; 

Data Analysis &#8212; Our Actionable Intelligence platform enables the use of a wide range of analytical engines for data analytics, including classification, correlation, anomaly detection, identity extraction, behavioral analysis, and predictive analytics. Big data analysis is a crucial step in identifying critical insights that otherwise might not be intuitive. 

&#8226; 

Data Visualization &#8212; Our Actionable Intelligence platform facilitates the presentation of crucial insights from data to decision makers and the provision of workflow, collaboration, and case management capabilities so they can make timelier, more informed decisions. The platform supports many use cases, and the type of data visualization used for delivering actionable insights to users can be optimized based on the specific user environment. 

Customer Engagement Optimization 

We are a leading provider of Customer Engagement Optimization software and services that help organizations transform customer engagements to drive better business outcomes by enhancing loyalty, increasing revenue, mitigating risk, and managing operational costs. Our Customer Engagement Optimization solutions provide our customers with Actionable Intelligence to enrich their customer interactions, improve their business processes, and optimize their workforces. Our solutions are implemented in industries that have significant customer service operations, such as insurance, banking and brokerage, telecommunications, media, retail, government and public services, travel, and hospitality. 

Historically, as organizations have looked to engage with their customers more effectively and address new communications channels and changing customer expectations, they have had to purchase multiple point solutions from different vendors, creating integration and maintenance challenges. Even if such point solutions were able to be integrated, we believe they often do not work together optimally or in a unified manner. We offer organizations a comprehensive Customer Engagement 

Optimization solution that includes customer analytics, engagement management, and enterprise workforce optimization capabilities, all from a single provider. As organizations take a more strategic approach to customer service and sales, we believe that they will be better positioned to gain a competitive advantage, build more meaningful customer and employee engagement, heighten loyalty, reduce operating costs, and increase revenue. 

We believe the key trends driving demand for Customer Engagement Optimization solutions include: 

&#8226; 

Evolving Customer Expectations . Customers expect a more personalized and consistent experience across service channels. The manner in which consumers obtain customer service has evolved from traditional call centers and in-store visits, to omnichannel customer engagement centers that include evolving self-service channels, such as web, voice and mobile self-service, and customer communities; a host of digital communications, such as email, chat, and social media; and traditional phone. Today, consumers may select a service channel based on a number of factors, including which channels are available, their experiences with those channels, personal preference, and the type of service issue at hand. Often they use multiple channels for the same service-related issue, initially starting with a digital channel and ending with the contact center or vice-versa. Consumer expectations are changing rapidly as organizations provide them with more interaction channels than ever before. With multiple channels available and consumer desire to have their needs addressed quickly and efficiently in the first contact, we believe a focus on &#8220;ease of doing business&#8221; with an organization is becoming increasingly important and can be a key competitive differentiator. We also believe consumers have come to expect a consistent, contextual, and personalized experience across all of these channels, and therefore, organizations are seeking Customer Engagement Optimization solutions, like ours, to help improve omnichannel service and sales, and achieve better business outcomes. 

&#8226; 

Evolving Employee Expectations. &#32;&#32; Employee expectations are also evolving. Employees want their voices to be heard and their opinions to be taken into account. They want their skills and preferences to be considered and leveraged, and they want to be able to do the right things for their customers. Studies from the industry analyst community have reinforced the impact and importance of an engaged and empowered workforce, finding that when it comes to serving customers, happier, more empowered employees can have a significant impact not only on the customer experience, but also a company&#8217;s financial performance. We believe a happy and empowered employee base can be a significant differentiator for organizations that leverage these findings and that Customer Engagement Optimization solutions, like ours, can play an important role in helping to train and develop employees, as well as to solicit, analyze, and act on their opinions and feedback. 

&#8226; 

Evolving Customer-Centric Organizations. &#32;&#32; Customer-centric organizations are increasingly looking to aggregate, analyze, and act on big data to enhance operational efficiencies, build customer loyalty, and drive profitability. Today&#8217;s organizations have a significant amount of structured and unstructured customer, workforce, and other business data that is generated from numerous departments and multiple systems across the enterprise. We believe that today's customer-centric organizations are increasingly seeking Customer Engagement Optimization solutions that allow them to collect and analyze intelligence across different service channels to gain a better understanding of the performance of their workforce, the effectiveness of their service processes, the quality of their interactions, and changing customer behaviors. When captured, analyzed, and acted upon, organizations can use this Actionable Intelligence to help achieve important strategic objectives, such as optimizing customer engagement, building relationships and lifetime value, empowering staff, enhancing customer and employee loyalty, gaining a holistic view of operations and effectiveness, reducing operational costs, increasing revenue, and mitigating risk. 

&#8226; 

Evolving Requirements for Customer Authentication, Fraud Detection, Risk Management and Compliance. Organizations are facing significant pressure and challenges in safeguarding personal information, authenticating customers and complying with a myriad of ever-expanding regulatory and compliance requirements. Today, many of these risks are fueled by new system vulnerabilities and the rise of more sophisticated methods of cyber-attack. For example, in financial services, contact center fraud has driven demand for voice biometrics and predictive analytics solutions that can identify and thwart fraudsters, while quickly authenticating legitimate customers. In addition, financial protection and other regulations such as the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, and the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (PCI DSS), present tremendous compliance challenges for organizations of all sizes, with the risk of significant financial penalties and major remediation efforts for non-compliance. While organizations often have detailed processes and procedures for their employees to follow, we believe that many organizations lack the tools to adequately capture and analyze the information they need, exposing them to significant risk. To help address these complex dynamics, we believe organizations are increasingly seeking Actionable Intelligence to anticipate and prevent breaches, effectively authenticate customers and protect personal information, mitigate risk, prevent fraud, and help ensure compliance with evolving legal, regulatory, and internal requirements. 

Security Intelligence 

We are a leading provider of Security Intelligence solutions. Our solutions are implemented in a variety of sectors, such as government, law enforcement, transportation, critical infrastructure, and commercial organizations. 

We believe that terrorism, criminal activities, cyber-attacks, and other security threats, combined with new and more complex security challenges, such as the proliferation and strengthening of encryption, are driving demand for innovative solutions that can enhance security through the extensive use of Actionable Intelligence to help anticipate, prepare, and respond to security threats. 

We believe that the key trends driving demand for Security Intelligence solutions include: 

&#8226; 

Increasing Frequency and Sophistication of Cyber-Attacks . As overall awareness of cyber risks has increased over the years, so have the investments made by many organizations seeking greater protection from these risks. However, despite investments in perimeter security and point solutions to address specific network and end-point vulnerabilities, there have been many reported incidents of successful cyber-attacks, demonstrating that legacy approaches are often insufficient to protect against these evolving and advanced threats. We believe that cyber-attacks will increase in frequency and sophistication and that many government and commercial organizations are unprepared to protect themselves against such attacks. As a result, we believe that organizations will seek an integrated cyber security platform with Actionable Intelligence capabilities. Such capabilities include better detection of threats through the tight integration of multiple point solutions and better protection through improved unified workflows and analytics-based investigative capabilities. 

&#8226; 

Increasing Complexities Associated with Extracting Intelligence from Communications Networks . &#32;&#32;Law enforcement, national security, and intelligence agencies worldwide are responsible for investigations related to criminal activities, national security, terrorism, drug trafficking, cyber crimes, and other illegal activities. Such investigations require highly complex methods and often involve collecting, fusing, and analyzing information from multiple sources, including from cyber space and a variety of communications networks. Further, in many countries, communications service providers are mandated by government regulation to satisfy certain technical requirements for delivering communication content and data to law enforcement and government authorities. We believe that the increasing complexity of and technological challenges present in communications networks, coupled with the need for cyber intelligence, will continue to drive demand for Actionable Intelligence solutions. 

&#8226; 

Increasing Demand for Innovative, Integrated Situational Intelligence Solutions that Combine Physical Security and Intelligence to Better Anticipate and Respond to Security Threats. In connection with safe city, border control, transportation security, critical infrastructure, and other large-scale security initiatives, we believe that governments and commercial organizations are increasingly interested in deploying innovative security solutions that enhance situational awareness while fusing data from a wide range of security systems, including video and non-video sensors &#8212; such as audio, social media, access control, and intrusion detection to enhance overall security. By aggregating data from multiple sensors, situational awareness solutions enable efficient information correlation and analysis; rapid, rules-based alerts and action; and the ability to share information easily within and across agencies to facilitate timely response and investigation. 

&#8226; 

Increasing Challenges Driven by the Changing Face of Fraud and Risk . &#32; Today&#8217;s security and risk management professionals face a myriad of complex and evolving challenges in protecting their digital and physical infrastructures using situation intelligence, video surveillance, access control, and cyber protection systems for detecting, deterring, and countering advanced threats. These issues are particularly prominent in financial services, retail and government, and have heightened the need for a holistic approach to security and risk management using Actionable Intelligence solutions. For example, in financial services, organizations need to protect and secure physical perimeters, ATMs, human tellers, dispersed branch locations, company networks, and customer information against physical threats, fraudsters, and cyber-attacks. In retail, organizations need advanced intelligence to effectively investigate suspicious activities, protect people, property and assets, and reduce shrinkage. We believe that Actionable Intelligence solutions that provide organizations with advanced surveillance, situational awareness, analytics, and investigation and protection tools enable faster, more real-time responses to fraud, risk, and security issues. 

Our Strategy 

Our strategy to further enhance our position as a leading global provider of Actionable Intelligence solutions includes the following key elements: 

&#8226; 

Continue to Drive the Development of Actionable Intelligence Solutions for Unstructured Data . &#32;&#32;We were a pioneer in the development of solutions that help commercial businesses and government organizations derive intelligence from both structured and unstructured data. We intend to continue to drive the adoption of our Actionable Intelligence vision and solutions by building the Verint brand; expanding our portfolio of Customer Engagement Optimization, Security Intelligence, and Fraud, Risk, and Compliance solutions delivered from a single provider; leveraging our large, global install base of customers; and offering services that help our customers achieve their goals and maximize their investments in our solutions. 

&#8226; 

Maintain Market Leadership through Innovation and Customer Centricity . &#32;&#32;We believe that to compete successfully we must continue to introduce solutions that better enable customers to derive Actionable Intelligence from their structured and unstructured data. In order to do this, we intend to continue to make significant investments in R&#38;D, protect our intellectual property through patents and other means, and maintain regular dialog with our customer base in order to anticipate and understand their current and future business objectives, challenges, and requirements. 

&#8226; 

Continue to Expand our Market Presence through OEM and Partner Relationships . &#32;&#32;We have expanded our relationships with OEMs and other channel partners. We believe that these relationships broaden our market coverage and help make our solutions even more widely available on a global basis. We intend to continue expanding our existing relationships, while creating new ones. 

&#8226; 

Augment our Organic Growth with Acquisitions . &#32;We examine acquisition opportunities regularly as a means to add technology, increase our geographic presence, enhance our market leadership or scale, and/or expand into adjacent markets. Historically, we have engaged in acquisitions for all of these purposes and expect to continue doing so in the future when strategic opportunities arise. 

Our Operating Segments 

&#160; 

We conduct our business through three operating segments &#8212; Enterprise Intelligence, Cyber Intelligence, and Video Intelligence. Organizing our business through three operating segments in this way allows us to align our resources and domain expertise to more effectively address the Actionable Intelligence market and our customers&#8217; needs. 

We address the Customer Engagement Optimization market opportunity through solutions from our Enterprise Intelligence segment. We address the Security Intelligence market opportunity through solutions from our Cyber Intelligence segment and Video Intelligence segment, and we address the Fraud, Risk and Compliance market opportunity through solutions from all three operating segments. Below is a summary of the solutions offered by each of our segments. These include solutions that we have sold in the past and new solutions introduced during the past year. 

The Enterprise Intelligence Segment 

Our Enterprise Intelligence segment includes solutions for customer analytics, engagement management, and workforce optimization as summarized in the following table. 

CUSTOMER ANALYTICS 

SOLUTIONS 

DESCRIPTIONS 

Speech Analytics 

Provides a fast, smart, and accurate solution for analyzing and automatically categorizing call recordings according to each organization&#8217;s challenges and objectives, and proactively identifying trends and root cause of issues to help improve contact center performance and optimize service processes. 

Text Analytics 

Analyzes text-based communications, including survey verbatims, postings on social media sites, email, and customer service chat sessions in combination with speech analytics. 

Enterprise Feedback Management 

Provides a n enterprise-class platform to help organizations gain a complete view into the perceptions, opinions, and intentions of their customers and employees through surveys delivered via email, web, SMS, IVR, and mobile devices. 

Engagement Analytics 

Provides Actionable Intelligence by correlating customer interactions by intent, behaviors, and the journeys customers take across the array of channels they use to connect with organizations. Delivers analysis and predictions of operational challenges, such as customer churn and channel migration, through dynamic dashboards and data visualization. 

Identity Authentication and Fraud Detection 

Combines recorder-embedded &#8220;passive&#8221; voice biometrics technology with unique predictive analytics to screen calls against databases of both customer and fraudster &#8220;voiceprints.&#8221; Offers &#8220;upstream fraud detection&#8221; functionality to identify suspicious caller behavior within voice self-service interactions. Helps improve the customer experience by authenticating legitimate customers faster, reducing call handling and fraud-related losses. 

ENGAGEMENT MANAGEMENT SOLUTIONS 

DESCRIPTIONS 

Employee Desktop 

Unifies an employee&#8217;s desktop by presenting on one screen all of the contextual customer information, relevant knowledge, and business process guidance that an agent or employee needs for handling interactions in any channel without having to toggle among numerous screens and applications. 

Case Management 

Tracks the progress of customer and internal issues as they are resolved between various parties in the organization, and enables enforcement and measurement of compliance and quality. 

Knowledge Management 

Intelligently delivers complete and contextual answers to employees during an interaction and/or to consumers over web self-service. Reduces effort and saves time for employees and consumers with automated search results based on the context of an interaction. 

Email and Whitemail Management 

Enables organizations to respond faster to customer emails, letters, and faxes, using less agent time and reducing backlog of unanswered inquiries and unhappy customers. 

Voice and Mobile Self-Service 

Enhances voice and mobile self-service through real-time, contextual automation and analytics-driven personalization. Leverages business intelligence to help continually improve and optimize customer care. 

Web Self-Service 

Enables consumers to self-serve on the web in order to accomplish many tasks on their own without direct interaction with customer service representatives. 

Live Chat 

and 

Co-Browse 

Enables employees to help online customers when they need it the most-in real time via web chat. Live Chat encourages communication through a fast and simple text interface. Co-Browse enables employees to help customers navigate the organization&#8217;s website to complete self-service transactions, or simply help them find what they are looking for. Both the Live Chat and Co-Browse solutions help customers complete their transactions at the most critical junctures and reduce transaction abandonment. 

Social Engagement 

Enables agents to capture social posts and interact with customers in a similar manner to other communications channels, leveraging knowledge base, case management, and other support tools to address customer issues and concerns expressed in social media. 

Communities 

Enables organizations to set up and manage public and private communities and forums on behalf of their customers, partners, and employees in which knowledge sharing and collaboration can occur in a high-value, low-effort manner. 

WORKFORCE OPTIMIZATION SOLUTIONS 

DESCRIPTIONS 

Quality Management 

Provides sophisticated interaction assessment functionality, including intelligent evaluation forms and automatic delivery of calls for evaluation according to quotas or contact-related criteria. Enables organizations to deliver customer-driven quality by evaluating employees' interactions that are of high business value and relevance. 

Recording 

Reliably and securely captures, encrypts, archives, searches, and replays audio and screen interactions for compliance, liability protection, quality management and analytics purposes. 

Workforce Management 

Enables organizations to efficiently plan, forecast, and schedule employees to meet service level goals. Provides visibility into and a singular management tool for the work, the people, and the processes across customer touchpoints in contact center, back-office and branch operations. 

Desktop and Process Analytics 

Enables organizations to monitor and improve employee performance by capturing and measuring their desktop application activities. Provides objective and unbiased visibility into how work is performed at the employee desktop. Facilitates process automation and privacy, and delivers real-time guidance and next best actions to employees. 

Performance Management - Scorecards, eLearning, Coaching, and Gamification 

Serves as a complete, closed-loop solution to manage individual and departmental performance against goals using Scorecards to track and display key performance indicators (KPIs). Includes performance-driven eLearning and Coaching capabilities to improve employee skills and behavior when KPI scores fall below established thresholds. Offers gamification capabilities to energize employee engagement, helping transform the process of acquiring, maintaining, and improving the skills, knowledge, and behaviors necessary to successfully perform their job tasks-from a routine chore into a competitive and engaging experience. 

The Cyber Intelligence Segment 

Our Cyber Intelligence solutions are summarized in the following table. 

CYBER INTELLIGENCE 

SOLUTIONS 

DESCRIPTIONS 

Cyber Security 

Enables government, critical infrastructure, service providers, and enterprise organizations to address advanced cyber-attacks by deploying a pre-integrated cyber security platform capable of delivering threat protection through Actionable Intelligence capabilities. Includes a solution that integrates multiple advanced detection engines and provides unified workflows for investigation, behavioral analytics, and forensics that analyze attack paths, enable remediation, and help protect against future attempts. 

Network Intelligence 

Enables law enforcement, national security, and intelligence agencies to generate Actionable Intelligence by rapidly uncovering critical information from network traffic for investigating and proactively addressing criminal, national security, and terrorist threats. Can be configured to address a wide range of communications networks and scaled to address large volumes of traffic. 

Off-Air Intelligence 

Enables law enforcement, correctional facilities, and government agencies to enhance field operations with real-time Actionable Intelligence. Helps neutralize criminal, terrorist, and other threats by assisting operational units to better focus on suspects and suspicious behavior, and deploy field resources more effectively. 

Web Intelligence 

Enables investigative units to leverage web and open source data in order to identify insights and help accelerate investigations of fraud, criminal, terror, cyber and national security threats. Helps transform large volumes of content into Actionable Intelligence, identify suspicious behavioral patterns, the location of suspects, and links between suspects. 

Fusion Intelligence 

Provides government organizations with a centralized analytics platform for generating insights, identifying potential threats, and producing Actionable Intelligence. Enables a cross-source/cross-format single point of access to intelligence data sources to enable organization-wide investigation, management, and analysis. 

Lawful Interception Compliance 

Helps communications service providers comply with ETSI (European Telecommunications Standards Institute), CALEA (Communications Assistance for Law Enforcement Act), and other lawful interception regulations and standards. Supports multiple network types and provides a high degree of automation of the lawful interception compliance processes with complete audit trails and low administrative overhead. 

The Video and Situation Intelligence Segment 

Our Video Intelligence solutions are summarized in the following table. 

VIDEO AND SITUATION INTELLIGENCE 

SOLUTIONS 

DESCRIPTIONS 

Situational Awareness Platform 

Integrates data from multiple sources, such as access control, video, intrusion, fire, public safety, weather, traffic, first responder, and other mobile device systems. Provides a unified visualization layer and workflow enabling organizations to fuse, analyze, and report information, and take action on risks, alarms, and incidents across business and security systems. Helps identify and mitigate risks, improve response times, increase operational effectiveness, and reduce total cost of ownership. 

Enterprise Video Management Software 

Simplifies management of large volumes of video, including geographically dispersed surveillance video, with a suite of applications that includes automated system health monitoring, policy-based video distribution, networked video viewing, and investigation management. Designed for interoperability with other enterprise systems. 

Video Analytics 

Analyzes video content to improve visibility, reduce risks and improve operational performance in the following areas: 

&#8226; Surveillance&#8212;automatically detects anomalies and activities of interest, such as perimeter intrusion, unattended objects, camera tampering, and vehicles moving in the wrong direction. 

&#8226; Security&#8212;offers advanced analytics that integrate facial detection, facial recognition, and license plate recognition capabilities for industrial applications, and the opportunity to further expand business value by integrating with Point of Sale (POS), ATM, and teller transactions in retail stores and branch bank environments. 

&#8226; Business&#8212;includes industry-specific analytics applications focused primarily on retail and banking environments to help address both operational and strategic initiatives. 

EdgeVMS 

Performs networked video recording utilizing secure, embedded operating systems and market-specific data integrations for security and fraud, risk, and compliance applications that require local storage, as well as remote networking. 

Public Safety Media Recorder 

Allows first responders (e.g., police, fire departments, and emergency medical services) to capture, analyze, manage, and act on public safety data. Includes incident investigation, evidence preparation, and compliance audit trail capabilities. 

Customer Services 

We offer a range of customer services, including implementation and training, consulting and managed services, and maintenance support, to help our customers maximize their return on investment in our solutions. 

Implementation and Training 

Our solutions are implemented by our service organizations, authorized partners, resellers, or customers. Our implementation services include project management, system installation, and commissioning, including integrating our solutions with our customers&#8217; environments and third-party solutions. Our training programs are designed to enable our customers to effectively use our solutions and to certify our partners to sell, install, and support our solutions. Customer and partner training is provided at the customer site, at our training centers around the world, and/or remotely online. 

Consulting and Managed Services 

Our management consulting capabilities include business strategy, process excellence, performance management, and project and program management, and are designed to help our customers maximize the value of our solutions in their own environments. We also offer managed services for our solutions to help our customers gain further value from their investments in our technology and minimize the need for additional resources. Our managed services enable us to help ensure customers effectively manage our solutions and maximize the business insights produced, heighten customer engagement, and create strong relationships working together in the process . 

Maintenance Support 

We offer a range of customer maintenance support plans to our customers and resellers, including phone, web, and email access to technical personnel up to 24-hours-a-day, seven-days-a-week. Our support programs are designed to help ensure long-term, successful use of our solutions. We believe that customer support is critical to retaining and expanding our customer base. Our Enterprise Intelligence solutions are sold with a warranty of generally one year for hardware and 90 days for software. Our Cyber Intelligence solutions and Video Intelligence solutions are sold with warranties that typically range from 90 days to three years and, in some cases, longer. In addition, customers are typically provided the option to purchase maintenance plans that provide a range of services, such as telephone support, advanced replacement, upgrades when and if available, and on-site repair or replacement. Currently, the majority of our maintenance revenue is related to our Enterprise Intelligence solutions. 

Direct and Indirect Sales 

We sell our solutions through our direct sales teams and indirect channels, including distributors, systems integrators, value-added resellers (&#8220;VARs&#8221;), and OEM partners. Approximately half of our overall sales are made through partners, distributors, resellers, and system integrators. 

Each of our solutions is sold by trained, dedicated, regionally-organized direct and indirect sales teams. Our direct sales teams are focused on large and mid-sized customers and, in many cases, co-sell with our other channels and sales agents. Our indirect sales teams are focused on developing and supporting relationships with our indirect channels, which provide us with broader market coverage, including access to their customer base, integration services, and presence in certain geographies and vertical markets. Our sales teams are supported by business consultants, solutions specialists, and pre-sales engineers who, during the sales process, help determine customer requirements and develop technical responses to those requirements. While we sell directly and indirectly in all three of our segments, sales of our Video Intelligence solutions are primarily indirect, and sales of our Cyber Intelligence solutions are primarily direct. See &#8220;Risk Factors &#8212; Risks Related to Our Business &#8212; Competition, Markets, and Operations &#8212; If we are unable to establish and maintain our relationships with third parties that market and sell our products, our business and ability to grow could be materially adversely affected&#8221; under Item 1A of this report for a more detailed discussion of certain sales and distribution risks that we face. 

Customers 

Our solutions are used by more than 10,000 organizations in 180 countries. In the year ended January 31, 2016, we derived approximately 55% , 34% , and 11% &#32;of our revenue from the sale of our Enterprise Intelligence solutions, Cyber Intelligence solutions, and Video Intelligence solutions, respectively. In the year ended January 31, 2015, we derived approximately 58% , 32% &#32;and 10% &#32;of our revenue from the sale of our Enterprise Intelligence solutions, Cyber Intelligence solutions, and Video Intelligence solutions, respectively. &#32;&#32; In the year ended January 31, 2014, we derived approximately 55% , 32% , and 13% &#32;of our revenue from the sale of our Enterprise Intelligence solutions, Cyber Intelligence solutions, and Video Intelligence solutions, respectively. &#32; We are party to contracts with customers in each of our segments, the loss of which could have a material adverse effect on the segment. 

In the year ended January 31, 2016, we derived approximately 51% , 31% , and 18% &#32;of our revenue from sales to end users in the Americas, in Europe, the Middle East and Africa (&#8220;EMEA&#8221;), and in the Asia-Pacific (&#8220;APAC&#8221;) regions, respectively. &#32;&#32; In the year ended January 31, 2015, we derived approximately 52% , 31% , and 17% &#32;of our revenue from sales to end users in the Americas, EMEA, and APAC, respectively. &#32;&#32; In the year ended January 31, 2014, we derived approximately 56% , 20% , and 24% &#32;of our revenue from sales to end users in the Americas, EMEA, and APAC, respectively. See also Note 17, &#8220;Segment, Geographic, and Significant Customer Information&#8221; to our consolidated financial statements included under Item 8 of this report for additional information and financial data about each of our operating segments and geographic regions. 

For the year ended January 31, 2016, approximately one third of our business was generated from contracts with various governments around the world, including local, regional, and national government agencies. Due to the unique nature of the terms and conditions associated with government contracts generally, our government contracts may be subject to renegotiation or termination at the election of the government customer. Some of our customer engagements require us to have security credentials or to participate in projects through an approved legal entity. 

Seasonality and Cyclicality 

As is typical for many software and technology companies, our business is subject to seasonal and cyclical factors. In most years, our revenue and operating income are typically highest in the fourth quarter and lowest in the first quarter (prior to the impact of unusual or nonrecurring items). Moreover, revenue and operating income in the first quarter of a new year may be 

lower than in the fourth quarter of the preceding year, in some years, potentially by a significant margin. In addition, we generally receive a higher volume of orders in the last month of a quarter, with orders concentrated in the later part of that month. We believe that these seasonal and cyclical factors primarily reflect customer spending patterns and budget cycles, as well as the impact of compensation incentive plans for our sales personnel. While seasonal and cyclical factors such as these are common in the software and technology industry, this pattern should not be considered a reliable indicator of our future revenue or financial performance. Many other factors, including general economic conditions, also have an impact on our business and financial results. See &#8220;Risk Factors&#8221; under Item 1A of this report for a more detailed discussion of factors which may affect our business and financial results. 

Research and Development 

We continue to enhance the features and performance of our existing solutions and to introduce new solutions through extensive R&#38;D activities, including the development of new solutions, the addition of capabilities to existing solutions, quality assurance, and advanced technical support for our customer services organization. In certain instances, primarily in our Cyber Intelligence segment, we may customize our products to meet the particular requirements of our customers. R&#38;D is performed primarily in the United States, Israel, the United Kingdom, Ireland, the Netherlands, and Indonesia for our Enterprise Intelligence segment; in Israel, Germany, Brazil, Cyprus, and Bulgaria for our Cyber Intelligence segment; and primarily in Israel, and the United States for our Video Intelligence segment. 

We believe that our future success depends on a number of factors, including among others, our ability to: 

&#8226; 

identify and respond to emerging technological trends and areas of growth in our markets; 

&#8226; 

develop and maintain competitive solutions that meet or exceed our customers&#8217; changing needs and challenges; 

&#8226; 

enhance our existing products by adding features and functionality to meet or exceed specific customer needs or differentiate our products from those of our competitors; and 

&#8226; 

attract, recruit, and retain highly skilled and experienced employees. 

To support these efforts, we make significant investments in R&#38;D every year. In the years ended January 31, 2016, 2015, and 2014, we spent approximately $177.7 million , $173.7 million , and $126.5 million , respectively, on R&#38;D, net. We allocate our R&#38;D resources in response to market research and customer demand for additional features and solutions. Our development strategy involves rolling out initial releases of our products and adding features over time. We incorporate product feedback received from our customers into our product development process. While the majority of our products are developed internally, in some cases, we also acquire or license technologies, products, and applications from third parties based on timing and cost considerations. See &#8220;Risk Factors &#8212; Risks Related to Our Business &#8212; Competition, Markets, and Operations &#8212; For certain products, components, or services, we rely on third-party suppliers, manufacturers, and partners and if these relationships are interrupted we may not be able to obtain substitute suppliers, manufacturers, or partners on favorable terms or at all, and we may be subject to other adverse effects&#8221; under Item 1A of this report. 

As noted above, a significant portion of our R&#38;D operations is located outside the United States. We have derived benefits from participation in certain government-sponsored programs, including those of the Israeli Office of the Chief Scientist (&#8220;OCS&#8221;) and in other jurisdictions, for the support of R&#38;D activities conducted in those locations. In the case of Israel, the Israeli law under which our OCS grants are made limits our ability to manufacture products, or transfer technologies, developed using these grants outside of Israel without permission from the OCS. See &#8220;Risk Factors &#8212; Risks Related to Our Business &#8212; Competition, Markets, and Operations &#8212; Because we have significant foreign operations and business, we are subject to geopolitical and other risks that could materially adversely affect our results&#8221; and &#8220;Risk Factors &#8212; Risks Related to Our Business &#8212; Competition, Markets, and Operations &#8212; Conditions in and our relationship to Israel may materially adversely affect our operations and personnel and may limit our ability to produce and sell our products or engage in certain transactions&#8221; under Item 1A of this report for a discussion of certain risks associated with our foreign operations. 

Manufacturing, Suppliers, and Service Providers 

We rely on both unaffiliated manufacturing subcontractors, as well as on our internal operations, to produce, assemble, and deliver our hardware products and solutions. We also rely on several unaffiliated manufacturing subcontractors for the supply of specific proprietary hardware components and assemblies that are incorporated into our products and solutions. Our internal manufacturing and assembly operations consist primarily of installing our software on externally purchased hardware components, final assembly, repair, and testing, which involves the application of extensive quality control procedures to 

materials, components, subassemblies, and systems. We also perform system integration functions prior to shipping turnkey solutions to our customers. Our internal manufacturing and assembly operations are performed primarily in our German, Israeli, and Cypriot facilities for our Cyber Intelligence solutions, and in our U.S. and Israeli facilities for certain of our Video Intelligence solutions. Our Enterprise Intelligence solutions are substantially all software and do not require any significant internal manufacturing. Although we have occasionally experienced delays and shortages in the supply of proprietary components in the past, we have, to date, been able to obtain adequate supplies of all components in a timely manner from alternative sources, when necessary. We also rely on third parties to provide certain services to us or to our customers, including hosting providers and providers of other cloud-based services. See &#8220;Risk Factors &#8212; Risks Related to Our Business &#8212; Competition, Markets, and Operations &#8212; For certain products, components, or services, we rely on third-party suppliers, manufacturers, and partners, and if these relationships are interrupted, we may not be able to obtain substitute suppliers, manufacturers, or partners on favorable terms or at all, and we may be subject to other adverse effects&#8221; under Item 1A of this report for a discussion of risks associated with our manufacturing operations and suppliers. 

Employees 

Currently, we employ approximately 5,000 professionals, including certain contractors, with approximately 42%, 21%, 25%, and 12% of our employees and contractors located in the Americas, Israel, EMEA (excluding Israel), and APAC, respectively. 

We consider our relationship with our employees to be good and a critical factor in our success. Our employees in the United States are not covered by any collective bargaining agreements. In some cases, our employees outside the United States are automatically subject to certain protections negotiated by organized labor in those countries directly with the government or trade unions or are automatically entitled to severance or other benefits mandated under local laws. For example, while we are not a party to any collective bargaining or other agreement with any labor organization in Israel, certain provisions of the collective bargaining agreements between the Histadrut (General Federation of Laborers in Israel) and the Coordinating Bureau of Economic Organizations (including the Manufacturers&#8217; Association of Israel) are applicable to our Israeli employees by virtue of expansion orders of the Israeli Ministry of Industry, Trade and Labor. 

Intellectual Property Rights 

General 

Our success depends to a significant degree on the legal protection of our software and other proprietary technology. We rely on a combination of patent, trade secret, copyright, and trademark laws, and confidentiality and non-disclosure agreements with employees and third parties to establish and protect our proprietary rights. 

Patents 

As of January 31, 2016, we had more than 700 patents and patent applications worldwide, including more than 130 patent issuances or allowances during the past year. We have accumulated a significant amount of proprietary know-how and expertise in developing Actionable Intelligence solutions. We regularly review new areas of technology related to our businesses to determine whether they can and should be patented. 

Licenses 

While we employ many of our innovations exclusively in our products and services, we also engage in outbound and inbound licensing of specific patented technologies. Our licenses are designed to prohibit unauthorized use, copying, and disclosure of our software technology. When we license our software to customers, we require license agreements containing restrictions and confidentiality terms customary in the industry in order to protect our proprietary rights in the software. These agreements generally warrant that the software and propriety hardware will materially comply with written documentation and assert that we own or have sufficient rights in the software we distribute and have not violated the intellectual property rights of others. 

We license our products in a format that does not permit users to change the software code. See &#8220;Risk Factors &#8212; Risks Related to Our Business &#8212; Competition, Markets, and Operations &#8212; For certain products, components, or services, we rely on third-party suppliers, manufacturers, and partners, and if these relationships are interrupted, we may not be able to obtain substitute suppliers, manufacturers, or partners on favorable terms or at all, and we may be subject to other adverse effects&#8221; under Item 1A of this report. 

We license certain software, technology, and related rights for use in the manufacture and marketing of our products and pay royalties to third parties under such licenses and other agreements. While it may be necessary in the future to seek or renew 

licenses relating to various aspects of our products, we believe, based on industry practice, such licenses generally can be obtained on commercially reasonable terms. 

Trademarks and Service Marks 

We use various trademarks and service marks to protect the marks used in our business. We also claim common law protections for other marks we use in our business. Competitors and other companies could adopt similar marks or try to prevent us from using our marks, consequently impeding our ability to build brand identity and possibly leading to customer confusion. See &#8220;Risk Factors &#8212; Risks Related to Our Business &#8212; Information/Product Security and Intellectual Property &#8212; Our intellectual property may not be adequately protected&#8221; under Item 1A of this report for a more detailed discussion regarding the risks associated with the protection of our intellectual property. 

Competition 

We face strong competition in all of our markets, and we expect that competition will persist and intensify. 

In our Enterprise Intelligence segment, our competitors include Aspect Software, Inc., eGain Corporation, Genesys Telecommunications, NICE Systems Ltd. (&#8220;NICE&#8221;), Medallia Inc., Pegasystems Inc., and divisions of larger companies, including Oracle Corporation and Salesforce.com, Inc., along with many smaller companies, which can vary across regions. In our Cyber Intelligence segment, our competitors include BAE Systems plc, Cyberbit Ltd. (a subsidiary of Elbit Systems Ltd.), FireEye, Inc., JSI Telecom, Rohde &#38; Schwarz, and RSA (a business unit of EMC Corporation), along with a number of smaller companies and divisions of larger companies that compete with us in certain regions or only with respect to portions of our product portfolio. In our Video Intelligence segment, our competitors include Avigilon Corporation, Genetec Inc., March Networks (a subsidiary of Infinova Ltd.), Milestone Systems A/S (a division of Canon), and Qognify (formerly part of NICE), and divisions of larger companies, such as Tyco International Ltd., along with many smaller companies, which can vary across regions. 

In each of our operating segments, we believe that we compete principally on the basis of: 

&#8226; 

product performance and functionality; 

&#8226; 

product quality and reliability; 

&#8226; 

breadth of product portfolio and pre-defined integrations; 

&#8226; 

global presence and high-quality customer service and support; 

&#8226; 

specific industry knowledge, vision, and experience; and 

&#8226; 

price. 

We believe that our competitive success depends primarily on our ability to provide technologically advanced and cost-effective solutions and services. Some of our competitors have superior brand recognition and significantly greater financial or other resources than we do. We expect that competition will increase as other established and emerging companies enter our markets or we enter theirs, and as new products, services, technologies, and delivery methods are introduced, such as SaaS. In addition, consolidation is common in our markets and has in the past and may in the future improve the position of our competitors. See &#8220;Risk Factors &#8212; Risks Related to Our Business &#8212; Competition, Markets, and Operations &#8212; Intense competition in our markets and competitors with greater resources than us may limit our market share, profitability, and growth&#8221; under Item 1A of this report for a more detailed discussion of the competitive risks we face. 

Export Regulations 

We and our subsidiaries are subject to applicable export control regulations in countries from which we export goods and services. These controls may apply by virtue of the country in which the products are located or by virtue of the origin of the content contained in the products. If the controls of a particular country apply, the level of control generally depends on the nature of the goods and services in question. For example, our Cyber Intelligence solutions tend to be more highly controlled than our Enterprise Intelligence or Video Intelligence solutions. Where controls apply, the export of our products generally requires an export license or authorization or that the transaction qualify for a license exception or the equivalent, and may also be subject to corresponding reporting requirements. 

