 ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

General Information 

Fifth Third Bancorp (the &#147;Bancorp&#148;), an Ohio corporation organized in 1975, is a bank holding company (&#147;BHC&#148;) as defined by the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (the &#147;BHCA&#148;), and is registered as such with the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the &#147;FRB&#148;). The Bancorp&#146;s principal office is located in Cincinnati, Ohio. 

The Bancorp&#146;s subsidiaries provide a wide range of financial products and services to the retail, commercial, financial, governmental, educational and medical sectors, including a wide variety of checking, savings and money market accounts, and credit products such as credit cards, installment loans, mortgage loans and leases. Fifth Third Bank has deposit insurance provided by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (the &#147;FDIC&#148;) through the Deposit Insurance Fund. Refer to Exhibit 21 filed as an attachment to this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a list of subsidiaries of the Bancorp as of December 31, 2015. 

The Bancorp derives the majority of its revenues from the U.S. Revenue from foreign countries and external customers domiciled in foreign countries is immaterial to the Bancorp&#146;s Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Additional information regarding the Bancorp&#146;s businesses is included in Management&#146;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 

Availability of Financial Information 

The Bancorp files reports with the SEC. Those reports include the annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and proxy statements, as well as any amendments to those reports. The public may read and copy any materials the Bancorp files with the SEC at the SEC&#146;s Public Reference Room at 450 Fifth Street, NW, Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at www.sec.gov. The Bancorp&#146;s annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act are accessible at no cost on the Bancorp&#146;s web site at https://www.53.com on a same day basis after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. 

Competition 

The Bancorp competes for deposits, loans and other banking services in its principal geographic markets as well as in selected national markets as opportunities arise. In addition to the challenge of attracting and retaining customers for traditional banking services, the Bancorp&#146;s competitors include securities dealers, brokers, mortgage bankers, investment advisors and insurance companies. These competitors, with focused products targeted at highly profitable customer segments, compete across geographic boundaries and provide customers increasing access to meaningful alternatives to banking services in nearly all significant products. The increasingly competitive environment is a result primarily of changes in regulation, changes in technology, 

product delivery systems and the accelerating pace of consolidation among financial service providers. These competitive trends are likely to continue. 

Acquisitions 

The Bancorp&#146;s strategy for growth includes strengthening its presence in core markets, expanding into contiguous markets and broadening its product offerings while taking into account the integration and other risks of growth. The Bancorp evaluates strategic acquisition opportunities and conducts due diligence activities in connection with possible transactions. As a result, discussions, and in some cases, negotiations may take place and future acquisitions involving cash, debt or equity securities may occur. These typically involve the payment of a premium over book value and current market price, and therefore, some dilution of book value and net income per share may occur with any future transactions. 

Regulation and Supervision 

In addition to the generally applicable state and federal laws governing businesses and employers, the Bancorp and its banking subsidiary are subject to extensive regulation by federal and state laws and regulations applicable to financial institutions and their parent companies. Virtually all aspects of the business of the Bancorp and its banking subsidiary are subject to specific requirements or restrictions and general regulatory oversight. The principal objectives of state and federal banking laws and regulations and the supervision, regulation and examination of banks and their parent companies (such as the Bancorp) by bank regulatory agencies are the maintenance of the safety and soundness of financial institutions, maintenance of the federal deposit insurance system and the protection of consumers or classes of consumers, rather than the specific protection of shareholders of a bank or the parent company of a bank. The Bancorp and its subsidiaries are subject to an extensive regulatory framework of complex and comprehensive federal and state laws and regulations addressing the provision of banking and other financial services and other aspects of the Bancorp&#146;s businesses and operations. Regulation and regulatory oversight have increased significantly over the past five years, primarily as a result of the passage of The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the &#147;DFA&#148;). The DFA imposes regulatory requirements and oversight over banks and other financial institutions in a number of ways, among which are (i) creating the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (the &#147;CFPB&#148;) to regulate consumer financial products and services; (ii) creating the Financial Stability Oversight Council to identify and impose additional regulatory oversight on large financial firms; (iii) granting orderly liquidation authority to the FDIC for the liquidation of financial corporations that pose a risk to the financial system of the U.S.; (iv) requiring financial institutions to draft a resolution plan that contemplates the dissolution of the enterprise and submit that resolution plan to both the Federal Reserve and the FDIC; (v) limiting debit card interchange fees; (vi) adopting certain changes to shareholder rights and responsibilities, including a shareholder &#147;say on pay&#148;) vote on executive compensation; (vii) strengthening the SEC&#146;s powers to regulate securities markets; (viii) regulating OTC derivative markets; (ix) restricting variable-rate lending by requiring the ability to repay to be determined for variable-rate loans by using the maximum rate that will apply during the first five years of a variable-rate loan term, and making more loans subject to provisions for higher cost loans, new disclosures, and certain 

&#160;

&#160;

172 Fifth Third Bancorp 

other revisions; (x) changing the base upon which the deposit insurance assessment is assessed from deposits to, substantially, average consolidated assets minus equity; and (xi) amending the Truth in Lending Act with respect to mortgage originations, including originator compensation, minimum repayment standards, and prepayment considerations. To the extent the following material describes statutory or regulatory provisions, it is qualified in its entirety by reference to the particular statute or regulation. In addition, due to the volume of regulations required by the DFA, not all proposed or final regulations that may have an impact on the Bancorp or its banking subsidiary are necessarily discussed. 

Regulators 

The Bancorp and/or its banking subsidiary are subject to regulation and supervision primarily by the FRB, the CFPB and the Ohio Division of Financial Institutions (the &#147;Division&#148;) and additionally by certain other functional regulators and self-regulatory organizations. The Bancorp is also subject to regulation by the SEC by virtue of its status as a public company and due to the nature of some of its businesses. The Bancorp&#146;s banking subsidiary is subject to regulation by the FDIC, which insures the bank&#146;s deposits as permitted by law. 

The federal and state laws and regulations that are applicable to banks and to BHCs regulate, among other matters, the scope of their business, their activities, their investments, their capital and liquidity levels, their reserves against deposits, the timing of the availability of deposited funds, the amount of loans to individual and related borrowers and the nature, the amount of and collateral for certain loans, and the amount of interest that may be charged on loans as applicable. Various federal and state consumer laws and regulations also affect the services provided to consumers. 

The Bancorp and/or its banking subsidiary are required to file various reports with, and is subject to examination by regulators, including the FRB and the Division. The FRB, the Division and the CFPB have the authority to issue orders for BHCs and/or banks to cease and desist from certain banking practices and violations of conditions imposed by, or violations of agreements with, the FRB, the Division and the CFPB. Certain of the Bancorp&#146;s and/or its banking subsidiary regulators are also empowered to assess civil money penalties against companies or individuals in certain situations, such as when there is a violation of a law or regulation. Applicable state and federal laws also grant certain regulators the authority to impose additional requirements and restrictions on the activities of the Bancorp and or its banking subsidiary and, in some situations, the imposition of such additional requirements and restrictions will not be publicly available information. 

Acquisitions 

The BHCA requires the prior approval of the FRB for a BHC to acquire substantially all the assets of a bank or to acquire direct or indirect ownership or control of more than 5% of any class of the voting shares of any bank, BHC or savings association, or to increase any such non-majority ownership or control of any bank, BHC or savings association, or to merge or consolidate with any BHC. 

The BHCA prohibits a BHC from acquiring a direct or indirect interest in or control of more than 5% of any class of the voting shares of a company that is not a bank or a BHC and from engaging directly or indirectly in activities other than those of banking, managing or controlling banks or furnishing services to its banking subsidiaries, except that it may engage in and may own shares of companies engaged in certain activities the FRB 

has determined to be so closely related to banking or managing or controlling banks as to be proper incident thereto. 

Financial Holding Companies 

The Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999 (&#147;GLBA&#148;) permits a qualifying BHC to become a financial holding company (&#147;FHC&#148;) and thereby to engage directly or indirectly in a broader range of activities than those permitted for a BHC under the BHCA. Permitted activities for a FHC include securities underwriting and dealing, insurance underwriting and brokerage, merchant banking and other activities that are declared by the FRB, in cooperation with the Treasury Department, to be &#147;financial in nature or incidental thereto&#148; or are declared by the FRB unilaterally to be &#147;complementary&#148; to financial activities. In addition, a FHC is allowed to conduct permissible new financial activities or acquire permissible non-bank financial companies with after-the-fact notice to the FRB. A BHC may elect to become a FHC if each of its banking subsidiaries is well capitalized, is well managed and has at least a &#147;Satisfactory&#148; rating under the Community Reinvestment Act (&#147;CRA&#148;). The DFA also extended the well capitalized and well managed requirement to the BHC. In 2000, the Bancorp elected and qualified for FHC status under the GLBA. To maintain FHC status, a holding company must continue to meet certain requirements. The failure to meet such requirements could result in material restrictions on the activities of the FHC and may also adversely affect the FHC&#146;s ability to enter into certain transactions or obtain necessary approvals in connection therewith, as well as loss of FHC status. If restrictions are imposed on the activities of an FHC, such information may not necessarily be available to the public. 

Dividends 

The Bancorp depends in part upon dividends received from its direct and indirect subsidiaries, including its indirect banking subsidiary, to fund its activities, including the payment of dividends. The Bancorp and its banking subsidiary are subject to various federal and state restrictions on their ability to pay dividends. The FRB has authority to prohibit BHCs from paying dividends if such payment is deemed to be an unsafe or unsound practice. The FRB has indicated generally that it may be an unsafe or unsound practice for BHCs to pay dividends unless a BHC&#146;s net income is sufficient to fund the dividends and the expected rate of earnings retention is consistent with the organization&#146;s capital needs, asset quality and overall financial condition. The ability to pay dividends may be further limited by provisions of the DFA and implanting regulations (see Systematically Significant Companies and Capital). &#160; 

Source of Strength 

Under long-standing FRB policy and now as codified in the DFA, a BHC is expected to act as a source of financial and managerial strength to each of its banking subsidiaries and to commit resources to their support. This support may be required at times when the BHC may not have the resources to provide it. 

FDIC Assessments 

As contemplated by the DFA the FDIC has revised the framework by which insured depository institutions with more than $10 billion in assets (&#147;large IDIs&#148;) are assessed for purposes of payments to the Deposit Insurance Fund (the &#147;DIF&#148;). The final rule implementing revisions to the assessment system took effect for the quarter beginning April 1, 2011. 

Prior to the passage of the DFA, a large IDI&#146;s DIF premiums principally were based on the size of an IDI&#146;s domestic deposit base. 

&#160;

&#160;

173 Fifth Third Bancorp 

The DFA changed the assessment base from a large IDI&#146;s domestic deposit base to its total assets less tangible equity. In addition to potentially greatly increasing the size of a large IDI&#146;s assessment base, the expansion of the assessment base affords the FDIC much greater flexibility to vary its assessment system based upon the different asset classes that large IDIs normally hold on their balance sheets. 

To implement this provision, the FDIC created an assessment scheme vastly different from the deposit-based system. Under the new system, large IDIs are assessed under a complex &#147;scorecard&#148; methodology that seeks to capture both the probability that an individual large IDI will fail and the magnitude of the impact on the DIF if such a failure occurs. 

Transactions with Affiliates 

Sections 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act, restrict transactions between a bank and its affiliates (as defined in Sections 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act), including a parent BHC. The Bancorp&#146;s banking subsidiary is subject to certain restrictions, including but not limited to restrictions on loans to its affiliates, on investments in the stock or securities thereof, on the taking of such stock or securities as collateral for loans to any borrower, and on the issuance of a guarantee or letter of credit on their behalf. Among other things, these restrictions limit the amount of such transactions, require collateral in prescribed amounts for extensions of credit, prohibit the purchase of low quality assets and require that the terms of such transactions be substantially equivalent to terms of comparable transactions with non-affiliates. Generally, the Bancorp&#146;s banking subsidiary is limited in its extension of credit to any affiliate to 10% of the banking subsidiary&#146;s capital stock and surplus and its extension of credit to all affiliates to 20% of the banking subsidiary&#146;s capital stock and surplus. 

Community Reinvestment Act 

The CRA generally requires insured depository institutions, including the Bank, to identify the communities they serve and to make loans and investments and provide services that meet the credit needs of those communities and the CRA requires the FRB to evaluate the performance of such depository institutions with respect to these CRA obligations. Depository institutions must maintain comprehensive records of their CRA activities for purposes of these examinations. The FRB must take into account the record of performance of depository institutions in meeting the credit needs of the entire community served, including low- and moderate-income neighborhoods. For purposes of CRA examinations, the FRB rates such institutions&#146; compliance with the CRA as &#147;Outstanding,&#148; &#147;Satisfactory,&#148; &#147;Needs to Improve&#148; or &#147;Substantial Noncompliance.&#148; The Bank must be well-capitalized, well-managed and maintain at least a &#147;Satisfactory&#148; CRA rating for the Bancorp to retain its status as a financial holding company. Failure to meet these requirements could result in the FRB placing limitations or conditions on the Bancorp&#146;s activities (and the commencement of new activities, including merger with or acquisitions of other financial institutions) and could ultimately result in the loss of financial holding company status. The FRB conducted a regularly scheduled examination covering 2011 through 2013 to determine the Bancorp&#146;s banking subsidiary&#146;s compliance with the CRA. Although the FRB has not made a final determination, the Bancorp believes that the results of such CRA examination may result in a rating of &#147;Needs to Improve&#148;. If that would occur, such rating would last at least until the Bancorp&#146;s banking subsidiary&#146;s next CRA examination. 

Capital Generally 

The FRB has established capital guidelines for BHCs and FHCs. The FRB, the Division and the FDIC have also issued regulations establishing capital requirements for banks. Failure to meet capital requirements could subject the Bancorp and its banking subsidiary to a variety of restrictions and enforcement actions. In addition, as discussed previously, the Bancorp and its banking subsidiary must remain well capitalized and well managed for the Bancorp to retain its status as a FHC. 

Systemically Significant Companies and Capital 

Title I of the DFA creates a new regulatory regime for large BHCs. U.S. BHCs with $50 billion or more in total consolidated assets, including Fifth Third, are subject to enhanced prudential standards and early remediation requirements under Title I. Title I of the DFA establishes a broad framework for identifying, applying heightened supervision and regulation to, and (as necessary) limiting the size and activities of systemically significant financial companies. 

The DFA requires the FRB to impose enhanced capital and risk-management standards on these firms and mandates the FRB to conduct annual stress tests on all BHCs with $50 billion or more in assets to determine whether they have adequate capital available to absorb losses in baseline, adverse, or severely adverse economic conditions. In November 2011, the FRB adopted final rules requiring BHCs with $50 billion or more in consolidated assets to submit capital plans to the FRB on an annual basis. Under the final rules, the FRB annually will evaluate an institution&#146;s capital adequacy, internal capital adequacy, assessment processes and capital distribution plans such as dividend payments and stock repurchases. Banks are also required to report certain data to the FRB on a quarterly basis to allow the FRB to monitor progress against the approved capital plans. 

The CCAR process is intended to help ensure that BHCs have robust, forward-looking capital planning processes that account for each company&#146;s unique risks and that permit continued operations during times of economic and financial stress. The mandatory elements of the capital plan are an assessment of the expected uses and sources of capital over a nine-quarter planning horizon, a description of all planned capital actions over the planning horizon, a discussion of any expected changes to the Bancorp&#146;s business plan that are likely to have a material impact on its capital adequacy or liquidity, a detailed description of the Bancorp&#146;s process for assessing capital adequacy and the Bancorp&#146;s capital policy. The stress tests require increased involvement by boards of directors in stress testing and public disclosure of the results of both the FRB&#146;s annual stress tests and a BHC&#146;s annual supervisory stress tests, and semi-annual internal stress tests. 

In 2014, the FRB amended its capital planning and stress testing rules to, among other things, generally limit a BHC&#146;s ability to make quarterly capital distributions &#150; that is, dividends and share repurchases &#150; commencing April 1, 2015 if the amount of the bank&#146;s actual cumulative quarterly capital issuances of instruments that qualify as regulatory capital are less than the bank had indicated in its submitted capital plan as to which it received a non-objection from the FRB. For example, if the BHC issued a smaller amount of additional common stock than it had stated in its capital plan, it would be required to reduce common dividends and/or the amount of common stock repurchases so that the dollar amount of capital distributions, net of the dollar amount of additional common stock issued (&#147;net distributions&#148;), is no greater than the dollar amount of net distributions relating to its common stock included in its capital plan, as measured on an aggregate basis beginning in the third quarter of the nine-quarter planning horizon through the end of the then current quarter. 

&#160;

&#160;

174 Fifth Third Bancorp 

However, not raising sufficient amounts of common stock as planned would not affect distributions related to Additional Tier I Capital instruments and/ or Tier II Capital. These limitations also contain several important qualifications and exceptions, including that scheduled dividend payments on (as opposed to repurchases of) a BHC&#146;s Additional Tier I Capital and Tier II Capital instruments are not restricted if the BHC fails to issue a sufficient amount of such instruments as planned, as well as provisions for certain de minimis excess distributions. The 2014 amendments also revised the due date for capital plan and stress testing submissions. BHCs with consolidated asset of $50 billion or more are required to submit their 2016 capital plan to the FRB by April 5, 2016. 

In December of 2010 and revised in June of 2011, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (the &#147;Basel Committee&#148;) issued Basel III, a global regulatory framework, to enhance international capital standards. Basel III is designed to materially improve the quality of regulatory capital and introduces a new minimum common equity requirement. Basel III also raises the minimum capital requirements and introduces capital conservation and countercyclical buffers to induce banking organizations to hold capital in excess of regulatory minimums. In addition, Basel III establishes an international leverage standard for internationally active banks. 

In July of 2013, U.S. banking regulators approved the final enhanced regulatory capital rules (&#147;Final Capital Rules&#148;). The Final Capital Rules substantially revise the risk-based capital requirements applicable to BHCs and their depository institution subsidiaries as compared to the previous U.S. risk-based capital and leverage ratio rules, and thereby implement certain provisions of the DFA. 

The Final Capital Rules, among other things, (i) introduce a new capital measure &#147;Common Equity Tier I&#148; (&#147;CET1&#148;), (ii) specify that Tier I capital consists of CET1 and &#147;Additional Tier I capital&#148; instruments meeting specified requirements, (iii) define CET1 narrowly by requiring that most adjustments to regulatory capital measures be made to CET1 and not to the other components of capital and (iv) expand the scope of the adjustments as compared to existing regulations. CET1 capital consists of common stock instruments that meet the eligibility criteria in the final rules, including; common stock and related surplus, net of treasury stock and retained earnings, certain minority interests and accumulated other comprehensive income (&#147;AOCI&#148;), if elected. 

When fully phased-in on January 1, 2019, the Final Capital Rules require banking organizations to maintain (i) a minimum ratio of CET1 to risk-weighted assets of at least 4.5%, plus a 2.5% &#147;capital conservation buffer&#148; (which is added to the 4.5% CET1 ratio as that buffer is phased-in, effectively resulting in a minimum ratio of CET1 to risk-weighted assets of at least 7.0% upon full implementation), (ii) a minimum ratio of Tier I capital to risk-weighted assets of at least 6.0%, plus the capital conservation buffer (which is added to the 6.0% Tier I capital ratio as that buffer is phased-in, effectively resulting in a minimum Tier I capital ratio of 8.5% upon full implementation), (iii) a minimum ratio of total capital (that is, Tier I plus Tier 2 capital) to risk-weighted assets of at least 8.0%, plus the capital conservation buffer (which is added to the 8.0% total capital ratio as that buffer is phased-in, effectively resulting in a minimum total capital ratio of 10.5% upon full implementation) and (iv) a 

minimum Tier I leverage ratio of 4.0%, calculated as the ratio of Tier I capital to adjusted average consolidated assets. 

Banking institutions with a ratio of CET1 to risk-weighted assets above the minimum but below the conservation buffer will face limitations on the payment of dividends, common stock repurchases and discretionary cash payments to executive officers based on the amount of the shortfall. 

The Final Capital Rules provide for a number of deductions from and adjustments to CET1. These include, for example, the requirement that mortgage servicing rights, deferred tax assets dependent upon future taxable income and significant investments in non-consolidated financial entities be deducted from CET1 to the extent that any one such category exceeds 10% of CET1 or all such categories in the aggregate exceed 15% of CET1. Under the Final Capital Rules, the Bancorp made a one-time election (the &#147;Opt-out Election&#148;) to filter certain AOCI components, comparable to the treatment under the current general risk-based capital rule. 

The Final Capital Rules were effective for the Bancorp on January 1, 2015, subject to phase-in periods for certain of their components and other provisions. Although not currently required, Fifth Third Bancorp believes the aforementioned capital ratios under the revised Final Capital Rules meet or exceed the ratios on a fully phased-in basis. Refer to the Non-GAAP Financial Measures section of MD&#38;A for an estimated CET1 capital ratio under the Basel III Final Rule (fully phased-in) as of December 31, 2015. 

In February 2014, the FRB approved a final rule implementing several heightened prudential requirements. Beginning in 2015, the rules require BHCs with $10 billion or more in consolidated assets to establish risk committees and require BHCs with $50 billion or more in total consolidated assets to comply with enhanced liquidity and overall risk management standards, including company-run liquidity stress testing and a buffer of highly liquid assets based on projected funding needs for various time horizons, including 30, 60, and 90 days. These liquidity-related provisions are designed to be complementary, and in addition to the Final LCR Rule applicable to BHCs (as discussed below). Rules to implement two other components of the DFA&#146;s enhanced prudential standards &#150;single-counterparty credit limits and early remediation requirements&#150; are still under consideration by the FRB. Fifth Third has conducted a self evaluation of all the requirements within the enhanced prudential standards, and believe the necessary steps have been taken to ensure compliance with all requirements regarding liquidity, risk exposures, and early remediation. 

Liquidity Regulation 

Liquidity risk management and supervision have become increasingly important since the financial crisis. On September 3, 2014, the FRB and other banking regulators adopted final rules (&#147;Final LCR Rule&#148;) implementing a U.S. version of the Basel Committee&#146;s Liquidity Coverage Ratio requirement (&#147;LCR&#148;), which is designed to ensure that the banking entity maintains an adequate level of unencumbered high-quality liquid assets (&#147;HQLA&#148;) equal to the entity&#146;s expected net cash outflow for a 30-day time horizon (or, if greater, 25% of its expected total cash outflow) under an acute liquidity stress scenario. The rules apply in modified form to banking organizations, such as the Bancorp, having $50 billion or more in total consolidated assets but less than $250 billion. The LCR is the ratio of an institution&#146;s stock of HQLA (the numerator) over projected net cash out-flows over the 30-day horizon (the denominator), in each case, as calculated pursuant to the Final LCR Rule. 

&#160;

&#160;

175 Fifth Third Bancorp 

Once fully phased-in, a subject institution must maintain an LCR equal to at least 100% in order to satisfy this regulatory requirement. Only specific classes of assets, including U.S. Treasuries, other U.S. government obligations and agency mortgaged-backed securities, qualify under the rule as HQLA, with classes of assets deemed relatively less liquid and/or subject to greater degree of credit risk subject to certain haircuts and caps for purposes of calculating the numerator under the Final LCR Rule. The total net cash outflows amount is determined under the rule by applying certain hypothetical outflow and inflow rates, which reflect certain standardized stressed assumptions, against the balances of the banking organization&#146;s funding sources, obligations, transactions and assets over the 30-day stress period. Inflows that can be included to offset outflows are limited to 75% of outflows (which effectively means that banking organizations must hold high-quality liquid assets equal to 25% of outflows even if outflows perfectly match inflows over the stress period). The total net cash outflow amount for the modified LCR applicable to the Bancorp is capped at 70% of the outflow rate that applies to the full LCR. 

The initial compliance date for the modified LCR was January 31, 2016, with the requirement fully phased-in by January 2017. The LCR is a minimum requirement, and the FRB can impose additional liquidity requirements as a supervisory matter. 

In addition, the Bancorp is also subject to the liquidity-related requirements of the enhanced prudential supervision rules adopted by the FRB under Section 165 of the DFA, as described above. As of December 31, 2015, the Bancorp&#146;s estimated LCR complied with the fully phased-in LCR requirements which become effective in 2017 as outlined in the final rule. 

In addition to the LCR, the Basel III framework also included a second standard, referred to as the net stable funding ratio (&#147;NSFR&#148;), which is designed to promote more medium-and long-term funding of the assets and activities of banks over a one-year time horizon. Although the Basel Committee finalized its formulation of the NSFR in 2014, the U.S. banking agencies have not yet proposed an NSFR for application to U.S. banking organizations or addressed the scope of banking organizations to which it will apply. The Basel Committee&#146;s final NSFR document states that the NSFR applies to internationally active banks, as did its final LCR document as to that ratio. 

Privacy 

The FRB, FDIC and other bank regulatory agencies have adopted final guidelines (the &#147;Guidelines) for safeguarding confidential, personal customer information. The Guidelines require each financial institution, under the supervision and ongoing oversight of its Board of Directors or an appropriate committee thereof, to create, implement and maintain a comprehensive written information security program designed to ensure the security and confidentiality of customer information, protect against any anticipated threats or hazards to the security or integrity of such information and protect against unauthorized access to or use of such information that could result in substantial harm or inconvenience to any customer. The Bancorp has adopted a customer information security program that has been approved by the Bancorp&#146;s Board of Directors. 

The GLBA requires financial institutions to implement policies and procedures regarding the disclosure of nonpublic personal information about consumers to non-affiliated third parties. In general, the statute requires explanations to consumers on policies and procedures regarding the disclosure of such nonpublic personal information, and, except as otherwise required 

by law, prohibits disclosing such information except as provided in the banking subsidiary&#146;s policies and procedures. The Bancorp&#146;s banking subsidiary has implemented a privacy policy. 

Anti-Money Laundering 

The Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism Act of 2001 (the &#147;Patriot Act&#148;), designed to deny terrorists and others the ability to obtain access to the United States financial system, has significant implications for depository institutions, brokers, dealers and other businesses involved in the transfer of money. The Patriot Act, as implemented by various federal regulatory agencies, requires financial institutions, including the Bancorp and its subsidiaries, to implement policies and procedures or amend existing policies and procedures with respect to, among other matters, anti-money laundering, compliance, suspicious activity and currency transaction reporting and due diligence on customers. The Patriot Act and its underlying regulations also permit information sharing for counter-terrorist purposes between federal law enforcement agencies and financial institutions, as well as among financial institutions, subject to certain conditions, and require the FRB (and other federal banking agencies) to evaluate the effectiveness of an applicant in combating money laundering activities when considering applications filed under Section 3 of the BHCA or the Bank Merger Act. The Bancorp&#146;s Board has approved policies and procedures that are believed to be compliant with the Patriot Act. 

Exempt Brokerage Activities 

The GLBA amended the federal securities laws to eliminate the blanket exceptions that banks traditionally have had from the definition of &#147;broker&#148; and &#147;dealer.&#148; The GLBA also required that there be certain transactional activities that would not be &#147;brokerage&#148; activities, which banks could effect without having to register as a broker. In September 2007, the FRB and SEC approved Regulation R to govern bank securities activities. Various exemptions permit banks to conduct activities that would otherwise constitute brokerage activities under the securities laws. Those exemptions include conducting brokerage activities related to trust, fiduciary and similar services, certain services and also conducting a de minimis number of riskless principal transactions, certain asset-backed transactions and certain securities lending transactions. The Bancorp only conducts non-exempt brokerage activities through its affiliated registered broker-dealer. 

Financial Stability Oversight Council 

The DFA created the Financial Stability Oversight Council (&#147;FSOC&#148;), which is chaired by the Secretary of the Treasury and composed of expertise from various financial services regulators. The FSOC has responsibility for identifying risks and responding to emerging threats to financial stability. The Department of Treasury established an assessment schedule for the collection of fees from BHCs and foreign banks with at least $50 billion in assets to cover the expenses of the Office of Financial Research and FSOC. The fees would also cover certain expenses incurred by the FDIC. The Bancorp paid approximately $1 million for the assessment periods from October 1, 2014 through March 31, 2016. 

The FRB also adopted a final rule to implement an assessment provision under the DFA equal to the expense and the FRB estimates are necessary or appropriate to supervise and regulate BHCs with $50 billion or more in assets. The Bancorp paid approximately $3 million for the 2015 annual assessment period under the FRB&#146;s rule. 

&#160;

&#160;

176 Fifth Third Bancorp 

Executive Compensation 

The DFA provides for a say on pay for shareholders of all public companies. Under the DFA, each company must give its shareholders the opportunity to vote on the compensation of its executives at least once every three years. The DFA also adds disclosure and voting requirements for golden parachute compensation that is payable to named executive officers in connection with sale transactions. The SEC adopted rules finalizing these say on pay provisions in January 2011. 

Pursuant to the DFA, in June 2012, the SEC adopted a final rule directing the stock exchanges to prohibit listing classes of equity securities if a company&#146;s compensation committee members are not independent. The rule also provides that a company&#146;s compensation committee may only select a compensation consultant, legal counsel or other advisor after taking into consideration factors to be identified by the SEC that affect the independence of a compensation consultant, legal counsel or other advisor. 

The SEC is required under the DFA to issue rules obligating companies to disclose in proxy materials for annual meetings of shareholders information that shows the relationship between executive compensation actually paid to their named executive officers and their financial performance, taking into account any change in the value of the shares of a company&#146;s stock and dividends or distributions. The DFA also requires the SEC to propose rules requiring companies to disclose the ratio of the compensation of its chief executive officer to the median compensation of its employees. The SEC adopted final rules implementing the pay ratio provisions in August 2015. For a registrant with a fiscal year ending on December 31, such as Bancorp, the pay ratio will be required as part of its executive compensation disclosure in proxy statements or Form 10-Ks filed starting in 2018. 

The DFA provides that the SEC must issue rules directing the stock exchanges to prohibit listing any security of a company unless the company develops and implements a policy providing for disclosure of the policy of the company on incentive-based compensation that is based on financial information required to be reported under the securities laws and that, in the event the company is required to prepare an accounting restatement due to the material noncompliance of the company with any financial reporting requirement under the securities laws, the company will recover from any current or former executive officer of the company who received incentive-based compensation during the three-year period preceding the date on which the company is required to prepare the restatement based on the erroneous data, any exceptional compensation above what would have been paid under the restatement. 

The DFA requires the SEC to adopt a rule to require that each company disclose in the proxy materials for its annual meetings whether an employee or board member is permitted to purchase financial instruments designed to hedge or offset decreases in the market value of equity securities granted as compensation or otherwise held by the employee or board member. 

Corporate Governance 

The DFA clarifies that the SEC may, but is not required to promulgate rules that would require that a company&#146;s proxy 

materials include a nominee for the board of directors submitted by a shareholder. Although the SEC promulgated rules to accomplish this, these rules were invalidated by a federal appeals court decision. The SEC has said that they will not challenge the ruling, but has not ruled out the possibility that new rules could be proposed. 

The DFA requires stock exchanges to have rules prohibiting their members from voting securities that they do not beneficially own (unless they have received voting instructions from the beneficial owner) with respect to the election of a member of the board of directors (other than an uncontested election of directors of an investment company registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940), executive compensation or any other significant matter, as determined by the SEC by rule. 

Debit Card Interchange Fees 

The DFA provides for a set of new rules requiring that interchange transaction fees for electric debit transactions be &#147;reasonable&#148; and proportional to certain costs associated with processing the transactions. The FRB was given authority to, among other things, establish standards for assessing whether interchange fees are reasonable and proportional. In June 2011, the FRB issued a final rule establishing certain standards and prohibitions pursuant to the DFA, including establishing standards for debit card interchange fees and allowing for an upward adjustment if the issuer develops and implements policies and procedures reasonably designed to prevent fraud. The provisions regarding debit card interchange fees and the fraud adjustment became effective October 1, 2011. The rules impose requirements on the Bancorp and its banking subsidiary and may negatively impact our revenues and results of operations. On July 31, 2013, the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia issued an order granting summary judgment to the plaintiffs in a case challenging certain provisions of the FRB&#146;s rule concerning electronic debit card transaction fees and network exclusivity arrangements (the &#147;Current Rule&#148;) that were adopted to implement Section 1075 of the DFA, known as the Durbin Amendment. The Court held that, in adopting the Current Rule, the FRB violated the Durbin Amendment&#146;s provisions concerning which costs are allowed to be taken into account for purposes of setting fees that are reasonable and proportional to the costs incurred by the issuer and therefore the Current Rule&#146;s maximum permissible fees were too high. In addition, the Court held that the Current Rule&#146;s network non-exclusivity provisions concerning unaffiliated payment networks for debit cards also violated the Durbin Amendment. The Court vacated the Current Rule, but stayed its ruling to provide the FRB an opportunity to replace the invalidated portions. The FRB appealed this decision and on March 21, 2014, the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals reversed the District Court&#146;s grant of summary judgment and remanded the case for further proceedings in accordance with its opinion. The merchants have filed a petition for writ of certiorari to the U.S. Supreme Court. However, on January 20, 2015, the U.S. Supreme Court declined to hear an appeal of the Circuit Court reversal, thereby largely upholding the Current Rule and substantially reducing uncertainty surrounding debit card interchange fees the Bancorp is permitted to charge. Refer to the Noninterest Income subsection of the Statements of Income Analysis section of MD&#38;A for further information regarding the Bancorp&#146;s debit card interchange revenue. 

FDIC Matters and Resolution Planning 

Title II of the DFA creates an orderly liquidation process that the FDIC can employ for failing systemically important financial companies. 

&#160;

&#160;

177 Fifth Third Bancorp 

Additionally, the DFA also codifies many of the temporary changes that had already been implemented, such as permanently increasing the amount of deposit insurance to $250,000. 

In January 2012, the FDIC issued a final rule that requires an insured depository institution with $50 billion or more in total assets to submit periodic contingency plans to the FDIC for resolution in the event of the institution&#146;s failure. The Bancorp&#146;s banking subsidiary is subject to this rule and submitted its most recent resolution plan pursuant to this rule as of December 31, 2015. 

In October 2011, the FRB and FDIC issued a final rule implementing the resolution planning requirements of Section 165(d) of the DFA. The final rule requires BHCs with assets of $50 billion or more and nonbank financial firms designated by FSOC for supervision by the FRB to annually submit resolution plans to the FDIC and FRB. Each plan shall describe the company&#146;s strategy for rapid and orderly resolution in bankruptcy during times of financial distress. Under the final rule, companies must submit their initial resolution plans on a staggered basis. The Bancorp submitted its most recent resolution plan pursuant to this rule as of December 31, 2015. 

Proprietary Trading and Investing in Certain Funds 

The DFA sets forth new restrictions on banking organizations&#146; ability to engage in proprietary trading and sponsors of or invest in private equity and hedge funds (the &#147;Volcker Rule&#148;). The final regulations implementing the Volcker Rule (&#147;Final Rules&#148;) were adopted on December 10, 2013. The Volcker Rule generally prohibits any banking entity from (i) engaging in short-term proprietary trading for its own account and (ii) sponsoring or acquiring any ownership interest in a private equity or hedge fund. The Volcker Rule and Final Rules contain a number of exceptions. The Volcker Rule permits transactions in the securities of the U.S. government and its agencies, certain government-sponsored enterprises and states and their political subdivisions, as well as certain investments in small business investment companies. Transactions on behalf of customers and in connection with certain underwriting and market making activities, as well as risk-mitigating hedging activities and certain foreign banking activities are also permitted. The Final Rules exclude certain funds from the prohibition on fund ownership and sponsorship including wholly-owned subsidiaries, joint ventures, and acquisitions vehicles, as well as SEC registered investment companies. De minimis ownership of private equity or hedge funds is also permitted under the Final Rules. In addition to the general prohibition on sponsorship and investment, the Volcker rule contains additional requirements applicable to any private equity or hedge fund that is sponsored by the banking entity or for which it serves as investment manager or investment advisor. The Bancorp is required under the Final Rules to demonstrate that it has a Volcker Rule compliance program. In connection with the issuance of the Final Rules, the Federal Reserve extended the conformance period generally until July 21, 2015. The Final Rules became effective April 2014 and in December 2014, the FRB extended the compliance period through July 2016 for investments in and relationships with such covered funds that were in place prior to December 31, 2013, and indicated that it intends to further extend the compliance period for such investments through July 2017. Further, with respect to covered funds that are &#147;illiquid funds&#148;, the FRB has the authority to grant up to five more years for the Bancorp to conform to the final Volcker Rule with respect to such illiquid funds. 

Derivatives 

Title VII of the DFA includes measures to broaden the scope of derivative instruments subject to regulation by requiring clearing and exchange trading of certain derivatives, imposing new capital and margin requirements for certain market participants and imposing position limits on certain over-the-counter derivatives. Certain affiliates of the Bancorp that engage in significant swap activities may be required to register with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission or the SEC as a swap dealer, security-based swap dealer, major swap participant or major security-based swap participant. As with the Volcker Rule, the Bancorp will be required to demonstrate that it has a satisfactory compliance program to monitor the activities of any such entity registered under the new regulations. The ultimate impact of these derivatives regulations, and the time it will take to comply, continues to remain uncertain. The final regulations will impose additional operational and compliance costs on us and may require us to restructure certain businesses and negatively impact our revenues and results of operations. 

&#160;

&#160;

178 Fifth Third Bancorp 

