ITEM 1. BUSINESS

GENERAL INFORMATION

Gogo Baby, Inc. (the "Company") was incorporated on February 22, 2013. As of
December 31, 2015 the Company had a cash balance of $416. GoGo Baby may raise
additional capital either through debt or equity. No assurances can be given
that such efforts will be successful.

Pursuant to a recent registration statement on Form S-1, DTH International
Corporation, a shareholder of Gogo Baby Inc., has distributed to its
shareholders 1,000,000 shares of its GoGo Baby common stock. The distribution
was made to holders of record of DTH International Corporation common stock as
of the close of business on December 31, 2013, on the basis of one share of GoGo
Baby's common stock for each one share of DTH International Corporation common
stock held. The 1,000,000 shares of the common stock distributed to DTH
International Corporation shareholders represent 2.7% of all the issued and
outstanding shares of the common stock of the Company. DTH International
Corporation acquired 1,500,000 shares of the common stock of GoGo Baby on
November 14, 2013, for $1,000. After the distribution, a shareholder of GoGo
Baby controls 95% of the outstanding common stock.

                                       3
<PAGE>
The Company plans to attempt to raise additional equity capital by making an
equity offering to its new shareholders as soon as possible. New shareholders
are the DTH International Corporation shareholders who were shareholders on
December 31, 2013.

GoGo Baby, Inc. was incorporated to create toys for small children which attach
to car seats to amuse and entertain children while riding in a car.

Our proposed product allows the driver to wirelessly control entertainment toys
attached to infant and child car seats located behind the driver, therefore
allowing the driver to maintain attention on driving and avoiding distractions
caused by turning toys on while driving.

The Company has two operating objectives to its business plan.

OPERATING OBJECTIVE ONE

Our primary Operating Objective is to produce a prototype under its present
patent pending and to sell or license it to a large producer of either
children's car seats or toys. In order to do this the Company must:

     *    Phase 1. Produce a viable prototype to demonstrate to the potential
          car seat/toy manufacturers. The prototype will be designed and built
          by Mr. Hargrave. More that one prototype may need to be built before a
          satisfactory design is developed. A prototype can require up to a
          month to design and build with additional time expended to test.
          Material to build the prototype is estimated at less that $100.
     *    Phase 2. Contact a group of companies which could be potential
          purchasers' or licensees. The Company will develop a list of potential
          companies and will contact then by letter and telephone.
     *    Phase 3. Make presentations to these companies.
     *    Phase 4. Negotiate either a sale of the patent pending or a license.

To date the Company has built two prototypes and tested them. These are
engineering prototypes and are not manufacturing models. The Company is working
on additional prototypes which may be of sufficient viability to show to
potential car seat/toy manufacturers who may purchase or license the patent
pending. The Company believes it has sufficient capital resources the carry out
Operating Objective One, however development cannot always to assured. The
Company may face engineering or financial problems which it may not be able to
overcome.

If we are unsuccessful at selling or licensing our product, then we may consider
our second Operating Objective described below.

OPERATING OBJECTIVE TWO

If Operating Objective One is not successful the Company may consider direct
sales of the product on the internet. This would entail a large expense and the
Company might not be able to raise the required capital. At this time the
requirements are unknown and will be known only when this is considered. At that

                                       4
<PAGE>
time the company must consider complying with any required state or federal
regulations which were not needed when just selling or licensing the patent
pending.

At the present time the Company is not expending time or money on Operating
Objective Two and will not do so in the near future. It will be expending all
its efforts on Operating Objective One.

COMPETITIVE STRENGTHS & STRATEGY

The main competitive advantage of our product is ease of use. Our main strategy
will be to convince toy and car seat Companies as to the ease of use of using
our proposed product

BANKRUPTCY OR SIMILAR PROCEEDINGS

There has been no bankruptcy, receivership or similar proceeding.

REORGANIZATION, PURCHASE OR SALE OF ASSETS

There have been no material reclassifications, mergers, consolidations, or
purchase or sale of a significant amount of assets not in the ordinary course of
business except for the purchase of a provisional patent. On March 25, 2013 the
Company purchased the rights to a Provisional Patent (EFS 113937725) for a
remote control toy, for 50,000 shares of the Company's common stock, from Lesa
Marie Foster. Subsequent to that the Company has obtained a patent pending
(14049167).

COMPLIANCE WITH GOVERNMENT REGULATION

We will be required to comply with all regulations, rules and directives of
governmental authorities and agencies applicable to the normal course of
business in the United States and the State of California.

PATENTS, TRADEMARKS, FRANCHISES, CONCESSIONS, ROYALTY AGREEMENTS OR LABOR
CONTRACTS

On March 25, 2013 the inventor, Lesa Marie Foster, for 50,000 shares of the
Company's common stock assigned all her rights in a Provisional patent EFS
113937725 titled "Gogo Baby" to GoGo Baby, Inc. This Provisional patent was
valid until October 9, 2013. The Company used its provisional patent to obtain a
patent pending on this product. A short description: A toy on a car seat or
other support can be turned on and off from the driver's seat. This is a
wireless control and needs no wires running from the front seat to the back. The
Company has obtained a patent pending of its product.

NEED FOR GOVERNMENT APPROVAL FOR ITS PROPOSED PRODUCT

We are not required to apply for or have any government approval for Operating
Objective One. If the Company were to pursue Operating Objective Two the Company
may be required to seek Government approval regarding the safety and use of our
product.

                                       5
<PAGE>
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT COSTS DURING THE LAST TWO YEARS

Gogo Baby has not expended funds for research and development costs since
inception. Mr. Hargrave has developed and built all prototypes at his own
expense.

EMPLOYEES AND EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENTS

Our only employee is our sole officer, Mr. Hargrave who currently devotes 2
hours per week to company matters and after receiving funding he plans to devote
as much time as the board of directors determines is necessary to manage the
affairs of the company. There are no formal employment agreements between the
company and our current employee.

REPORTS TO SECURITY HOLDERS

We make available an annual report including audited financials on Form 10-K to
security holders. We file the necessary reports with the SEC pursuant to the
Exchange Act, including but not limited to, reports on Form 8-K, annual reports
on Form 10-K, and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q.

The public may read and copy any materials filed with the SEC at the SEC's
Public Reference Room at 100 F Street NE, Washington, DC 20549. The public may
obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the
SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports,
proxy and information statements, and other electronic information regarding the
Company and filed with the SEC at http://www.sec.gov.

