 ITEM 1 &#8211; BUSINESS

Currency amounts throughout this report are in thousands except per-share amounts and where noted.

Utah Medical Products, Inc. ("UTMD" or "the Company") is in the business of producing high quality cost&#8209; effective medical devices that are predominantly proprietary, disposable and for hospital use. Success depends on 1) recognizing needs of clinicians and patients, 2) rapidly designing or acquiring economical solutions that gain premarketing regulatory concurrence, 3) reliably producing products that meet those clinical needs, and then 4) selling through

&#160;

&#160; a)

UTMD's own direct channels into markets where the Company enjoys an established reputation and has a critical mass of sales and support resources, or

&#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; b)

relationships with other medical companies that have the resources to effectively distribute and support the Company's products.

UTMD's success in providing reliable solutions comes from its proven ability to integrate a number of engineering and technical disciplines in electronics, software, mechanical packaging, instrumentation, plastics processing and materials. The resulting differentiated devices represent significant incremental improvements in patient safety, clinical outcomes and/or total cost over preexisting clinical tools. UTMD's experience is that, in the case of labor&#8209;saving devices, the improvement in cost&#8209;effectiveness of clinical procedures also leads to an improvement in overall healthcare including lower risk of complications. UTMD markets a broad range of medical devices used in critical care areas, especially the neonatal intensive care unit (NICU), the labor and delivery (L&#38;D) department and the women's health center in hospitals, as well as products sold to outpatient clinics and physician's offices.

The opportunity to apply solutions to recognized needs results from an excellent core of practicing clinicians who introduce ideas to the Company, and key employees who are both clinical applications savvy and development engineering adept.

Domestically, UTMD's medical devices are sold directly to clinical end user facilities by the Company's own direct sales representatives and independent manufacturers' representatives. In addition, some of UTMD's devices are sold through specialty distributors, national hospital distribution companies and other medical device manufacturers. Internationally, products are sold directly to end users in the UK, Ireland and Australia, and through other medical device companies and through independent medical products distributors in many other countries. UTMD has representation globally in all major developed countries as well as many underdeveloped countries through several hundred distributors, 132 of which purchased at least five thousand dollars in UTMD medical devices during 2015.

UTMD was formed as a Utah corporation in 1978. UTMD sold stock to the public one time in 1982 for $1,750 (before offering costs of $321). Since 1992, UTMD has returned $114,418 in the form of share repurchases, and an additional $42,764 in cash dividends, to its public stockholders.

&#160;

Utah Medical Products Ltd., a wholly-owned subsidiary with manufacturing located in Ireland, was formed in 1995 to better serve UTMD's international customers. In 1997, UTMD purchased Columbia Medical, Inc. (CMI), a company specializing in silicone injection molding, assembly and marketing vacuum-assisted obstetrical delivery systems. In 1998, UTMD acquired the neonatal product line of Gesco International, a subsidiary of Bard Access Systems and C.R. Bard, Inc. In 2004, UTMD acquired Abcorp, Inc., its supplier of fetal monitoring belts. In 2011, UTMD purchased all of the common shares of Femcare Holdings Ltd (Femcare) of the United Kingdom, and its subsidiaries. The addition of Femcare provided product and distribution channel diversification and expansion. Sales of the products, or derivatives of the products, from the four acquisitions noted above, comprised 63% of UTMD's consolidated 2015 sales.

UTMD's corporate headquarters are located at 7043 South 300 West, Midvale, Utah 84047 USA. The corporate office telephone number is 01 (801) 566&#8209;1200. Ireland operations are located at Athlone Business and Technology Park, Athlone, County Westmeath, Ireland. The Ireland telephone number is 353 (90) 647-3932. United Kingdom operations are located at Stuart Court, Spursholt Place, Salisbury Road, Romsey, Hampshire SO51 6DJ, UK. The UK phone number is 44 (179) 452-5100. Australia operations are located at Unit 12, 5 Gladstone Road, Castle Hill, NSW 2154, Australia. The Australia phone number is 612 9045 4110.

PRODUCTS 

More complete descriptions including part numbers and pictures of UTMD's devices can be conveniently obtained at www.utahmed.com and www.femcare-nikomed.co.uk. 

Labor and Delivery/ Obstetrics :

Fetal Monitoring Accessories. 

Electronic Fetal Monitoring (EFM) is the standard of care in labor and delivery throughout the modern world. While not all pregnancies are high risk, fetal emergencies can occur suddenly in seemingly normal labors. The use of EFM allows conservation of nursing personnel and has virtually eliminated intrapartum fetal death. Accurate determination of contraction strength increases the safety of labor augmentation and reduces the need for Cesarean section for desultory labor. Infusion of fluid through an intrauterine catheter may cushion the umbilical cord and improve oxygenation of the fetus.

To assist the physician in controlling the effectiveness of administration of oxytocin and monitoring effects of amnioinfusion, contraction intensities, uterine resting tones and peak contraction pressures are closely monitored through the use of an invasive intrauterine pressure catheter system. In addition, to help identify the possible onset of fetal hypoxia, correlation of the changes in fetal heart rate (FHR) relative to the frequency and duration of contractions are often electronically monitored. UTMD's intrauterine pressure (IUP) catheters provide for clinician choices from a traditional fluid-filled system to INTRAN&#174; PLUS, for over twenty years the most widely accepted transducer-tipped system. In addition, adjunct toco belts and chart paper are provided by UTMD to provide a package of fetal monitoring supplies. UTMD's IUP catheters include:

&#183;

IUP&#8209;075 and UTMD's other custom fluid-filled clear catheter kits utilize a saline&#8209;filled catheter that is placed within the uterine cavity, connected to a separate external reusable or disposable transducer. This product package, utilizing double lumen catheters, was the traditional mode of intrauterine monitoring prior to the introduction of INTRAN. An intrauterine pressure change is transmitted through the fluid column to the external pressure transducer.

&#160; &#160; &#183;

Introduced in 1987, INTRAN was the first disposable intrauterine pressure catheter that placed the pressure transducer at the pressure source within the uterine cavity. This design eliminated the complicated setup of fluid&#8209;filled systems and provided more accurate pressure waveforms. INTRAN I was discontinued in 1995 in favor of the more widely preferred INTRAN PLUS, also covered by UTMD's original INTRAN patent.

&#160; &#160; &#183;

INTRAN PLUS was introduced in 1991. The INTRAN PLUS catheter combines the transducer tip concept of INTRAN I with a refined tip design, a zeroing switch that allows the clinician to reset the reference of the monitor, and a dedicated amnio lumen which provides access to the amniotic fluid environment which may be helpful in the diagnosis and intervention of certain fetal conditions. In 1996, a viewport enhancement which allows physicians to observe amniotic fluid in a closed system was added to INTRAN PLUS. In 1997, UTMD introduced several variations to allow user preferences in tip size, zero switch location and amniotic fluid visualization.

UTMD markets tocodynamometer belts, catheters and accessories as outlined above, but does not currently market electronic monitors, the capital equipment that processes the electrical signals. In addition to products currently offered, UTMD intends to continue to investigate and introduce tools that enhance fetal monitoring techniques.

Vacuum-Assisted Delivery Systems (VAD). 

UTMD's VAD Systems include CMI&#174; patented soft silicone bell-shaped birthing cups and reusable hand-held vacuum pumps which UTMD believes are the safest products available for use in vacuum-assisted operative deliveries. UTMD's soft silicone cup is a bell-shaped cup design that should be preferred for fetal well-being in low or outlet fetal stations with occiput anterior presentations, which represent more than 90% of the cases where VAD is indicated. Operative vaginal deliveries using forceps or vacuum-assisted delivery systems provide knowledgeable physicians with a trial vaginal operative delivery prior to a more invasive C-section intervention. Although there are risks associated with vaginal operative deliveries which may currently represent 3-4% of all U.S. hospital births, the procedures are generally regarded as safer long term for the mother, and at least as safe for the fetus, as abdominal (Cesarean) delivery in comparable clinical situations. UTMD's bell-shaped soft silicone TENDER TOUCH&#174; cups enjoy a low reported complication rate compared to other vacuum cup designs, as evidenced by the FDA Medical Device Reporting System (MAUDE) which publicly lists serious injuries reported by hospitals using specific brand names of products.

Other Labor &#38; Delivery Tools. 

AROM-COT&#8482; is a finger cover with a patented prong design to rupture maternal membranes with less patient pain and anxiety. MUC-X is an aspiration device used immediately after birth to clear neonatal respiratory passages and reduce exposure to potential infections. CORDGUARD&#174; is a product which unifies the multiple steps of clamping the neonate's cord close to the umbilicus, severing the cord without splattering blood, drawing a clean cord blood sample and assisting in the removal of the placenta. CORDGUARD's sharpless, closed system reduces the risk of exposure to potentially infected blood, and consequently reduces the high cost of exposure treatment under OSHA and CDC guidelines. In addition, CORDGUARD facilitates obtaining neonatal blood that is otherwise hard to obtain safely and cleanly. BT-CATH&#174; is a patented uterine balloon tamponade catheter for controlling severe postpartum hemorrhage. Its benefits include the ease of rapid deployment and ability to monitor further bleeding after the tamponade has been placed. Abcorp toco belts and straps for fetal monitoring by an external tocodynamometer are provided in latex-free form in several configurations. In 2014, UTMD extended the product line to include Bari-Belts&#8482; and Bari-Bands&#8482;, a series of abdominal belts designed specifically for bariatric patients and bands to accommodate patients of all shapes and sizes. In 2015, UTMD obtained FDA clearance to market a new mechanical cervical ripening device, the CVX-RIPE&#8482; catheter, designed to mechanically improve the favorability of the cervix of pregnant patients at term gestation, for whom induction of labor is medically indicated. The CVX-Ripe utilizes two adjacent conical silicone balloons, similar to the shape of an hourglass. This design is intended to allow the clinician to gently apply internal pressure to the cervical canal, as well as both the internal and external os, to reduce the time needed to allow induction as well as the total time to achieve a successful vaginal delivery. 

Neonatal Intensive Care :

DISPOSA-HOOD&#8482; 

The DISPOSA-HOOD is an infant respiratory hood that is used in the NICU to administer oxygen to neonates and flush CO 2 (carbon dioxide) while maintaining a neutral thermal environment (NTE) critical to proper physiologic responses. The DISPOSA-HOOD, placed over the infant's head, incorporates a round diffusor connection specifically designed to disperse the incoming gases along the inner surfaces of the hood, rather than allowing them to blow directly on the infant's head. The design allows more precise FIO 2 (fractional inspired oxygen) control, minimizes convective heat loss from the head, provides optimum flows for elimination of CO 2 by ventilation and allows for humidification. DISPOSA-HOOD, in contrast to an incubator, allows for excellent access to and visualization of the underdeveloped infant. Because it is a disposable product, it also prevents potential cross&#8209;contamination that might occur with an incubator. Less invasive than nasal cannulae, Disposa-Hood avoids potential damage to fragile premature neonatal nasal/ orotracheal tissues, as well as facial tissues as cannulae are often secured with tape. A nasal cannula by itself cannot provide a NTE.

DELTRAN&#174; PLUS 

UTMD's DELTRAN blood pressure monitoring system has been adapted specifically for use in the NICU. The streamlined version eliminates needles used for blood sampling, avoids the loss of scarce neonatal blood volume and provides a closed system that reduces the risk of infection. The system features excellent visualization of clearing volume, and one-handed use. UTMD continues its customization of Deltran kits for specific hospital applications.

GESCO&#174; 

In the third quarter of 1998, UTMD acquired the neonatal product line of Gesco International. GESCO, best known for optimally biocompatible silicone catheters, gained an early distinctive reputation for its focus on the special developmental needs of tiny, critically-ill babies.

A class of catheters called umbilical vessel catheters (UVCs) are specially designed for administering vital medications and fluids immediately following birth through the infant's umbilical vessel into the inferior vena cava. Because of the neonate's small size and lack of vascular development, there is no better access to vital organs. The catheters are also called umbilical artery catheters (UACs) when placed in one of the umbilical arteries to measure blood pressure or monitor metabolic processes through blood analysis. In developing its UMBILI-CATH&#8482; product line, Gesco pioneered the use of soft, biocompatible silicone catheters, helping to reduce the number of insertions required as well as other complications associated with invasive applications. UTMD has expanded the UVC product line to include catheters made from a proprietary thermosensitive polyurethane (Tecoflex&#174;) that offers many of the flexibility and biocompatibility advantages of silicone after insertion, with the greater rigidity of polyurethane preferred by many clinicians for ease of insertion. In addition, GESCO provides a convenient catheterization procedure tray of instruments and supplies necessary to place UVC catheters, as well as perform other similar procedures.

The primary distinction of GESCO products is that they were developed with the special needs of the neonate in mind, not just cut-down or smaller versions of adult devices. For example, in the case of invasive catheters, the introducer, the soft rounded distal tip, mode of securing to the patient after insertion to avoid migration, luer-locking hub with minimal dead space, number of lumens, catheter radiopaque striping for visualization, variations in catheter lengths and diameters and special packaging are all features specially designed for neonates. UTMD continues to modify product features to incorporate current neonatal nurse practitioner preferences.

The soft, biocompatible silicone catheter concept had important advantages in other applications including peripherally inserted central venous catheters (PICC lines), enteral feeding tubes, urinary drainage catheters and chest drainage tubes. GESCO developed and marketed initial versions of all of these neonatal products. In order to keep pace with the trend of caring for smaller babies, UTMD has added smaller diameter versions of its URI-CATH&#174; and NUTRI-CATH&#174; products. At the request of customers who prefer a stiffer catheter for insertion, UTMD added a Tecoflex polyurethane oral-connection only Nutri-Cath series in 2009.

In 2000, UTMD gained FDA premarketing clearance of a PICC family of products specifically designed to minimize trauma to the critically ill neonate, named PICC-NATE&#174;. The PICC-NATE product line was designed with the input of experienced neonatal nurse practitioners for use as a long-term indwelling catheter system for single-use, therapeutic central venous infusion of drug solutions, blood products or other fluids and for blood sampling. The soft, strong silicone PICC-Nate comes in two diameter sizes and two hub configurations. In early 2003, UTMD added a Tecoflex polyurethane version that offers many of the flexibility and biocompatibility advantages of silicone after insertion, with the greater rigidity of polyurethane preferred by many clinicians for insertion.

In 2006, UTMD developed a unique enteral feeding-only extension set named NUTRI-LOK&#174; that addresses important safety risks in the NICU &#8211; inadvertent connections with IV lines and inadvertent disconnections of components of the system spanning the dispensing container through the infusion catheter. In October 2007, UTMD added dispensing syringes with interlocking connectors to its NUTRI-CATH/NUTRI-LOK family of enteral feeding devices. In 2008, UTMD expanded the NUTRI-LOK system with specialty extension sets for GI tubes and for continuous connection to a fluid pump. In 2009, UTMD added a Kangaroo bag for larger feeds along with other NUTRI-LOK accessories. In 2011, UTMD added variations in adapters and extension sets used with NUTRI-CATH. Recognizing the important need to prevent misadministration of enteral feeding or medication by the wrong route, the FDA in February 2015 released its final guidance, "Safety Considerations to Mitigate the Risks of Misconnections with Small Bore Connectors Intended for Enteral Applications." The guidance includes compliance with ISO 80369-3 standard connectors. This new standard was released to create a universal connection that is not compatible with a luer connection or any other type of small bore medical connector. In 2016, UTMD will introduce a completely revamped enteral feeding family of devices to incorporate ENFit&#8482; ISO 80369-3 compliant connectors. These purple connectors will replace the current Nutri-Lok connectors on catheters and extension sets. UTMD will also distribute ENFit oral syringes.

In 2006, UTMD completed the replacement of all DEHP plasticizer PVC materials in its Gesco product line that may come in contact with neonatal patients, addressing another safety concern related specifically to the possible maldevelopment of male neonates.

Other GESCO specialty products include a disposable peritoneal dialysis (PD) set that is a pre-assembled, sterile, closed system, called DIALY-NATE&#174;. PD is an ideal method to aid compromised renal function in a neonate because critically-ill pediatric patients may not have sufficient blood volume to support hemodialysis. DIALY-NATE is provided in a form that allows timely PD implementation. In 2008, UTMD added a DIALY-NATE version that can be used with a variety of fluid warming systems. In 2010, UTMD introduced a bifurcated system that allows for higher volume manual PD applications. In 2013, additional custom configurations were added to satisfy specific clinical preferences.

Other specialty NICU devices include a silicone oral protection device used to prevent palatal soft tissue injury by orotracheal tubes, called PALA-NATE&#174;; a pre-assembled, closed urinary drainage system, called URI-CATH&#174;, which reduces risk of infection and valuable nursing time, and a lumbar sampling kit with a tiny, specially-beveled needle for obtaining cerebral spinal fluid samples, called MYELO-NATE&#174;.

GESCO's first patented product, HEMO-NATE&#174;, is a disposable filter designed to remove microaggregates from stored blood prior to transfusion into a neonate where any deficiency can have an overwhelmingly negative impact on a neonate's chances for survival, given an under-developed vasculature and small total blood volume. In 2001, UTMD introduced a new filter and an improved blood bag spike for HEMO-NATE, and a needleless version.

UTMD expects to continue to improve and expand its neonatal product line, seeking to reinforce a reputation as having the most developmentally-friendly specialty products available for the NICU.

Gynecology /Urology /Electrosurgery :

LETZ&#174; System 

The LETZ System (loop excision of the transformation zone) is used to excise cervical intraepithelial neoplasia (CIN) and other lower genital tract lesions related to human papilloma virus (HPV) infections. The electrosurgery procedure with hemostasis has become the standard of care for HPV cervical infection treatment, replacing cold knife scalpel, laser and cryotherapy procedural approaches because it is economical, safe, effective, quick and easy to perform, has fewer potential side effects and requires little physician training. A major incentive for performing the LETZ procedure is that it may be performed using local anesthetic in a physician's office, eliminating the time and expense of hospital or surgical center admittance. Most importantly clinically, in contrast to laser (tissue ablation) and cryotherapy (freezing of tissue), LETZ provides a fine tissue specimen for pathological assessment.

UTMD's LETZ System includes disposable electrodes, the FINESSE&#174; electrosurgical generator and other miscellaneous components. A disposable loop electrode used to excise the tissue specimen is a pencil&#8209;like tube with a thin tungsten wire loop attached. The loop is available in varying sizes and includes a Safe&#8209;T&#8209;Gauge&#174; that can be positioned so the physician can accurately monitor and control the amount of tissue being excised. Excising too much tissue can compromise fertility and result in premature birth. UTMD continues to augment its specialty electrodes. For example, the Company introduced a conization electrode for deep endocervical disease called C-LETZ&#174;, designed to limit the removal of healthy tissue margins that might compromise adequate cervical function. UTMD also will continue to provide other components to augment the use of its market-leading specialty electrodes with other manufacturers' electrosurgical generators.

After more than 20 years on the market, in 2012 UTMD completed a significant redesign, and achieved certification to the latest EN 60601 international safety standards, for a FINESSE+ electrosurgical generator. The Finesse+ design includes dispersive pad contact monitoring for improved patient safety, improved circuitry for computer controlled-output that provides a precise tissue specimen for histopathology, a more efficient output stage resulting in less heat generation and longer electronic component life, an update to electronic components which reduces the number of required components and increases service life, and an easy change internal filter for integral smoke evacuation, a unique feature of Finesse. UTMD obtained FDA premarketing clearance for FINESSE+ in January 2013.

FINESSE+ Generator; Specialty Loop, Ball, and Needle Electrodes; FILTRESSE&#174; Evacuator; Other Specialty Electrodes; Other UTMD Supplies and Gynecologic Tools; Femcare Trocars and Cannulae; and Femcare Laparoscopic Instruments and accessories. 

UTMD has FDA clearance to market its electrosurgical system and tools for use in general surgery applications, including dermatology, plastic surgery and otolaryngology. In 2002, UTMD introduced a product line of ultra-fine tipped microdissection needles, called OptiMicro&#8482; Needles. These electrosurgical needles are particularly useful in small-scale plastic and reconstructive surgery applications. In 2009, UTMD added extended length OptiMicro needle versions useful in certain head and neck procedures. FILTRESSE is a stand-alone surgical smoke filtration system that combines high filtration efficiency, low cost and convenient use in a surgical office setting. Other electrosurgery tools and accessories include disposable electrosurgical pens, dispersive pads, footswitches, filter packs, speculums, retractors, forceps, tenacula and hooks. UTMD acquired the distribution rights to a unique reusable four-way expander system which facilitates access to, and visualization of, the cervix, eliminating the need for less effective specula and lateral retractors. In 2007, UTMD developed OptiSpec&#174;, a patented ultra-bright light for cervical visualization without physician distraction during exams, pap smears and other vaginal procedures requiring direct cervical visualization without the use of a colposcope. In 2011, UTMD acquired Femcare's single patient use trocars and cannulae available in shielded, bladeless, optical bladeless, blunt and thoracic designs. In addition, UTMD acquired Femcare's laparoscopic instrument range and accessories which includes instruments suitable for all routine laparoscopic procedures requiring dissection, cutting, grasping and coagulation, e.g., monopolar scissors, various grasping forceps, dissecting forceps, L and J hooks, spatulae, Veress needles, suction and irrigation tubing, insufflation tubing and connectors, pressure infusor bags and control valves.

EPITOME&#174; 

EPITOME is a patented electrosurgical scalpel which delivers precise performance in surgical incision and excision with hemostasis while minimizing thermal side effects. Where rapid yet precise dissection of dense tissue is necessary, such as in mammaplasty or abdominoplasty, UTMD believes that EPITOME has no close substitute. Furthermore, an independent study concludes that the EPITOME scalpel provides a significant improvement over other devices in wound healing. EPITOME allows a rapid incision without countertraction, yielding limited morbidity, less post-surgical pain and cosmetically superior results. EPITOME is useful where minimization of thermal tissue injury is important but control of bleeding needed. A bendable version of EPITOME with a smaller active electrode was introduced in 1998. Designed to significantly reduce the chance of tissue burns due to inadvertent electrode contact and where a smaller, bent scalpel tip is needed, the bendable EPITOME is of particular value, e.g., to thoracic surgeons in harvesting the internal mammary artery during coronary artery bypass surgery, as well as to otolaryngologists for tonsillectomies or uvulopalatoplasties.

FILSHIE CLIP System 

UTMD acquired the Filshie Clip System as part of its acquisition of Femcare in March 2011. In 2015, sales of Filshie Clips, applicators and accessories represented 35% of UTMD's total U.S. Dollar denominated sales. The Filshie Clip is a female surgical contraception device used for tubal ligation, i.e., placed on the fallopian tubes, generally laparoscopically but also post partum during a C-Section procedure. The Filshie Clip, in use for over 30 years, is at least as effective as the newest occlusive devices and much more effective than the more traditional tubal ligation sterilization approaches, is as easy or easier to place as any of the traditional techniques and much easier than the newer hysteroscopic devices, is safer than electrocautery and the newer hysteroscopic devices when placed by less than well-trained and skilled clinicians, and has a substantially higher probability of reversibility when compared to all of the other approaches for women who later decide they may like to get pregnant.

There are several tubal ligation methods with varying degrees of effectiveness, safety and opportunity to be reversed. The traditional tubal ligation approach, informally known as "getting one's tubes tied", is a form of female sterilization in which the fallopian tubes are severed and sealed, permanently occluded or pinched shut. If the sterilization procedure is carried out postpartum, the Pomeroy technique is often adopted. During this procedure a small loop of the fallopian tube is tied with a suture and the top section removed by cutting. A traditional method for interval sterilization is with the use of Bipolar Cautery (electrocautery). With this method, a current flows between the tips of forceps when applied to the fallopian tube. This current then "burns" a portion of the fallopian tube shut. Although these common methods are relatively easy to perform, the failure rate of these methods, defined as the percentage of patients having undergone the procedure who subsequently get pregnant, has been reported to be about 3%. The Filshie Clip, which can be used at either interval or post-partum, is at least as easy to use and has a failure rate an order of magnitude less than Bipolar Cautery and the Pomeroy technique.

Apart from Bipolar Cautery and the Pomeroy technique, other mechanical devices are the Falope Ring (or Yoon Ring) and the Hulka Clip. Both these older methods have a higher failure rate than the Filshie Clip, are associated with more post-operative pain and have generally been abandoned in favor of other sterilization techniques. Sterilization carried out with the Falope Ring also reduces the chances of a successful reversal being carried out.

In more recent years, hysteroscopic sterilization has been introduced as an alternative to laparoscopic tubal ligation. The competing device is the ESSURE by Conceptus, Inc. (acquired by Bayer AG in 2013). The device, considered a permanent implant, is inserted transvaginally. Bayer reports that Essure is similar to the Filshie Clip in its sterilization effectiveness as measured after successful application, but Essure's "typical" effectiveness including reported misapplication rate has been documented to be substantially lower. Filshie Clips are immediately effective upon application and do not require follow-up physician visits. Essure takes some time after placement to become effective, requiring interim alternative contraception and an additional subsequent procedure to confirm that the tubes are blocked. Essure is not reversible (allowing later pregnancy) without significant surgical intervention and post-operative patient pain is reportedly significantly greater, than using Filshie Clips.

The U.S. FDA released the Filshie Clip for marketing in 1996 after a Femcare PMA submission. Now the Filshie Clip is effectively marketed in the U.S. through an exclusive distribution agreement with CooperSurgical Inc. (CSI). In 2015, sales to CSI for distribution in the U.S. were up 12% compared to 2014, representing 30% of total Filshie Clip System sales. Outside the U.S., Femcare has obtained numerous regulatory approvals for the Filshie Clip System, which is being sold directly by UTMD to clinicians in Ireland, the U.K. and Australia and through specialty distributors in many other countries.

PATHFINDER PLUS&#8482; 

PATHFINDER PLUS is a proprietary endoscopic irrigation device that allows a uro/gyn surgeon to precisely irrigate, clearing the visual field, with the same hand that controls the endoscope, eliminating the need for a separate assistant to irrigate without visualization. An example of a procedure where Pathfinder has found success is ureteroscopic stone ablation.

SUPRAPUBIC CATHETERIZATION 

The Add-a-Cath introducer is a Femcare device designed for easy suprapubic introduction of a catheter for bladder drainage. Suprapubic catheterization is generally well-recognized as a drainage method with fewer complications than with urethral catheterization. In 2013, UTMD introduced suprapubic catheterization procedure kits featuring the Add-a-Cath introducer, which UTMD now distributes directly to end users in the U.S. under the trade name "Supra-Foley".

HOLMIUM LASER FIBRES 

As part of its urology product line, Femcare distributes reusable and single patient use laser energy delivery devices which can dependably transmit both the Holmium and Nd:YAG wavelengths.

LIBERTY&#174; System 

LIBERTY is a device for the conservative treatment and effective control of urinary incontinence in women. UTMD believes that LIBERTY is the easiest-to-use, most cost effective incontinence treatment available that yields a therapeutic effect, not just a cover-up. LIBERTY consists of a battery operated electrical stimulation unit and an intravaginal electrode probe. This physiotherapy technique, which can be done in the privacy of the home, involves passive strengthening of the periurethral muscles. Pulsed, low voltage, high frequency current is applied primarily to the pudendal neuromuscular tissue causing the pelvic area muscles to contract, leading to better muscle tone. Because electrical stimulation has no known adverse side effects, LIBERTY provides women suffering from mild to moderate incontinence an effective, lower cost and lower risk alternative to more traumatic treatments such as surgery and drug therapy.

ENDOCURETTE &#8482; 

In cooperation with Mayo Clinic, UTMD developed an advanced curette for uterine endometrial tissue sampling in the doctor's office. The sampling procedure is intended primarily to rule out precancer or cancerous change of the uterus in premenopausal women with abnormal uterine bleeding, or women with postmenopausal bleeding. The device is part of a class of catheters designed to be used without dilatation of the cervix and without general anesthetic. The inherent weakness of this type of device, which is related to its small size, is that it may not remove enough tissue of the endometrium for an accurate histologic assessment, in contrast to a more invasive D&#38;C hospital procedure. The tip of the EndoCurette was specially designed to obtain a more thorough tissue specimen without the need for dilatation, and without an increase in patient discomfort.

TVUS/HSG-Cath&#8482; 

In order to further assess persistent abnormal or dysfunctional uterine bleeding and other suspected abnormalities of the uterus, or as a next step after endometrial tissue sampling with an EndoCurette, gynecologists may utilize transvaginal ultrasound imaging of the uterus. UTMD's TVUS/HSG-Cath was designed and released for marketing in 2007 to provide effective cervical occlusion that allows distention of the uterus to differentiate anterior and posterior endometrium, among other irregularities, together with minimal visual obstruction of the uterus near the internal os. In addition, the TVUS/HSG-Cath may be used in hysterosalpingography radiographic procedures to assess the patency of fallopian tubes. A related device acquired in 2011 is Femcare's Spackman Style uterine cannula designed for the manipulation of the uterus and injection of fluid to test the patency of the fallopian tubes.

LUMIN&#174; 

LUMIN&#174; is a gynecological tool developed by UTMD for reliably and safely manipulating the uterus in laparoscopic procedures. LUMIN combines the strength, range of motion and versatility of the higher end reusable instruments with the lower cost and cleanliness of the inexpensive less functional disposable instruments presently on the market, while at the same time reducing the number of tools needed to move and secure the uterus.

Blood Pressure Monitoring: 

DELTRAN&#174; Disposable Pressure Transducer (DPT) 

In pressure monitoring, a transducer is used to convert physiological (mechanical) pressure into an electrical signal that is displayed on electronic monitoring equipment. UTMD developed and is now distributing its disposable transducer as a stand&#8209;alone product, and as a component in sterile blood pressure monitoring kits through direct representatives and other medical companies in the U.S., as well as independent distributors and other medical device companies internationally.

The Company believes that the DELTRAN DPT which it designed over thirty years ago and currently manufactures, remains the standard in terms of accuracy, reliability and ease of use. Introduced in 1998, the DELTRAN PLUS provides a closed system for blood sampling, without the use of needles, reducing the risk of an unwanted infection for both the patient and the practitioner. In 2009, in conjunction with its other NICU devices, UTMD continued to configure neonatal Deltran custom kits which satisfy the special needs of conserving limited blood volume and protecting the neonate from infection.

Pressure Monitoring Accessories, Components and Other Molded Parts. 

Components included in blood pressure monitoring kit configurations include flush devices, stopcocks, fluid administration sets, caps, pressure tubing, interface cables and organizers. The Company sells similar components designed for other medical device company applications which incorporate UTMD's technologies and designs. DELTA-CAL&#8482; is a calibration device used to check proper functioning of an arterial pressure system. In addition, UTMD sells plastic molded parts on a subcontract basis to a number of medical and non-medical device companies. In addition, partly as a result of its excellent quality system and ISO13485 certification, UTMD performs subcontract assembly, testing and packaging of components that are proprietary to other medical device firms. UTMD believes that this practice helps better utilize its investment in fixed plant and equipment, and spreads overhead costs resulting in better profit margins on finished device sales.

MARKETING and COMPETITION 

UTMD divides its sales into "domestic" U.S. sales and "international" sales, which are finished device and component sales to entities outside the U.S.

1) Domestic sales .

For domestic sales to end-users of finished devices, marketing efforts are complex and fragmented. UTMD's marketing focus is with clinicians who take responsibility for obtaining optimal patient care outcomes, primarily through clinical meetings, trade shows and the Internet. In competitive bidding processes, UTMD works primarily with administrators who are responsible for hospital purchasing decisions.

UTMD competes primarily on the basis of improved patient safety and reliable device performance in the hands of a trained clinician. A number of UTMD's devices are strong brands because they are well-recognized by clinicians as clinically different and have been in use for decades. UTMD's broad offering of finished devices is comprised of dozens of specialty device types. Although there may be only a few competitors for each type, in the aggregate UTMD has dozens of U.S. medical device competitors. There are at least two competitors with significant market share for each of UTMD's device types.

As a general rule, because of UTMD's differences in design and reliability, competitors' devices represent substitutes rather than equivalent devices. The Company's primary marketing challenge is to keep its customers focused on those differences and their important clinical benefits. In recent years, UTMD's access to U.S. hospital clinicians has become increasingly restricted and the involvement of clinicians in medical device purchasing decisions, which is critical to the Company's success, has declined. To the degree that U.S. hospitals become less focused on patient safety and clinical outcomes and more on out-of-pocket unit price, UTMD's competitive position weakens.

In 2015, UTMD sold components and finished devices to 162 other companies in the U.S. (OEM sales). For over 37 years, the Company has utilized its manufacturing capabilities and engineering know-how to produce high quality components and finished devices for other companies. For U.S. companies which wish to distribute their products outside the U.S., UTMD's maintenance of certification to current ISO 13485 medical device quality standards is an important benefit. UTMD's website, which lists its capabilities, is often the basis for contacts for new OEM work.

Although there are other manufacturers in the U.S. with similar manufacturing capabilities, UTMD's primary competition comes from East Europe, India and China device component manufacturers which have much lower wage rate structures. To the extent that the U.S. Dollar (USD) gains strength in any period of time against foreign currencies, UTMD's ability to be cost-competitive with foreign manufacturers is additionally diminished.

2) International sales .

After the years 2011-2014 in which international sales represented a majority of consolidated total USD sales, international sales slipped to 49% in 2015 due to the strength of the USD. The changes in foreign currency exchange (FX) rates in 2015 reduced UTMD's foreign currency sales by $1,635 (12%). Prior to 2011, with only a few exceptions, UTMD's international sales were to other medical device companies and distributors, not to clinical end user facilities. After the acquisition of Femcare in 2011, UTMD began a transition to selling direct to end user facilities in the UK, Australia and Ireland, which has had a positive impact on revenues as well as gross profit margins. UTMD's website provides information that frequently results in unsolicited contacts from foreign entities. The Company has hundreds of competitors worldwide.

DISTRIBUTION 

An important success factor in the current U.S. healthcare industry is access to customers. Although the U.S. hospital supplier environment has been consolidating as a result of group purchasing organizations (GPOs), or their equivalents, it is UTMD's belief that U.S. hospitals are not currently saving costs under GPO contracts when it comes to specialty medical devices that can reduce complications and unwanted side effects.

In addition, the longer term overall cost of care in the U.S. will continue to increase, with quality of care lower, as innovative suppliers are excluded from participating in the marketplace as a result of unnecessary regulatory and other purely administrative burdens. The length of time and number of administrative steps required in evaluating new products for use in hospitals has grown substantially in recent years. As a potential negative factor to future performance, as UTMD introduces new products it believes are safer and more effective, it may find itself excluded from certain customers because of the existence of long term supply agreements for existing products. UTMD may also be unable to establish viable relationships with other medical device companies that do have access to users but lack an interest in the Company's approach or demand too great a financial or administrative burden.

When U.S. hospital customers request it, UTMD provides its products through national distribution companies, also known as Med/Surg distributors. Sales to Med/Surg distributors currently comprise about 14% of total domestic direct sales (excluding Filshie Clip sales to CSI).

In the U.S., Ireland, UK and Australia, UTMD sells its products through its own directly employed sales force and through selective independent manufacturer representatives. Direct sales representatives focus on applications for UTMD devices where customer training and support may be important. The direct sales force is comprised both of "outside" representatives operating remotely in specific geographic areas, and "inside" representatives who operate primarily by telephone from corporate offices. Direct representatives are trained to understand the medical procedures being performed within UTMD's clinical focus. Through the use of its one-on-one contacts with physicians and other clinical practitioners directly involved in patient care, the direct sales force positions UTMD to gain market leadership with specific solutions to clinical problems. In addition to its direct representatives, UTMD utilizes third party consulting clinical specialists to augment its customer training programs.

Additionally, UTMD sells component parts as well as finished devices to other companies for use with their product lines. This OEM distribution channel effort is simply maximizing utilization of manufacturing capabilities that are otherwise needed for UTMD's primary business, and does not compete with or dilute UTMD's direct distribution and marketing programs.

Internationally, the Company distributes directly to end user facilities in the UK, Ireland and Australia, and sells to over 300 regional distributors and OEMs (other medical device manufacturers and/or distributors) in over a hundred countries. Ten percent of UTMD's independent international distributors represented 81% of UTMD's indirect international sales in the years of 2013 - 2015.

&#160;

UTMD's Internet website www.utahmed.com is a frequent conduit for international customer inquiries.

NEW PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT 

New product development has been a key ingredient to UTMD's market identity. Product development takes several interrelated forms: 1) improvements, enhancements and extensions of current product lines in response to clinical needs or clinician requests, 2) introduction of new or augmented devices that represent a significant improvement in safety, effectiveness and/or cost of care, and 3) acquisitions of products or technology from others. Manufacturing process development is an equally important aspect that cannot be separated from the successful design and development of devices.

Because of UTMD's reputation as a focused product developer, its financial strength and its established clinician user base, it enjoys a substantial inflow of new product development ideas. Internal development, joint development, product acquisitions and licensing arrangements are all included as viable options in the investigation of opportunities. Only a small percentage of ideas survive feasibility screening. For internal development purposes, projects are assigned to a project manager who assembles an interdisciplinary, cross-functional development team. The team's objective is to have a clinically acceptable, manufacturable and regulatory-released product ready for marketing by a specific date. Approximately ten projects on the average, depending on the level of resources required, are underway at UTMD at any given time. More than 50% of assigned projects do not succeed in attaining a product that meets all of the Company's criteria. In particular, this includes a product that is highly reliable, easy to use, cost-effective, safe, useful and differentiated from the competition. Once a product is developed, tooled, fully tested and cleared for marketing by the applicable regulatory entity(ies) in the U.S. and/or other countries, there remains a reasonable probability it cannot be successfully marketed for any number of reasons, not the least of which is being beaten to the market by a competitor with a better solution, or not having access to users because of limitations in marketing and distribution resources or exclusionary contracts of GPOs.

UTMD's current product and process development projects are in the following areas: 1) augmentation and internal manufacturing of Femcare devices acquired in 2011, 2) neonatal intensive care, 3) specialized procedures for the assessment and treatment of cervical/uterine disease, 4) labor and delivery procedures, and 5) product and process development for OEM customers. Internal product development expenses are expected to be in the range of 1-2% of sales in 2016.

EMPLOYEES 

At December 31, 2015, the Company had 169 employees, and an additional eleven subcontract employees in Utah. The subcontract employees represent UTMD's desire to provide handicapped persons additional work opportunities, hired through the Utah state-supported Work Activity Center. Almost all of UTMD's internally-manufactured devices are made either in Utah or in Ireland. The average tenure with the Company of the 123 employees in the U.S. is fifteen years, and of the 29 employees in Ireland is twelve years. This experience conveys an important benefit due to the level of training required to produce consistently high quality medical devices and appreciation of how UTMD's devices provide unique benefits for clinicians and patients. The Company's continued success will depend to a large extent upon its ability to retain skilled and experienced employees. No assurances can be given that the Company will be able to retain or attract such employees in the future, although management is committed to providing an environment in which reliable, creative and high achieving people wish to work.

None of the Company's officers or directors is bound by restrictive covenants from prior employers that limit their ability to contribute to UTMD's programs. All professional employees sign a code of conduct and a confidentiality and non-compete agreement as a condition of employment, and as consideration for receipt of stock option awards and participation in the annual sales and management bonus program. All employees participate in contemporaneous performance&#8209;based bonus programs. None of the Company's employees is represented by labor unions or other collective bargaining groups.

PATENTS, TRADEMARKS AND TECHNOLOGY LICENSES 

The Company owns or exclusively licenses twelve unexpired U.S. patents, numerous associated patents in sovereignties outside the U.S. and is the licensee of certain other technology. There can be no assurance, however, that patents will be issued with respect to any pending applications, that marketable products will result from the patents or that issued patents can be successfully defended in a patent infringement situation. The Company also owns thirty registered trademarks which have achieved significant brand recognition. The Company believes that its trademarks and tradenames, many of which have become well known in the global medical community through decades of successful use of the associated medical devices, have substantially more intangible value than its patents.

The ability of the Company to achieve commercial success depends in part on the protection afforded by its patents and trademarks. However, UTMD believes that the protections afforded by patents and trademarks are less important to UTMD's business, taken as a whole, than a medical device's established incremental clinical utility, which may be dominated by a number of other factors including relative cost, ease of use, ease of training/adoption, perceived clinical value of different design features, risk of use in applicable procedures, the reliability of achieving a desired outcome in the hands of different users and market access to potential users. In cases where competitors introduce products that may infringe on UTMD's technology or trademarks, the Company has an obligation to its stockholders to defend its intangible property to the extent that it can afford to do so, and that it is material to the Company's success. The Company must also defend itself when competitors allege that UTMD may be infringing their technologies.

As a matter of policy, UTMD has acquired and will continue to acquire the use of technology from third parties that can be synergistically combined with UTMD proprietary product ideas. During 2015, royalties included in cost of goods sold were $293. Other royalties have been previously paid as a lump sum, or were incorporated into the price of acquisitions or into the cost of purchased components which practice certain patents of third parties. Also as a matter of policy, UTMD licenses its proprietary technology to others in circumstances where licensing does not directly compete with UTMD's own marketing initiatives. UTMD's future financial performance may also depend on the marketing ability of other companies that license UTMD's technology. During 2015 the Company received $93 in royalty income, compared to $99 in 2014 and $90 in 2013.

GOVERNMENT REGULATION 

UTMD's products and manufacturing processes are subject to regulation by the U.S. Food &#38; Drug Administration ("FDA"), as well as other regulatory entities globally. The FDA has authority to regulate the marketing, manufacturing, labeling, packaging and distribution of medical devices in the U.S. In addition, requirements exist under other federal laws and under state, local and foreign statutes that may apply to the manufacturing and marketing of the Company's medical devices.

All manufacturers of medical devices must register with the FDA and list all medical devices produced by them. In addition, prior to commercial distribution of some devices for human use, a manufacturer must file a notice with the FDA, setting forth certain information regarding the safety and effectiveness of the device that is acceptable in content to the FDA.

Devices which are classified in Class I are subject only to the general controls concerning adulteration, misbranding, good manufacturing practices, record keeping and reporting requirements. Devices classified in Class II must, in addition, comply with special controls or performance standards promulgated by the FDA.

Except for the Filshie Clip System, all of UTMD's present products are unclassified, Class I or Class II devices. The Filshie Clip System is a Class III device which has more stringent regulatory controls. The Company is in compliance with all applicable U.S. regulatory standards including CFR Part 820, the FDA Quality System Regulation (QSR) effective in 1997, also known as cGMPs (current good manufacturing practices). The Company's most recent FDA inspection was in July 2014, which did not result in the issuance of any FDA-483 observations.

In 1994, UTMD received certification of its quality system under the ISO9001/EN46001 standards ("ISO" stands for "International Organization of Standardization") which it maintained until December 2003. In October 2003, UTMD's Utah facility was certified under the more stringent ISO13485 standard for medical devices. UTMD's Ireland facility was certified under the concomitant ISO13488 standard. In July 2006, both facility ISO certifications were upgraded to the even more stringent ISO13485:2003 standard. Currently, UTMD's facilities in the UK, Ireland and Utah are all certified under the most recent ISO13485:2012 standard. UTMD remains on a continuous periodic audit schedule by its independent notified body in order to stay current with international regulatory standards, and retain its certifications. UTMD has received CE Mark certifications (demonstrates proof of compliance with the European Community's ISO standards) for essentially all of its products. The U.S. FDA QSR was developed in harmony with the ISO standards.

SOURCES AND AVAILABILITY OF RAW MATERIALS 

Most of the components which the Company purchases from various vendors are readily available from a number of sources. That notwithstanding, the Company maintains safety stocks that anticipate the time required to source and qualify new vendors. Alternative sourcing of various components is continually underway. Vendors are qualified by Corporate Quality Assurance. In the few cases where the Company has a sole source, it either maintains or has agreement with the supplier to maintain excess safety stocks that would cover the time required to develop and qualify a new source. The Company has a vendor quality monitoring program that includes routinely checking incoming material for conformance to specifications, as required per written procedures.

EXPORTS 

UTMD regards the international marketplace as the most important element of its growth strategy. UTMD is keenly aware that not only are international markets different from the U.S. market, but also that each country has its own set of driving influences that affects the dynamics of the nature of care given and medical devices used. The Company operates three international facilities; in Romsey, Hampshire, England; in Castle Hill, NSW, Australia and in Athlone, County Westmeath, Ireland. These facilities offer a number of advantages: 1) from a marketing point of view, better response to Europe, Middle East, Africa and Australia customers, including a better understanding of customer needs, less costly distribution and, in the EU, duty-free access to 500 million patients; 2) from a regulatory point of view, faster new product introductions; and 3) from a manufacturing point of view, reduced dependence on one manufacturing site and increased capacity for existing U.S. facilities.

Total 2015 trade revenues in US Dollar terms from customers outside the U.S. were $19,793 (49% of total sales), compared to $21,795 (53% of total sales) in 2014 and $21,528 (53% of total sales) in 2013. U.S. international trade sales (Exports) from the U.S. to international customers were $5,714 in 2015, $5,632 in 2014 and $5,203 in 2013. Exports represented 29%, 26% and 24% of total international trade sales in 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. U.S. Exports exclude Utah intercompany sales to foreign subsidiaries which distribute U.S.-made finished devices directly to end-users in the UK, Ireland and Australia.

For sales by international geographic area, please see notes 1 and 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

BACKLOG 

"Backlog" is defined as orders received and accepted by UTMD which have not shipped yet. As a supplier of primarily disposable hospital products, the nature of UTMD's non-distributor or non-OEM business requires fast response to customer orders. Virtually all direct shipments to end user facilities are accomplished within a few days of acceptance of purchase orders. Consequently, UTMD's backlog at any point in time is comprised mainly of orders from OEM and independent international distributors, which purchase in larger quantities at less frequent intervals. Backlog shippable in less than 90 days was $2,463 as of January 1, 2016, $2,516 as of January 1, 2015 and $2,002 as of January 1, 2014.

SEASONAL ASPECTS 

The Company's business is generally not affected by seasonal factors, but it is affected by uneven purchasing patterns of U.S. OEM customers and international distributors.

PRODUCT LIABILITY RISK MANAGEMENT 

The risk of product liability lawsuits is a negative factor in the medical device industry because devices are frequently used in inherently risky situations to help clinicians achieve a more positive outcome than what might otherwise be the case. In any lawsuit against a company where an individual plaintiff suffers permanent physical injury, a possibility of a large award for damages exists whether or not a causal relationship exists. However, no such damages have been awarded against UTMD in its 37-year history.

UTMD in the U.S. and Ireland is self-insured for product liability risk, and reserves funds against its current performance on an ongoing basis to provide for its defense should any lawsuits be filed. The Company's average cost of defense over the last twenty-three years was $17 per year, well below the deductible level of product liability insurance policies. Because the Filshie Clip is a Class III device, Femcare insures its product liability risk through a third-party insurance company at a cost of about &#163;63 per year. The deductible level of the Femcare policy is $150 per claim for the U.S. and Canada, and &#163;50 elsewhere in the world. Since acquiring Femcare in 2011, UTMD has had to (successfully) defend one claim at a total cost of &#163;7.

The best defense the Company believes that it has is the consistent conformance to specifications of its proven safe and effective products. Over the time span of the last twenty-three years, UTMD has been named as a defendant in a total of seven lawsuits. Four lawsuits involved a patient injury related to operative vaginal deliveries where a UTMD VAD birthing cup or hand pump was used. The VADS devices in all four cases did conform to specifications. UTMD was ultimately dismissed as a defendant in all four VADS lawsuits, and legal costs were not material to performance. In the first of the other two lawsuits involving non-Femcare devices, regarding the use of EndoCurette, there was no evidence of patient injury. The lawsuit was settled in 2010 for an immaterial amount to avoid the diversion of management time and substantial costs of litigation, even though UTMD was confident that the case was without merit. In the second, UTMD was brought into a lawsuit by a defendant physician, speculating a design deficiency in a Finesse electrosurgical generator (ESU) which had been in use for eighteen years before the injury event, and used successfully by the same physician in multiple procedures after the event. The injured patient did not allege any fault by UTMD. The case was settled in 2012 without any UTMD involvement or liability. Since acquiring Femcare five years ago, the Company has experienced one lawsuit regarding Femcare's devices. In 2014, a patient claimed damages for becoming pregnant eight years after the placement of Filshie Clips. Her medical record indicated that she chose to employ Filshie Clips after being advised by her physician that he believed there would be a 1% chance of pregnancy. The case was dismissed after the patient who was also a malpractice attorney declined to respond in discovery.

In summary, during the last twenty-three year period of time during which over forty million finished devices were distributed by UTMD, there have been no judgments resulting from a fault in UTMD's devices, Presently, there are no product liability lawsuits, or threats of lawsuits, in which UTMD is a defendant. In the current tort system in the U.S., meritless product liability cases do get filed where aggressive attorneys calculate that a company will find it cheaper to settle for some nominal amount in lieu of substantial defense costs of going to court.

FORWARD LOOKING INFORMATION 

This report contains certain forward-looking statements and information relating to the Company that are based on the beliefs of management as well as assumptions made by management based on information currently available. When used in this document, the words "anticipate," "believe," "project," "estimate," "expect," "intend" and similar expressions, as they relate to the Company or its management, are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Such statements reflect the current view of the Company respecting future events and are subject to certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions, including the risks and uncertainties stated throughout the document. Although the Company has attempted to identify important factors that could cause the actual results to differ materially, there may be other factors that cause the forward statement not to come true as anticipated, believed, projected, expected, or intended. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may differ materially from those described herein as anticipated, believed, projected, estimated, expected or intended. Financial estimates are subject to change and are not intended to be relied upon as predictions of future operating results, and the Company assumes no obligation to update or disclose revisions to those estimates.

