 ITEM 1. Business. 

This report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All statements in this report other than statements of historical fact, including statements identified by words such as "believe," "may," "will," "estimate," "continue," "anticipate," "intend," "expect" and similar expressions, are forward- looking statements. Forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements about: 

&#149; our views regarding the future of genetic testing and its role in mainstream medical practice; &#149; strategic plans for our business, products and technology, including our ability to expand our assay and develop new assays while maintaining attractive pricing, further enhance our genetic testing process and the related user experience, build interest in and demand for our tests and attract potential partners; &#149; the implementation of our business model; &#149; the rate and degree of market acceptance of our tests and genetic testing generally; &#149; our ability to scale our infrastructure and operations in a cost- effective manner; &#149; the timing of and our ability to introduce improvements to our genetic testing platform and to expand our assay to include additional genes; &#149; our expectations with respect to future hirings; &#149; the timing and results of studies with respect to our tests; &#149; developments and projections relating to our competitors and our industry; &#149; the degree to which individuals will share genetic information generally, as well as share any related potential economic opportunities with us; &#149; our commercial plans, including our sales and marketing expectations; &#149; our ability to obtain and maintain adequate reimbursement for our tests; &#149; regulatory developments in the United States and foreign countries; &#149; our ability to retain key scientific or management personnel; &#149; our expectations regarding our ability to obtain and maintain intellectual property protection and not infringe on the rights of others; &#149; our expectations regarding the time during which we will be an emerging growth company under the JOBS Act; &#149; our ability to obtain funding for our operations; &#149; our financial performance; and &#149; our expectations regarding our future revenue, cost of revenue, operating expenses and capital expenditures, and our future capital requirements. Forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expected. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, those risks discussed in Item 1A of this report. Although we believe that the expectations and assumptions reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot guarantee future results, level of activity, performance or achievements. In addition, neither we nor any other person assumes responsibility for the accuracy and completeness of any of these forward-looking 

statements. Any forward-looking statements in this report speak only as of the date of this report. We expressly disclaim any obligation or undertaking to update any forward-looking statements. 

This report contains statistical data and estimates that we obtained from industry publications and reports. These publications typically indicate that they have obtained their information from sources they believe to be reliable, but do not guarantee the accuracy and completeness of their information. Some data contained in this report is also based on our internal estimates. Although we have not independently verified the third-party data, we believe it to be reasonable. 

In this report, all references to "Invitae," "we," "us," "our," or "the company" mean Invitae Corporation. 

Invitae and the Invitae logo are trademarks of Invitae Corporation. We also refer to trademarks of other corporations and organizations in this report. 

Overview 

Invitae's mission is to bring comprehensive genetic information into mainstream medical practice to improve the quality of healthcare for billions of people. Our goal is to aggregate most of the world's genetic tests into a single service with higher quality, faster turnaround time and lower pricing than many single gene tests today. We were founded on four core principles: 

&#149; Patients should own and control their own genetic information; &#149; Healthcare professionals are fundamental in ordering and interpreting genetic information; &#149; Driving down the price of genetic information will increase its clinical and personal utility; and &#149; Genetic information is more valuable when shared. As the price of DNA sequencing has declined, the amount of genetic information that can be generated per dollar has increased exponentially, enabling the generation, analysis and storage of more comprehensive genetic information than ever before. According to the Online Mendelian Inheritance in Man&#174;, an online catalog of human genes and genetic disorders, there are more than 4,000 inherited genetic conditions for which the scientific and medical community has already identified specific genes and variants useful for diagnosis or treatment planning. By aggregating large numbers of currently available genetic tests into a single service, we can achieve great economies of scale that allow us not only to provide primary single gene or multi-gene tests but also to generate and store additional genetic information on behalf of the patient for future use. We refer to the service of managing genetic information over the course of disease or the lifetime of a patient as "genome management." In addition, as more individuals gain access to their genetic information, we believe that sharing genetic information will provide an economic opportunity for patients and us to participate in advancing the understanding and treatment of disease. We believe that our ongoing investment in building our infrastructure and attracting talent across a range of disciplines to generate, interpret and manage genetic information will position us to be a leader in the field of genetic testing and genome management. 

In the near term, we plan to focus on the immediate market for symptomatic disease with the goal to aggregate testing for large numbers of genetic diseases into a high quality, low cost service. We also plan on expanding into the health and wellness market, including carrier testing and newborn screening. As our market share grows we expect that our business will develop in three stages over the longer term: 

&#149; Genetic testing: making genetic testing more affordable and more accessible with faster turnaround time than ever before. We believe that there is a significant market opportunity for high volume, low cost genetic testing that can allow us to serve a large number of clients. 2 

&#149; Genome management: building a secure and trusted genome management infrastructure. By generating and storing large amounts of individualized genetic information for every patient sample, we believe we can create value over the course of disease or lifetime of a client. &#149; Genome network: sharing genetic information on a global scale to advance science and medicine. We plan to help patients share their genetic information in a way that benefits them and us by acting as a permission-based broker on their behalf. The fundamental challenge of the first stage of our business (genetic testing) is to deliver sufficiently comprehensive and high quality genetic testing at a price that makes sense for broad healthcare adoption and reimbursement. We also are providing turnaround time of less than three weeks for the substantial majority of our tests, which in most cases is as good or better than other laboratories offering genetic testing. As such, we believe we are well positioned to address this challenge given our investment in infrastructure that will allow us to perform these complex tests in high volume at low cost while maintaining high quality and service levels. This infrastructure includes the scientific curation of individual genetic disorders, genes and variants&#151;a rapidly advancing area of science. It also includes large-scale laboratory processes and information systems to store, analyze and manage the data; a knowledge database that allows us to aggregate the role genetic variations play in diseases and drug responses; and software tools to help generate reports for clinicians and their patients while reducing the time required by our genetic specialists for interpretation and report sign-out. 

We believe that the keys to our future success will be to steadily reduce the costs we incur in providing test results, which enables us to increase the amount of genetic content we offer in the form of an expanded test menu for the same or lower prices, thereby increasing demand and revenues. Therefore, we measured our success in 2015 with four key metrics: 

&#149; lowering cost of goods sold (COGS); &#149; increasing our content by expanding our test menu; &#149; increasing our volumes; and &#149; increasing our revenues and improving reimbursement. We launched our first commercial offering in November 2013 with an offering of more than 200 genes. In October 2015, we expanded our test menu with more than 600 genes in production, offering tests for more than 120 disorders in cardiovascular, hereditary cancer, neurology, pediatrics and other rare diseases. We have a transparent pricing structure, charging one price per indication regardless the number of genes. For third party payers that are out of contract, we charge $1,500 per sample; for payers and institutions that are in contract with us, the contracted price is as low as $950 per indication depending on administrative criteria; and for patients who pay upfront and set up an account with us, we charge $475. We introduced this multi-tiered pricing structure in June 2015. 

Our volume has grown rapidly. In 2015 we delivered approximately 19,000 billable tests, representing over 400% year-over-year annual growth, compared to the approximately 3,600 tests we delivered in 2014. We also received or "accessioned" more than 20,000 commercial samples in 2015, which is an important leading indicator for future volume. Substantiating a hypothesis that is fundamental to the success of our business model, we saw significant increases in our volume when we expanded our test menu, including meaningful growth in the non-cancer test portion of our market. We expect that will continue to be the case in 2016 as we plan to increase our menu to approximately 1,000 genes in production in the middle of the year and approximately 3,000 genes in production by the end of the year. 

Importantly, with the growth in volume and content, we have succeeded in driving down our COGS in a meaningful way. At the beginning of 2015, our COGS were approximately $1,200 per 

sample accessioned, and we brought down those costs to less than $700 per sample accessioned in the fourth quarter. 

In support of our efforts to reduce COGS, expand our test menu, and develop a scalable laboratory infrastructure, we incurred research and development expenses of $42.8 million, $22.1 million and $16.0 million in 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. 

The expansion of our test menu in 2015, and the resulting growth in testing volume, translated into rapid growth in revenue. In 2015 our revenue was $8.4 million, as compared to revenue of $1.6 million in 2014 representing over 400% year-over-year annual growth. 

We are headquartered in San Francisco, California, where we have offices and a CLIA-certified, CAP-accredited laboratory. We also have offices in Cambridge, Massachusetts; Oakland, California; and Palo Alto, California. We have a multi- disciplinary team of approximately 280 people as of December 31, 2015, including bioinformaticians, clinical and medical geneticists, commercial and managed care experts, genetic counselors, scientists, software engineers, web developers, graphic designers and lab automation specialists, as well as administrative and corporate personnel. We believe that creating a strong team is a competitive advantage, and we strive to foster a motivating and unique culture in which our people can thrive. 

The global opportunity for genetic testing 

We believe that genes are fundamental particles of modern medicine and that genetic testing has the potential to affect billions of people. Every individual has a unique genome, and we believe that comprehensive knowledge of this genetic makeup will be foundational to the future practice of medicine. We also believe that eventually many individuals in a modern healthcare system will have their genomes sequenced at birth or during the course of their lives, resulting in the potential for dramatic improvements in health and wellness and an overall reduction in healthcare costs through preventive care. 

Virtually everyone is carrying loss of function mutations in their genome, recessive genetic conditions that may affect their extended family or genetic mutations that may affect their response to various drugs or therapies. For example: 

&#149; approximately 5-10% of all cancers have a hereditary basis; &#149; approximately 0.4% of the population has a cardiac genetic condition that may lead to early onset cardiovascular disease; &#149; approximately 0.5-5.0% of the population has a factor V Leiden variant that increases the genetic risk for blood clots; &#149; approximately 2% of new births result in a complication involving a genetic condition; &#149; approximately 0.3% of the population will have an epileptic seizure during their lifetime; &#149; approximately 2.0% of the population has a genetic variant in one of 52 genes identified by the American College of Medical Genetics as important incidental findings that should be reported to patients in part because they are medically actionable; and &#149; approximately 2-5% of the population has a gene mutation that puts them at risk for a medically actionable condition. Furthermore, everyone is carrying mutations that can cause severe illness in a child if the child's other parent provides a mutation in the same gene. 

The global genetic testing market is growing rapidly. According to UnitedHealth Group, the U.S. genetic testing and molecular diagnostics market in 2010 was estimated to be approximately $5 billion, 

of which approximately 60%, or $3 billion, was genetic testing. As of December 2014, genetests.org estimated that there were more than 40,000 different genetic tests available from over 650 laboratories. These tests can identify a person's predisposition to a particular disease (predictive testing), detect whether a person has a disease (diagnostic testing), predict the potential effectiveness of a therapy or drug (pharmacogenetic testing), or assess risk of disease progression (prognostic testing). Based on UnitedHealth's estimates for the growth of the genetic testing and molecular diagnostics market and our assumption that genetic testing's share of this market will be held constant at approximately 60% between 2010 and 2021, we expect the U.S. genetic testing market to grow to at least $9 billion by 2021. 

While adoption of genetic testing has been increasing for certain medical applications, there remain a number of primary barriers limiting broader adoption. The cost of genetic testing has been prohibitively high for broad market adoption and use in routine medical practice. Under current pricing, payers generally restrict reimbursement of genetic testing to limited patient populations that meet specific criteria. In a survey by UnitedHealth, approximately 78% of clinicians identified cost of tests and reimbursement as a barrier to incorporating genetic tests in their practice. We believe advances in DNA sequencing, information technology and capacity for analysis and high-throughput data processing will be key drivers for reducing the cost of genetic testing in the future. 

Adoption of genetic testing also has been constrained by an inefficient testing process with long turnaround times. The growing availability of genetic tests that are specific to a single disease has created a serial retesting process&#151;commonly referred to as a diagnostic odyssey&#151;in cases where initial tests return negative results or where patients require testing for more than one condition. The retesting process is costly and time consuming, and it commonly fails to reach a conclusive clinical diagnosis. The challenges with sequential retesting are further exacerbated by long and unpredictable turnaround times. Currently, patients and providers can wait more than a month to receive each genetic testing result, which limits clinical applicability of genetic testing for patients who are in need of pressing follow-up treatment. 

Our solution for genetic testing 

We are focused on making comprehensive, high quality genetic testing more affordable and more accessible than ever before, pursuing a large and rapidly growing market. We aim to do so for the majority of genetic tests, consolidating most of them into a single offering at a price below the typical prices of many single gene or multi-gene panels. We have learned that this value proposition resonates with clinicians and believe that we can help payers and the healthcare system significantly reduce their current testing expenditures. 

Our products today 

We launched our first commercial offering in late November 2013, an assay of 216 genes, and began selling and marketing our multi-gene panels with a focused effort on hereditary cancers, including breast, colon and pancreatic cancer. We subsequently expanded our test menu in October 2015, putting more than 600 genes in production and offering test panels for more than 120 disorders in cardiovascular, hereditary cancer, neurology, pediatrics and other rare diseases, 

Unlike most diagnostic laboratories, we openly share our pricing structure with clinicians, patients and payers, and we charge one price per indication regardless the number of genes. For third party payers that are out of contract, we charge $1,500 per sample; for payers and institutions that are in contract with us, the contracted price is as low as $950 per indication depending on their administrative requirements; and for patients who pay upfront and set up an account with us, we charge $475. We introduced this multi-tiered pricing structure in June 2015. We also currently offer a free re-requisition of additional data within the same indication when ordered within 90 days of the date of service. 

Importantly, we are providing turnaround time of less than three weeks for the substantial majority of our tests. 

Today, our goal is to provide clinicians with the information they need to get the right diagnosis for their patients. We have a simple and powerful offering that is best characterized by: 

&#149; Breadth. We offer comprehensive panels for more than 120 conditions in hereditary cancer, cardiology, neuromuscular, pediatric and rare diseases. We offer full gene sequencing and deletion/duplication analysis as a standard for all of our tests at no additional charge. &#149; Quality. Collaborations with leading academic centers confirm analytical and clinical concordance with established standards. In addition, our team of genetic and medical experts have developed a proprietary score-based system enabling objective, reproducible reporting across a wide range of disease areas. &#149; Affordability. We want to make genetic testing affordable and accessible. Our entire test menu is available starting at $475 per indication. By offering affordable testing, we are part of a movement to decrease healthcare costs while improving quality of care. Substantiating a hypothesis that is fundamental to the success of our business model, we saw significant increases in our volume when we released additional content, including meaningful growth in orders of non-cancer tests. We expect that will continue to be the case in 2016 as we plan to increase our menu to approximately 1,000 genes in production in mid-2016 and approximately 3,000 genes in production by the end of the year. 

In the cancer markets, we have expanded beyond our initial hereditary breast and ovarian cancer and now offer more comprehensive, high quality testing with more than 40 test panels, comprised of more than 70 carefully curated genes. Importantly, through our offering, we are able to detect structural genetic variations, including various inversions, segmental duplications, insertions, deletions and promoter region variants that are important for clinical grade inherited genetic testing without needing to increase the price of our tests. 

We have been increasing our non-cancer volume, as well. We now provide a comprehensive cardiology test menu with more than 30 test panels, representing more than 190 carefully curated genes. The expanded offering includes large combination panels for multiple conditions, including arrhythmias, cardiomyopathies, aortopathies, familial hypercholesterolemia, pulmonary hypertension, and congenital heart disease. 

We have also expanded our neuromuscular test panels, comprising nearly 100 carefully curated genes for 15 major diagnostic indications including Duchenne/Becker muscular dystrophy, dystonia, Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease, and hereditary spastic paraplegia. We also have expanded our pediatric and rare disorder test menu with more than 40 test panels, comprised of more than 140 carefully curated genes, for disorders including the RASopathies and primary ciliary dyskinesia. 

One of our goals is to significantly expand our neuromuscular, rare disease and pediatric offerings in early 2016, so we can further help the large number of people who suffer from these rare conditions. With our unique offering of a comprehensive test menu with high quality and affordable prices, we believe that the many hundreds of rare disease advocacy organizations, representing many hundreds of thousands of patients, will now have a partner in providing access to comprehensive, high quality, truly affordable genetic testing services. We have demonstrated that in our model, new content leads to more volume, which has the possibility of having a positive impact for our patients, providers and payers alike. 

We plan to streamline our marketing efforts in 2016 as well as expand our sales efforts with additional sales representatives. We plan to have approximately 30 sales representatives by mid-2016. Since our initial commercialization, we have marketed additional panels involved in multiple different genetic disorders, including cardiology, hematology, neurology and pediatric panels. 

Commercializing our genetic tests 

We have developed an offering that enables healthcare professionals to customize a test, receive rapid test results and pay a single price at requisition. Currently, we also offer a free re-requisition for the same indication within 90 days of the date of service. We believe that our efforts to lower prices and expand our test menu while maintaining high quality will allow us to accelerate market adoption of our genetic tests. 

Currently, we primarily target medical geneticists and genetic counselors, who we believe are early adopters and can influence broader clinical acceptance of new diagnostics, including multi-gene panels. We intend to expand our reach to include oncologists, neurologists, cardiologists and other healthcare professionals as we expand our offering and our commercial organization. 

In order to reach current and future potential clients, our strategy is designed to expand our brand awareness, increase the availability of genetic content, increase traffic to our website, deliver an excellent user experience and attract partners. By offering a compelling value proposition and a comprehensive menu of genetic content at competitive prices, we seek to increase the number of clients that order a test, to encourage repeat orders and to extend client retention. 

We employ a variety of commercial strategies to achieve these goals: 

&#149; Our model incorporates a smaller sales force than is typical for other diagnostic companies. Because we are aggregating large numbers of genetic tests into a single service, our offering will in most cases replace an existing test already offered by a third party. Where our test is replacing an existing test already offered by a third party, clinical utility of the tests that our service might replace is generally well established and accepted in medical practice, thus requiring a targeted sales force that manages relationships with our clients with the support of our in-house client services team. &#149; We are building a sophisticated client services team. We strive to deliver an enhanced customer experience and have hired a team with deep clinical and scientific expertise designed to ensure our clients receive quality information. To supplement our client services team, we provide our clients access to our lab directors and genetic counselors for support as needed. We believe that this approach will allow us to maintain existing client relationships, allowing our sales force to focus on generating new accounts and extending the reach within existing accounts. &#149; We use innovative sales solutions. We have built an advanced web portal for healthcare professionals and their patients to enhance and streamline their user experience, which we believe will encourage them to become loyal clients of Invitae. We are also committed to utilizing innovative technology to complement our sales and marketing effort and reduce the overall cost of client acquisition. For example, our Invitae Family History Tool is a family history collection tool available in the Apple app store, which enables genetic counselors to quickly and easily build, modify, share and save their patients' family histories. This tool also helps drive awareness of Invitae and helps to facilitate online ordering. We plan to continue to build innovative sales solutions capitalizing on the expertise of our extensive team of software developers. &#149; We employ an integrated marketing approach. Our marketing strategy is focused on driving adoption and educating healthcare professionals on the value of multi-gene panel testing for hereditary cancers, cardiac conditions and other genetic diseases. We work closely with national and regional patient advocacy groups and medical professional societies to promote the awareness and benefits of genetic testing. Our marketing activities include presenting at medical conferences and scientific meetings, advertising on leading websites and other media, contributing to social media, conducting public relations campaigns, developing business alliances and partnerships and sponsoring continuing medical education. 7 

Securing reimbursement 

By focusing on comprehensive, high quality and affordable genetic testing, we designed our service offering to provide benefits to payers. Because we are aggregating large numbers of genetic tests into a single service, our near-term offering will in most cases replace an existing test already offered by a third party. In these cases, the clinical utility of our service is generally well established and accepted in medical practice, including in relevant clinical guidelines. 

We receive payment for our services from three categories of payers: patients, institutions and third-party payers. Given the relatively low cost of our tests, a small but consistent percentage of patients whose clinicians order our tests elect to pay for the tests themselves. Institutions, which are typically hospitals or foreign healthcare providers, account for a meaningful percentage of our test orders. We bill these organizations for our services, and they are responsible for paying those bills and seeking reimbursement where applicable. In the case of distributors, we may discount our price in exchange for marketing and sales services provided by the distributor in the geographic market where it operates. 

Third-party payers are responsible for paying for the largest percentage of tests we deliver. These third-party payers consist of private health insurers and the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, or CMS. We believe that establishing coverage from CMS will be an important factor in gaining adoption by healthcare providers. We have been accepted as a Medicare provider and have recently submitted the data package that we believe is required to complete Medicare's MolDx technical assessment, which is the final step in obtaining payment from CMS for qualified testing services provided to Medicare patients under CMS criteria. We believe that completing this technical assessment and establishing coverage from CMS will be an important factor in gaining adoption by private healthcare providers. 

Further, as of December 31, 2015, we had entered into reimbursement contracts with Blue Shield of California, Capital Health Plan, Ohio State University Health Plan, SelectHealth, Three Rivers Provider Network, Tufts Health Plan, and UC Davis Health System. We have also entered into an agreement with Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association which facilitates our ability to enter into agreements to provide our tests to affiliates of the Association. We also have an agreement with MultiPlan, a large PPO Network, which provides for adjudication and payment of claims for tests we deliver to members of their network in cases where we have not yet contracted with the payers in whose plans the test patients are members. 

Third-party payers, including both private insurers and CMS, require us to identify the test for which we are seeking reimbursement using a Current Procedural Terminology, or CPT, code set maintained by the American Medical Association, or AMA. Where we offer a multi-gene panel and there is no CPT code for the full panel, but the panel includes a gene for which the AMA has an established CPT code, we identify the test provided under that CPT code when billing a third party payer for that test. In cases where there is not a specific CPT code, our test may be billed under a miscellaneous code for an unlisted molecular pathology procedure. Because this miscellaneous code does not describe a specific service, the insurance claim must be examined to determine what service was provided, whether the service was appropriate and medically necessary, and whether payment should be rendered. This may require a letter of medical necessity from the ordering physician and it may result in a delay in processing the claim, a lower reimbursement amount or denial of the claim. Given the changing CPT coding environment, our practices regarding billing may change over time. 

Supporting clinical data 

We do not typically develop new biomarkers but rather aggregate already known genetic tests into our genetic testing platform. However, generating supporting clinical data is a priority for us as we seek to expand the gene content and adoption of our panels and provide supporting information to 

healthcare professionals. We conduct clinical studies to confirm the analytical validity and, when appropriate, clinical utility of our genetic testing platform. These data are used in marketing materials, whitepapers, scientific presentations and publications as appropriate. 

Some panels we offer interrogate known genes that may be used in a novel clinical context, for example, the testing of genes that are known to cause certain cancers but have not been reported in other types of cancer. In these cases additional clinical utility data may influence both adoption and reimbursement. We thus also participate in studies to examine issues such as prevalence of genetic findings in different clinical populations and clinical actionability of these findings. We have developed research collaborations with key opinion leaders and leading academic medical centers with patient-care expertise and the appropriate patient populations for clinical studies. 

One of our most important collaborations was with the Stanford University School of Medicine and Massachusetts General Hospital. Multi-gene panels for hereditary breast and ovarian cancer risk assessment are gaining acceptance, not only as additions to but also as replacements for traditional BRCA1 and BRACA2 testing. To help determine which tests are appropriate for any given patient, it is important to understand the analytic and clinical performance of these tests by comparison with traditional testing. This study was designed to assess concordance between our panel test to traditional BRCA1 and BRCA2 tests in more than 1,000 patients. 

The data from the prospective study demonstrated 100% analytic sensitivity and specificity for the Invitae panel compared to traditional genetic test results for both sequence alterations and deletions/duplications. Variant classifications were 99.8% concordant. A total of 1,105 individuals were tested using Invitae's 29-gene hereditary cancer panel. Sequence alterations and copy number deletions/duplications were determined by next generation sequencing using our custom biochemical and bioinformatics methodologies. For these 1,105 individuals, high-quality reference and confirmatory data were available for direct comparison. Variants were classified using a framework, called Sherloc, based on the American College of Medical Genetics and Genomics 2015 guidelines using only publicly available and not proprietary data resources. Classifications were compared for 975 individuals for whom traditional BRCA1 and BRACA2 test results from Myriad Genetics were available. Data from this collaboration were published in the Journal of Molecular Diagnostics in July 2015. 

In another collaboration, we worked with researchers at Massachusetts General Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Stanford University, and Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center to determine the clinical actionability of multi-gene testing for hereditary breast and ovarian cancer, also known as HBOC, risk. Genetic testing for HBOC is evolving rapidly, owing to the recent introduction of multi-gene panels. Compared with testing for BRCA1 and BRACA2 alone, these tests identify a greater number of individuals with genetic mutations. This study addresses how often and in which ways the identification of non-BRCA1 and non-BRACA2 mutations would alter clinical management under current practice guidelines. 

In this study, more than 1,000 patients were prospectively enrolled. All patients met clinical criteria for HBOC evaluation and all were tested for BRCA1 and BRACA2 and at least 23 other cancer risk genes. For the 63 patients found to have non-BRCA1 and non-BRACA2mutations, detailed clinical records and family histories were reviewed. We determined whether the positive test result would warrant consideration of a change in management in comparison with management recommendations based on personal and family history alone. These analyses were based on the most recent update to the National Comprehensive Cancer Network guidelines for HBOC and other applicable current guidelines. 

In a clinically representative cohort, we found that multi-gene panel testing for HBOC yields clinically actionable findings across a broad spectrum of cancer risk genes. Compared with the results of BRCA1 and BRACA2 testing alone, these findings are likely to change risk assessment and management for substantially more patients and their family members under current practice 

guidelines. The results of this research, published in JAMA Oncology in August 2015, show that positive panel test results warrant consideration of a change in management for the patient more often than is true for BRCA1 and BRCA2 testing alone. 

Clinical data from our various research and development efforts have been accepted for presentation at major conferences, including those sponsored by the American College of Medical Genetics and Genomics, Association for Molecular Pathology, the American Society of Clinical Oncology, the American Society of Human Genetics, and the National Society of Genetic Counselors, among others. Additional data have been submitted for publication and new studies in complementary clinical areas are in process. 

Expanding genetic testing content while driving down COGS 

Aggregating multiple genetic tests into one test menu and one laboratory and medical interpretation process provides economies of scale and greater efficiency. We are focused on delivering a wide variety of genetic content through our CLIA-certified laboratory, and plan to release an increasing menu of content over time. By providing large numbers of different but related tests, such as multiple genes associated with a broad genetic condition like hereditary cancer or cardiovascular disorders, we provide clinicians with choice and flexibility in ordering tests for individual genes, panels of genes or custom sets of genes at the physician's discretion. In addition, by adding genes relevant to new diseases, we are able to expand our offering to address new markets for genetic testing services. 

In 2015, we reduced our COGS from approximately $1,200 at the beginning of the year to under $700 per sample accessioned at the end of the year. This came both as a result of volume growth and from our continued investment in production infrastructure to scale effectively, reducing costs in sample processing and medical interpretation while meeting what we believe to be the highest standards of quality. We plan to continue driving down COGS in 2016 to below $500 by the end of the year. Given our ambitious content goals for the year, we do not expect this to be a linear path, but given our lineup of improvements to our production process, we expect to exit 2016 at this level or below. 

The evolution of our business 

We believe there is a substantial opportunity for genetic tests and information to be aggregated and then ultimately captured in comprehensive genome management services. We envision that this shift will enable the medical community to use genetic information on an ongoing basis, as part of mainstream medical practice, to improve patient care. 

Genome management 

We are building a genome data management infrastructure to provide clinicians and their patients with an ongoing resource for pertinent genetic information over the course of disease or life of a patient. In the future we plan to work with clinicians to establish a system where this genetic information is linked at the point of care for appropriate use as needs arise. 

As the amount of information available for each patient expands, we envision a genome management program to provide clinicians and their patients with access to that additional information to answer healthcare questions as they arise. We expect to make additional genetic content accessible to clinicians and their patients along with educational materials on the conditions, genes and variants. Because the raw DNA sequence information has already been derived from our laboratory processes, the cost of delivering an additional clinical report will involve only information management and clinical interpretation, and as a consequence will be significantly lower than running a new test. 

Ultimately, we believe we can significantly improve patient care by offering comprehensive genetic testing, where reports for large numbers of genetic conditions can be available for additional charges over the lifetime of a patient. 

The genome network 

As our genetic testing and genome management offerings grow in scale, we intend to continue to invest in informatics solutions that enable sharing of genetic information to improve healthcare and clinical outcomes. Participants in our genome network may include patients, family members, healthcare professionals, payers, industry professionals, researchers and clinical trial sponsors. 

The first application of our network strategy is our Invitae Family History Tool, which is available as a free web or iPad application. This application enables users to quickly and easily build, modify, share and save relevant family genetic and health history information. All data is stored in a HIPAA-compliant cloud computing environment. A second part of our network strategy is Clinvitae, a web property that allows clinicians or patients to look up individual genes and variants in order to find out additional genetic information. In the future, we plan to add functionality to allow patients and clinicians to share more information about their variants and connect with other patients or clinicians who might be able to contribute additional information that could affect their health and wellness. Pharmaceutical companies may seek to identify individuals with a particular genetic profile and medical history to participate in clinical trials of new treatments. Patients may be interested in accessing marketing information on healthcare products appropriate for their healthcare needs. 

We do not believe that the genome network will contribute to our financial results for several years. The success of any network offering will depend on our ability to achieve scale in our genetic testing and genome management businesses. The success of the genome network will also require that we deliver infrastructure to enable the market for the permission-based sharing of genomic data in a way that is consistent with our core principles regarding patients' ownership and control of their data. 

Our strategy 

Our strategy for long-term growth is focused on five key drivers of our business, which we believe cumulate to create a flywheel effect: 

&#149; Lower the cost and price of genetic information. Our goal is to provide clients with a broad menu of genetic content at a reasonable price and rapid turn-around time in order to grow volume and further achieve economies of scale. As we do so and experience further cost savings, 11 

we expect that those cost savings will allow us to deliver more comprehensive information at decreasing prices per gene. 

&#149; Expand our genetic testing content. As we reduce our costs, we intend to continue to expand our test menus by steadily releasing additional genetic content for the same or lower prices per test, ultimately leading to affordable whole genome services. The breadth and flexibility of our offering is intended to contribute to an improved user experience. &#149; Create a unique user experience. A state-of-the- art interactive platform will enhance our service offering, leverage the uniquely empowering characteristics of online sharing of genetic information and, we believe, enable a superior economic offering to clients. We intend to continue to expend substantial efforts developing, acquiring and implementing technology-driven enhancements to our web properties and transaction-processing systems. We believe that an enhanced user experience and the resulting benefits to our brand and reputation will help draw clients to us. &#149; Drive traffic. We intend to increase our brand equity and visibility through excellent service and a variety of marketing and promotional techniques, including scientific publication and presentation, sales, marketing, public relations, social media and web technology vehicles. We expect that increased traffic to our website and eventual increases in the volume of tests ordered will help us to attract partners and increase our revenue. &#149; Attract partners. As we release additional genetic content and attract more clients, we believe our business becomes particularly attractive to potential partners that can help the patients in our network further benefit from their genetic information or that provide us access to new clients who may wish to join our network. The cumulative effect of the increased volume brought by all of these strategic components will allow us to lower the cost of our service. We seek to differentiate our service in the market by establishing an exceptional client experience. To that end, we believe that elevating the needs of the client over those of our other stakeholders is essential to our success. Thus, in our decision-making processes, we will strive to prioritize, in order: (1) the needs of our clients; (2) motivating our employees to serve our clients; and (3) our long-term stockholder value. We believe that focusing on clients as our top priority rather than short-term financial goals is the best way to build and operate an organization for maximum long-term value creation. 

Competition 

Our competitors include companies that offer molecular genetic testing services, including specialty and reference laboratories that offer traditional single and multi-gene tests. Principal competitors include companies such as Ambry Genetics, Inc.; Athena Diagnostics; Counsyl; GeneDx, a subsidiary of OPKO Health, Inc.; Myriad Genetics, Inc.; Laboratory Corporation of America Holdings; and Quest Diagnostics Incorporated as well as other commercial and academic labs. In addition to the companies that currently offer traditional genetic testing services and research centers, other established and emerging healthcare, information technology and service companies may commercialize competitive products including informatics, analysis, integrated genetic tools and services for health and wellness. 

We believe the principal competitive factors in our market are: 

&#149; breadth and depth of content; &#149; reliability; &#149; accessibility of results; &#149; turnaround time of testing results; 12 

&#149; price and quality of tests; &#149; coverage and reimbursement arrangements with third-party payers; &#149; convenience of testing; &#149; brand recognition of test provider; &#149; additional value-added services and informatics tools; &#149; client service; and &#149; quality of website content. We believe that we compare favorably with our competitors on the basis of these factors. However, many of our competitors and potential competitors have longer operating histories, larger customer bases, greater brand recognition and market penetration, substantially greater financial, technological and research and development resources and selling and marketing capabilities, more experience dealing with third-party payers. As a result, they may be able to respond more quickly to changes in customer requirements, devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their tests than we do, or sell their tests at prices designed to win significant levels of market share. We may not be able to compete effectively against these organizations. 

Regulation 

Reimbursement 

In September 2014, the American Medical Association published new CPT codes for genomic sequencing procedures that are effective for dates of service on or after January 1, 2015. These include genomic sequencing procedure codes for panels, including hereditary colon cancer syndromes, targeted genomic sequence analysis panels for solid organ neoplasms, targeted genomic sequence analysis panels for hematolymphoid neoplasm or disorders, whole exome analyses, and whole genome analyses. In a final determination under the Medicare Clinical Laboratory Fee Schedule, or CLFS, published in November 2014, CMS set the 2015 payment rate for these codes by the gap-fill process. Under the gap-fill process, local Medicare Administrative Contractors, or MACs, establish rates for those codes that each MAC believes meet the criteria for Medicare coverage and considering laboratory charges and discounts to charges, resources, amounts paid by other payers for the tests, and amounts paid by the MAC for similar tests. In 2015, gapfilled payment rates were established for some, but not all, of the above-referenced codes. For those codes for which local gap-filled rates were established in 2015, a national limitation amount for Medicare has been established for 2016. Codes for which local gap-filled rates were not established in 2015 will be priced by the local MACs in 2016 insofar as an individual MAC determines that such codes should be covered. Where available, the national limitation amount serves as a cap on the Medicare and Medicaid payment rates for a test procedure. If we are required to report our tests under these codes, there can be no guarantees that Medicare (or its contractors) has or will set adequate reimbursement rates for these codes. 

In April 2014, Congress passed the Protecting Access to Medicare Act of 2014, or PAMA, which included substantial changes to the way in which clinical laboratory services will be paid under Medicare. Under PAMA, laboratories that receive the majority of their Medicare revenue from payments made under the CLFS or the Physician Fee Schedule would report, beginning in 2016, and then every three years thereafter (or annually for "advanced diagnostic laboratory tests"), private payer payment rates and volumes for their tests. We do not believe that our tests meet the current definition of advanced diagnostic laboratory tests, and therefore believe we will be required to report private payer rates for our tests on an every three years basis. CMS will use the rates and volumes reported by laboratories to develop Medicare payment rates for the tests equal to the volume-weighted median of the private payer payment rates for the tests. Laboratories that fail to report the required payment information may be subject to substantial civil money penalties. CMS has not yet issued a final rule implementing the reporting and rate-setting requirements under PAMA. 

As set forth under PAMA, for tests furnished on or after January 1, 2017, Medicare payments for clinical diagnostic laboratory tests will be paid based upon these reported private payer rates. For clinical diagnostic laboratory tests that are assigned a new or substantially revised code, initial payment rates for clinical diagnostic laboratory tests that are not advanced diagnostic laboratory tests will be assigned by the cross-walk or gap-fill methodology, as under prior law. Initial payment rates for new advanced diagnostic laboratory tests will be based on the actual list charge for the laboratory test. 

The payment rates calculated under PAMA are set to be effective starting January 1, 2017, however, given the delay in release of rulemaking to implement PAMA, it is possible that implementation will be delayed beyond January 1, 2017. Any reductions to payment rates resulting from the new methodology are limited to 10% per test per year in each of the years 2017 through 2019 and to 15% per test per year in each of 2020 through 2022. 

PAMA codified Medicare coverage rules for laboratory tests by requiring any local coverage determination to be made following the local coverage determination process. PAMA also authorizes CMS to consolidate coverage policies for clinical laboratory tests among one to four laboratory-specific MACs. These same contractors may also be designated to process claims if CMS determines that such a model is appropriate. It is unclear whether CMS will proceed with contractor consolidation under this authorization. 

PAMA also authorized the adoption of new, temporary billing codes and/or unique test identifiers for FDA-cleared or approved tests as well as advanced diagnostic laboratory tests. The American Medical Association's Current Procedural Terminology (CPT&#174;) Editorial Panel has approved a proposal to create a new section of billing codes to facilitate implementation of this section of PAMA. At this time, it is unclear whether or when the new section of billing codes will be implemented nor is it clear how these codes would apply to our tests. 

Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments of 1988, or CLIA 

Our clinical reference laboratory in California is required to hold certain federal certificates to conduct our business. Under CLIA, we are required to hold a certificate applicable to the type of laboratory examinations we perform and to comply with standards covering personnel, facilities administration, inspections, quality control, quality assurance and proficiency testing. 

We have current certification under CLIA to perform testing at our laboratory location in San Francisco. To renew our CLIA certification, we are subject to survey and inspection every two years to assess compliance with program standards. Moreover, CLIA inspectors may make random inspections of our clinical reference laboratory in California. The regulatory and compliance standards applicable to the testing we perform may change over time, and any such changes could have a material effect on our business. 

If our clinical reference laboratory is out of compliance with CLIA requirements, we may be subject to sanctions such as suspension, limitation or revocation of our CLIA certificate, as well as directed plan of correction, state on-site monitoring, civil money penalties, civil injunctive suit or criminal penalties. We must maintain CLIA compliance and certification to be eligible to bill for diagnostic services provided to Medicare and Medicaid beneficiaries. If we were to be found out of compliance with CLIA requirements and subjected to sanction, our business could be harmed. 

State laboratory licensure 

We are required to maintain a license to conduct testing in California. California laws establish standards for day-to-day operations of our laboratory in San Francisco. California laws mandate proficiency testing, which involves testing of specimens that have been specifically prepared for the laboratory. If our clinical reference laboratory is out of compliance with California standards, the 

California Department of Health Services, or DHS, may suspend, restrict or revoke our license to operate our clinical reference laboratory, assess substantial civil money penalties, or impose specific corrective action plans. Any such actions could materially affect our business. We maintain a current license in good standing with DHS. However, we cannot provide assurance that DHS will at all times in the future find us to be in compliance with all such laws. 

Several states require the licensure of out-of-state laboratories that accept specimens from those states and/or receive specimens from laboratories in those states. Our laboratory holds the required out-of-state laboratory licenses for Florida, Maryland, New York, Pennsylvania and Rhode Island. 

In addition to having a laboratory license in New York, our clinical reference laboratory in California is also required to obtain approval on a test-specific basis by the New York State Department of Health, or NYDOH, before specific testing is performed on samples from New York. Because our genomic sequencing panels are not approved by New York, we are currently prohibited from performing genomic sequencing panels on samples from New York. 

Other states may adopt similar licensure requirements in the future, which may require us to modify, delay or stop our operations in such jurisdictions. Complying with licensure requirements in new jurisdictions may be expensive, time-consuming, and subject us to significant and unanticipated delays. If we identify any other state with such requirements, or if we are contacted by any other state advising us of such requirements, we intend to follow instructions from the state regulators as to how we should comply with such requirements. 

We may also be subject to regulation in foreign jurisdictions as we seek to expand international utilization of our tests or such jurisdictions adopt new licensure requirements, which may require review of our tests in order to offer them or may have other limitations such as restrictions on the transport of human blood necessary for us to perform our tests that may limit our ability to make our tests available outside of the United States. 

U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or FDA 

We provide our tests as laboratory-developed tests, or LDTs. CMS and certain state agencies regulate the performance of LDTs (as authorized by CLIA and state law, respectively). 

Historically, the FDA, has exercised enforcement discretion with respect to most LDTs and has not required laboratories that furnish LDTs to comply with the agency's requirements for medical devices (e.g., establishment registration, device listing, quality systems regulations, premarket clearance or premarket approval, and post- market controls). In recent years, however, the FDA has stated it intends to end its policy of general enforcement discretion and regulate certain LDTs as medical devices. To this end, on October 3, 2014, the FDA issued two draft guidance documents, entitled "Framework for Regulatory Oversight of Laboratory Developed Tests (LDTs)" and "FDA Notification and Medical Device Reporting for Laboratory Developed Tests (LDTs)", respectively, that set forth a proposed risk-based regulatory framework that would apply varying levels of FDA oversight to LDTs. The FDA has indicated that it does not intend to modify its policy of enforcement discretion until the draft guidance documents are finalized. It is unclear at this time when, or if, the draft guidance documents will be finalized, and even then, the new regulatory requirements are proposed to be phased-in consistent with the schedule set forth in the guidance (in as little as 12 months after the draft guidance is finalized for certain high-priority LDTs). Nevertheless, the FDA may decide to regulate certain LDTs on a case-by-case basis at any time. 

Legislative proposals addressing the FDA's oversight of LDTs have been introduced in previous Congresses, and we expect that new legislative proposals will be introduced from time-to-time. The likelihood that Congress will pass such legislation and the extent to which such legislation may affect the FDA's plans to regulate certain LDTs as medical devices is difficult to predict at this time. 

If the FDA ultimately regulates certain LDTs as medical devices, whether via final guidance, final regulation, or as instructed by Congress, our tests may be subject to certain additional regulatory requirements. Complying with the FDA's requirements for medical devices can be expensive, time-consuming, and subject us to significant or unanticipated delays. Insofar as we may be required to obtain premarket clearance or approval to perform or continue performing an LDT, we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain such authorization. Even if we obtain regulatory clearance or approval where required, such authorization may not be for the intended uses that we believe are commercially attractive or are critical to the commercial success of our tests. As a result, the application of the FDA's medical device requirements to our tests could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 

Failure to comply with applicable FDA regulatory requirements may trigger a range of enforcement actions by the FDA including warning letters, civil monetary penalties, injunctions, criminal prosecution, recall or seizure, operating restrictions, partial suspension or total shutdown of operations, and denial of or challenges to applications for clearance or approval, as well as significant adverse publicity. 

In addition, in November 2013, the FDA issued final guidance regarding the distribution of products labeled for research use only. Certain of the reagents and other products we use in our tests are labeled as research use only products. Certain of our suppliers may cease selling research use only products to us and any failure to obtain an acceptable substitute could significantly and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 

HIPAA and HITECH 

Under the administrative simplification provisions of the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, as amended by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act, or HITECH, the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services issued regulations that establish uniform standards governing the conduct of certain electronic healthcare transactions and requirements for protecting the privacy and security of protected health information used or disclosed by most healthcare providers and other covered entities and their respective business associates, including the business associates' subcontractors. Four principal regulations with which we are required to comply have been issued in final form under HIPAA and HITECH: privacy regulations, security regulations, the breach notification rule, and standards for electronic transactions, which establish standards for common healthcare transactions. 

The privacy regulations cover the use and disclosure of protected health information by covered entities as well as business associates, which are defined to include subcontractors that create, receive, maintain, or transmit protected health information on behalf of a business associate. A subcontractor means any person to whom a business associate delegates a function, activity, or service, other than in the capacity of the business associate's workforce. As a general rule, a covered entity or business associate may not use or disclose protected health information except as permitted under the privacy regulations. The privacy regulations also set forth certain rights that an individual has with respect to his or her protected health information maintained by a covered entity or business associate, including the right to access or amend certain records containing his or her protected health information, or to request restrictions on the use or disclosure of his or her protected health information. 

Covered entities and business associates also must comply with the security regulations, which establish requirements for safeguarding the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of protected health information that is electronically transmitted or electronically stored. In addition, HITECH established, among other things, certain breach notification requirements with which covered entities and business associates must comply. In particular, a covered entity must notify any individual whose unsecured protected health information is breached according to the specifications set forth in the breach 

notification rule. A covered entity must also notify the Secretary of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services and, under certain circumstances, the media. 

The HIPAA privacy, security, and breach notification regulations establish a uniform federal "floor" and do not supersede state laws that are more stringent or provide individuals with greater rights with respect to the privacy or security of, and access to, their records containing protected health information or insofar as such state laws apply to personal information that is broader in scope than protected health information as defined under HIPAA. Massachusetts, for example, has a state law that protects the privacy and security of personal information of Massachusetts residents. 

There are significant civil and criminal fines and other penalties that may be imposed for violating HIPAA. A covered entity or business associate is also liable for civil money penalties for a violation that is based on an act or omission of any of its agents, including a downstream business associate, as determined according to the federal common law of agency. Additionally, to the extent that we submit electronic healthcare claims and payment transactions that do not comply with the electronic data transmission standards established under HIPAA and HITECH, payments to us may be delayed or denied. 

Federal, state and foreign fraud and abuse laws 

In the United States, there are various fraud and abuse laws with which we must comply, and we are potentially subject to regulation by various federal, state and local authorities, including CMS, other divisions of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (e.g., the Office of Inspector General), the U.S. Department of Justice, and individual U.S. Attorney offices within the Department of Justice, and state and local governments. We also may be subject to foreign fraud and abuse laws. 

In the United States, the federal Anti-Kickback Statute prohibits, among other things, knowingly and willfully offering, paying, soliciting or receiving remuneration, directly or indirectly, overtly or covertly, in cash or in kind, in order to induce or in return for the referral of an individual for the furnishing of or arranging for the furnishing of, purchasing, leasing, ordering or arranging for or recommending purchasing, leasing or ordering of any good, facility, service or item for which payment may be made in whole or in part by a federal healthcare program. Courts have stated that a financial arrangement may violate the Anti-Kickback Statute if any one purpose of the arrangement is to encourage patient referrals or other federal healthcare program business, regardless of whether there are other legitimate purposes for the arrangement. The definition of "remuneration" has been broadly interpreted to include anything of value, including gifts, discounts, credit arrangements, payments of cash, consulting fees, waivers of co-payments, ownership interests, and providing anything at less than its fair market value. Although the Anti-Kickback Statute contains several exceptions, it is broad and may technically prohibit many innocuous or beneficial arrangements within the healthcare industry. Further, the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services issued a series of regulatory "safe harbors." These safe harbor regulations set forth certain provisions, which, if met, will assure healthcare providers and other parties that they will not be prosecuted under the federal Anti-Kickback Statute. Although full compliance with the statutory exceptions or regulatory safe harbors ensures against prosecution under the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, the failure of a transaction or arrangement to fit within a specific statutory exception or regulatory safe harbor does not necessarily mean that the transaction or arrangement is illegal or that prosecution under the federal Anti-Kickback Statute will be pursued. Penalties for federal anti-kickback violations are severe, and include imprisonment, criminal fines, civil money penalties, and exclusion from participation in federal healthcare programs. Many states also have anti-kickback statutes, some of which may apply to items or services reimbursed by any third-party payer, including commercial insurers. 

There are also federal laws related to healthcare fraud and false statements, among others, relating to healthcare matters. The healthcare fraud statute prohibits, among other things, knowingly and 

willfully executing a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program, including private payers. A violation of this statute is a felony and may result in fines, imprisonment, or exclusion from governmental payer programs such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs. The false statements statute prohibits knowingly and willfully falsifying, concealing or covering up a material fact, or making any materially false, fictitious or fraudulent statement in connection with the delivery of or payment for healthcare benefits, items, or services. A violation of this statute is a felony and may result in fines, imprisonment, or exclusion from governmental payer programs. 

Another development affecting the healthcare industry is the increased enforcement of the federal False Claims Act and, in particular, actions brought pursuant to the False Claims Act's "whistleblower" or "qui tam" provisions. The False Claims Act imposes liability on any person or entity that, among other things, knowingly presents, or causes to be presented, a false or fraudulent claim for payment by a federal governmental payer program. The qui tam provisions of the False Claims Act allow a private individual to bring actions on behalf of the federal government alleging that the defendant has defrauded the federal government by submitting a false claim to the federal government and permit such individuals to share in any amounts paid by the entity to the government in fines or settlement. When an entity is determined to have violated the False Claims Act, it may be required to pay up to three times the actual damages sustained by the government, plus civil penalties ranging from $5,500 to $11,000 for each false claim. 

In addition, various states have enacted false claim laws analogous to the federal False Claims Act, although many of these state laws apply where a claim is submitted to any third-party payer and not merely a governmental payer program. 

Additionally, the civil monetary penalties statute imposes penalties against any person or entity that, among other things, is determined to have presented or caused to be presented a claim to a federal health program that the person knows or should know is for an item or service that was not provided as claimed or for a claim that is false or fraudulent. This law also prohibits the offering or transfer of remuneration to a Medicare or state healthcare program beneficiary if the person knows or should know it is likely to influence the beneficiary's selection of a particular provider, practitioner, or supplier for items or services reimbursable by Medicare or a state healthcare program, unless an exception applies. 

In Europe various countries have adopted anti-bribery laws providing for severe consequences, in the form of criminal penalties and/or significant fines, for individuals and/or companies committing a bribery offence. Violations of these anti-bribery laws, or allegations of such violations, could have a negative impact on our business, results of operations and reputation. For instance, in the United Kingdom, under the Bribery Act 2010, which went into effect in July 2011, a bribery occurs when a person offers, gives or promises to give a financial or other advantage to induce or reward another individual to improperly perform certain functions or activities, including any function of a public nature. Bribery of foreign public officials also falls within the scope of the Bribery Act 2010. Under the new regime, an individual found in violation of the Bribery Act 2010, faces imprisonment of up to 10 years. In addition, the individual can be subject to an unlimited fine, as can commercial organizations for failure to prevent bribery. 

Physician referral prohibitions 

UA federal law directed at "self-referrals," commonly known as the "Stark Law," prohibits a physician from making referrals for certain designated health services, including laboratory services, to an entity with which the physician, or an immediate family member, has a direct or indirect financial relationship, unless an exception applies. The prohibition also extends to payment for any services referred in violation of the Stark Law. A physician or entity that engages in a scheme to circumvent the Stark Law's referral prohibition may be fined up to $100,000 for each such arrangement or scheme. In 

addition, any person who presents or causes to be presented a claim to the Medicare program in violation of the Stark Law is subject to civil monetary penalties of up to $15,000 per service, an assessment of up to three times the amount claimed and possible exclusion from participation in federal healthcare programs. Bills submitted in violation of the Stark Law may not be paid by Medicare, and any person collecting any amounts with respect to any such prohibited bill is obligated to refund such amounts. Many states have comparable laws that are not limited to Medicare referrals. The Stark Law also prohibits state receipt of Federal Medicaid matching funds for services furnished pursuant to a prohibited referral, but this provision of the Stark Law has not been implemented by regulations. In addition, some courts have held that the submission of claims to Medicaid that would be prohibited as self-referrals under the Stark Law for Medicare could implicate the False Claims Act. 

Corporate practice of medicine 

Numerous states have enacted laws prohibiting business corporations, such as us, from practicing medicine and employing or engaging clinicians to practice medicine, generally referred to as the prohibition against the corporate practice of medicine. These laws are designed to prevent interference in the medical decision-making process by anyone who is not a licensed physician. For example, California's Medical Board has indicated that determining what diagnostic tests are appropriate for a particular condition and taking responsibility for the ultimate overall care of the patient, including providing treatment options available to the patient, would constitute the unlicensed practice of medicine if performed by an unlicensed person. Violation of these corporate practice of medicine laws may result in civil or criminal fines, as well as sanctions imposed against us and/or the professional through licensure proceedings. Typically such laws are only applicable to entities that have a physical presence in the state. 

Intellectual property 

We rely on a combination of intellectual property rights, including trade secrets, copyrights, trademarks, customary contractual protections and, to a lesser extent, patents, to protect our core technology and intellectual property. With respect to patents, we believe that the practice of patenting individual genes, along with patenting tools and methods specific to individual genes, has impeded the progress of the genetic testing industry beyond single gene tests and is antithetical to our core principle that patients should own and control their own genomic information. Over the past three years the U.S. Supreme Court has issued a series of unanimous (9-0) decisions setting forth limits on the patentability of natural phenomena, natural laws, abstract ideas and their applications&#151; i.e. , Mayo Collaborative v. Prometheus Laboratories (2012) , or Mayo , Association for Molecular Pathology v. Myriad Genetics (2013) , or Myriad , and Alice Corporation v. CLS Bank (2014) , or Alice. As discussed below, we believe the Mayo , Myriad and Alice decisions bring clarity to the limits to which patents may cover specific genes, mutations of such genes, or gene-specific technology for determining a patient's genomic information. 

Patents 

Recent U.S. Supreme Court cases have clarified that naturally occurring DNA sequences are natural phenomena which should not be patentable. On June 13, 2013, the U.S. Supreme Court decided Myriad , a case challenging the validity of patent claims held by Myriad relating to the cancer genes BRCA1 and BRCA2. The Myriad Court held that genomic DNAs that have been isolated from, or have the same sequence as, naturally occurring samples, such as the DNA constituting the BRCA1 and BRCA2 genes or fragments thereof, are not eligible for patent protection. Instead, the Myriad Court held that only those complementary DNAs (cDNAs) which have a sequence that differs from a naturally occurring fragment of genomic DNA may be patent eligible. Because it will be applied by other courts to all gene patents, the holding in Myriad also invalidates patent claims to other genes and 

gene variants. Prior to Myriad , on August 16, 2012, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit had held that certain patent claims of Myriad directed to methods of comparing or analyzing BRCA1 and BRCA2 sequences to determine whether or not a person has a variant or mutation are unpatentable abstract processes, and Myriad did not appeal such ruling. 

We do not currently have any patents or patent applications directed to the sequences of specific genes or variants of such genes, nor have we in-licensed such patents rights of any third party. We believe that correlations between specific gene variants and a person's susceptibility to certain conditions or diseases are natural laws that are not patentable under the U.S. Supreme Court's decision in Mayo . The Mayo case involved patent claims directed to optimizing, on a patient-specific basis, the dosage of a certain drug by measuring its metabolites in a patient. The Mayo Court determined that patent claims directed at detection of natural correlations, such as the correlation between drug metabolite levels in a patient and that drug's optimal dosage for such patient, are not eligible for patent protection. The Mayo Court held that claims based on this type of comparison between an observed fact and an understanding of that fact's implications represent attempts to patent a natural law and, moreover, when the processes for making the comparison are not themselves sufficiently inventive, claims to such processes are similarly patent-ineligible. On June 19, 2014, the U.S. Supreme Court decided Alice , where it amplified its Mayo and Myriad decisions and clarified the analytical framework for distinguishing between patents that claim laws of nature, natural phenomena and abstract ideas and those that claim patent-eligible applications of such concepts. According to the Alice Court, the analysis depends on whether a patent claim directed to a law of nature, a natural phenomenon or an abstract idea contains additional elements, an "inventive concept," that "is 'sufficient to ensure that the patent in practice amounts to significantly more than a patent upon the [ineligible concept] itself;" (citing Mayo ). 

We believe that Mayo , Myriad and Alice not only render as unpatentable genes, gene fragments and the detection of a person's sequence for a gene, but also have the same effect on generic applications of conventional technology to specific gene sequences. For example, we believe that generic claims to primers or probes directed to specific gene sequences and uses of such primers and probes in determining a person's genetic information are not patentable. We do not currently have any patents or patent applications directed to such subject matter nor have we in-licensed such patents rights of any third party. 

Unlike patents directed to specific genes, we do rely upon, in part, patent protection to protect technology that is not gene-specific and that provides us with a potential competitive advantage as we focus on making comprehensive genetic information less expensive and more broadly available to our clients. In this regard, we have one issued U.S. patent, two pending U.S. utility patent applications, two pending PCT applications, one pending U.S. provisional patent application and eight pending non-U.S. applications directed to various aspects of our laboratory, analytic and business practices. We intend to pursue further patent protection where appropriate. 

Trade secrets 

In addition to seeking patent protection for some of our laboratory, analytic and business practices, we also rely on trade secrets, including unpatented know-how, technology and other proprietary information, to maintain and develop our competitive position. We have developed proprietary procedures for both the laboratory processing of patient samples and the analysis of the resulting data to generate clinical reports. For example, we have automated aspects of our processes for curating information about known variants, identifying variants in an individual's sequence information, associating those variants with known information about their potential effects on disease, and presenting that information for review by personnel responsible for its interpretation and for the delivery of test reports to clinicians. We try to protect these trade secrets, in part, by taking reasonable steps to keep them confidential. This includes entering into nondisclosure and confidentiality 

agreements with parties who have access to them, such as our employees and certain third parties. We also enter into invention or patent assignment agreements with our employees and consultants that obligate them to assign to us any inventions developed in the course of their work for us. However, we may not enter into such agreements with all relevant parties, and these parties may not abide by the terms of their agreements. Despite measures taken to protect our intellectual property, unauthorized parties might copy or independently develop and commercially exploit aspects of our technology or obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. 

Trademarks 

We work hard to achieve a high level of quality in our operations and to provide our clients with a superior experience when interacting with us. As a consequence, our brand is very important to us, as it is a symbol of our reputation and representative of the goodwill we seek to generate with our clients. As a consequence, we have invested significant resources in protection of our trademarks. To date, we have filed for trademark protection for INVITAE as well as our logo (circle design) and INVITAE with the logo. Registrations for INVITAE have been obtained in 28 countries and are currently pending in more than five countries. Applications for our logo (circle design) have been obtained in 18 countries and are currently pending in more than 13 countries, and one application is pending for INVITAE with the logo. 

Environmental matters 

Our operations require the use of hazardous materials (including biological materials) which subject us to a variety of federal, state and local environmental and safety laws and regulations. Some of these regulations provide for strict liability, holding a party potentially liable without regard to fault or negligence. We could be held liable for damages and fines as a result of our, or others', business operations should contamination of the environment or individual exposure to hazardous substances occur. We cannot predict how changes in laws or new regulations will affect our business, operations or the cost of compliance. 

Raw materials and suppliers 

We rely on a limited number of suppliers, or, in some cases, sole suppliers, including Agilent Technologies, Inc., Illumina, Inc., Integrated DNA Technologies Incorporated, Qiagen N.V. and Roche Holdings Ltd. for certain laboratory reagents, as well as sequencers and other equipment and materials which we use in our laboratory operations. We rely on Illumina as the sole supplier of next generation sequencers and associated reagents and as the sole provider of maintenance and repair services for these sequencers. Our laboratory operations could be interrupted if we encounter delays or difficulties in securing these reagents, sequencers or other equipment or materials, and if we cannot obtain an acceptable substitute. Any such interruption could significantly affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and reputation. We believe that there are only a few other manufacturers that are currently capable of supplying and servicing the equipment necessary for our laboratory operations, including sequencers and various associated reagents. The use of equipment or materials provided by these replacement suppliers would require us to alter our laboratory operations. Transitioning to a new supplier would be time consuming and expensive, may result in interruptions in our laboratory operations, could affect the performance specifications of our laboratory operations or could require that we revalidate our tests. We cannot assure you that we would be able to secure alternative equipment, reagents and other materials, or bring such equipment, reagents and materials on line and revalidate them without experiencing interruptions in our workflow. If we encounter delays or difficulties in securing, reconfiguring or revalidating the equipment and reagents we require for our tests, our business and reputation could be adversely affected. 

Customer and geographic concentrations 

For the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013 the percentages of our revenue attributable to sources in the United States were 65%, 67% and 42% respectively; the percentages of our revenue attributable to sources in Canada were 25%, 19% and 1% respectively; the percentages of our revenue attributable to sources in Israel were 2%, 7% and 44% respectively; and the percentages of our revenue attributable to countries excluding the United States, Canada and Israel were 8%, 7% and 13% respectively. 

As of December 31, 2015 and 2014, we had net long-lived assets in the United States of $17.2 million and $13.9 million, respectively, and net long-lived assets in Chile of $1.5 million and $1.8 million, respectively. As of December 31, 2015 and 2014, we did not have long- lived assets outside of the United States and Chile. 

As of December 31, 2015, all of our revenue has been derived from sales of our assay. A single customer accounted for 13% of our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2015, a second single customer accounted for 15% of our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2014 and a third single customer accounted for 44% of our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2013. 

General Information 

We were incorporated in the State of Delaware on January 13, 2010 under the name Locus Development, Inc. and changed our name to Invitae Corporation in 2012. Our principal executive offices are located at 458 Brannan Street, San Francisco, California 94107, and our telephone number is (415) 374-7782. Our website address is www.invitae.com. The information contained on, or that can be accessed through, our website is not part of this annual report on Form 10-K. 

We make available free of charge on our website our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file or furnish such materials to the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC. You may obtain a free copy of these reports in the Investor Relations section of our website, www.invitae.com. All reports that we file with the SEC may be read and copied at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, DC, 20549. Information about the operation of the Public Reference Room can be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. All reports that we file are also available at www.sec.gov. 

