 ITEM 1. BUSINESS OVERVIEW 

Williams-Sonoma, Inc., incorporated in 1973, is a multi-channel specialty retailer of high quality products for the home. 

In 1956, our founder, Chuck Williams, turned a passion for cooking and eating with friends into a small business with a big idea. He opened a store in Sonoma, California, to sell the French cookware that intrigued him while visiting Europe but that could not be found in America. Chuck&#146;s business, which set a standard for customer service, took off and helped fuel a revolution in American cooking and entertaining that continues today. 

In the decades that followed, the quality of our products, our ability to identify new opportunities in the market and our people-first approach to business have facilitated our expansion beyond the kitchen into nearly every area of the home. Additionally, by embracing new technologies and customer-engagement strategies as they emerge, we are able to continually refine our best-in-class approach to multi-channel retailing. 

Today, Williams-Sonoma, Inc. is one of the United States&#146; largest e-commerce retailers with some of the best known and most beloved brands in home furnishings. We currently operate retail stores in the United States, Canada, Puerto Rico, Australia and the United Kingdom, and franchise our brands to third parties in a number of countries in the Middle East, the Philippines and Mexico. Our products are also available to customers through our catalogs and online worldwide. 

Williams-Sonoma 

From the beginning, our namesake brand, Williams-Sonoma, has been bringing people together around food. A leading specialty retailer of high-quality products for the kitchen and home, the brand seeks to provide world-class service and an engaging customer experience. Williams-Sonoma products include everything for cooking, dining and entertaining, including: cookware, tools, electrics, cutlery, tabletop and bar, outdoor, furniture and a vast library of cookbooks. The brand also includes Williams-Sonoma Home, a premium concept that offers classic home furnishings and decorative accessories, extending the Williams-Sonoma lifestyle beyond the kitchen into every room of the home. 

Pottery Barn 

Established in 1949 and acquired by Williams-Sonoma, Inc. in 1986, Pottery Barn is a premier multi-channel home furnishings retailer. The brand was founded on the idea that home furnishings should be exceptional in comfort, quality, style and value. Pottery Barn stores, website, and catalogs are specially designed to make shopping an enjoyable experience, with inspirational lifestyle displays dedicated to every space in the home. Pottery Barn products include furniture, bedding, bathroom accessories, rugs, curtains, lighting, tabletop, outdoor and decorative accessories. 

Pottery Barn Kids 

Launched in 1999, Pottery Barn Kids serves as an inspirational destination for creating childhood memories by decorating nurseries, bedrooms and play spaces. Pottery Barn Kids offers exclusive, innovative and high-quality products designed specifically for creating magical spaces where children can play, laugh, learn and grow. 

West Elm 

West Elm helps customers express their personal style at home. Headquartered in Brooklyn, New York, the brand opened its first store in 2003 in Brooklyn, the neighborhood it still proudly calls home. Mixing clean lines, natural materials and handcrafted collections from the U.S. and around the world, West Elm creates unique, affordable designs for modern living. From its commitment to Fair Trade Certified, local and handcrafted products to its community-driven in-store events and collaborations, to its role as part of an active community on social media, everything West Elm does is designed to make an impact. 

&#160;

PBteen 

Launched in 2003, PBteen is the first home concept to focus exclusively on the teen market. The brand offers a complete line of furniture, bedding, lighting, decorative accents and more for teen bedrooms, dorm rooms, study spaces and lounges. PBteen&#146;s innovative products are specifically designed to help teens create a comfortable and stylish room that reflects their own individual aesthetic. 

Rejuvenation 

Rejuvenation, founded in 1977 with a passion for old buildings, vintage lighting and house parts and great design, was acquired by Williams-Sonoma, Inc. in 2011. With manufacturing facilities in Portland, Oregon, Rejuvenation offers a wide assortment of high-quality lighting, hardware, furniture and home d&#233;cor inspired by history, designed for today and made to last for years to come. 

Mark and Graham 

Launched in late 2012, Mark and Graham is designed to be a premier destination for personalized gift buying. With over 100 monograms and font types to choose from, a Mark and Graham purchase is uniquely personal. The brand&#146;s product lines include women&#146;s and men&#146;s accessories, small leather goods, jewelry, key item apparel, paper, entertaining and bar, home d&#233;cor and seasonal items. 

E-COMMERCE OPERATIONS 

As of January 31, 2016, the e-commerce channel had the following merchandising strategies: Williams-Sonoma, Pottery Barn, Pottery Barn Kids, West Elm, PBteen, Williams-Sonoma Home, Rejuvenation and Mark and Graham, which sell our products through our e-commerce websites and direct-mail catalogs. We offer shipping from many of our brands to countries worldwide, while our catalogs reach customers across the U.S. and Australia. The e-commerce channel complements the retail channel by building brand awareness and acting as an effective advertising vehicle. In addition, we believe that our e-commerce websites and our direct-mail catalogs act as a cost-efficient means of testing market acceptance of new products and new brands. Leveraging these insights and our multi-channel positioning, our marketing efforts, including the use of online advertising and the circulation of catalogs, are targeted toward driving sales to all of our channels, including retail. Consistent with our published privacy policies, we send our catalogs to addresses from our proprietary customer list, as well as to addresses from lists of other mail order direct marketers, magazines and companies with which we establish a business relationship. In accordance with prevailing industry practice and our privacy policies, we may also rent our list to select mailers. Our customer mailings are continually updated to include new prospects and to eliminate non-responders. 

Detailed financial information about the e-commerce channel is found in Note L to our Consolidated Financial Statements. 

RETAIL STORES 

As of January 31, 2016, the retail channel had the following merchandising strategies: Williams-Sonoma, Pottery Barn, Pottery Barn Kids, West Elm and Rejuvenation, operating 618 stores comprising 571 stores in 43 states, Washington, D.C., and Puerto Rico, 27 stores in Canada, 19 stores in Australia and 1 store in the United Kingdom. We also have multi-year franchise agreements with third parties that currently operate 48 franchised stores and/or e-commerce websites in a number of countries in the Middle East, the Philippines and Mexico. The retail business complements the e-commerce business by building brand awareness and attracting new customers to our brands. Our retail stores serve as billboards for our brands, which we believe inspires our customers to shop online and through our catalogs. 

Detailed financial information about the retail channel is found in Note L to our Consolidated Financial Statements. 

&#160;

SUPPLIERS 

We purchase most of our merchandise from numerous foreign and domestic manufacturers and importers, the largest of which accounted for approximately 2% of our purchases during fiscal 2015. Approximately 67% of our merchandise purchases in fiscal 2015 were sourced from foreign vendors in 48 countries, predominantly in Asia and Europe. Approximately 99% of these purchases were negotiated and paid for in U.S. dollars. In addition, we manufacture merchandise, primarily upholstered furniture and lighting, at our facilities located in North Carolina, California and Oregon. 

COMPETITION AND SEASONALITY 

The specialty retail business is highly competitive. Our specialty retail stores, e-commerce websites and direct-mail catalogs compete with other retailers, including large department stores, discount retailers, other specialty retailers offering home-centered assortments, other e-commerce websites and other direct-mail catalogs. The substantial sales growth in the direct-to-customer industry within the last decade, particularly in e-commerce, has encouraged the entry of many new competitors and an increase in competition from established companies. In addition, we face increased competition from discount retailers who, in the past, may not have competed with us or to this degree. We compete on the basis of our brand authority, the quality of our merchandise, service to our customers, our proprietary customer list, our e-commerce websites and our marketing capabilities, as well as the location and appearance of our stores. We believe that we compare favorably with many of our current competitors with respect to some or all of these factors. 

Our business is subject to substantial seasonal variations in demand. Historically, a significant portion of our net revenues and net earnings have been realized during the period from October through January, and levels of net revenues and net earnings have typically been lower during the period from February through September. We believe this is the general pattern associated with the retail industry. In preparation for and during our holiday selling season, we hire a substantial number of additional temporary employees, primarily in our retail stores, customer care centers and distribution centers, and incur significant fixed catalog production and mailing costs. 

EMPLOYEES 

As of January 31, 2016, we had approximately 28,100 employees, of whom approximately 11,600 were full-time. In preparation for and during our fiscal 2015 holiday selling season, we hired approximately 8,900 temporary employees primarily in our retail stores, customer care centers and distribution centers. 

TRADEMARKS, COPYRIGHTS, PATENTS AND DOMAIN NAMES 

We own and/or have applied to register 80 separate trademarks and service marks. We own and/or have applied to register our key brand names as trademarks in the U.S. and 92 additional jurisdictions. Exclusive rights to the trademarks and service marks are held by Williams-Sonoma, Inc. and are used by our subsidiaries and franchisees under a license. These marks include our core brand names as well as brand names for selected products and services. The core brand names in particular, including &#147;Williams-Sonoma,&#148; &#147;Pottery Barn,&#148; &#147;pottery barn kids,&#148; &#147;PBteen,&#148; &#147;west elm,&#148; &#147;Williams-Sonoma Home,&#148; &#147;Rejuvenation&#148; and &#147;Mark and Graham&#148; are of material importance to us. Trademarks are generally valid as long as they are in use and/or their registrations are properly maintained, and they have not been found to have become generic. Trademark registrations can generally be renewed indefinitely so long as the marks are in use. We also own numerous copyrights and trade dress rights for our products, product packaging, catalogs, books, house publications, website designs and store designs, among other things, which are used by our subsidiaries and franchisees under a license. We hold patents on certain product functions and product designs. Patents are generally valid for 14 to 20 years as long as their registrations are properly maintained. In addition, we have registered and maintain numerous Internet domain names, including &#147;williams-sonoma.com,&#148; &#147;potterybarn.com,&#148; &#147;potterybarnkids.com,&#148; &#147;pbteen.com,&#148; &#147;westelm.com,&#148; &#147;wshome.com,&#148; &#147;williams-sonomainc.com,&#148; &#147;rejuvenation.com&#148; and &#147;markandgraham.com.&#148; Collectively, the trademarks, copyrights, trade dress rights and domain names that we hold are of material importance to us. 

&#160;

AVAILABLE INFORMATION 

We file annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, proxy and information statements and amendments to reports filed or furnished pursuant to Sections 13(a), 14 and 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. The public may read and copy these materials at the SEC&#146;s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549-0213. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC also maintains a website at www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding Williams-Sonoma, Inc. and other companies that file materials electronically with the SEC. Our annual reports, Forms 10-K, Forms 10-Q, Forms 8-K and proxy and information statements are also available, free of charge, on our website at www.williams-sonomainc.com . 

&#160;

