 Item 1. Business 

Overview

We are an independent energy company engaged in the acquisition, exploration, development and production of oil and natural gas properties, primarily in the Bakken and Three Forks formations within the Williston Basin in North Dakota and Montana. Our primary focus is oil exploration and production through non-operated working interests in wells drilled and completed in spacing units that include our acreage. As a non-operator, we are able to diversify our investment exposure by participating in a large number of gross wells, as well as entering into more project areas by partnering with numerous experienced operating partners. In addition, because we can elect to participate on a well-by-well basis, we believe we have increased flexibility in the timing and amount of our capital expenditures because we are not burdened with various contractual development agreements or a large operating support staff. Further, we are able to avoid exploratory costs incurred by many oil and gas producers.

During 2015, we participated in the drilling and completion of 292 gross (18.6 net) wells in the Williston Basin. At December 31, 2015, we owned working interests in 2,630 gross (204.3 net) producing wells, consisting of 2,628 wells targeting the Bakken and Three Forks formations and two wells targeting other formations. As of December 31, 2015, we leased approximately 165,908 net acres, all located in the Williston Basin, of which approximately 119,088 net acres were developed.

As of December 31, 2015, our proved reserves were 65.3 MMBoe (all of which were in the Williston Basin) as estimated by our third-party independent reservoir engineering firm, Ryder Scott Company, LP. As of December 31, 2015, 65% of our reserves were classified as proved developed and 87% of our reserves were oil. The following table provides a summary of certain information regarding our assets:

&#160; &#160; As of December 31, 2015

&#160; &#160; &#160; Net

Acres

&#160; &#160; Productive Wells

&#160; &#160; Average Daily Production (1) 

(Boe per day)

&#160; &#160; Proved Reserves

(MBoe)

&#160; &#160; % Oil

&#160; &#160; % Proved Developed

&#160; &#160; PV-10 (2) 

(in thousands)

&#160; &#160; Gross

&#160; &#160; Net

&#160; North Dakota

&#160; &#160; 136,043

&#160; &#160; &#160; 2,533

&#160; &#160; &#160; 192.6

&#160; &#160; &#160; 15,922

&#160; &#160; &#160; 64,641

&#160; &#160; &#160; 87

%

&#160; &#160; 64

%

&#160; $

569,920

&#160; Montana

&#160; &#160; 29,865

&#160; &#160; &#160; 97

&#160; &#160; &#160; 11.7

&#160; &#160; &#160; 363

&#160; &#160; &#160; 657

&#160; &#160; &#160; 86

&#160; &#160; &#160; 100

&#160; &#160; &#160; 5,774

&#160; Total

&#160; &#160; 165,908

&#160; &#160; &#160; 2,630

&#160; &#160; &#160; 204.3

&#160; &#160; &#160; 16,285

&#160; &#160; &#160; 65,298

&#160; &#160; &#160; 87

&#160; &#160; &#160; 65

&#160; &#160; $

575,694

&#160; ___________________

&#160;

(1)

Represents the average daily production over the three months ended December 31, 2015.

(2)

PV-10 is a non-GAAP financial measure. For further information and reconciliation to the most directly comparable GAAP measure, see "Item 2. Properties &#8211; Reconciliation of PV-10 to Standardized Measure." The prices used to calculate this measure were $50.28 per barrel of oil (WTI price) and $2.58 per MMBtu of natural gas (Henry Hub price), which prices were then further adjusted for transportation, quality and basis differentials. The average resulting price used as of December 31, 2015 was $42.03 per barrel of oil and $1.63 per Mcf of natural gas.

During 2015 commodity prices for crude oil, NGL and natural gas experienced sharp declines, and this downward trend has accelerated further into the first quarter of 2016, with crude oil prices reaching a twelve-year low in February 2016. We have significantly reduced our capital budget for 2016. We believe that we can enhance the value for our shareholders by maintaining flexibility in choosing drilling locations that may yield the greatest rates of return.

&#160;

Business Strategy

Key elements of our business strategies include:

&#183;

Deploy our Capital in a Conservative and Strategic Manner and Review Opportunities to Bolster our Liquidity. &#160; In the current industry environment, maintaining liquidity is critical. Therefore, we will be highly selective in the projects that we fund and will review opportunities to bolster our liquidity and financial position through various means.

&#183;

Continue Participation in the Development of Our Existing Properties in the Williston Basin as a Non-Operator. &#160; In the current price environment, we believe the best way to develop our acreage is to take a long-term approach and develop our locations with potential for the highest rates of return. We plan to continue to concentrate our capital expenditures in the Williston Basin, where we believe our current acreage position can provide an attractive return on the capital employed on our multi-year drilling inventory of oil-focused properties.

&#183;

Diversify Our Risk Through Non-Operated Participation in a Large Number of Bakken and Three Forks Wells . As a non-operator, we seek to diversify our investment and operational risk through participation in a large number of oil wells and with multiple operators. As of December 31, 2015, we have participated in 2,630 gross (204.3 net) producing wells in the Williston Basin with an average working interest of 7.8% in each gross well, with more than 35 experienced operating partners. We expect to continue partnering with numerous experienced operators across our leasehold positions.

&#183;

Evaluate and Pursue Value-Enhancing Acquisitions, Joint Ventures and Divestitures. We will continue to monitor the market for strategic acquisitions that we believe could be accretive and enhance shareholder value. &#160; We generally seek to acquire small lease positions at a significant discount to the contiguous acreage positions typically sought by larger producers. As part of this strategy, we consider areas that are actively being drilled and permitted and where we have an understanding of the operators and their drilling plans, capital requirements and well economics. Historically, we have acquired properties by purchasing individual or small groups of leases directly from mineral owners or from landmen or lease brokers, as well as purchasing lease packages in identified project areas controlled by specific operators.

&#160; &#183;

Maintain a Strong Balance Sheet and Proactively Manage to Limit Downside. &#160; We strive to remain financially strong, yet flexible, through the prudent management of our balance sheet and active management of commodity price volatility. Given the low commodity price environment existing at December 31, 2015 and continuing into 2016, Northern intends to preserve liquidity by reducing commitments when available and being more selective on capital deployment. We employ an active commodity price risk management program to better enable us to execute our business plan over the entire commodity price cycle. The following table summarizes the oil derivative contracts that we have entered into as of December 31, 2015, by fiscal quarter:

Contract Period

&#160; Volumes

(Bbl)

&#160; Weighted

Average Price

($ per Bbl)

2016:

&#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; Q1

&#160; 450,000

&#160; 90.00

Q2

&#160; 450,000

&#160; 90.00

Q3

&#160; 450,000

&#160; 65.00

Q4

&#160; 450,000

&#160; 65.00

Industry Operating Environment

The oil and natural gas industry is affected by many factors that we generally cannot control. Government regulations, particularly in the areas of taxation, energy, climate change and the environment, can have a significant impact on operations and profitability. Significant factors that will impact oil prices in the current fiscal year and future periods include: political and social developments in the Middle East, demand in Asian and European markets, and the extent to which members of OPEC and other oil exporting nations manage oil supply through export quotas. Additionally, natural gas prices continue to be under pressure due to concerns over excess supply of natural gas due to the high productivity of emerging shale plays in the United States. Natural gas prices are generally determined by North American supply and demand and are also affected by imports and exports of liquefied natural gas. Weather also has a significant impact on demand for natural gas since it is a primary heating source.

&#160;

Oil and natural gas prices have fallen significantly since their early third quarter 2014 levels. For example, NYMEX WTI oil prices declined from $104.59 per Bbl on July 21, 2014 to $37.04 per Bbl on December 31, 2015, while natural gas prices have declined from over $3.85 per Mcf to below $2.34 per Mcf over the same period. In addition, the actual and forecasted prices for 2016 have also declined since year-end. Lower oil and gas prices not only decrease our revenues, but an extended decline in oil or gas prices may materially and adversely affect our future business, financial position, cash flows, results of operations, liquidity, ability to finance planned capital expenditures and the oil and natural gas reserves that we can economically produce. Lower oil and gas prices may also reduce the amount of our borrowing base under our credit agreement, which is determined at the discretion of the lenders based on the collateral value of our proved reserves that have been mortgaged to the lenders.

While lower commodity prices will reduce our future net cash flow from operations, we expect to have sufficient liquidity to continue development of our oil and gas properties. In 2015, our capital spending was decreased by 76% as compared to 2014 and in the second half of 2015 our cash flows exceeded our development expenditures, which allowed us to reduce our credit facility borrowings by $38 million. At December 31, 2015, the borrowing base on our credit facility was $550 million and there was a $150 million outstanding balance, leaving $400 million of borrowing capacity under the facility. Although we can expect our borrowing base will be reduced if commodity prices do not significantly recover, we believe our borrowing base has resilience since 87% of our pre-tax PV-10 consists of producing properties which do not require material maintenance capital expenditures to maintain forecasted production levels. With no near-term maturities of debt, if the existing commodity price environment persists and prices remain lower-for-longer, we plan to continue development within available cash flows and potentially seek the acquisition of producing properties to offset decline as sufficient liquidity allows.

Development

We primarily engage in oil and natural gas exploration and production by participating on a proportionate basis alongside third-party interests in wells drilled and completed in spacing units that include our acreage. In addition, from time-to-time, we acquire working interests in wells in which we do not hold the underlying leasehold interests from third parties unable or unwilling to participate in particular well proposals. We typically depend on drilling partners to propose, permit and initiate the drilling of wells. Prior to commencing drilling, our partners are required to provide all owners of oil, natural gas and mineral interests within the designated spacing unit the opportunity to participate in the drilling costs and revenues of the well to the extent of their pro-rata share of such interest within the spacing unit. We assess each drilling opportunity on a case-by-case basis and participate in wells that we expect to meet our return thresholds based upon our estimates of ultimate recoverable oil and natural gas, expected oil and gas prices, expertise of the operator, and completed well cost from each project, as well as other factors. Historically, we have participated pursuant to our working interest in a vast majority of the wells proposed to us. However, the recent significant decline in oil prices has reduced both the number of well proposals we receive and the proportion of well proposals in which we have elected to participate.

We do not manage our commodities marketing activities internally, but our operating partners generally market and sell oil and natural gas produced from wells in which we have an interest. Our operating partners coordinate the transportation of our oil production from our wells to appropriate pipelines or rail transport facilities pursuant to arrangements that such partners negotiate and maintain with various parties purchasing the production. We understand that our partners generally sell our production to a variety of purchasers at prevailing market prices under separately negotiated short-term contracts. The price at which production is sold generally is tied to the spot market for oil. Williston Basin Light Sweet Crude from the Bakken source rock is generally 41-42 API crude oil and is readily accepted into the pipeline infrastructure. The weighted average differential reported to us by our producers during 2015 was $9.42 per barrel below NYMEX pricing. Our weighted average differential was approximately $8.30 per barrel below NYMEX pricing during the fourth quarter of 2015. This differential represents the imbedded transportation costs in moving the oil from wellhead to refinery and will fluctuate based on availability of pipeline, rail and other transportation methods.

Competition

The oil and natural gas industry is intensely competitive, and we compete with numerous other oil and natural gas exploration and production companies. Some of these companies have substantially greater resources than we have. Not only do they explore for and produce oil and natural gas, but also many carry on midstream and refining operations and market petroleum and other products on a regional, national or worldwide basis. The operations of other companies may be able to pay more for exploratory prospects and productive oil and natural gas properties. They may also have more resources to define, evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties and prospects than our financial or human resources permit.

&#160;

Our larger or integrated competitors may be better able to absorb the burden of existing, and any changes to federal, state, and local laws and regulations than we can, which would adversely affect our competitive position. Our ability to discover reserves and acquire additional properties in the future will be dependent upon our ability and resources to evaluate and select suitable properties and to consummate transactions in this highly competitive environment. In addition, we may be at a disadvantage in producing oil and natural gas properties and bidding for exploratory prospects, because we have fewer financial and human resources than other companies in our industry. Should a larger and better financed company decide to directly compete with us, and be successful in its efforts, our business could be adversely affected.

Marketing and Customers

The market for oil and natural gas that will be produced from our properties depends on factors beyond our control, including the extent of domestic production and imports of oil and natural gas, the proximity and capacity of natural gas pipelines and other transportation facilities, demand for oil and natural gas, the marketing of competitive fuels and the effects of state and federal regulation. The oil and natural gas industry also competes with other industries in supplying the energy and fuel requirements of industrial, commercial and individual consumers.

Our oil production is expected to be sold at prices tied to the spot oil markets. Our natural gas production is expected to be sold under short-term contracts and priced based on first of the month index prices or on daily spot market prices. We rely on our operating partners to market and sell our production. Our operating partners include a variety of exploration and production companies, from large publicly-traded companies to small, privately-owned companies. We do not believe the loss of any single operator would have a material adverse effect on our company as a whole.

Title to Properties

Our oil and natural gas properties are subject to customary royalty and other interests, liens under indebtedness, liens incident to operating agreements, liens for current taxes and other burdens, including other mineral encumbrances and restrictions. Our credit agreement is also secured by a first lien on substantially all of our assets. We do not believe that any of these burdens materially interfere with the use of our properties or the operation of our business.

We believe that we have satisfactory title to or rights in all of our producing properties. As is customary in the oil and gas industry, minimal investigation of title is made at the time of acquisition of undeveloped properties. In most cases, we investigate title only when we acquire producing properties or before commencement of drilling operations.

Seasonality

Winter weather conditions and lease stipulations can limit or temporarily halt the drilling and producing activities of our operating partners and other oil and natural gas operations. These constraints and the resulting shortages or high costs could delay or temporarily halt the operations of our operating partners and materially increase our operating and capital costs. Such seasonal anomalies can also pose challenges for meeting well drilling objectives and may increase competition for equipment, supplies and personnel during the spring and summer months, which could lead to shortages and increase costs or delay or temporarily halt our operating partners' operations.

Principal Agreements Affecting Our Ordinary Business

We do not own any physical real estate, but, instead, our acreage is comprised of leasehold interests subject to the terms and provisions of lease agreements that provide our company the right to drill and maintain wells in specific geographic areas. Lease arrangements that comprise our acreage positions are generally established using industry-standard terms that have been established and used in the oil and natural gas industry for many years. Some of our leases may be acquired from other parties that obtained the original leasehold interest prior to our acquisition of the leasehold interest.

&#160;

In general, our lease agreements stipulate three-to-five year terms. Bonuses and royalty rates are negotiated on a case-by-case basis consistent with industry standard pricing. Once a well is drilled and production established, the leased acreage in the applicable spacing unit is considered developed acreage and is held by production. Other locations within the drilling unit created for a well may also be drilled at any time with no time limit as long as the lease is held by production. Given the current pace of drilling in the Bakken play at this time, we do not believe lease expiration issues will materially affect our North Dakota position.

Governmental Regulation and Environmental Matters

Our operations are subject to various rules, regulations and limitations impacting the oil and natural gas exploration and production industry as whole.

Regulation of Oil and Natural Gas Production

Our oil and natural gas exploration, production and related operations are subject to extensive rules and regulations promulgated by federal, state, tribal and local authorities and agencies. For example, North Dakota and Montana require permits for drilling operations, drilling bonds and reports concerning operations and impose other requirements relating to the exploration and production of oil and natural gas. Such states may also have statutes or regulations addressing conservation matters, including provisions for the unitization or pooling of oil and natural gas properties, the location of wells, the method of drilling and casing wells, the surface use and restoration of properties upon which wells are drilled, the sourcing and disposal of water used in the process of drilling, completion and abandonment, the establishment of maximum rates of production from wells, and the regulation of spacing, plugging and abandonment of such wells. The effect of these regulations is to limit the amount of oil and natural gas that we can produce from our wells and to limit the number of wells or the locations at which we can drill. Moreover, both states impose a production or severance tax with respect to the production and sale of oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids within their jurisdictions. Failure to comply with any such rules and regulations can result in substantial penalties. The regulatory burden on the oil and natural gas industry will most likely increase our cost of doing business and may affect our profitability. Because such rules and regulations are frequently amended or reinterpreted, we are unable to predict the future cost or impact of complying with such laws. Significant expenditures may be required to comply with governmental laws and regulations and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, currently unforeseen environmental incidents may occur or past non-compliance with environmental laws or regulations may be discovered. Therefore, we are unable to predict the future costs or impact of compliance. Additional proposals and proceedings that affect the oil and natural gas industry are regularly considered by Congress, the states, the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission ("FERC") and the courts. We cannot predict when or whether any such proposals may become effective.

Regulation of Transportation of Oil

Sales of crude oil, condensate and natural gas liquids are not currently regulated and are made at negotiated prices. Nevertheless, Congress could reenact price controls in the future. Our sales of crude oil are affected by the availability, terms and cost of transportation. The transportation of oil by common carrier pipelines is also subject to rate and access regulation. The FERC regulates interstate oil pipeline transportation rates under the Interstate Commerce Act. In general, interstate oil pipeline rates must be cost-based, although settlement rates agreed to by all shippers are permitted and market-based rates may be permitted in certain circumstances. Effective January 1, 1995, the FERC implemented regulations establishing an indexing system (based on inflation) for transportation rates for oil pipelines that allows a pipeline to increase its rates annually up to a prescribed ceiling, without making a cost of service filing. Every five years, the FERC reviews the appropriateness of the index level in relation to changes in industry costs. Most recently, on December 17, 2015, the FERC established a new price index for the five-year period commencing July 1, 2016.

Intrastate oil pipeline transportation rates are subject to regulation by state regulatory commissions. The basis for intrastate oil pipeline regulation, and the degree of regulatory oversight and scrutiny given to intrastate oil pipeline rates varies from state to state. Insofar as effective interstate and intrastate rates are equally applicable to all comparable shippers, we believe that the regulation of oil transportation rates will not affect our operations in any way that is of material difference from those of our competitors who are similarly situated.

&#160;

Further, interstate and intrastate common carrier oil pipelines must provide service on a non-discriminatory basis. Under this open access standard, common carriers must offer service to all similarly situated shippers requesting service on the same terms and under the same rates. When oil pipelines operate at full capacity, access is generally governed by pro-rationing provisions set forth in the pipelines' published tariffs. Accordingly, we believe that access to oil pipeline transportation services generally will be available to us to the same extent as to our similarly situated competitors.

Regulation of Transportation and Sales of Natural Gas

Historically, the transportation and sale for resale of natural gas in interstate commerce has been regulated by the FERC under the Natural Gas Act of 1938 ("NGA"), the Natural Gas Policy Act of 1978 ("NGPA") and regulations issued under those statutes. In the past, the federal government has regulated the prices at which natural gas could be sold. While sales by producers of natural gas can currently be made at market prices, Congress could reenact price controls in the future.

Onshore gathering services, which occur upstream of FERC jurisdictional transmission services, are regulated by the states. Although the FERC has set forth a general test for determining whether facilities perform a non-jurisdictional gathering function or a jurisdictional transmission function, the FERC's determinations as to the classification of facilities is done on a case-by-case basis. State regulation of natural gas gathering facilities generally includes various safety, environmental and, in some circumstances, nondiscriminatory take requirements. Although such regulation has not generally been affirmatively applied by state agencies, natural gas gathering may receive greater regulatory scrutiny in the future.

Intrastate natural gas transportation and facilities are also subject to regulation by state regulatory agencies, and certain transportation services provided by intrastate pipelines are also regulated by FERC. The basis for intrastate regulation of natural gas transportation and the degree of regulatory oversight and scrutiny given to intrastate natural gas pipeline rates and services varies from state to state. Insofar as such regulation within a particular state will generally affect all intrastate natural gas shippers within the state on a comparable basis, we believe that the regulation of similarly situated intrastate natural gas transportation in any states in which we operate and ship natural gas on an intrastate basis will not affect our operations in any way that is of material difference from those of our competitors. Like the regulation of interstate transportation rates, the regulation of intrastate transportation rates affects the marketing of natural gas that we produce, as well as the revenues we receive for sales of our natural gas.

Environmental Matters

Our operations and properties are subject to extensive and changing federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to environmental protection, including the generation, storage, handling, emission, transportation and discharge of materials into the environment, and relating to safety and health. The recent trend in environmental legislation and regulation generally is toward stricter standards, and this trend will likely continue. These laws and regulations may:

&#183;

require the acquisition of a permit or other authorization before construction or drilling commences and for certain other activities;

&#183;

limit or prohibit construction, drilling and other activities on certain lands lying within wilderness and other protected areas; and

&#183;

impose substantial liabilities for pollution resulting from its operations.

The permits required for our operations may be subject to revocation, modification and renewal by issuing authorities. Governmental authorities have the power to enforce their regulations, and violations are subject to fines or injunctions, or both. In the opinion of management, we are in substantial compliance with current applicable environmental laws and regulations, and have no material commitments for capital expenditures to comply with existing environmental requirements. Nevertheless, changes in existing environmental laws and regulations or in interpretations thereof could have a significant impact on our company, as well as the oil and natural gas industry in general.

&#160;

The Comprehensive Environmental, Response, Compensation, and Liability Act ("CERCLA") and comparable state statutes impose strict, joint and several liability on owners and operators of sites and on persons who disposed of or arranged for the disposal of "hazardous substances" found at such sites. It is not uncommon for the neighboring landowners and other third parties to file claims for personal injury and property damage allegedly caused by the hazardous substances released into the environment. The Federal Resource Conservation and Recovery Act ("RCRA") and comparable state statutes govern the disposal of "solid waste" and "hazardous waste" and authorize the imposition of substantial fines and penalties for noncompliance. Although CERCLA currently excludes petroleum from its definition of "hazardous substance," state laws affecting our operations may impose clean-up liability relating to petroleum and petroleum related products. In addition, although RCRA classifies certain oil field wastes as "non-hazardous," such exploration and production wastes could be reclassified as hazardous wastes thereby making such wastes subject to more stringent handling and disposal requirements. Recent regulation and litigation brought against others in the industry under RCRA liability for earthquakes were allegedly caused by injection of oil field wastes.

The Endangered Species Act ("ESA") seeks to ensure that activities do not jeopardize endangered or threatened animal, fish and plant species, nor destroy or modify the critical habitat of such species. Under ESA, exploration and production operations, as well as actions by federal agencies, may not significantly impair or jeopardize the species or its habitat. ESA provides for criminal penalties for willful violations of ESA. Other statutes that provide protection to animal and plant species and that may apply to our operations include, but are not necessarily limited to, the Fish and Wildlife Coordination Act, the Fishery Conservation and Management Act, the Migratory Bird Treaty Act and the National Historic Preservation Act. Although we believe that our operations are in substantial compliance with such statutes, any change in these statutes or any reclassification of a species as endangered could subject our company (directly or indirectly through our operating partners) to significant expenses to modify our operations or could force discontinuation of certain operations altogether.

On April 17, 2012, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (the "EPA") finalized rules proposed on July 28, 2011 that establish new air emission controls under the Clean Air Act ("CCA") for oil and natural gas production and natural gas processing operations. Specifically, the EPA's rule package includes New Source Performance Standards ("NSPS") for the oil and natural gas source category to address emissions of sulfur dioxide and volatile organic compounds ("VOCs") and a separate set of emission standards to address hazardous air pollutants frequently associated with oil and natural gas production and processing activities. On August 5, 2013, the EPA issued final updates to its 2012 VOC performance standards for storage tanks. The rules establish specific new requirements regarding emissions from compressors, dehydrators, storage tanks and other production equipment. In addition, the rules revise leak detection requirements for natural gas processing plants. These rules may require a number of modifications to the operations of our third-party operating partners, including the installation of new equipment to control emissions from compressors. 

On September 18, 2015, the EPA proposed to further amend the NSPS for the oil and natural gas source category to set standards for methane and VOC emissions from new and modified oil and gas production sources and natural gas-processing and transmission sources. Although we cannot predict the cost to comply with these new requirements at this point, compliance with these new rules could result in significant costs, including increased capital expenditures and operating costs, and could adversely impact our business.

These new regulations and proposals and any other new regulations requiring the installation of more sophisticated pollution control equipment could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 

The Federal Water Pollution Control Act of 1972, or the Clean Water Act (the "CWA"), imposes restrictions and controls on the discharge of produced waters and other pollutants into navigable waters. Permits must be obtained to discharge pollutants into state and federal waters and to conduct construction activities in waters and wetlands. The CWA and certain state regulations prohibit the discharge of produced water, sand, drilling fluids, drill cuttings, sediment and certain other substances related to the oil and gas industry into certain coastal and offshore waters without an individual or general National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System discharge permit. In addition, the Clean Water Act and analogous state laws require individual permits or coverage under general permits for discharges of storm water runoff from certain types of facilities. Some states also maintain groundwater protection programs that require permits for discharges or operations that may impact groundwater conditions. Costs may be associated with the treatment of wastewater and/or developing and implementing storm water pollution prevention plans. The CWA and comparable state statutes provide for civil, criminal and administrative penalties for unauthorized discharges of oil and other pollutants and impose liability on parties responsible for those discharges, for the costs of cleaning up any environmental damage caused by the release and for natural resource damages resulting from the release. 

&#160;

&#160;

The underground injection of oil and natural gas wastes are regulated by the Underground Injection Control program authorized by the Safe Drinking Water Act. The primary objective of injection well operating requirements is to ensure the mechanical integrity of the injection apparatus and to prevent migration of fluids from the injection zone into underground sources of drinking water. Substantially all of the oil and natural gas production in which we have interest is developed from unconventional sources that require hydraulic fracturing as part of the completion process. Hydraulic fracturing involves the injection of water, sand and chemicals under pressure into the formation to stimulate gas production. Legislation to amend the Safe Drinking Water Act to repeal the exemption for hydraulic fracturing from the definition of "underground injection" and require federal permitting and regulatory control of hydraulic fracturing, as well as legislative proposals to require disclosure of the chemical constituents of the fluids used in the fracturing process, were proposed in recent sessions of Congress. The U.S. Congress continues to consider legislation to amend the Safe Drinking Water Act to address hydraulic fracturing operations.

Scrutiny of hydraulic fracturing activities continues in other ways. The federal government is currently undertaking several studies of hydraulic fracturing's potential impacts. Several states, including Montana and North Dakota where our properties are located, have also proposed or adopted legislative or regulatory restrictions on hydraulic fracturing. A number of municipalities in other states, including Colorado and Texas, have proposed bans on hydraulic fracturing. New York State's ban on hydraulic fracturing was recently upheld by the Courts. In Colorado, lower courts overturned the bans, and the question is now before the state supreme court. We cannot predict whether any other legislation will ever be enacted and if so, what its provisions would be. If additional levels of regulation and permits were required through the adoption of new laws and regulations at the federal or state level, which could lead to delays, increased operating costs and process prohibitions that would materially adversely affect our revenue and results of operations.

The National Environmental Policy Act ("NEPA") establishes a national environmental policy and goals for the protection, maintenance and enhancement of the environment and provides a process for implementing these goals within federal agencies. A major federal agency action having the potential to significantly impact the environment requires review under NEPA. Many of the activities of our third-party operating partners are covered under categorical exclusions which results in a shorter NEPA review process. The Council on Environmental Quality has announced an intention to reinvigorate NEPA reviews and on March 12, 2012, issued final guidance that may result in longer review processes that could lead to delays and increased costs that could materially adversely affect our revenues and results of operations.

Climate Change

Significant studies and research have been devoted to climate change, and climate change has developed into a major political issue in the United States and globally. Certain research suggests that greenhouse gas emissions contribute to climate change and pose a threat to the environment. Recent scientific research and political debate has focused in part on carbon dioxide and methane incidental to oil and natural gas exploration and production.

In the United States, legislative and regulatory initiatives are underway to limit greenhouse gas ("GHG") emissions. The U.S. Congress has considered legislation that would control GHG emissions through a "cap and trade" program and several states have already implemented programs to reduce GHG emissions. The U.S. Supreme Court determined that GHG emissions fall within the federal Clean Air Act, or the CAA, definition of an "air pollutant." In response the EPA promulgated an endangerment finding paving the way for regulation of GHG emissions under the CAA. In 2010, the EPA issued a final rule, known as the "Tailoring Rule," that makes certain large stationary sources and modification projects subject to permitting requirements for greenhouse gas emissions under the Clean Air Act. On June 23, 2014, the U.S. Supreme Court in Utility Air Regulatory Group v. EPA held that the EPA's "Tailoring Rule" was invalid, but held that if a source was subject to Prevention of Significant Deterioration ("PSD") or Title V based on emissions of conventional pollutants like sulfur dioxide, particulates, nitrogen dioxide, carbon monoxide, ozone or lead, then the EPA could also require the source to control GHG emissions and the source would have to install Best Available Control Technology to do so. As a result, a source no longer is required to meet PSD and Title V permitting requirements based solely on its GHG emissions, but may still have to control GHG emissions if it is an otherwise regulated source.

On February 23, 2014, Colorado became the first state in the nation to adopt rules to control methane emissions from oil and gas facilities. On September 18, 2015, the EPA proposed to further amend the NSPS for the oil and natural gas source category. These new regulations would require controls on methane emissions from certain oil and gas facilities. To the extent our third party operating partners are required to further control methane emissions, such controls could impact our business.

&#160;

&#160;

In addition, in September 2009, the EPA issued a final rule requiring the reporting of GHGs from specified large GHG emission sources in the United States beginning in 2011 for emissions in 2010. On November 30, 2010, the EPA published a final rule expanding its existing GHG emissions reporting to include onshore and offshore oil and natural gas systems beginning in 2012. Our third party operating partners are required to report their greenhouse gas emissions under these rules. Because regulation of GHG emissions is relatively new, further regulatory, legislative and judicial developments are likely to occur. Such developments may affect how these GHG initiatives will impact us. Moreover, while the U.S. Supreme Court held in its June 2011 decision American Electric Power Co. v. Connecticut that, with respect to claims concerning GHG emissions, the federal common law of nuisance was displaced by the federal Clean Air Act, the Court left open the question of whether tort claims against sources of GHG emissions alleging property damage may proceed under state common law. There thus remains some litigation risk for such claims. Due to the uncertainties surrounding the regulation of and other risks associated with GHG emissions, we cannot predict the financial impact of related developments on us.

Legislation or regulations that may be adopted to address climate change could also affect the markets for our products by making our products more or less desirable than competing sources of energy. To the extent that our products are competing with higher greenhouse gas emitting energy sources, our products would become more desirable in the market with more stringent limitations on greenhouse gas emissions. To the extent that our products are competing with lower GHG emitting energy sources such as solar and wind, our products would become less desirable in the market with more stringent limitations on greenhouse gas emissions. We cannot predict with any certainty at this time how these possibilities may affect our operations.

The majority of scientific studies on climate change suggest that stronger storms may occur in the future in the areas where we operate, although the scientific studies are not unanimous. Although operators may take steps to mitigate physical risks from storms, no assurance can be given that future storms will not have a material adverse effect on our business.

Employees

We currently have 20 full time employees. We may hire additional technical or administrative personnel as appropriate. However, we do not expect a significant change in the number of full time employees over the next 12 months based upon our currently-projected business plan. We are using and will continue to use the services of independent consultants and contractors to perform various professional services. We believe that this use of third-party service providers enhances our ability to contain general and administrative expenses.

Office Locations

Our executive offices are located at 315 Manitoba Avenue, Suite 200, Wayzata, Minnesota 55391. Our office space consists of 4,653 square feet of leased space. We believe our current office space is sufficient to meet our needs for the foreseeable future.

Organizational Background

Our company took its present form on March 20, 2007, when Northern Oil and Gas, Inc. ("Northern"), a Nevada corporation engaged in our current business, merged with and into our subsidiary, with Northern remaining as the surviving corporation (the "Merger"). Northern then merged into us, and we were the surviving corporation. We then changed our name to Northern Oil and Gas, Inc. As a result of the Merger, Northern was deemed to be the acquiring company for financial reporting purposes and the transaction was accounted for as a reverse merger. Our primary operations are now those formerly operated by Northern as well as other business activities since March 2007.

On June 30, 2010, we reincorporated in the State of Minnesota from the State of Nevada pursuant to a plan of merger between Northern Oil and Gas, Inc., a Nevada corporation, and Northern Oil and Gas, Inc., a Minnesota corporation and wholly-owned subsidiary of the Nevada corporation. Upon the reincorporation, each outstanding certificate representing shares of the Nevada corporation's common stock was deemed, without any action by the holders thereof, to represent the same number and class of shares of our company's common stock. As of June 30, 2010, the rights of our shareholders began to be governed by Minnesota corporation law and our current articles of incorporation and bylaws.

&#160;

Available Information &#8211; Reports to Security Holders

Our website address is www.northernoil.com . We make available on this website, free of charge, our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements and amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file those materials with, or furnish those materials to, the SEC. These filings are also available to the public at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Room 1580, Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. Electronic filings with the SEC are also available on the SEC internet website at www.sec.gov .

We have also posted to our website our Audit Committee Charter, Compensation Committee Charter, Nominating Committee Charter and our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, in addition to all pertinent company contact information.

&#160;

