 Item 1. Business. 

History of Rent-A-Center 

Unless the context indicates otherwise, references to &#8220;we,&#8221; &#8220;us&#8221; and &#8220;our&#8221; refer to the consolidated business operations of Rent-A-Center, Inc., the parent, and any or all of its direct and indirect subsidiaries. For any references in this document to Note A through Note T, refer to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. 

We are one of the largest rent-to-own operators in North America, focused on improving the quality of life for our customers by providing them the opportunity to obtain ownership of high-quality durable products, such as consumer electronics, appliances, computers (including tablets), smartphones, and furniture (including accessories), under flexible rental purchase agreements with no long-term obligation. We were incorporated in the State of Delaware in 1986, and our common stock is traded on the Nasdaq Global Select Market under the symbol "RCII." 

Our principal executive offices are located at 5501 Headquarters Drive, Plano, Texas 75024. Our telephone number is (972) 801-1100 and our company website is www.rentacenter.com. We do not intend for information contained on our website to be part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We make available free of charge on or through our website our Annual Report on Form 10-K, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, our current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (the &#8220;SEC&#8221;). Additionally, we provide electronic or paper copies of our filings free of charge upon request. 

The Rental Purchase Transaction 

The rental purchase transaction is a flexible alternative for consumers to obtain use and enjoyment of brand name merchandise with no long-term obligation. Key features of the rental purchase transaction include: 

Brand name merchandise. &#32;We offer well-known brands such as LG, Samsung, Sony and Vizio home electronics; Frigidaire, General Electric, LG, Samsung and Whirlpool appliances; Acer, Apple, Asus, Samsung and Toshiba computers and/or tablets; LG and Samsung smartphones; and Ashley, Powell and Standard furniture. 

Convenient payment options. &#32;Our customers make payments on a weekly, semi-monthly or monthly basis in our stores, kiosks, online or by telephone. We accept cash, credit or debit cards. Rental payments are generally made in advance and, together with applicable fees, constitute our primary revenue source. Approximately 83% and 91% of our rental purchase agreements are on a weekly term in our Core U.S. rent-to-own stores and our Mexico segment, respectively. Payments are made in advance on a monthly basis in our Acceptance Now segment. 

No negative consequences. &#32;A customer may terminate a rental purchase agreement at any time without penalty. 

No credit needed. &#32;Generally, we do not conduct a formal credit investigation of our customers. We verify a customer&#8217;s residence and sources of income. References provided by the customer are also contacted to verify certain information contained in the rental purchase order form. 

Delivery &#38; set-up included. &#32;We generally offer same-day or next-day delivery and installation of our merchandise at no additional cost to the customer in our rent-to-own stores. Our Acceptance Now locations rely on our third-party retail partners to deliver merchandise rented by the customer. Such third-party retail partners typically charge us a fee for delivery, which we pass on to the customer. 

Product maintenance &#38; replacement. &#32;We provide any required service or repair without additional charge, except for damage in excess of normal wear and tear. Repair services are provided through our network of service centers, the cost of which may be reimbursed by the vendor if the item is still under factory warranty. If the product cannot be repaired at the customer&#8217;s residence, we provide a temporary replacement while the product is being repaired. If the product cannot be repaired, we will replace it with a product of comparable quality, age and condition. 

Lifetime reinstatement . If a customer is temporarily unable to make payments on a piece of rental merchandise and must return the merchandise, that customer generally may later re-rent the same piece of merchandise (or if unavailable, a substitute of comparable quality, age and condition) on the terms that existed at the time the merchandise was returned, and pick up payments where they left off without losing what they previously paid. 

Flexible options to obtain ownership. &#32;Ownership of the merchandise generally transfers to the customer if the customer has continuously renewed the rental purchase agreement for a period of seven to 30 months, depending upon the product type, or exercises a specified early purchase option. 

Our Growth Strategy 

We are in the midst of a multi-year program designed to transform and modernize our operations in order to improve the profitability of the Core U.S. segment while continuing to grow profitably our Acceptance Now segment. This program is focused on building new competencies and capabilities through a variety of operational and infrastructure initiatives such as introducing a new labor model in our Core U.S. stores, formulating a customer-focused, value-based pricing strategy, developing a new sourcing and distribution model, implementing new technology into our Acceptance Now locations, and introducing e-commerce capabilities to our Core U.S. segment. 

Flexible Labor Model 

Historically, we utilized a fixed labor model in our Core U.S. rent-to-own stores, generally using five employees who perform all tasks including sales, customer verification, collections, merchandise receiving and delivery and setup. Because our stores are open for business six days per week, this fixed labor model included regularly scheduled overtime, and did not allow us to scale our costs to match the revenue cycles. In 2015, we rolled out a flexible labor model utilizing part-time delivery specialists so that in-store personnel can provide better customer service during peak operating hours, gain cost savings during off-peak hours and improve efficiency during seasonal fluctuations in the business. The introduction of the flexible labor model in 2015 has had a meaningful impact on our Core U.S. store labor expense. 

Pricing and Promotions 

We need to price our products to remain competitive in the market, maintain a customer-centric focus and drive traffic. We implemented new pricing strategies in our Core U.S. stores in 2015 to meet these challenges. We focused on areas of immediate impact, while building a foundation for improvement, and will incorporate more structured and data-driven decision making to improve our Core U.S. marketing promotions, sales events and brand alignment. 

Sourcing and Distribution 

Since the Company's inception, the stores in our Core U.S. segment relied on rental merchandise shipped from the manufacturer or distributor directly to the store and did not utilize centralized warehousing and distribution. This operating model allowed us to expand our store base rapidly with lower costs to enter new markets, but also limited our product options, reduced our ability to leverage our expenses, created longer lead times and embedded additional costs. Now that the store base has matured and we have achieved substantial market penetration, in 2015, we created new direct supplier partnerships, implemented a new system to manage distribution operations, implemented a network of distribution centers through a third-party logistics partnership and automated replenishment processes from distribution centers to stores. The use of distribution centers allows us to take greater advantage of discounted bulk purchasing and expand the number of potential manufacturers and suppliers, which allows us to offer our customers a wider selection of products while generating greater margins, better flexibility and improved store service levels. 

Virtual Acceptance Now 

In 2014, we developed a virtual solution that decreased the time to process rental purchase agreements, streamlined the sales process and enhanced the customer's experience. This virtual solution was implemented in all of our manned Acceptance Now locations as of December 31, 2015. This platform is also being used in unmanned Acceptance Now Direct locations, or virtual kiosks, where the retailer does not have enough credit-constrained customers to justify creating a manned location. 

E-Commerce 

Like many industries, the rent-to-own industry is being transformed by the internet and virtual marketplace. To meet these evolving demands, we will introduce e-commerce capabilities to our Core U.S. segment in 2016. We believe that offering the rental purchase transaction online will allow us to access new customers who might not otherwise consider rent-to-own, as well as enable our existing customers to interact with Rent-A-Center more easily and conveniently. By pairing e-commerce together with our traditional brick-and mortar stores, we believe we will offer our customers an even more compelling value proposition. 

Technology Investments 

Included in our multi-year transformation program are significant investments in new technologies that will enable the strategic programs described above, as well as other initiatives, to improve operations and support business growth. We developed and implemented applications and systems to support our new distribution network, such as a warehouse management system and enhancements to our automated replenishment system. As described above, we have developed a virtual solution for the Acceptance Now transaction. We are also in the process of implementing in the stores in our Core U.S. segment our new store information management system and processes that extend and improve capabilities for store sales and operations. We implemented our Enterprise corporate management system which integrates key corporate back-office systems, such as our financial reporting and inventory management systems, as well as collects and consolidates critical business data from all store operations. During 2016, we will begin the work on an integrated financial and human resources enterprise system with an implementation date in the first quarter of 2017. 

Our Operating Segments 

We report four operating segments: Core U.S., Acceptance Now, Mexico, and Franchising. Additional information regarding our operating segments is presented in &#8220;Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations&#8221; &#32;contained in Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and financial information regarding these segments and revenues by geographic area are provided in Note R to the consolidated financial statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Substantially all of our revenues for the past three years originated in the United States. 

Core U.S. 

Our Core U.S. segment is our largest operating segment, comprising approximately 72% &#32;of our consolidated net revenues for the year ended &#32; December 31, 2015 . Approximately 79% of our business in this segment is from repeat customers. 

At December 31, 2015 , we operated 2,672 &#32;company-owned stores in the United States, Canada and Puerto Rico, including 45 &#32;retail installment sales stores under the names &#8220;Get It Now&#8221; and &#8220;Home Choice.&#8221; We routinely evaluate the markets in which we operate and will close, sell or merge underperforming stores. 

Acceptance Now 

Through our Acceptance Now segment, we generally provide an on-site rent-to-own option at a third-party retailer&#8217;s location. In the event a retail purchase credit application is declined, the customer can be introduced to an in-store Acceptance Now representative who explains an alternative transaction for acquiring the use and ownership of the merchandise. Because we neither require nor perform a formal credit investigation for the approval of the rental purchase transaction, applicants who meet certain basic criteria are generally approved. We believe our Acceptance Now program is beneficial for both the retailer and the consumer. The retailer captures more sales because we buy the merchandise directly from them and future rental payments are generally made at the retailer&#8217;s location. We believe consumers also benefit from our Acceptance Now program because they are able to obtain the products they want and need without the necessity of credit. The gross margins in this segment are lower than the gross margins in our Core U.S. segment because we pay retail for the product. Through certain retail partners, we offer our customers the option to obtain ownership of the product at or slightly above the full retail price if they pay within 90 days. In some cases, the retailer provides us a rebate on the cost of the merchandise if the customer exercises this 90 day option. 

Each Acceptance Now kiosk location typically consists of an area with a computer, desk and chairs. We occupy the space without charge by agreement with each retailer. Accordingly, capital expenditures with respect to a new Acceptance Now location are minimal, and any exit costs associated with the closure of an Acceptance Now location would also be immaterial on an individual basis. Our operating model is highly agile and dynamic because we can open and close locations quickly and efficiently. 

We rely on our third-party retail partners to deliver merchandise rented by the customer. Such third-party retail partners typically charge us a fee for delivery, which we pass on to the customer. In the event the customer returns rented merchandise, we pick it up at no additional charge. Merchandise returned from an Acceptance Now kiosk location is offered for rent at one of our Core U.S. rent-to-own stores. 

We intend to grow the Acceptance Now segment by increasing the number of our retail partners and the number of locations with our existing retail partners as well as expanding the number of locations using our virtual solution. As of December 31, 2015 , we operated 1,444 &#32;staffed kiosk locations inside furniture and electronics retailers located in 40 &#32;states and Puerto Rico, and 532 &#32;virtual (direct) locations. 

Mexico 

Our Mexico segment currently consists of our company-owned rent-to-own stores in Mexico. At December 31, 2015 , we operated 143 &#32;stores in this segment. During 2015, we implemented operational initiatives that have decreased operating losses, and we believe the financial performance of our Mexico operations will continue to improve. We are optimistic that these initiatives will be successful. However, if we are unable to achieve an acceptable level of profitability in Mexico, we will consider all available alternatives for our operations in Mexico. 

We are subject to the risks of doing business internationally as described under "Risk Factors." 

Franchising 

The stores in our Franchising segment use Rent-A-Center's, ColorTyme's or RimTyme's trade names, service marks, trademarks and logos, and operate under distinctive operating procedures and standards. Franchising's primary source of revenue is the sale of rental merchandise to its franchisees who, in turn, offer the merchandise to the general public for rent or purchase under a rent-to-own transaction. 

At December 31, 2015 , this segment franchised 227 &#32;stores in 31 &#32;states operating under the Rent-A-Center (149 stores), ColorTyme (40 stores) and RimTyme (38 stores) names. These rent-to-own stores primarily offer high quality durable products such as consumer electronics, appliances, computers, furniture and accessories, wheels and tires. 

As franchisor, Franchising receives royalties of 2.0% to 6.0% of the franchisees&#8217; monthly gross revenue and, generally, an initial fee up to $35,000 per new location. 

The following table summarizes our locations allocated among these operating segments as of December 31: 

&#160; 

&#160; 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Core U.S. 

&#160; 

2,672 

&#160; 

2,824 

&#160; 

3,010 

Acceptance Now Staffed 

&#160; 

1,444 

&#160; 

1,406 

&#160; 

1,325 

Acceptance Now Direct 

&#160; 

&#160; 

&#8212; 

&#160; 

&#8212; 

Mexico 

&#160; 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Franchising 

&#160; 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Total locations 

&#160; 

5,018 

&#160; 

4,594 

&#160; 

4,665 

The following discussion applies generally to all of our operating segments, unless otherwise noted. 

Rent-A-Center Operations 

Store Expenses 

Our expenses primarily relate to merchandise costs and the operations of our stores, including salaries and benefits for our employees, occupancy expense for our leased real estate, advertising expenses, lost, damaged, or stolen merchandise, fixed asset depreciation, and other expenses. 

As a result of the investment in new stores and kiosk locations and their growth curves, our quarterly earnings are impacted by how many new locations we opened during a particular quarter and the quarters preceding it. 

Product Selection 

Our Core U.S. and Mexico stores generally offer merchandise from five basic product categories: consumer electronics, appliances, computers (including tablets), smartphones, and furniture (including accessories). Although we seek to maintain sufficient inventory in our stores to offer customers a wide variety of models, styles and brands, we generally limit merchandise to prescribed levels to maintain strict inventory controls. We seek to provide a wide variety of high quality merchandise to our customers, and we emphasize products from name-brand manufacturers. Customers may request either new merchandise or previously rented merchandise. Previously rented merchandise is generally offered at a similar weekly or monthly rental rate as is offered for new merchandise, but with an opportunity to obtain ownership of the merchandise after fewer rental payments. 

Consumer electronic products offered by our stores include high definition televisions, home theater systems, video game consoles and stereos. Appliances include refrigerators, freezers, washing machines, dryers, and ranges. We offer desktop, laptop, tablet computers and smartphones. Our furniture products include dining room, living room and bedroom furniture featuring a 

number of styles, materials and colors. Accessories include lamps and tables and are typically rented as part of a package of items, such as a complete room of furniture. Showroom displays enable customers to visualize how the product will look in their homes and provide a showcase for accessories. 

The merchandise assortment may vary in our non-U.S. stores according to market characteristics and consumer demand unique to the particular country in which we are operating. For example, in Mexico, the appliances we offer are sourced locally, providing our customers in Mexico the look and feel to which they are accustomed in that product category. 

Acceptance Now locations offer the merchandise available for sale at the applicable third-party retailer, primarily furniture and accessories, consumer electronics and appliances. 

For the year ended December 31, 2015 , furniture and accessories accounted for approximately 40% &#32;of our consolidated rentals and fees revenue, consumer electronic products for 26% , appliances for 18% , computers for 9% &#32;and smartphones for 7% . 

Product Turnover 

On average, in the Core U.S. segment, a rental term of 15 months or exercising an early purchase option is generally required to obtain ownership of new merchandise. Product turnover is the number of times a product is rented to a different customer. On average, a product is rented (turned over) to three customers before a customer acquires ownership. Merchandise returned in the Acceptance Now segment is moved to a Core U.S. store where it is offered for rent. Ownership is attained in approximately 25% of first-time rental purchase agreements in the Core U.S. segment. The average total life for each product in our Core U.S. segment is approximately 18 months, which includes the initial rental period, all re-rental periods and idle time in our system. To cover the higher operating expenses generated by product turnover and the key features of rental purchase transactions, rental purchase agreements require higher aggregate payments than are generally charged under other types of purchase plans, such as installment purchase or credit plans. 

Collections 

Store managers use our management information system to track collections on a daily basis. If a customer fails to make a rental payment when due, store personnel will attempt to contact the customer to obtain payment and reinstate the agreement, or will terminate the account and arrange to regain possession of the merchandise. We attempt to recover the rental items as soon as possible following termination or default of a rental purchase agreement, generally by the seventh day. Collection efforts are enhanced by the personal and job-related references required of customers, the personal nature of the relationships between our employees and customers, and the availability of lifetime reinstatement. Currently, we track past due amounts using a guideline of seven days in our Core U.S. segment and 30 days in the Acceptance Now segment. These metrics align with the majority of the rental purchase agreements in each segment, since payments are generally made weekly in the Core U.S. segment and monthly in the Acceptance Now segment. 

If a customer does not return the merchandise or make payment, the remaining book value of the rental merchandise associated with delinquent accounts is generally charged off on or before the 90 th &#32;day following the time the account became past due in the Core U.S. segment, on or before the 150 th &#32;day in the Acceptance Now segment and on or before the 60 th &#32;day in the Mexico segment. 

Management 

Our executive management team has extensive rent-to-own or similar retail experience and has demonstrated the ability to grow and manage our business through their operational leadership and strategic vision. In addition, our regional and district managers have long tenures with us, and we have a history of promoting management personnel from within. We believe this extensive industry and company experience will allow us to effectively execute our growth strategies. 

Purchasing 

Our centralized inventory management organization utilizes a combination of automated and manual merchandise planning, forecasting and replenishment processes to determine appropriate inventory levels to maintain in our third-party distribution centers and company-owned stores. Inventory levels are monitored on a daily basis, and purchase orders are processed and sent to manufacturers and distributors on a weekly basis to replenish inventory housed in our third-party distribution centers. In 2015, we implemented a customized software solution that builds recommended store replenishment orders based on current store inventory levels, current store rental and return trends, seasonality, product needs, desired weeks of supply targets, and other key factors. Approved orders are then passed through an automated solution to our third party distribution center and furniture manufacturer and product ships to the stores. The replenishment system and associated processes allow us to retain tight control over our inventory, ensure assortment diversity in our stores and assists us in having the right products available at the right time. 

In our Core U.S. and Mexico segments, we purchase our rental merchandise from a variety of suppliers. In 2015, approximately 11% of our merchandise purchases were attributable to Ashley Furniture Industries. No other brand accounted for more than 10% of merchandise purchased during these periods. We do not generally enter into written contracts with our suppliers that obligate us to meet certain minimum purchasing levels. Although we expect to continue relationships with our existing suppliers, we believe there are numerous sources of products available, and we do not believe the success of our operations is dependent on any one or more of our present suppliers. 

In our Acceptance Now segment, we purchase the merchandise selected by the customer from the applicable third-party retailer at the time such customer enters into a rental purchase agreement with us. 

With respect to our Franchising segment, the franchise agreement requires the franchised stores to exclusively offer for rent or sale only those brands, types and models of products that Franchising has approved. The franchised stores are required to maintain an adequate mix of inventory that consists of approved products for rent as dictated by Franchising policy manuals. Franchising negotiates purchase arrangements with various suppliers it has approved, and franchisees purchase directly from those suppliers and from inventory housed in our third-party distribution centers. 

Marketing 

We promote our products and services through television and radio commercials, print advertisements, store telemarketing, digital display advertisements, direct email campaigns, social networks, paid and organic search, website and store signage, all of which are designed to increase our name recognition among our customers and potential customers. Our advertisements emphasize such features as product and name-brand selection, the opportunity to pay as you go without credit, long-term contracts or obligations, delivery and set-up at no additional cost, product repair and loaner services at no extra cost, lifetime reinstatement and multiple options to acquire ownership, including 90 day option pricing, an early purchase option or through a fixed number of payments. In addition, we promote the &#8220;RAC Worry-Free Guarantee &#174; &#8221; to further highlight these aspects of the rent-to-own transaction. We believe that as the Rent-A-Center name gains familiarity and national recognition through our advertising efforts, we will continue to educate our customers and potential customers about the rent-to-own alternative to credit as well as solidify our reputation as a leading provider of high-quality, branded merchandise and services. 

Franchising has established national advertising funds for the franchised stores, whereby Franchising has the right to collect up to 3% of the monthly gross revenue from each franchisee as contributions to the fund. Franchising directs the advertising programs of the fund, generally consisting of television and radio commercials and print advertisements. Franchising also has the right to require franchisees to expend up to 3% of their monthly gross revenue on local advertising. 

Industry &#38; Competition 

According to the Association of Progressive Rental Organizations, the $8.5 billion rent-to-own industry in the United States, Mexico and Canada consists of approximately 8,900 stores, serves approximately 4.8 million customers and approximately 83% of rent-to-own customers have household incomes between $15,000 and $50,000 per year. The rent-to-own industry provides customers the opportunity to obtain merchandise they might otherwise be unable to obtain due to insufficient cash resources or a lack of access to credit. We believe the number of consumers lacking access to credit is increasing. According to data released by the Fair Isaac Corporation on August 17, 2015, consumers in the &#8220;subprime&#8221; category (those with credit scores below 650) made up 32% of the United States population. 

The rent-to-own industry is experiencing rapid change with the emergence of virtual and kiosk-based operations, such as our Acceptance Now business. These new industry participants are disrupting traditional rent-to-own stores by attracting customers and making the rent-to-own transaction more acceptable to potential customers. In addition, banks and consumer finance companies are developing products and services designed to compete for the traditional rent-to-own customer. 

These factors are increasingly contributing to an already highly competitive environment. Our stores and kiosks compete with other national, regional and local rent-to-own businesses, including on-line only competitors, as well as with rental stores that do not offer their customers a purchase option. With respect to customers desiring to purchase merchandise for cash or on credit, we also compete with retail stores, online competitors, and non-traditional lenders. Competition is based primarily on convenience, store location, product selection and availability, customer service, rental rates and terms. 

Seasonality 

Our revenue mix is moderately seasonal, with the first quarter of each fiscal year generally providing higher merchandise sales than any other quarter during a fiscal year. Generally, our customers will more frequently exercise the early purchase option on their existing rental purchase agreements or purchase pre-leased merchandise off the showroom floor during the first quarter of each fiscal year, primarily due to federal income tax refunds. Furthermore, we tend to experience slower growth in the number of rental purchase agreements in the third quarter of each fiscal year when compared to other quarters throughout the year. We expect these trends to continue in the future. 

Trademarks 

We own various trademarks and service marks, including Rent-A-Center &#174; &#32;and RAC Worry-Free Guarantee &#174; &#32;that are used in connection with our operations and have been registered with the United States Patent and Trademark Office. The duration of our trademarks is unlimited, subject to periodic renewal and continued use. In addition, we have obtained trademark registrations in Mexico, Canada and certain other foreign jurisdictions. We believe we hold the necessary rights for protection of the trademarks and service marks essential to our business. The products held for rent in our stores also bear trademarks and service marks held by their respective manufacturers. 

Franchising licenses the use of the Rent-A-Center and ColorTyme trademarks and service marks to its franchisees under the franchise agreement. Franchising owns various trademarks and service marks, including ColorTyme &#174; and RimTyme &#174; , that are used in connection with its operations and have been registered with the United States Patent and Trademark office. The duration of these marks is unlimited, subject to periodic renewal and continued use. 

Employees 

As of February 22, 2016 , we had approximately 24,300 employees. 

Government Regulation 

Core U.S. &#38; Acceptance Now 

State Regulation. Currently, 46 states, the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico have rental purchase statutes that recognize and regulate rental purchase transactions as separate and distinct from credit sales. We believe this existing legislation is generally favorable to us, as it defines and clarifies the various disclosures, procedures and transaction structures related to the rent-to-own business with which we must comply. With some variations in individual states, most related state legislation requires the lessor to make prescribed disclosures to customers about the rental purchase agreement and transaction, and provides time periods during which customers may reinstate agreements despite having failed to make a timely payment. Some state rental purchase laws prescribe grace periods for non-payment, prohibit or limit certain types of collection or other practices, and limit certain fees that may be charged. Ten states limit the total rental payments that can be charged to amounts ranging from 2.0 times to 2.4 times the disclosed cash price or the retail value of the rental product. Five states limit the cash price of merchandise to amounts ranging from 1.56 to 2.5 times our cost for each item. 

Although Minnesota has a rental purchase statute, the rental purchase transaction is also treated as a credit sale subject to consumer lending restrictions pursuant to judicial decision. Therefore, we offer our customers in Minnesota an opportunity to purchase our merchandise through an installment sale transaction in our Home Choice stores. We operate 17 Home Choice stores in Minnesota. 

North Carolina has no rental purchase legislation. However, the retail installment sales statute in North Carolina expressly provides that lease transactions which provide for more than a nominal purchase price at the end of the agreed rental period are not credit sales under the statute. We operate 102 rent-to-own stores, and 65 and 70 Acceptance Now Staffed and Acceptance Now Direct locations, respectively, in North Carolina. 

Courts in Wisconsin and New Jersey, which do not have rental purchase statutes, have rendered decisions which classify rental purchase transactions as credit sales subject to consumer lending restrictions. Accordingly, in Wisconsin, we offer our customers an opportunity to purchase our merchandise through an installment sale transaction in our Get It Now stores. In New Jersey, we have modified our typical rental purchase agreements to provide disclosures, grace periods, and pricing that we believe comply with the retail installment sales act. We operate 28 Get It Now stores in Wisconsin and 48 Rent-A-Center stores in New Jersey. 

There can be no assurance as to whether new or revised rental purchase laws will be enacted or whether, if enacted, the laws would not have a material and adverse effect on us. 

Federal Regulation . To date, no comprehensive federal legislation has been enacted regulating or otherwise impacting the rental purchase transaction. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (&#8220;Dodd-Frank Act&#8221;) does not regulate leases with terms of 90 days or less. Because the rent-to-own transaction is for a term of week to week, or at most, month to month, and established federal law deems the term of a lease to be its minimum term regardless of extensions or renewals, if any, we believe the rent-to-own transaction is not covered by the Dodd-Frank Act. 

From time to time, we have supported legislation introduced in Congress that would regulate the rental purchase transaction. While both beneficial and adverse legislation may be introduced in Congress in the future, any adverse federal legislation, if enacted, could have a material and adverse effect on us. 

Mexico and Canada 

No comprehensive legislation regulating the rent-to-own transaction has been enacted in Mexico or Canada. We use substantially the same rental purchase transaction in those countries as in the U.S. stores, but with such additional provisions as we believe may be necessary to comply with such country&#8217;s specific laws and customs. 

