 ITEM 1: BUSINESS 

eBay Inc. was formed as a sole proprietorship in September 1995 and was incorporated in California in May 1996. In April 1998, we reincorporated in Delaware, and in September 1998, we completed the initial public offering of our common stock. Our principal executive offices are located at 2065 Hamilton Avenue, San Jose, California 95125, and our telephone number is (408) 376-7400. Unless otherwise expressly stated or the context otherwise requires, when we refer to &#8220;we,&#8221; &#8220;our,&#8221; &#8220;us&#8221; or &#8220;eBay&#8221; in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we mean the current Delaware corporation (eBay Inc.) and its California predecessor, as well as all of its consolidated subsidiaries. When we refer to &#8220;eBay Inc.&#8221; we mean our Marketplace, StubHub and Classifieds platforms. When we refer to &#8220;PayPal,&#8221; we mean the businesses underlying our former Payments segment. When we refer to &#8220;Enterprise,&#8221; we mean the businesses underlying our former Enterprise segment. After a strategic review by its Board of Directors, eBay Inc. spun off PayPal and sold its Enterprise businesses in 2015. See &#8220;Notable Business Transactions in 2015&#8221; below. 

eBay Inc. is a global commerce leader including our Marketplace, StubHub and Classifieds platforms. Collectively, we connect millions of buyers and sellers around the world. The technologies and services that power our platforms are designed to enable sellers worldwide to organize and offer their inventory for sale and buyers to find and buy it virtually anytime and anywhere. Our Marketplace platforms include our online marketplace located at www.ebay.com, its localized counterparts and the eBay mobile apps; which are among the world&#8217;s largest and most vibrant marketplaces for discovering great value and unique selection. Our StubHub platforms include our online ticket platform located at www.stubhub.com and the StubHub mobile apps. These platforms provide fans with a safe, convenient place to purchase tickets to the games, concerts and theater shows they want to attend and an easy way to sell tickets. Our Classifieds platforms include a collection of brands such as Mobile.de, Kijiji, Gumtree, Marktplaats, eBay Classifieds and others. Offering online classifieds in more than 1,500 cities around the world, these platforms help people find whatever they are looking for in their local communities. 

eBay Inc. has made investments and acquisitions to help enable commerce on our platforms for buyers and sellers online (e.g., desktop and laptop computers) or on mobile devices (e.g., smartphones and tablets). Our objective is to bring the world&#8217;s inventory to the world&#8217;s buyers. Driven by the ubiquity of the Internet and the proliferation of mobile devices, we believe that the way consumers engage with each other, brands and services is fundamentally changing, blurring the lines between offline retail and online commerce. We believe that this trend has expanded our addressable market in the ecommerce industry and we measure our footprint in this addressable market according to Gross Merchandise Volume ("GMV"). GMV consists of the total value of all successfully closed transactions between users on our Marketplace and StubHub platforms during the applicable period, regardless of whether the buyer and seller actually consummated the transaction. 

Our company is only successful when the buyers and sellers we enable are successful. We are primarily a transaction-based business that generates revenue from the transactions that we successfully enable. We also generate revenue through marketing services, including classifieds and advertising. In addition, we have created an open source platform that provides software developers and merchants access to our application programming interfaces, or APIs, to develop software and solutions for commerce. As of December 31, 2015 , our Marketplace and StubHub platforms had more than 162 million active buyers and more than 800 million listings globally. The term &#8220;active buyer&#8221; means, as of any date, all buyers who successfully closed a transaction on our Marketplace and StubHub platforms within the previous 12-month period. Buyers may register more than once and, as a result, may have more than one account. 

For additional financial information as well as the geographic areas where we conduct business, please see "Note 6 - Segments" to the consolidated financial statements included in this report. Additionally, please see the information in "Item 1A: Risk Factors" under the caption "Our international operations are subject to increased risks, which may harm our business," which describes risks associated with eBay Inc.'s foreign operations. 

Notable Business Transactions in 2015 

On September 30, 2014, we announced that our Board of Directors (&#8220;Board&#8221;), following a strategic review of the company&#8217;s growth strategies and structure, approved a plan to separate PayPal into an independent publicly traded company. On July 17, 2015, we completed the distribution of 100% of the outstanding common stock of PayPal to our stockholders, pursuant to which PayPal became an independent company. See "Note 4 - Discontinued Operations" of our consolidated financial statements for additional information. 

Additionally, during the second quarter of 2015, our Board approved a plan to sell Enterprise. On July 16, 2015, we signed a definitive agreement to sell Enterprise, and on November 2, 2015, the sale closed. See "Note 4 - Discontinued Operations" of our consolidated financial statements for additional information. 

eBay Inc.'s platforms offer the following features: 

We are a leading commerce platform for buyers and sellers. 

Our business model and pricing are designed so that our business is successful when our sellers are successful. The majority of our revenue comes from a take rate on the GMV of transactions closed on our Marketplace and StubHub platforms. In 2015 , we generated $82 billion &#32;in GMV. 

Our eBay Top Rated Seller program, or eTRS, rewards qualifying sellers with fee discounts and improved search standing for qualifying listings if they are able to maintain excellent customer service ratings and meet specified criteria for shipping and returns. We believe that sellers who fulfill these standards help promote our goal of maintaining an online marketplace that is safe and hassle-free. 

eBay Money Back Guarantee covers items purchased on our websites in the U.S., the U.K., Germany, Australia and Canada through a qualifying payment method and protects most buyers with respect to items that are not received or are received but not as described in the listing. Some purchases, including some vehicles, are not covered. eBay Money Back Guarantee provides coverage for the purchase price of the item, plus original shipping costs, for a limited period of time from the original date of transaction, and includes a streamlined interface to help buyers and sellers navigate the process. 

The size and scale of our platforms are designed to enable our buyers and sellers to leverage our economies of scale and capital investment, for example in sales and marketing, mobile, customer acquisition and customer service. 

We provide a variety of access points for buyers to shop virtually anytime, anywhere. 

Our platforms are accessible through a traditional online experience (e.g., desktop and laptop computers) or from mobile devices (e.g., smartphones and tablets). Our multi-screen approach offers downloadable, easy-to-use mobile applications for the iPhone, the iPad, Android and Windows mobile devices that allow access to ebay.com and some of our other websites and vertical shopping experiences. 

We provide a large and unique selection of inventory globally. 

We had over 800 million items listed for sale on our platforms as of December 31, 2015 , which we believe makes us one of the world&#8217;s largest online marketplaces. For 2015, approximately 59% of our GMV was generated outside the U.S. 

We strive to provide value to buyers and sellers. 

We believe that we have some of the lowest prices available for a number of consumer products. In the U.S., the U.K. and Germany, the majority of successfully closed transactions included free shipping during 2015. We have developed a number of features on our Marketplace platforms in the areas of trust and safety (including our Seller Performance Standards, eTRS, eBay Money Back Guarantee, Verified Rights Owner Program and Feedback Forum), customer support and value-added tools and services, as well as loyalty programs (for both buyers and sellers). These features are designed to make users more 

comfortable buying and selling with unknown partners and completing transactions online or through mobile devices, as well as rewarding our top buyers and sellers for their loyalty. 

For sellers in particular, we recently introduced a number of upcoming changes to our seller policies to help small- and medium-sized sellers be more successful on our platforms and better reward sellers who provide exceptional service to eBay buyers. These changes include providing more objective standards; giving sellers the ability to customize how they manage returns based on their specific business needs; and launching the Seller Hub, which puts a seller&#8217;s listing and marketing tools in one central place. 

We offer buyers and sellers choice. 

We offer choice to buyers and sellers across a number of dimensions: 

&#8226; 

By listing format: Sellers can choose to list their products and services through fixed price listings or an auction-style format on our platforms. 

&#9702; 

Our fixed price format on ebay.com allows buyers and sellers to close transactions at a pre-determined price set by the seller. Sellers are also able to signal that they would be willing to close the transaction at a lower price through the Best Offer feature. 

&#9702; 

Our auction-style format allows a seller to select a minimum price for opening bids. 

&#9702; 

Our Classifieds platforms have listings in over 1,500 cities around the world and are designed to help people list their products and services generally for free and then trade at a local level. These platforms include Mobile.de, Kijiji, Gumtree, Marktplaats and eBay Classifieds, among others. 

&#8226; 

By item condition: Sellers can list, and buyers can search for and purchase, items that are new, refurbished and used, common and rare items, and branded and unbranded products on our Marketplace platforms. 

&#8226; 

By delivery format: Buyers can have items shipped to them through shipping options offered by the seller and selected by the buyer on our Marketplace platforms. For certain items purchased from certain retailers, buyers can pick up items they purchased online or through mobile devices in one of the retailer&#8217;s physical stores (which we refer to as in-store pickup). This brings more choice for buyers and sellers around delivery cost and convenience. 

We offer a variety of specialized vertical and promotional experiences. 

We continue to focus on customizing our buying and selling experiences to make it easier for users to list, find and buy items by offering formats dedicated to specific products or categories. On our Marketplace platforms, we have built specialized experiences, such as Daily Deals, Fashion, Motors (vehicles; parts and accessories) and Electronics. Daily Deals offers a variety of products in multiple categories at discounted prices with free shipping. StubHub is a leader in secondary ticketing for event tickets, enabling fans to buy and sell tickets to a large selection of sports, concert, theater and other live entertainment events. 

Competition 

We encounter vigorous competition in our business from numerous sources. Our users can find, buy, sell and pay for similar items through a variety of competing online, mobile and offline channels. These include, but are not limited to, retailers, distributors, liquidators, import and export companies, auctioneers, catalog and mail-order companies, classifieds, directories, search engines, commerce participants (consumer-to-consumer, business-to-consumer and business-to-business), shopping channels and networks. As our product offerings continue to broaden into new categories of items and new commerce formats, we expect to face additional competition from other online, mobile and offline channels for those new offerings. We compete on the basis of price, product selection and services. 

For more information regarding these risks, see the information in &#8220;Item 1A: Risk Factors&#8221; under the captions &#8220;Substantial and increasingly intense competition worldwide in ecommerce may harm our business&#8221; and &#8220;We are subject to regulatory activity and antitrust litigation under competition laws.&#8221; 

To compete effectively, we will need to continue to expend significant resources in technology and marketing. These efforts require substantial expenditures, which could reduce our margins and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, operating results and cash flows and reduce the market price of our common stock. Despite our efforts to preserve and expand the size, diversity and transaction activity of our buyers and sellers and to enhance the user experience, we may not be able to effectively manage our operating expenses, to increase or maintain our revenue or to avoid a decline in our consolidated net income or a net loss. 

Government Regulation 

Government regulation impacts key aspects of our business. In particular, we are subject to laws and regulations that affect the ecommerce industry in many countries where we operate. For more information regarding these risks, see the information in &#8220;Item 1A: Risk Factors&#8221; under the caption "Our business is subject to extensive government regulation and oversight." 

Seasonality 

We expect transaction activity patterns on our platforms to mirror general consumer buying patterns. Please see the additional information in &#8220;Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations&#8221; under the caption &#8220;Seasonality.&#8221; 

Technology 

eBay Inc.'s platforms utilize a combination of proprietary technologies and services as well as technologies and services provided by others. We have developed intuitive user interfaces, buyer and seller tools and transaction processing, database and network applications that help enable our users to reliably and securely complete transactions on our sites. Our technology infrastructure simplifies the storage and processing of large amounts of data, eases the deployment and operation of large-scale global products and services and automates much of the administration of large-scale clusters of computers. Our infrastructure has been designed around industry-standard architectures to reduce downtime in the event of outages or catastrophic occurrences. We strive to continually improve our technology to enhance the buyer and seller experience and to increase efficiency, scalability and security. For information regarding technology-related risks, see the information in &#8220;Item 1A: Risk Factors&#8221; under the caption &#8220;Systems failures and resulting interruptions in the availability of our websites, applications, products or services could harm our business." 

Intellectual Property 

We regard the protection of our intellectual property, including our trademarks (particularly those covering the eBay name), patents, copyrights, domain names, trade dress and trade secrets as critical to our success. We aggressively protect our intellectual property rights by relying on federal, state and common law rights in the U.S. and internationally, as well as a variety of administrative procedures. We also rely on contractual restrictions to protect our proprietary rights in products and services. We routinely enter into confidentiality and invention assignment agreements with our employees and contractors and nondisclosure agreements with parties with whom we conduct business to limit access to and disclosure of our proprietary information. 

We pursue the registration of our domain names, trademarks and service marks in the U.S. and internationally. Additionally, we have filed U.S. and international patent applications covering certain aspects of our proprietary technology. Effective trademark, copyright, patent, domain name, trade dress and trade secret protection is typically expensive to maintain and may require litigation. We must protect our intellectual property rights and other proprietary rights in an increasing number of jurisdictions, a process that is expensive and time consuming and may not be successful. 

We have registered our core brands as trademarks and domain names in the U.S. and a large number of other jurisdictions and have in place an active program to continue to secure trademarks and domain names that correspond to our brands in markets of interest. If we are unable to register or protect our trademarks or domain names, we could be adversely affected in any jurisdiction in which our trademarks or domain names are not registered or protected. We have licensed in the past, and expect to license in the future, certain of our proprietary rights, such as trademarks or copyrighted material, to others. 

From time to time, third parties have claimed - and others will likely claim in the future - that we have infringed their intellectual property rights. We are typically involved in a number of such legal proceedings at any time. Please see the information in &#8220;Item 3: Legal Proceedings&#8221; and in &#8220;Item 1A: Risk Factors&#8221; under the captions "We are subject to patent litigation," "The listing or sale by our users of items that allegedly infringe the intellectual property rights of rights owners, including pirated or counterfeit items, may harm its business," and "We may be unable to adequately protect or enforce our intellectual property rights, or third parties may allege that we are infringing their intellectual property rights.&#8221; 

Employees 

As of December 31, 2015 , we employed approximately 11,600 people globally. Approximately 6,200 of our employees were located in the U.S. 

Available Information 

Our Internet address is www.ebay.com . Our investor relations website is located at https://investors.ebayinc.com . We make available free of charge on our investor relations website under the heading &#8220;SEC Filings&#8221; our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after such materials are electronically filed with (or furnished to) the SEC. 

We webcast our earnings calls and certain events we participate in or host with members of the investment community on our investor relations website. Additionally, we provide notifications of news or announcements regarding our financial performance, including SEC filings, investor events, press and earnings releases, and blogs on our investor relations website. Further corporate governance information, including our governance guidelines for our board of directors, board committee charters and code of conduct, is also available on our investor relations website under the heading &#8220;Corporate Governance.&#8221; 

The contents of our websites and webcasts are not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K or in any other report or document we file with (or furnish to) the SEC, and any references to our websites and webcasts are intended to be inactive textual references only. 

