 Item 1. Business.

We were incorporated under the laws of the state of Florida on August 22, 1989. We are in the business of innovating fundamental wireless technologies. We design, develop and market our proprietary radio frequency (&#8220;RF&#8221;) technologies and products for use in wireless communication products and applications. We have expended significant financial and other resources to research and develop our RF technologies and to obtain patent protection for those technologies in the United States (&#8220;U.S.&#8221;) and certain foreign jurisdictions. We believe certain patents protecting our proprietary technologies have been broadly infringed by others and therefore our business plan includes enforcement of our intellectual property rights through patent infringement litigation and licensing efforts.

Based on the manner in which our management views and evaluates our operations, we have determined that our business currently operates under a single operating and reportable segment. Refer to our financial statements in Item 8 of this Annual Report for financial data including net losses from operations and total assets.

Recent Developments 

Reverse Stock Split

On March 24, 2016, we filed an amendment to our articles of incorporation that effected a one-for-ten reverse stock split (the &#8220;Reverse Stock Split&#8221;) of our common stock. The amendment was approved by our board of directors on March 23, 2016 and did not require the approval of our shareholders. The reverse stock split became effective at 5:00 pm Eastern Time on March 29, 2016 and our common stock began trading on the NASDAQ Capital Market on a post-split basis at the open of business on March 30, 2016.

As a result of the Reverse Stock Split, every ten shares of our common stock was combined into one share of our common stock. No fractional shares of our common stock were issued in connection with the Reverse Stock Split. Any fractional shares created as a result of the Reverse Stock Split were rounded up to the next largest whole number. The par value and other terms of our common stock will not be affected by the Reverse Stock Split. However, the number of shares of common stock that we are authorized to issue was proportionately reduced from 150,000,000 shares to 15,000.000

All references in this Annual Report to number of shares of common stock, price per share and weighted average shares of common stock have been adjusted to reflect the post-split amounts, unless otherwise indicated.

ITC Action and Related Funding

In December 2015, we filed a complaint with the U.S. International Trade Commission (&#8220;ITC&#8221;) alleging that Apple, Inc. (&#8220;Apple&#8221;), LG (LG Electronics, Inc., LG Electronics U.S.A., Inc., and LG Electronics MobileComm U.S.A., Inc.), Samsung (Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd., Samsung Electronics America, Inc., and Samsung Semiconductor, Inc.) and Qualcomm Incorporated (&#8220;Qualcomm&#8221;) have engaged in unfair trade practices by unlawfully importing into the U.S. and selling various products that infringe certain of our patents. The complaint requested that the ITC bar the defendants from continuing to import and sell infringing products in the U.S. We filed a corresponding patent infringement complaint in the Middle District of Florida against these same defendants alleging infringement of four of our patents. In January 2016, the ITC instituted an investigation based on our complaint. Following the ITC institution decision, the corresponding district court case against these defendants and the ongoing district court proceedings against Qualcomm, HTC (HTC Corporation and HTC America, Inc.), and Samsung that was filed in 2014 have been stayed pending the outcome of the ITC proceedings. Refer to &#8220;Legal Proceedings&#8221; in Note 12 to our financial statements included in Item 8 for a complete discussion of these proceedings.

In February 2016, we entered into an agreement with Brickell Key Investments LP, (&#8220;BKI&#8221;) a special purpose fund under the management of Juridica Asset Management Limited, to fund the ITC and related district court action (the &#8220;Funded Actions&#8221;). We received $11 million from BKI to be used primarily for payment of legal fees and expenses for the Funded Actions. Under the terms of the funding agreement, we will reimburse and compensate BKI from gross proceeds generated from our patent assets, including the Funded Actions and our other patent enforcement actions and patent monetization activities, up to an agreed minimum return. Thereafter, BKI is entitled to a prorated portion of proceeds solely from the Funded Actions and only to the extent the proceeds from Funded Actions exceed the specified minimum return.

In connection with the transaction, in February 2016 we issued BKI a warrant for the purchase of up to 250,000 shares of our common stock at an exercise price of $3.50 per share (after giving effect to the Reverse Stock Split). The warrant is exercisable for five years from the date of issuance.

We granted BKI a senior security interest in our assets until such time as the specified minimum return has been paid, at which time, the security interest will be released except with respect to the proceeds and patents specific to the Funded Actions. The security interest is enforceable by BKI in the event that we are in default under the agreement.

Refer to &#8220;Litigation Funding Agreement&#8221; in Note 16 to our financial statements included in Item 8 for a complete discussion of the BKI arrangement.

General Development of Business 

Our business has been primarily focused on the development, marketing and legal enforcement of our RF technologies for mobile and other wireless products and applications. Our technologies represent among other things, unique, proprietary methods for processing RF waveforms in wireless applications. Our technologies apply to both transmit and receive functions of transmitters, receivers, and transceivers as well as other related RF communications functions. A portion of our transmit technology is marketed as Direct2Power&#8482;, or d2p&#8482;, and enables the transformation of a baseband data signal to an RF carrier waveform, at the desired RF power output level, in a single unified operation. A portion of our receiver technology is marketed as Direct2Data&#8482;, or d2d&#8482;, and enables the direct conversion of an RF carrier to a baseband data signal, as well as enabling the direct conversion of a baseband signal to a modulated RF carrier signal. This technology is also referred to as energy transfer sampling down conversion and/or pulse-shaping up conversion. We have developed these and a number of additional innovations which are protected by the intellectual property we have secured in various patent families for RF and related functions in RF-based communications.

&#160;

Prior to 2005, our business was primarily focused on our direct conversion transceiver technology. Our business plan included efforts to license the technology as well as the development and sale of retail wireless networking products that incorporated the technology.

In 2005, we exited our retail business activities in order to better focus on our licensing efforts and on product and component development, manufacturing and sales. This strategy coincided with the introduction of a new family of wireless technologies, the transmit, or d2p, technology family. Our primary target market became the mobile handset industry and over the next several years we focused our marketing and sales efforts within this industry.

In 2007, we entered into a licensing and engineering services agreement with VIA Telecom, Inc. (&#8220;VIA&#8221;), a CDMA baseband provider, under the terms of which VIA had the right to manufacture devices based on our technology and pay us a per unit royalty for the license. However, the license also provided us with the right to manufacture and sell such devices ourselves to third parties. Starting in 2009, because VIA had not manufactured any royalty-producing devices under this agreement, we began working with VIA on the joint development of reference platforms that incorporated our RF products and VIA&#8217;s baseband processors without the exchange of intellectual property rights. We also worked with VIA to co-develop a sample 3G mobile handset which verified our technology in a working implementation and tested our technology&#8217;s performance. The results of these efforts were utilized to market our product to VIA&#8217;s customers. Starting in 2010, we modified our circuit layout and packaging to meet design requirements of specific VIA customers. In 2013, we entered into a formal development agreement with VIA whereby we would compensate VIA for the resources required for their development and ongoing support and maintenance of the custom interfaces between our products for a specific customer. Pursuant to the development agreement, VIA completed the custom interface for certain of its baseband processors. In 2014, we terminated our formal development agreement with VIA prior to VIA&#8217;s completion of the interface to its latest model baseband processor due to the uncertainty of the specific customer&#8217;s future use of the VIA baseband in its products. VIA subsequently sold its CDMA-based mobile assets, including its baseband processors, to Intel Corporation (&#8220;Intel&#8221;) in 2015.

We also continued to follow leads outside of our primary target market. As a result, in 2007, we entered into a license agreement with ITT Corporation (&#8220;ITT&#8221;) for our d2p technology. From 2008 to 2010, we provided ITT with a development/demonstration platform, supported ITT in marketing our technology to their customers and seeking funding for product development, and provided subcontract services to ITT under a government contract for a transceiver application for military products. Ultimately, ITT did not manufacture any royalty-producing devices under this agreement. Since 2011, we have not been actively engaged in product development or other activities with ITT.

Our lack of tenure in the mobile handset industry coupled with the unique nature of our technology resulted in lengthy and intense technology evaluation and due diligence efforts by potential customers. Furthermore, in order to utilize our technology in a mobile handset application, our RF chipsets must interface with the baseband processor that generates the data to be transmitted and/or received. Although our technology is capable of interfacing with any baseband processor, the development of the interface between the baseband processor and our chipset requires a cooperative effort with the baseband provider. Accordingly, our marketing efforts were dependent on the activities of third parties. In addition, we believe our technology has been broadly infringed by other participants in our primary market thereby reducing the competitive advantage of our technologies. We believe these factors hindered our sales efforts, particularly in our primary market.

In 2011, through analysis of conference papers and tear down reports, we concluded that Qualcomm&#8217;s products were infringing our energy transfer sampling down conversion technology. Based on our belief that our technology is widely-deployed in the mobile handset market as a result of infringement of our patents, we began to more vigorously pursue an intellectual property licensing strategy which included enforcement actions. We filed our first patent infringement lawsuit against Qualcomm in July 2011 (the &#8220;Qualcomm I Action&#8221;). In 2013, a jury ruled in our favor and awarded us $173 million in damages. In 2014, the district court overturned this jury decision and in 2015, the appellate court upheld the district court&#8217;s ruling. On March 28, 2016, the Supreme Court of the United States denied our petition requesting a review of the appellate court&#8217;s decision. Despite the courts&#8217; decisions in the Qualcomm I Action, we continue to believe that certain of our technologies are broadly infringed and have wide-spread application in the industry. We plan to continue to vigorously pursue the successful commercialization of those technologies through every means available to us. We have a patent infringement case pending against Qualcomm, HTC and Samsung filed in 2014 and a third infringement case pending against Apple, LG, Samsung and Qualcomm filed in December 2015 along with an ITC action (see &#8220;Recent Developments&#8221; above).

In addition to our licensing and related enforcement efforts, we began to shift our primary target market for products. In 2013, we focused our product development efforts on internally developed component products that target markets that use less integrated RF transceivers than the mobile handset market. In 2015, we also expanded those development efforts to include development of end user products based on these internally-developed components and technologies.

Strategy

We have a three-part growth strategy for commercializing our innovations that includes intellectual property licensing and/or product ventures, intellectual property enforcement, and product and component development, manufacturing and sales.

&#183; Intellectual Property Licensing and Product Ventures. In 2014, we launched a licensing/product venture campaign to explore licensing and joint product development opportunities with wireless communications companies that make, use or sell chipsets and/or products that incorporate RF. We believe there are a number of communications companies that can benefit from the use of the RF technologies we have developed, whether through a license or, in certain cases, a joint product venture that would include licensing rights. During 2014 and 2015, 3LP Advisors, LLC (&#8220;3LP&#8221;) managed our licensing operations under a licensing services agreement with us, largely on a commission basis. We terminated our agreement with 3LP effective December 31, 2015, but continue to commit both internal and external resources toward our licensing efforts. 

&#183; Intellectual Property Enforcement. We are involved in litigation against others in order to protect and defend our intellectual property rights. We are currently involved in a number of patent infringement cases in various forums against Qualcomm and certain of their customers, including Apple, HTC, LG, and Samsung, for the unauthorized use of certain of our patents. Refer to &#8220;Recent Developments&#8221; and &#8220;General Business&#8221; above and &#8220;Legal Proceedings&#8221; in Note 12 to our financial statements included in Item 8 for a complete discussion of our patent-related legal proceedings. 

&#183; Product and Component Sales and Services. Our product development and marketing efforts for components are focused on our RF technologies in communications industries that do not use highly integrated semiconductors, such as infrastructure, industrial and military applications. In 2014, we established a network of sales representatives throughout the U.S. and Asia and also initiated production of component products in order to provide inventory to support our sales efforts. These component products, which use our patented technology, are also the basis for an end user product line that is under development and expected to launch in 2016. We also offer, from time to time, engineering design and consulting services, for negotiated fees, to assist customers in designing and/or testing various wireless products. 

Since 2005, we have generated no royalty revenue from our RF technologies and our product and services revenue has been nominal to date. Our ability to generate revenues sufficient to offset costs is subject to our ability to successfully enforce and defend our intellectual property rights and to secure new product and/or licensing customers for our technologies and products.

&#160;

We believe the investments we make in new technology innovations and obtaining intellectual property rights on those innovations are critical business processes and, as such, we have and will continue to devote substantial resources to research and development for this purpose. We protect our intellectual property rights by securing patent protection and, where necessary, defending those patents against infringement by others. We also continue to invest in the development of products incorporating our intellectual property.

Products and Services 

In order to utilize RF technology in a mobile handset or certain other wireless applications, RF chipsets must interface with the baseband processor that generates the data to be transmitted and/or received. The development of the interface between the baseband processor and RF chipsets requires a cooperative effort with the baseband provider. As discussed above, we have designed and produced RF chipsets that interface specifically with baseband processors produced by VIA. However, in 2014, we terminated our formal development agreement with VIA and in 2015 VIA&#8217;s CDMA assets, including its baseband processors, were sold to Intel.

Our current products include a modulator/demodulator component that incorporates our proprietary technologies, as well as a small number of supporting components that are used in the assembly of wireless devices. In addition, we offer engineering design and consulting services to third parties for negotiated fees to assist them in developing and/or testing products.

We anticipate our future business will include licensing of our intellectual property, the joint development and/or sale of integrated circuits based on our technology for incorporation into wireless devices designed and manufactured by our customers, and the sale of products and components developed and manufactured by us. In addition, from time to time, we may provide engineering consulting and design services to our customers, for a negotiated fee, to assist them in developing and testing prototypes and/or products incorporating wireless technologies.

Our technology is capable of being incorporated for any of the mobile handset standards, as well as numerous other communications protocols such as WiFi, Bluetooth, Zigbee, and GPS. By pursuing both licensing and product opportunities, we believe our technologies can be deployed in multiple markets that incorporate RF transmitters, receivers, and/or transceivers, including mobile handsets, tablets, femtocells, digital television, machine-to-machine, RF identification, cable modems, satellite communication, and infrastructure, among others. In order to secure proper compensation for the unauthorized use of our technologies by others, our licensing efforts also include enforcement actions against parties in these markets who we believe have already deployed products that infringe certain of our patented technologies.

Competitive Position 

We operate in a highly competitive industry against companies with substantially greater financial, technical, and sales and marketing resources. Our technologies face competition from incumbent providers of transceivers, such as Broadcom, Fujitsu, Intel, MediaTek, NVidia, Qualcomm, STMicroelectronics, Marvell, Texas Instruments, and others, as well as incumbent providers of power amplifiers, including companies such as Anadigics, Qorvo, and Skyworks, among others. Each of our competitors, however, also has the potential of becoming a licensing or product customer for our technologies. Competition in our industry is generally based on price and technological performance.

To date, we are unaware of any competing or emerging RF technologies, other than infringing products, that provide all the simultaneous benefits that certain of our technologies enable. Our unique technologies process RF carriers in a more optimal manner than prior traditional technologies, thereby allowing the creation of handsets and other products that have extended battery life, lower operating temperatures, more easily incorporate multiple air interface standards and frequencies in smaller form factors, improve operational performance, and reduce manufacturing costs. One or more of these benefits enable some of the key features that can be found in high volume wireless products. Our technologies provide such attractive benefits, in part, because of their unique operational and/or circuit architectures. The benefits our technologies enable include highly accurate transmission and reception of RF carriers that use less power than traditional architectures and components, thereby extending battery life, reducing heat and enabling certain size, cost, performance, and packaging advantages.

We believe the most significant hurdle to the licensing and/or sale of our technologies and products is the widespread use of certain of our technologies in infringing products produced by companies with significantly greater financial, technical and sales and marketing resources. In some cases, the disruptive nature of our technologies, the required integration of our technologies with other sub-systems in semiconductor systems on-chip, and our lack of tenure in the markets we are targeting provide further hurdles to adoption. We believe we can gain adoption and/or secure licensing agreements with unauthorized current users of one or more of our technologies, and therefore compete, based on a solid and defensible patent portfolio and the advantages enabled by our unique circuit architectures. Our circuit architectures are capable of being compliant with all current mobile phone and numerous other wireless industry standards and can be configured to accept all standard baseband data interfaces with the cooperation of the baseband processor providers. In addition, we believe that one or more of our technology&#8217;s abilities to provide improved power efficiencies, highly accurate RF carrier waveforms, reduced cost, smaller form factors and better manufacturing yields, provides a sought-after solution to existing problems in applications for 3G, 4G, and next-generation mobile wireless standards, as well as in other applications that use wireless and wired RF where we believe our technologies can provide an attractive solution.

Production and Supply 

We carry finished product inventory of our modulator/demodulator product to support our component sales efforts. Our work-in-process inventory includes unprocessed wafers that can be diced, packaged and tested with minimal lead time to provide additional finished product inventory. In addition, we own the tooling to fabricate additional components, subject to a standard foundry lead time, through our fabrication relationships with IBM Microelectronics (&#8220;IBM&#8221;). In addition to IBM, we also have a fabrication relationship with Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company Limited (&#8220;TSMC&#8221;) using a CMOS semiconductor process for certain components. We believe IBM and TSMC have sufficient capacity to meet our foreseeable needs. In addition, our integrated circuits have been and can be produced using different materials and processes, if necessary, to satisfy capacity requirements and/or customer preferences. In instances where our customer licenses our intellectual property, the production capacity risk shifts to that customer.

Patents and Trademarks 

We consider our intellectual property, including patents, patent applications, trademarks, and trade secrets to be significant to our competitive positioning. We have a program to file applications for and obtain patents, copyrights, and trademarks in the U.S. and in selected foreign countries where we believe filing for such protection is appropriate to establish and maintain our proprietary rights in our technology and products. As of December 31, 2015, we had 187 U.S. and 88 foreign patents related to our RF technologies. In addition, we have approximately 45 U.S. and foreign patent applications pending. We estimate the economic lives of our patents to be fifteen to twenty years and our current portfolio of issued patents have expirations ranging from 2018 to 2032.

From time to time, we obtain licenses from others for standard industry circuit designs that are integrated into our own integrated circuits as supporting components that are peripheral to our core technologies. We believe there are multiple sources for these types of standard circuits and we estimate the economic lives of the licenses to be two to five years based on estimated technological obsolescence.

Research and Development 

For the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014, and 2013 we spent approximately $5.5 million, $8.5 million, and $10.4 million, respectively, on Company-sponsored research and development activities. Our research and development efforts have been, and are expected to continue to be, devoted to the development and advancement of RF technologies, including the development of prototype integrated circuits for proof of concept purposes, the development of production-ready silicon samples, reference designs and products for specific applications, and the creation of test programs for quality control testing of our chipsets and/or products.

Employees 

As of December 31, 2015, we had 21 full-time and 2 part-time employees, of which 12 are employed in engineering research and development, 11 in executive management, sales, marketing, finance, and administration. Our employees are not represented by a labor union. We consider our employee relations satisfactory.

Available Information and Access to Reports 

We file annual reports on Forms 10-K, quarterly reports on Forms 10-Q, proxy statements and other reports, including any amendments thereto, electronically with the SEC. The SEC maintains an Internet site (http://www.sec.gov) where these reports may be obtained at no charge. Copies of these reports may also be obtained from the SEC&#8217;s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. Information on the operation of the SEC Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. We also make copies of these reports available, free of charge through our website (http://www.parkervision.com) via the link &#8220;SEC filings&#8221; as soon as practicable after filing or furnishing such materials with the SEC. We also will provide copies of the annual report on Form 10-K and the quarterly reports on Forms 10-Q filed during the current fiscal year, including any amendments thereto, upon written request to us at ParkerVision, Inc., Investor Relations, 7915 Baymeadows Way, Suite 400, Jacksonville, Florida, 32256. These reports will be provided at no charge. Exhibits to these reports may be obtained at a cost of $.25 per page plus $5.00 postage and handling.

Corporate Website 

We webcast our earnings calls and certain events we participate in or host with members of the investment community in the investor relations section of our website. Additionally, we announce investor information, including news and commentary about our business, financial performance and related matters, SEC filings, notices of investor events, and our press and earnings releases, in the investor relations section of our website ( http://ir.parkervision.com ). Investors and others can receive notifications of new information posted in the investor relations section in real time by signing up for email alerts and/or RSS feeds. Further corporate governance information, including our governance guidelines, board committee charters, and code of conduct, is also available in the investor relations section of our website under the heading &#8220;Corporate Governance.&#8221; The content of our website is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report or in any other report or document we file with the SEC, and any references to our website are intended to be inactive textual references only.

