 ITEM 1. 

BUSINESS 

Overview 

Westell Technologies, Inc., (the Company) is a leading provider of in-building wireless, intelligent site management, cell site optimization, and outside plant solutions focused on innovation and differentiation at the edge of telecommunication networks, where end users connect. The Company&#8217;s comprehensive set of products and solutions are designed to advance network performance for carriers, integrators, and other network operators, allowing them to reduce operating costs and improve network performance. With millions of products successfully deployed worldwide, the Company is a trusted partner for transforming networks into high performance, reliable systems. &#32; 

Segment Reporting 

The Company's two business segments, In-Building Wireless (IBW) and Communication Solutions Group (CSG), are engaged in the design, development, assembly, and marketing of a wide variety of products and solutions. &#32;&#32;Segment financial information is set forth in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

IBW Segment 

The IBW segment solutions include distributed antenna systems (DAS) conditioners, high-performance digital repeaters and bi-directional amplifiers (BDAs), and system components and antennas, all used by wireless service providers and neutral-party hosts to fine tune radio frequency (RF) signals that helps extend coverage to areas not served well or at all by traditional cell sites. &#32; 

CSG Segment 

The CSG segment solutions include intelligent site management (ISM), cell site optimization (CSO), and outside plant (OSP) as follows: &#32; 

&#8226;ISM solutions include a suite of remote monitoring and control devices which, when combined with the Company's Optima management system, provides comprehensive machine-to-machine (M2M) communications that enable operators to remotely monitor, manage, and control site infrastructure and support systems. &#32; 

&#8226;CSO solutions consist of tower mounted amplifiers (TMAs), small outdoor-hardened units mounted next to antennas on cell towers, enabling wireless service providers to improve the overall performance of a cell site, including increasing data throughput and reducing dropped connections. &#32; 

- 1 - 

&#8226;OSP solutions, which are sold to wireless and wireline service providers as well as to industrial network operators, consist of a broad range of offerings, including integrated cabinets, power distribution panels; copper and fiber connectivity; and synchronous optical networks/time division multiplexing (SONET/TDM) network interface units. &#32; 

Industry Trends and Market Solutions 

In-Building Wireless (IBW) 

IBW solutions, including DAS and small cell installations, have increased dramatically in the last decade, driven by the trend for voice and data traffic to move from the outdoor macro environment to indoors. Recent studies show that over 80% of all voice and data traffic now either originates or terminates from within buildings. More people are using mobile devices and data-intensive services in areas such as stadiums, universities, airports, and office buildings. As end-user bandwidth demands continue to increase, the greater the demand for a reliable network that can manage the increased coverage and capacity requirements. 

Our IBW solutions, which include our internally-developed DAS conditioners and the comprehensive suite of products acquired with the addition of Cellular Specialties, Inc. (CSI) on March 1, 2014, enable wireless service providers with a broad set of solutions to help meet growing market demand. These solutions include: 

&#8226; DAS conditioners: These units interconnect the wireless base transceiver system (BTS) to the DAS head-end while conditioning signals. Active systems can also monitor and control RF performance (e.g., the BTS power coming into the DAS). Both our passive and active devices can accommodate all of the major wireless service provider frequency bands, with numerous port configuration options. Active DAS conditioners, like our Universal DAS Interface Unit (UDIT), a remotely manageable, high density, space saving unit, has additional advanced features like spectrum analysis and tone generators to help test and analyze signal measurement data. 

&#8226; High performance digital repeaters and bi-directional amplifiers (BDAs): These units provide a means to amplify and appropriately filter the RF signal from a cell site, providing the additional power and improved signal to noise performance necessary to optimize wireless service seamlessly throughout a building or structure. 

&#8226; System components and antennas: We offer a variety of passive system components (couplers, dividers, and tappers) for use in DAS and in-building wireless systems to direct and condition energy flow for specific frequency bands. We also offer a broad line of antennas to support in-building wireless communication. 

Our IBW solutions improve network performance, provide real-time monitoring and management to reduce troubleshooting time, and minimize operating and capital costs. 

Intelligent Site Management (ISM) 

Telecommunication service providers and cell tower operators were initially focused on network coverage. Priority then moved to network availability. With the migration to long-term evolution (LTE) and 4th generation (4G) networks, capacity is now a primary concern. With this shifting of requirements to managing faster speeds and higher capacity, more intelligence is moving to the network edge (e.g., cell sites and in-building systems). This has increased the importance of the edge support infrastructure such as environmental controls, power systems, and security. 

Our ISM solutions, acquired with the addition of Kentrox on April 1, 2013, provide comprehensive M2M communication, enabling operators to remotely monitor, manage, and control critical infrastructure and ensure the continued health and success of the network. The four important areas of focus include: 

&#8226; Environmental management: heating, ventilation, and air conditioning (HVAC) monitoring/energy monitoring/control, environmental monitoring, and aircraft warning light (AWL) management. 

&#8226; Power management: AC and DC power monitoring, AWL management, battery monitoring, fuel monitoring, generator management, hybrid power management, rectifier monitoring, and tenant power monitoring. 

&#8226; Security management: access management, asset tampering, and surveillance management. 

&#8226; Communications management: microwave, DAS, and small cell management. 

The comprehensive ISM solution features the Westell Remote suite of products and the Optima management system for a complete view and understanding of site assets remotely (i.e., without a site visit). This enables the ability to more cost-effectively monitor, troubleshoot, and correct problems with network infrastructure before service affecting outages occur. 

Our ISM solutions reduce network operating costs; improve network performance, including quality, reliability, and availability; and improve site security. 

- 2 - 

Cell Site Optimization (CSO) 

The expansion of LTE and 4G mobile networks and the introduction of enhanced wireless services and devices are causing a greater demand for higher network throughput. At the same time, mobile end-users expect a quality experience every time they use a device, whether in a city or driving in remote areas. This is forcing wireless service providers to enhance their networks by optimizing the cell site coverage area and increasing RF data throughput. CSO is critical, and TMAs have become increasingly popular to enhance the RF signal performance and improve the end users quality of service, while using the existing network infrastructure. 

We provide a comprehensive range of TMAs that enables wireless service providers to improve CSO by boosting the RF signal performance from mobile devices. Our single band and multi band TMAs provide one of the lowest noise figures in the industry, are a highly reliable and proven technology, and provide very low passive intermodulation (PIM) distortion and bypass loss. In the unlikely event of a TMA failure, it automatically switches to bypass mode, ensuring network availability. 

We also provide turnkey services solution for optimizing RF signal performance. From sourcing, configuration, engineering, project management, deployment, turn-up, training, to follow on support, wireless service providers can be ensured a quality and timely implementation to meet their requirements. 

Our CSO solutions improve network quality and capacity, expand the coverage area, increase data throughput, and improve the end users wireless experience. 

Outside Plant (OSP) 

Building a communications network that can sustain harsh environmental conditions while providing the required reliability to keep customers happy can be a challenge, especially while trying to minimize costs. Whether it&#8217;s an industrial, utility, transportation, or telecommunications network, the connections between devices must effectively, efficiently, and safely carry and process signals throughout the infrastructure (cables, racks, enclosures, power distribution, etc.) while providing remote management capabilities. 

We provide a comprehensive range of OSP solutions to connect nearly any outdoor building or facility, including: 

&#8226; Integrated Cabinets: Includes outdoor cabinets for sheltering and protecting equipment and maintaining proper operating temperature, enclosures for protecting equipment, and a &#8220;one-stop shop&#8221; for complete turnkey solutions of customer-specified equipment integrated and installed in the Company&#8217;s cabinet. 

&#8226; Power Distribution: Includes fuse panels and breaker panels for installation in equipment racks to connect up to bulk power circuits and distribute power to other equipment via individual power feeds. 

&#8226; Copper/Fiber Network Connectivity: A flexible portfolio of standard relay rack mount panels and wall mount enclosures for Ethernet, fiber, or coax cables to facilitate easy and simple splicing, terminations, or handoffs. 

&#8226; SONET/TDM Solutions: Includes network interface devices with performance monitoring features, line repeaters, and protection panels. 

Our OSP solutions help service providers reduce operating costs, increase network quality and availability, improve time to market, and minimize capital costs while improving technician efficiency. 

Customers 

The Company's principal customers include telecommunications service providers, systems integrators, neutral host operators, and distributors. Telecommunication service providers include wireless and wireline service providers, multiple systems operators (MSOs), and Internet service providers (ISPs). &#32; 

Continuous industry consolidation among North American telecommunication service providers has reduced the number of customers for our solutions and products. As a result, the Company depends on fewer but larger customers for the majority of its revenues. The Company&#8217;s largest two customers, Verizon and AT&#38;T, accounted for 23.1% &#32;and 11.1% , respectively, of the Company's total revenues in fiscal year 2016 . 

Customers outside North America, which are primarily located in Australia, South Africa, and Latin America, represented approximately $6.3 million, $3.7 million and $9.9 million of the Company&#8217;s revenues in fiscal years 2016 , 2015 , and 2014 , respectively, which represents approximately 7.2%, 4.4%, and 9.7% of the Company's total revenues in such years. 

- 3 - 

Sales and Customer Support 

We sell our solutions and products through our field sales organization, distributors, and partners. Customer contracts are primarily pricing and technical specification agreements that detail the commercial terms and conditions for sales. These agreements typically do not obligate the customer to a specific volume of purchases over time. The agreements may require the Company to accept returns of products within certain time limits, or indemnify customers against certain liabilities arising out of the use of the Company's solutions and products. If these claims or returns are significant, there could be a material adverse effect on the Company's business and results of operations. 

In many instances, customers require vendor approval before deployment of solutions and products in their networks. Evaluation can take as little as a few months for products, but often longer for new solutions, products, and technologies. Accordingly, the Company is continually submitting successive generations of its current solutions and products, as well as new offerings, to its customers for approval. 

We provide customer support, technical consulting, research assistance and training to some of our customers with respect to the installation, operation, and maintenance of our products. 

Most of our solutions and products carry a limited warranty ranging from one to seven years, which generally covers defects in materials or workmanship and failure to meet published specifications, but excludes damages caused by improper use . &#32;&#32;In the event there are material deficiencies or defects in our design or manufacture, the affected solutions and products could be subject to recall . 

Supply Chain 

We outsource the majority of our manufacturing to both domestic and international suppliers. Some CSG segment products such as TMAs, Power Distribution Panels, and Integrated Cabinets undergo final top-level assembly and testing at our Aurora, Illinois facility; and most IBW segment products undergo final top-level assembly and testing in Manchester, New Hampshire. 

Reliance on third-party contract manufacturers (CMs) involves risks. Standard commercial components available from multiple suppliers are procured by the CMs. In some cases, where there are single-sourced components and technology needed, the Company has direct supplier relationships and contracts for these items, and may maintain inventory for these items at the CMs locations. Critical components, technology shortages, or business interruptions at our CMs could cause delays that may result in expediting costs or lost business. 

A substantial portion of the Company's shipments in any fiscal period can relate to orders received in that period . &#32;&#32;Further, a significant percentage of orders may require delivery within forty-eight hours. To meet this demand, we maintain inventory at our facilities and at customer sites. Because of rapid technological changes, we face recurring risks that our inventory may become obsolete. 

Research and Development 

We believe our ability to maintain technological capabilities through enhancements of existing offerings and development of new solutions and products that meet customer needs is a critical component for success. We therefore expect to continue to devote substantial resources to research and development (R&#38;D). The largest development focus in fiscal year 2016 was our ClearLink DAS product in our IBW segment. We believe the ClearLink DAS product technology allows the Company access to a larger market than the market for DAS conditioners, which is currently declining as the DAS conditioners enter the later portion of their life cycle. In fiscal years 2016 , 2015 &#32;and 2014 , the Company's R&#38;D expenses were approximately $19.3 million , $17.3 million , and $11.3 million , respectively. 

The Company's R&#38;D personnel are organized into teams, each responsible for sustaining technical support of existing solutions and products, conceiving new products in cooperation with other groups within the Company, and adapting standard products or technologies to meet new customer needs. Additionally, in an effort to remain a highly valued, superior quality, long-term supplier, each team is charged with reducing product costs for each succeeding generation of products without compromising functionality or serviceability. The teams leverage the Company&#8217;s relationships with its CMs and suppliers to achieve these cost reduction objectives. 

We believe that the key to our R&#38;D strategy is choosing an initial architecture for each product that balances innovation and time-to-market factors while enabling engineering innovations to result in future performance enhancements and cost reductions. The Company&#8217;s strategy is further enhanced by ensuring products are designed in conjunction with input from customers, procurement, CMs, and suppliers. 

Our quality systems in the CSG segment, including product development processes, are registered to ISO9001:2008 International Quality System Standard and TL9000, which is the Telecommunication Industry's sector-specific version of the ISO9001:2008. The IBW facility is developing quality management systems with focus on registration to the ISO 9001:2008 and TL9000 standards. Many current critical processes required for managing the full product life cycle are already in place. 

- 4 - 

Analysis of process and product performance, as well as monitoring of customer satisfaction and perception of IBW products and performance, are routinely reviewed and corrective actions are taken where applicable. IBW successfully maintains TUV CE registration through quarterly audits in support of critical customer product offerings. Product realization is accomplished as required in the ISO 9001:2008 standard. Critical quality assurance processes such as calibration, control of nonconforming material, supplier evaluation and monitoring, and configuration management are all in place and audited routinely to ensure the best product offerings possible to the customer. We believe product quality and reliability are critical and distinguishing factors in a customer&#8217;s selection process. 

The Company&#8217;s products are subject to industry-wide standardization organizations, including Telcordia, the Internet Engineering Task Force, the Metro Ethernet Forum, the American National Standards Institute (ANSI) in the U.S. and the International Telecommunications Union (ITU). 

Competition 

We operate in an intensely competitive marketplace and have no reason to believe that this competitive environment will ease in the future. Our customers base their purchasing decisions on multiple factors including features, quality, performance, price, total cost of ownership, reliability, responsiveness, incumbency, financial stability, reputation, and customer service. While competitors vary by market, some of our primary competitors include Asentria, CCI, Charles Industries, CommScope, Corning, DPS Telecom, Emerson, Errigal, Galooli, Inala, Invendis Quest Controls, Purcell, Ruggedcom, TE Connectivity, Telect, and Trimm. Some of these competitors compete with us across several of our solutions and products while many are a competitor to a specific solution or product. 

Intellectual Property 

The Company&#8217;s success depends, in part, on its ability to protect trade secrets, obtain or license patents, and operate without infringing on the rights of others. We rely on a combination of technical leadership, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets, nondisclosure agreements, and other intellectual property and protective measures to secure our proprietary know-how. The expiration of any of the patents held by the Company would not have a material impact on the Company. From time to time, the Company expects to seek additional patents related to its R&#38;D activities. 

Backlog 

Product shipments are generally made pursuant to standard purchase orders, which are officially acknowledged according to standard terms and conditions. Seasonality may cause revenue to differ from quarter to quarter. The CSG segment sells equipment that is installed outdoors and the ordering of such equipment declines during and in advance of the colder months. Budget cycles for our customers may also contribute to revenue variability in those same periods. Purchase orders are generally received less than a month prior to shipment. 

As of May 14, 2016, and May 14, 2015, the IBW segment had $1.0 million and $2.7 million of backlog, respectively and the CSG segment had $6.5 million and $11.4 million, respectively. 

Employees 

As of May 1, 2016, the Company had 228 full-time employees. The following table reflects headcount by fiscal year 2017 segment and functional area. 

&#160; &#160; 

IBW 

&#160; 

CSG 

&#160; 

Corporate 

&#160; 

Total 

Operations 

&#160; 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Sales and marketing 

&#8212; 

&#160; 

&#8212; 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Research and development 

&#160; 

&#160; 

&#160; 

General and administrative 

&#8212; 

&#160; 

&#8212; 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Total employees 

&#160; 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Available Information 

The SEC maintains an internet site, www.sec.gov, through which you may access the Company&#8217;s annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, proxy and other information statements, as well as amendments to these reports. In addition, the Company makes these reports available free of charge on the Company&#8217;s internet website, www.westell.com. The Company maintains a corporate governance page on the Company&#8217;s website. This page includes, among other items, the Code of Business Conduct, the Audit Committee Charter, the Compensation Committee Charter and the Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee Charter. 

- 5 - 

