 Item 1. Business 

Company overview 

GoPro, Inc. (&#8220;GoPro&#8221; or &#8220;we&#8221; or &#8220;the Company&#8221;) is transforming the way people visually capture and share their lives. We do this by enabling people to capture compelling, immersive photo and video content of themselves in their day to day life as well as participating in their favorite activities. Our consumers include some of the world&#8217;s most active and passionate people. The volume and quality of their shared GoPro content, coupled with their enthusiasm for our brand, are driving awareness and demand for our products. To date, our cameras (capture devices) and mountable and wearable accessories have generated substantially all of our revenue. We have been expanding the distribution of our GoPro originally produced content that we collectively refer to as GoPro Entertainment, to engage and build relationships with consumers. We believe this strategy will result in new GoPro capture device purchases and provide us long term opportunities to monetize our GoPro Entertainment efforts. 

What began as an idea to help athletes self-document themselves engaged in their sport, GoPro has become a standard for how people capture themselves engaged in their interests, whatever they may be. From extreme to mainstream, professional to consumer, GoPro enables the world to capture and share its passions in the form of immersive and engaging content. 

Our business focus 

Enabling immersive and engaging content is at the core of our business. We develop product solutions to enable consumers to capture, manage, share and enjoy some of the most important moments in their lives . 

Capture 

Our capture devices enable professional quality capture and exceptional versatility at affordable prices. Our products&#8217; small, lightweight, waterproof, and durable designs make them easy to use even in highly challenging situations. In addition, our seamless integration with mobile devices via the GoPro App, enables engaging self-capture during virtually any activity. Through 2015, we have shipped approximately 20 million cumulative capture devices and there have been approximately 24 million cumulative downloads of the GoPro App. 

Manage 

We seek to eliminate the pain point of managing content by making it easy for our consumers to transfer footage from their cameras to a system that efficiently organizes their content and facilitates convenient editing and sharing. GoPro Studio and the GoPro App, available at no charge from our website, reflect the early stages of our content management platform strategy. 

Share 

By facilitating the capture, management and editing of engaging photos and videos, we are ultimately helping our consumers share more compelling personal content. GoPro Studio and the GoPro App facilitate the posting of photos and videos directly to leading social networks and content platforms, including Facebook, Instagram, Pinterest, Twitter, Vimeo and YouTube. Every day, GoPro users share tens of thousands of hours of video and innumerable photos on social media, driving awareness and enthusiasm for this content, as well as for GoPro&#8217;s own brand and products. 

Enjoy &#32; 

GoPro enables the production of entertaining and inspiring content, both in the form of our consumers&#8217; user-generated content (UGC), as well as GoPro Entertainment. This content often features professional athletes, celebrities and entertainers, as well as everyday people engaged in their favorite activities. 

We believe that increasing our consumers&#8217; enjoyment of their content enhances the value proposition of capturing and sharing their lives with our products and has led to our aspiration of GoPro becoming one of the world's leading activity capture companies. Also, having recognized the role GoPro content plays in attracting and exciting consumers, we are expanding the distribution of GoPro Entertainment to engage and build relationships with consumers who do not currently own a GoPro capture device. 

We distribute GoPro Entertainment through what we refer to as the GoPro Network, a collection of GoPro Channels hosted on a variety of online destinations and partner platforms, including Facebook, Instagram, Pinterest, Twitter and YouTube and distribution partners, including Amazon Fire TV, Comcast Watchable, LG Smart TVs, Microsoft Xbox entertainment systems, PlayStation &#174; &#32;Network, Roku, SkyQ, Vessel Entertainment and Virgin America. The revenue earned from GoPro Channel advertising and sponsorship opportunities was not material to us in 2015, 2014 and 2013. Long-term, we seek to monetize GoPro Entertainment. 

The virtuous cycle 

We believe our business focus results in a virtuous cycle and a self-reinforcing consumer acquisition model that fuels our growth. Our products in the hands of our consumers enable compelling, authentic content that organically increases awareness for GoPro and drives demand for our products. As a result, we have historically achieved significant growth. In 2015, 2014 and 2013, we generated revenue of $1,620.0 million , $1,394.2 million &#32;and $985.7 million , and reported net income of $36.1 million , $128.1 million &#32;and $60.6 million , respectively. 

Our strategy 

We intend to continue building our existing capture device business while also launching complementary new device categories including unmanned aircraft systems (drones) and devices to enable virtual reality content capturing. In addition, we expect to release new content management, editing and sharing solutions that will provide increased value to our consumers, introduce new revenue streams and further differentiate us from competitors. Key components of our strategy include the following: 

Continue to introduce innovative capture devices, mounts and accessories 

We relentlessly pursue our goal of developing the world&#8217;s most versatile capture devices and enabling self-capture during any activity. To stay at the forefront of our industry, we are focused on continued product innovation and leadership. For example, we develop our own digital signal processing technologies and other areas of innovation include image science, mechanical design, device firmware, computer vision and audio, battery and accessory design. In 2015, we introduced the HERO4 Session to our line of HERO4 capture devices and we plan to launch our next-generation HERO5 capture devices in 2016. We will seek to leverage our brand strength and product 

expertise to opportunistically enter new device categories, including the planned launch in 2016 of GoPro's drone, Karma, as well as devices to enable virtual reality content capturing. 

Develop seamless content management, editing and sharing solutions 

We have increased our focus on the development of solutions that simplify the organizing, editing and sharing of engaging content. To that end, we are developing an integrated content management platform. In 2016, we expect to release the initial piece of this content management platform with the introduction of GoPro for Desktop, which will enable consumers to more easily offload, access and edit content. 

Scale GoPro as an entertainment brand 

We believe GoPro Entertainment is a significant media asset which we also leverage to promote the sale of our capture devices. We continue to invest in GoPro Entertainment and are seeking new revenue opportunities by increasing production of GoPro originally produced content while simultaneously increasing the aggregation and redistribution of our consumers&#8217; &#8220;best of&#8221; UGC. Additionally, we continue to invest in developing, distributing and promoting GoPro Entertainment programming on our own and additional partner platforms. 

In 2015, we launched GoPro Awards and anticipate granting up to $5 million annually to creators of unique and compelling GoPro content. Through February 2016, GoPro users have submitted over 90,000 content submissions and we have awarded over $250,000 for video and photo content. 

Expand our total addressable market 

We believe the total market for enabling people to self-capture compelling, immersive photo and video content of their everyday activities is large. To date, our product development and sales and marketing strategies have enabled us to be a leader in vertical markets such as travel, snowsports, surfing, motorsports, music, hunting and fishing, and we continue to target other vertical markets. We believe that our future growth will come from continuing to reach and expand vertical markets and from broadening our user base to include consumers seeking to capture their day-to-day lives. To grow our market share and revenue, we are investing to provide both innovative and easy-to-use capture devices as well as intuitive and simple software tools in the future that enable seamless sharing of personal experiences on desktop and mobile platforms for a variety of social media networks and content sharing platforms. 

Expand in international markets 

We believe that international markets represent a significant growth opportunity for GoPro. Sales to customers outside the U.S. were more than 50% of our 2015 revenue and have increased from 43% in 2014. We plan to capitalize on the strength of our brand and continue to increase our presence worldwide, both with our capture devices and the new products we expect to introduce in the upcoming years. 

Expand in-store brand and sales footprint 

We continue to invest heavily to produce GoPro-branded, video-enabled point of purchase (POP) merchandising displays that we make available to nearly all of the retail outlets through which our products are sold. These displays showcase engaging GoPro content and attractively present our cameras and accessories. Having recognized our success in these stores, coupled with our expanding product portfolio, we have been successful working with our retailers to further expand the footprint of our POP displays. 

Extend strategic marketing relationships 

We form relationships with marketing partners that use our products and services to promote their own brands and properties. GoPro benefits not only from the expanded brand awareness that comes with such marketing partnerships, but also being recognized as our partners&#8217; technology enabler. We will continue developing and leveraging strategic marketing relationships to increase GoPro brand awareness. 

Expand brand awareness through increased advertising 

We expect to increase our product marketing efforts in 2016. Notwithstanding the visibility we have garnered in the consumer markets where we have historically focused through our product adoption and UGC and GoPro Entertainment, we believe consumers in many emerging markets are not familiar with our brand and products. We believe there is a significant opportunity for GoPro to expand awareness through increased advertising on television, 

in print, online, and on billboards and other out of home advertising while continuing to scale our promotional marketing efforts and trade show presence. 

Products 

Our core products are our HERO line of capture devices, the first HD version of which we introduced in 2009. Since then, we have focused on continued innovation and development of our products and subsequently launched the following cameras: the HERO2 in 2011, the HERO3 in 2012, the HERO3+ in 2013, the HERO4 and HERO in 2014, and HERO+LCD, HERO4 Session and HERO+ in 2015. All products introduced prior to 2014 have been discontinued and in January 2016 we announced our decision to end-of-life the entry-level HERO, HERO+ and HERO+LCD products. As a result, we have simplified our product line to a good-better-best offering of our HERO4 Session, Silver and Black performance cameras. Our products are waterproof either out of the box or with the included protective waterproof housing, and include select mounting accessories and have built-in Wi-Fi and Bluetooth providing connectivity with a mobile device to enable remote control, content viewing and sharing functionality. We offer the HERO4 Session, Silver and Black editions with increasingly better image quality, enhanced capture features and accessory bundles from model to model at different price points. 

We also offer a wide range of mounts and accessories, either bundled with a capture device or sold separately, that enhance the functionality and versatility of our devices and enable our consumers to self-capture their experiences during a variety of activities and from different viewpoints. Our mounts are designed to enable consumers to capture content while engaged in a wide range of activities. These include equipment-based mounts, such as the helmet, handlebar, roll bar, as well as grip and tripod mounts, such as the 3-way, a 3-in-1 mount that can be used as a camera grip, extension arm or tripod. We also enable consumers to wear mounts on their bodies, such as our wrist housing, chest harness and head strap. Our accessories include the LCD Touch BacPac, Battery BacPac, Smart Remote and Floaty Backdoor, which expand the features, versatility and convenience of our cameras. Additionally, we offer spare batteries, charging accessories, cables to connect our GoPro cameras to television monitors, video transmitters and external microphones, flotation devices, dive filters, and anti-fogging solutions. 

In addition, we currently make available two applications to all consumers at no charge that help our users manage, edit and share their content. GoPro Studio is a video editing tool that allows our users to create professional quality videos from their content. GoPro App allows users to control their GoPro cameras remotely using a smartphone or tablet. In February 2016, we entered into definitive agreements to acquire two mobile video editing application companies to further enhance our software offerings. In 2016, we plan to launch GoPro for Desktop, the initial piece of our content management platform that will enable consumers to more easily offload, access and edit content. 

Seasonality 

Our sales are subject to seasonal fluctuation. Historically, we have experienced the highest levels of revenue in the fourth quarter of the year, coinciding with the holiday shopping season in the United States and Europe. Our fourth quarter revenue comprised 27%, 45% and 37% of our 2015, 2014 and 2013 revenue, respectively. Sales of consumer products are also heavily influenced by the timing of the release of new products, and in 2015, we launched most of our products earlier in the year than in prior years. Fourth quarter 2015 revenue reflected global retail sell-through that was weaker than the prior year. Additionally, fourth quarter 2014 revenue benefited from the launch of our HERO4 Black and Silver capture devices just prior to the holiday season and there was no significant corresponding product launch in 2015. Neither historical seasonal patterns nor historical patterns of product introductions should be considered reliable indicators of our future pattern of product introductions, future revenue or financial performance. 

Segment information and geographic data 

We operate as one reportable segment. Financial information about geographic areas is presented in Note 11 to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Backlog 

We do not believe that our backlog is meaningful as of any particular date or indicative of future sales, as our customers can change or cancel orders with limited or no penalty and limited advance notice prior to shipment. 

Research and development &#32; 

We are passionate about developing new and innovative products that inspire our consumers and enhance our brand. We are constantly innovating to deliver better performance, expanded functionality and increased convenience to enhance the appeal of our products. In particular, we have increased our investment in software application development to facilitate convenient content management, editing and sharing. We strive to remain a market leader by consistently introducing innovative products that offer optimal performance and better software functionality at affordable price points. 

We have a user experience-driven approach to product development and our CEO leads product design. By engaging with customers, consumers and opinion leaders in our core markets around the world, our development team strives to introduce meaningful and empowering new features that expand the versatility and performance of our products. In addition to our core product development team, we benefit from input received from our in-house media production team that regularly travels the world capturing GoPro originally produced content using our capture devices. We believe leveraging this content team to help refine existing products and influence future products gives us a competitive advantage. 

Our engineering team, which supports the development of capture devices, drones, firmware and software, has grown from 250 in 2013 to 676 &#32;engineers on December 31, 2015. Our hardware engineering team is responsible for developing technologies to support the concepts proposed by our product team. These core technologies include new image silicon processors, image sensors and lenses, as well as the core algorithms that enable the systems to operate and provide optimal performance and features. The hardware engineering team also integrates these innovations and firmware into our product designs and develops our capture devices, drones, mounts and accessories. The software engineering team is developing applications that enhance the functionality of our products and facilitate the management, editing, sharing and viewing of media. These applications are being developed for mobile, desktop and web-based platforms and powered by server-side services. The core technologies include rendering engines to enable video editing, video encoding and decoding for smooth playback and algorithms for moment identification. 

Our research and development expense was $241.7 million , $151.9 million &#32;and $73.7 million &#32;for 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. 

Manufacturing, logistics and fulfillment &#32; 

While our products are designed in California, we outsource a significant majority of our manufacturing to contract manufacturers located in China. We believe that using outsourced manufacturing enables greater scale and flexibility than establishing our own manufacturing facilities. We periodically evaluate the need and advisability of adding manufacturers to support our operations. 

We have established a strategic commodity team that manages the pricing and supply of the key components of our capture devices, including digital signal processors, sensors and lenses. Several key strategic parts are purchased from the supplier by us and then consigned to our manufacturers, while the vast majority of parts are procured directly by our contract manufacturers. We seek to use our commodity team to achieve competitive pricing on the largest value-add components, and leverage our contract manufacturers&#8217; volume purchases for best pricing on common parts. 

We have third-party fulfillment centers in California, China, Hong Kong, Brazil, and the Netherlands that deliver our products from multiple locations worldwide. These facilities are either warehouse/fulfillment centers or full service postponement centers (that perform light assembly in addition to warehouse/fulfillment). In addition, we have third-party centers in California, Czech Republic, and China that perform in-region final packaging services. Cameras are typically air freighted while accessories and packaging are generally regionally procured or shipped via ocean freighter from our manufacturers in China to these fulfillment centers, where the products are packaged for retail sale. Our fulfillment strategy allows us to reduce shipping costs, reduce custom levies, customize products for local languages and improve inventory flexibility. 

Sales channels and customers 

We offer our products in over 40,000 retail outlets and in over 100 countries through our direct sales channel and 

indirectly through our distribution channel. In 2015 and 2014, our direct sales accounted for 52% &#32;and 59% &#32;of our revenue, respectively, and our distributors accounted for 48% &#32;and 41% &#32;of our revenue, respectively. 

Direct sales &#32; 

We sell directly to large and small retailers in the United States and EMEA, and directly to consumers around the world through our e-commerce channels, as follows: 

&#8226; 

Independent specialty retailers. We use a network of location-based independent manufacturer representatives to sell our products to independent specialty retailers focused on sports and consumer activity capture markets. Our representatives provide highly personalized service to these retailers, including assisting with product mix planning, channel marketing and in-store merchandising, taking orders and providing clinics to educate retail sales personnel about GoPro products. We also have an internal, regionally focused sales team that provides a secondary level of service to both the manufacturer representatives and these retailers. Independent specialty retailers generally carry our higher end products, targeting their core customers who we believe tend to be early adopters of new technologies. Independent specialty retailers outside of the United States represent a similarly important sales channel for us, and we reach these customers indirectly through our network of international distributors. 

&#8226; 

Big box retailers. We sell to large retailers with a national presence, including Amazon.com, Inc., Best Buy, Inc., Target Corporation and Wal-Mart, Inc. We support these retailers with a dedicated and experienced sales management team that we believe enables us to reduce channel conflict. These large retailers generally carry a varied subset of our products targeting their particular end-user customers. This helps us maintain in-store product differentiation between sales channels and protects our brand image in our specialty retail markets. Best Buy accounted for 14% , 20% &#32;and 17% , of our total revenue in 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively, and Amazon accounted for 12% &#32;of our total revenue in 2015. 

&#8226; 

Mid-market retailers. We also sell to retailers with a large regional or national presence, often focused on specific verticals such as consumer electronics, sporting goods, military, hunting and fishing and motor sports. In the U.S., we sell directly to these mid-market retailers through our experienced sales teams assigned to particular accounts and regions. Mid-market retailers generally carry a smaller subset of our products targeted toward their end-user customers. 

&#8226; 

E-commerce channel. We sell our full line of products directly to consumers around the world through our online store at gopro.com, which we market through online and offline advertising. Sales through gopro.com provide us insights into our consumer shopping behaviors, and serves as a platform for us to educate and inform our consumers on our brand, products, and services. 

We believe that our diverse direct sales channels are a key differentiator for GoPro and we differentiate our products among these channels. 

Distributors 

We sell to over 50 distributors who resell our products to retailers in international markets and to certain specific verticals in the United States. We have dedicated sales personnel focused on providing a high level of service to these distributors, including assisting with product mix planning, channel marketing and in-store merchandising, development of marketing materials, order assistance and educating the distributors&#8217; sales personnel about GoPro products. During 2015, we converted portions of our distributor sales into direct sales. 

In-store merchandising 

Our in-store merchandising strategy focuses on our POP displays that continuously show GoPro content on a large video monitor and present our capture devices and accessories in an attractive manner. We provide our POP display in sizes ranging from two to four feet wide by five feet tall to retailers at no cost. We also have installed POP displays that are 12 feet wide by seven feet tall. Our capture devices are attractively arranged on the displays and the breadth of our offerings, combined with the associated content, communicate the wide range of uses for our products. As of December 31, 2015, we had over 25,000 POP displays in retail outlets. 

Marketing and advertising 

Our marketing and advertising programs are focused on engaging consumers by exposing them to compelling GoPro content. We believe this approach enhances our brand while demonstrating the performance, durability and versatility of our products. Our marketing and advertising efforts span a wide range of consumer interests and leverage both traditional consumer marketing and lifestyle marketing strategies. 

Consumer marketing. Social media plays an important role in our consumer marketing strategy. Our consumers capture and share personal GoPro content on social media and content sharing platforms like Facebook, Instagram, Pinterest, Twitter, Vimeo and YouTube. 

We also integrate UGC and GoPro originally produced content into advertising campaigns across various platforms including television commercials, print, online, billboards and other out of home advertising, and at consumer and trade facing events. This content also supports our in-store channel marketing efforts, appearing on our POP displays and other in-store marketing materials. 

Lifestyle marketing. Our lifestyle marketing programs focus on expanding GoPro brand awareness by engaging consumers through relationships with key influencers, event promotions and other outreach efforts. We cultivate strong relationships with influential athletes, celebrities, entertainers and brands, all of whom use our products to create and share engaging content with their own fans and consumers. We also work directly with these partners to create compelling content that we leverage to our mutual benefit across the GoPro Network. 

Competition &#32; 

The market for cameras and camcorders is highly competitive and characterized by frequent product introductions and rapid technological advances. We believe the principal competitive factors impacting the market for our products include quality, reliability and user experience, price and performance, design innovation, brand recognition, marketing and distribution capability, service and support, and corporate reputation. 

We compete against established, well-known camera manufacturers such as Canon Inc., Fujifilm Corporation, Nikon Corporation, Olympus Corporation, Rollei GmbH &#38; Co. KG and Vivitar Corporation, as well as large, diversified electronics companies such as, Panasonic Corporation, Polaroid Corporation, Samsung Electronics Co., Sony Corporation and VTech Technologies, and specialty companies such as Garmin Ltd. We believe we compete favorably with these companies&#8217; products. Our durable and versatile product design facilitates increased functionality and wearability and we offer a variety of mounts and other accessories that enable a wide range of consumer use cases that are difficult for other competing products to address. Further, we offer many professional-grade features at attractive consumer price points, including our SuperView mode, which allows a user to capture an immersive wide-angle perspective, and super high resolution video capability. We also provide users with a suite of free desktop and mobile applications that enhance the overall GoPro experience. Moreover, we believe we have achieved significant brand recognition in our target vertical markets. We believe our years of experience working with active and influential consumers contributes to our ability to develop attractive products and establishes the authenticity of our brand, thereby differentiating us from current and potential competitors. 

Smartphones and tablets with photo and video functionality have significantly displaced traditional camera sales. We believe that our capture devices enable differentiated use cases from mobile devices. In particular, we allow users to self-capture their experiences in even the most challenging of environments, such as on and in water and in other environments where mobile devices would be damaged, and to do so with their hands free to focus on the activity and not the capture device. We believe that the small, rugged form factor coupled with the professional quality video enabled by our capture devices makes them ideal for uniquely capturing important moments of our users' lives. However, it is possible that in the future the manufacturers of these devices may design them for use in a range of scenarios and conditions. In addition, new companies may emerge and offer competitive products directly in our category. 

We expect to enter the consumer drone market in 2016 and face significant competition from other companies promoting their own drone and related products. These include established and start up drone manufacturers, such as DJI Technology Co., Parrot SA, Yuneec and 3DR, who currently have or are attempting to gain a substantial share of the emerging international drone market. 

Intellectual property &#32; 

Intellectual property is an important aspect of our business, and our practice is to seek protection for our intellectual property as appropriate. Our trademarks, including &#8220;GoPro,&#8221; &#8220;HERO,&#8221; &#8220;Be a HERO,&#8221; &#8220;Session,&#8221; &#8220;Karma,&#8221; among others, are a critical component of the value of our business. In addition, we hold many issued and pending utility and design patents for various aspects of our capture devices and the applications that helps our consumers manage, share and enjoy their content. Our patents cover areas that include physical structures, image processing, operational firmware and software, post-processing software, distribution software, mount and accessory structures, as well as the ornamental aspects of our capture devices. As of February 23, 2016, we had 114 issued patents and 247 patent applications pending in the United States, and 87 corresponding issued patents and 105 patent applications pending in foreign countries. We cannot be certain that our patent applications will be issued or that any issued patents will provide us with any competitive advantage or will not be challenged by third parties. Our issued U.S. patents will expire between 2024 and 2035 and our issued foreign patents will expire between 2022 and 2040. We continually review our development efforts to assess our innovations, including their patentability. We take active measures to protect our intellectual property against unauthorized third party use, including misuse of our patents, copyrights, and trademarks, and other proprietary rights. 

In addition to the foregoing protections, we generally control access to and use of our proprietary and other confidential information through the use of internal and external controls, including contractual protections with employees, contract manufacturers, distributors and others. Despite these protections, we may be unable to prevent third parties from using our intellectual property without our authorization, breaching any nondisclosure agreements with us, or independently developing products that are similar to ours, particularly in those countries where the laws do not protect our proprietary and intellectual property rights as fully as in the United States. 

Employees 

As of December 31, 2015 we had 1,539 &#32;employees. None of our employees are currently covered by a collective bargaining agreement, and we have experienced no work stoppages. We consider our relationship with our employees to be good. 

Corporate Information 

We were incorporated as Woodman Labs, Inc. in California and began doing business as GoPro in February 2004. We reincorporated in Delaware in December 2011 and in February 2014 we changed our name to GoPro, Inc. Our principal executive offices are located at 3000 Clearview Way, San Mateo, California 94402, and our telephone number is (650) 332-7600. We completed our initial public offering in July 2014 and our Class A common stock is listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol &#8220;GPRO&#8221;. 

We have registered and applied to register with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and the trademark offices of other countries a number of trademarks including &#8220;GOPRO,&#8221; &#8220;HERO,&#8221; and the GoPro logo and GoPro Be a Hero logo, as well as "KARMA." This Annual Report on Form 10-K also includes references to trademarks and service marks of other entities, and those trademarks and service marks are the property of their respective owners. 

Available Information 

Our website address is www.gopro.com. Through a link on the Investor Relations section of our website, we make available the following filings as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC): our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act. All such filings are available free of charge. The information posted on our website is not incorporated into this report. Further, a copy of this Annual Report on Form 10-K is located at the SEC&#8217;s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room can be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains a website that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding our filings at www.sec.gov. 

