 ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

Overview 

Weyland Tech, prior to September 1, 2015 specialized in providing e-commerce solutions and services that facilitate multi-channel B2C (business-to-consumer) and B2B (business-to-business) transactions. Its solutions and services enabled e-commerce transactions with speed and efficiency, and allowed an interactive and engaging customer experience as well as targeted marketing and advertising.

On September 1, 2015, Weyland Tech acquired the exclusive right to use the &#145;CreateApp&#146; M-commerce applications platform ("apps") from Technopreneurs Resource Centre Private Limited, a Singapore Limited company ("TRC") which was satisfied by the issuance of shares in the Company. Weyland Tech, have registered the domain name www.createapp.com

TRC's CreateApp platform was marketed and sold predominantly in Singapore with less than 1% of sales attributable to ex-Singapore customers.

The CreateApp platform is offered in eleven languages and enables small-medium-sized businesses ("SMBs") to create a mobile application ("app") without the need of technical knowledge and background. 

SMB's can increase sales, reach more customers and promote their products and services via a simple easy to build mobile app at an affordable and cost-effective manner without specialist IT knowledge and IT investment. 

On January 19, 2016 the company signed a Software Licensing Agreement ("SLA") with Info Zone Development Limited ("Info Zone") to provide a 'white label' rollout of the Company's CreateApp platform in the Hong Kong and China market.

On January 21, 2016 the company signed an exclusive Software Licensing Agreement ("SLA") with Silver Ridge-Tangerine Sdn Bhd ("Silver Ridge") to provide a 'white label' rollout of the Company's CreateApp platform in Malaysia.

On February 11, 2016 the company signed an exclusive Software Licensing Agreement ("SLA") with Augicom S.A., ("Augicom") to distribute the Company's CreateApp platform in the Euro-Zone except Russia, Turkey, Armenia and Azerbaijan.

On February 24, 2016 the company signed a Term Sheet ("TS") with Meta 4 Group SarL ("Meta4") to form a joint venture partnership for the rollout of Meta4's 'Worldfriend's' network platform in the greater Indonesia market.

On March 9, 2016 the company signed an exclusive Software Licensing Agreement ("SLA") with Aurum Digital, Inc. ("Aurum") to distribute CreateApp in the Americas, covering North, Central and South Americas.

On March 14, 2016 the company signed an exclusive Software Licensing Agreement ("SLA") with IAM, Inc. ("IAM") to distribute CreateApp in the Republic of Korea.

On March 22, 2016 the company signed the joint venture agreement ("JV") with Meta 4 Group SarL ("Meta4") for the rollout of Meta4's 'Worldfriend's' network platform in the greater Indonesia market.

&#160;

Our corporate headquarters are located at 9/F, The Wellington, 198 Wellington Street, Central, Hong Kong HKSAR. Although we maintain a website at www.weyland-tech.com, we do not intend that information available on our website be incorporated into this filing.

Our Growth Strategy 

Management plans for expansion into other markets by repurposing the CreateApp platform into the target countries predominant languages as well as establishing a small base of operations in each target country. The goal is to replicate the early success of TRC in its 2014 year of operations and scale the business to a greater level and a global geographical footprint.

From January 2015 until August 2015, TRC concentrated product development efforts towards developing a fully-hosted Software-as-a-Service ("SaaS"), monthly paid service offering versus the business model of an annual licensing fee paid up front as in fiscal year 2014.

To increase our recurring revenue, the Company must execute on our strategy of offering the CreateApp platform to SMB's and resellers with an affordable monthly fee, free upgrades, and expansion into new markets.

Growth of the Mobile Apps Industry 

We believe that there are a number of factors that are contributing to the continued growth of the mobile apps industry: (i) adoption of the 'smartphone continues to increase globally; (ii) lower entry prices of smartphones; (iii) smartphone users are becoming increasingly comfortable with the process of searching for and conducting business on their phones; (iv) businesses are placing more emphasis on implementing a mobile app versus a mobile website thereby enabling customers to gain a higher level of interaction and functionality with the SMB through said mobile app; and (v) emerging markets having broad-based adoption of smartphones and bypassing the desktop PC entirely. We believe that the Company will be able to participate in the growth of the mobile apps industry by offering an affordable, easy to build and use platform.

Competition 

Our business is rapidly evolving and highly competitive. Our current and potential competitors include: (1) Advertising companies, Web design firms and more recently, mobile app makers; (2) other DIY mobile app companies; (3) a number of indirect competitors, including media companies, web portals, comparison shopping websites, and web search engines, either directly or in collaboration with SMBs; (4) companies that provide e-commerce services, including website/app development.; (5) companies that provide infrastructure web and mobile services. We believe that the principal competitive factors in our mobile apps business include ease of use, affordability and broad range of functionality. Many of our current and potential competitors have greater resources, slightly longer histories, more customers, and greater brand recognition. They may adopt more aggressive pricing and devote more resources to technology, functionality and ease of use and marketing. Other companies also may enter into business combinations or alliances that strengthen their competitive positions.

Employees 

The Company currently has twelve full-time employees in Singapore, Hong Kong and Jaipur India and our joint venture partner in Jaipur, has 200 developers on staff to assist with technical, customer support, integration and engineering tasks.

Transfer Agent 

We have engaged Nevada Agency and Trust Company as our stock transfer agent. Nevada Agency and Trust Company is located at 50 West Liberty Street, Reno, Nevada 89501. Phone: (775) 332-0626.

