 Item 1. Business 

Overview 

We were incorporated in Delaware in August 1997 as Cytokinetics, Incorporated. We are a late-stage biopharmaceutical company focused on the discovery and developments of first-in-class muscle activators as potential treatment for debilitating diseases in which muscle performance is compromised and/or declining. Our research and development activities relating to the biology of muscle function have evolved from our knowledge and expertise regarding the cytoskeleton, a complex biological infrastructure that plays a fundamental role within every human cell. Our most advanced research and development programs relate to the biology of muscle function and are directed to small molecule modulators of the contractility of skeletal or cardiac muscle. We are also conducting earlier-stage research directed to other compounds with the potential to modulate muscle contractility and other muscle functions, such as growth, energetics and metabolism. 

Our lead drug candidate from our skeletal muscle contractility program, tirasemtiv (formerly known as CK-2017357), is a fast skeletal muscle troponin activator. Cytokinetics retains exclusive rights to tirasemtiv and is independently developing this drug candidate for the potential treatment of ALS. We conducted a Phase 2 clinical trials program for tirasemtiv, including a Phase 2b clinical trial in patients with ALS, known as BENEFIT-ALS (Blinded Evaluation of Neuromuscular Effects and Functional Improvement with Tirasemtiv in ALS). Based on the results of BENEFIT-ALS, we started a Phase 3 clinical development program for tirasemtiv in patients with ALS in July 2015 known as VITALITY-ALS (Ventilatory Investigation of Tirasemtiv and Assessment of Longitudinal Indices after Treatment for a Year in ALS). Tirasemtiv has been granted orphan drug designation and fast track status by the FDA and orphan medicinal product designation by the European Medicines Agency, in each case for the potential treatment of ALS. 

We are also developing CK-2127107, a structurally distinct fast skeletal muscle troponin activator, under a strategic alliance with Astellas established in June 2013 and expanded in December 2014. Astellas holds an exclusive license to develop and commercialize CK-2127107 worldwide, subject to our development and commercialization participation rights. Under this strategic alliance, Cytokinetics conducted five Phase 1 clinical trials of CK-2127107 and started a Phase 2 clinical trial of CK-2127107 in patients with spinal muscular atrophy (SMA) in December 2015. CK-2127107 is also being evaluated for the potential use in other indications 

&#160; 

associated with muscle weakness. We expect that Astellas will initiate a Phase 2 clinical trial in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (&#147;COPD&#148;) in the first half of 2016. We are also conducting joint research with Astellas directed to next-generation skeletal muscle activators. Further details regarding our strategic alliance with Astellas can be found below in Item 1 of this report under &#147;Research and Development Programs &#151; Skeletal Muscle Contractility Program &#151; CK-2127107 and Other Skeletal Muscle Activators &#151; Astellas Strategic Alliance.&#148; 

Our lead drug candidate from our cardiac muscle contractility program, omecamtiv mecarbil (formerly known as CK-1827452), is a novel cardiac muscle myosin activator that is being developed under a strategic alliance with Amgen. Amgen holds an exclusive license to develop and commercialize omecamtiv mecarbil worldwide, subject to our development and commercialization participation rights. 

Omecamtiv mecarbil has been the subject of an extensive Phase 1 and Phase 2 clinical trials program. In October 2015, we announced the results of COSMIC-HF (Chronic Oral Study of Myosin Activation to Increase Contractility in Heart Failure), the last planned Phase 2 trial of omecamtiv mecarbil to be completed prior to a decision regarding the potential advancement of this drug candidate to Phase 3. COSMIC-HF was designed to assess the pharmacokinetics and tolerability of omecamtiv mecarbil dosed orally in patients with heart failure and left ventricular systolic dysfunction and its effects on echocardiographic measures of cardiac function. An intravenous formulation of omecamtiv mecarbil was studied in a Phase 2b clinical trial known as ATOMIC-AHF (Acute Treatment with Omecamtiv Mecarbil to Increase Contractility in Acute Heart Failure), which was designed to evaluate the safety and efficacy of omecamtiv mecarbil in patients with left ventricular systolic dysfunction who are hospitalized with acute heart failure. We expect to continue our joint research with Amgen directed to next-generation compounds in our cardiac muscle contractility program in 2016. Further details regarding our strategic alliance with Amgen can be found below in Item 1 of this report under &#147;Research and Development Programs &#151; Cardiac Muscle Contractility Program &#151; Amgen Strategic Alliance.&#148; 

All of our drug candidates have demonstrated evidence of potentially clinically relevant pharmacodynamic activity in humans. In 2016, we expect to continue to focus on translating the observed pharmacodynamic activity of these compounds into potentially meaningful clinical benefits for patients. 

&#160; 

Following is a summary of the planned clinical development activities for our drug candidates: 

&#160;

&#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; Drug 

Candidate 

(Mechanism of Action) 

&#160; Partnership Status &#160; Potential 

Indication(s) 

&#160; Stage of Development &#160; Development Status and 

Planned Development Activities 

Skeletal Muscle Contractility Program &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; Tirasemtiv 

(fast skeletal muscle 

troponin activator) 

&#160; Cytokinetics developing independently &#160; ALS &#160; Phase 3 &#160; &#149; We started a Phase 3 clinical development program for tirasemtiv in patients with ALS in the third quarter of 2015. We anticipate that the trial will be fully enrolled in the first half of 2016. 

&#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; CK-2127107 

(fast skeletal muscle 

troponin activator) 

&#160; Partnered with Astellas &#160; SMA 

COPD 

&#160; Phase 2 &#160; &#149; We started a Phase 2 clinical trial in patients with SMA in December 2015. We anticipate that the trial will complete enrollment in the second half of 2016. 

&#160;

&#149; We anticipate that in the first half of 2016, Astellas will initiate a Phase 2 clinical trial in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (&#147;COPD&#148;) 

Cardiac Muscle Contractility Program &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; Omecamtiv mecarbil 

(cardiac muscle myosin activator) 

&#160; Partnered with Amgen &#160; heart failure 

(oral administration) 

&#160; Phase 2 &#160; &#149; We reported results from COSMIC-HF in November 2015. 

&#160;

&#149; Expect to make a decision regarding the potential advancement to Phase 3 in the coming months. 

&#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; Omecamtiv mecarbil 

(cardiac muscle myosin activator) 

&#160; Partnered with Amgen &#160; heart failure 

(IV administration) 

&#160; Phase 2 &#160; &#149; ATOMIC-HF completed in 2013. 

All of our drug candidates have arisen from our cytoskeletal research activities. Our focus on the biology of the cytoskeleton distinguishes us from other biopharmaceutical companies, and potentially positions us to discover and develop novel therapeutics that may be useful for the treatment of severe diseases and medical conditions. Each of our drug candidates has a novel mechanism of action compared to currently marketed drugs, which we believe validates our focus on the cytoskeleton as a productive area for drug discovery. We intend to leverage our experience in muscle contractility in order to expand our current pipeline, and expect to identify additional potential drug candidates that may be suitable for clinical development. 

Corporate Strategy 

We are a late-stage biopharmaceutical company focused on discovering, developing and commercializing first-in-class muscle activators as potential treatments for debilitating diseases in which muscle performance is compromised and/or declining. As a leader in muscle biology and the mechanics of muscle performance, the company is developing small molecule drug candidates specifically engineered to increase muscle function and contractility. Over the next 5 years, our goal is to discover, develop and commercialize novel drug products that modulate muscle function in ways that may benefit people living with serious diseases or medical conditions, with the intent of establishing a fully integrated biopharmaceutical company. 

&#160; 

The five key components of our Corporate Strategy, &#147;Vision 2020: Empowering Our Future,&#148; are: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Conduct late-stage clinical development of novel, first-in-class muscle activators for the potential treatment of ALS, SMA, heart failure and other diseases impacting muscle function. As we enter 2016, our portfolio consists of three products that are in mid-late stage clinical development in three therapeutic areas, namely ALS, SMA and heart failure. We believe that by focusing on these disease areas characterized by well-organized physician-investigator groups, significant unmet clinical needs, and strong patient and disease advocacy, we may enhance our effectiveness in enrolling and conducting clinical trials that may answer important questions about the dosing, tolerability, pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics as well as the potential safety and efficacy of our drug candidates. We believe that our considered clinical trial designs and well-executed development programs can improve our ability to realize value from our and our partners&#146; clinical development activities. As we advance our drug candidates into later-stage clinical development, we extensively evaluate previous clinical trial designs and results to assess key learnings that may be applied to our late-stage clinical development activities. We believe this may result in more successful later-stage clinical development activities that may increase the likelihood of achieving our objectives to develop effective therapies that may address the needs of people living with these devastating diseases. 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Collaborate with patient communities to support the urgent development of new medicines for diseases of impaired muscle function with pressing unmet medical needs. Central to our corporate strategy are the people living with a disease or medical condition characterized by impaired muscle function. We focused our development and commercialization activities on diseases that lack effective therapies and, in some cases, those with no approved medicines. We recognize that by applying our extensive knowledge of muscle biology towards the development of novel therapies for the people living with these diseases, not only patients but their caregivers and families, we aim to improve their lives. As such, we need to collaborate with these individuals and their communities to ensure our therapeutics are addressing their urgent needs and that we understand and appreciate the issues associated with these diseases and conditions. We work collaboratively with entities, such as patient advocacy groups, that are focused on policies, guidelines and practices to accelerate development and commercialization of novel therapies, where possible and appropriate, and on ensuring that the voice of their constituency is heard. 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Mature our company operations to enable development, registration and commercialization of muscle biology drug candidates across North America and Europe . With a focus on disease areas for which there are serious unmet medical needs, we direct our activities to potential commercial opportunities in concentrated and tractable customer segments, such as hospital specialists and disease-specific centers of excellence, which may be addressed by a smaller, targeted sales force. In preparing for the potential commercialization of our drug candidates directed to these markets, we are focusing our activities on a broad range of issues facing patients and payors, including the principal drivers of clinical and economic burdens associated with these diseases. We also seek to focus on opportunities that the multiple constituencies and stakeholders for these markets may recognize as creating value. Accordingly, targeting unmet medical needs in these areas may provide us competitive opportunities and support development of a franchise in diseases involving muscle weakness, wasting and fatigue. In these markets, we believe that a company with limited resources may be able to compete effectively against larger, more established companies with greater financial and commercial resources. For these opportunities, we intend to develop clinical development and sales and marketing capabilities in North America and Europe with the goal of becoming a fully integrated biopharmaceutical company. 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Advance next-generation skeletal and cardiac muscle activator compounds into clinical development by leveraging existing research collaborations . We take a purpose-driven approach by leveraging our extensive muscle biology expertise to engineer compounds with specific characteristics aimed at treating diseases that impact muscle function. By increasing muscle strength and performance, the potential treatments we are developing may preserve and extend independence and self-reliance in people suffering from debilitating diseases. We have established select strategic alliances to support our drug development programs while preserving significant development and commercialization rights. We believe that such 

&#160; 

&#160; alliances may allow us to obtain financial support and to capitalize on the therapeutic area expertise and resources of our partners that can potentially accelerate the development and commercialization of our drug candidates. Where we deem appropriate, we plan to retain certain rights to participate in the development of drug candidates and commercialization of potential drugs arising from our programs and alliances, so that we can expand and capitalize on our own internal development capabilities and build our commercialization capabilities. 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Progress proprietary research programs focused on muscle metabolism, growth and energetics into development under new collaborations . We believe that our extensive understanding of muscle biology and our proprietary research technologies should enable us to discover and potentially to develop drug candidates with novel mechanisms of action that may offer potential benefits not provided by existing drugs and which may have application across a broad array of diseases and medical conditions. We expect that we may be able to leverage our expertise in muscle contractility to expand programs related to other areas of muscle function and which may extend to the potential treatment of other serious medical diseases and conditions. Progressing related programs in parallel may afford us an opportunity to build a broader business that could benefit from multiple products that serve related clinical and commercial needs associated with impaired muscle function, muscle weakness and fatigue. In addition, this strategy may enable us to diversify certain technical, financial and operating risks by advancing several drug candidates in parallel. 

Research and Development Programs 

Our long-standing interest in the cytoskeleton has led us to focus our research and development activities on the biology of muscle function, and in particular, small molecule modulation of muscle contractility. We believe that our expertise in the modulation of muscle contractility is an important differentiator for us. Our preclinical and clinical experience in muscle contractility may position us to discover and develop additional novel therapies that have the potential to improve the health of patients with severe and debilitating diseases or medical conditions. 

Small molecules that affect muscle contractility may have several applications for a variety of serious diseases and medical conditions. For example, certain diseases and medical conditions associated with muscle weakness may be amenable to treatment by enhancing the contractility of skeletal muscle. Similarly, heart failure is a disease often characterized by impaired cardiac muscle contractility which may be treated by modulating the contractility of cardiac muscle. Because the modulation of the contractility of different types of muscle, such as cardiac and skeletal muscle, may be relevant to multiple diseases or medical conditions, we believe we can leverage our expertise in these areas to more efficiently discover and develop potential drug candidates that modulate the applicable muscle type for multiple indications. 

We are currently developing a number of small molecule compounds arising from our muscle contractility programs. 

Tirasemtiv is our lead drug candidate from our skeletal muscle contractility program. Potential indications for which this drug candidate may be useful include skeletal muscle weakness associated with neuromuscular diseases, such as ALS. We have conducted a Phase 2 clinical trials program for tirasemtiv, and started a Phase 3 clinical development program of this drug candidate in patients with ALS in the July 2015. 

CK-2127107, another drug candidate from this program, is partnered with Astellas world-wide for the potential treatment of SMA and potentially other neuromuscular and non-neuromuscular indications associated with muscle weakness. We conducted a Phase 1 clinical trials program for CK-2127107 under this collaboration. We started a Phase 2 clinical trial of CK-2127107 in patients with SMA in December 2015. We anticipate that in the first half of 2016, Astellas will initiate a Phase 2 clinical trial in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (&#147;COPD&#148;). Cytokinetics and Astellas continue to evaluate other indications which may be suitable for CK-2127107 or other skeletal sarcomere activators under the collaboration. 

&#160; 

Omecamtiv mecarbil, a novel cardiac muscle myosin activator, is partnered with Amgen world-wide for the potential treatment of heart failure. Phase 2 clinical trials were conducted with both intravenous and oral formulations of omecamtiv mecarbil. An intravenous formulation of omecamtiv mecarbil was studied in ATOMIC-AHF, a Phase 2b clinical trial in patients with acute heart failure, and an oral formulation of omecamtiv mecarbil was studied in COSMIC-HF, a Phase 2 clinical trial in patients with heart failure. 

We are continuing to conduct discovery, characterization and lead optimization activities for other compounds with the potential to modulate muscle contractility and other muscle functions, such as growth, energetics and metabolism. 

Research and Development Expense. Our research and development expenses were $46.4 million, $44.4 million and $49.5 million for 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. 

Skeletal Muscle Contractility Program 

Overview . Our skeletal muscle contractility program is focused on the activation of the skeletal sarcomere, the basic unit of skeletal muscle contraction. The skeletal sarcomere is a highly ordered cytoskeletal structure composed of skeletal muscle myosin, actin, and a set of regulatory proteins, which include the troponins and tropomyosin. This program leverages our expertise developed in our ongoing discovery and development of cardiac sarcomere activators, including the cardiac muscle myosin activator omecamtiv mecarbil. 

We believe that our skeletal sarcomere activators may lead to new therapeutic options for diseases and medical conditions associated with aging, muscle weakness and wasting and neuromuscular dysfunction. The clinical effects of muscle weakness and wasting, fatigue and loss of mobility can range from decreased quality of life to, in some instances, life-threatening complications. By directly improving skeletal muscle function, a small molecule activator of the skeletal sarcomere potentially could enhance functional performance and quality of life in patients suffering from diseases or medical conditions characterized or complicated by muscle weakness or wasting. These may include diseases and medical conditions associated with skeletal muscle weakness or wasting, such as ALS, claudication, myasthenia gravis, sarcopenia (general frailty associated with aging), post-surgical rehabilitation and cachexia in connection with heart failure or cancer. 

Tirasemtiv is the lead drug candidate from this program. We retain exclusive rights to tirasemtiv. We have conducted a Phase 2 clinical development program for tirasemtiv, and we started a Phase 3 clinical trial for this drug candidate in patients with ALS in July 2015. We are also developing another drug candidate from this program, CK-2127107, which has been evaluated in Phase 1 clinical trials in collaboration with Astellas for potential indications associated with muscle weakness. We started a Phase 2 clinical trial for CK-2127107 in patients with SMA in December 2015 Tirasemtiv and CK-2127107 are structurally distinct and selective small molecules that activate the fast skeletal muscle troponin complex in the sarcomere by increasing its sensitivity to calcium, leading to an increase in skeletal muscle contractility. Each of tirasemtiv and CK-2127107 has demonstrated pharmacological activity in preclinical models and evidence of potentially clinically relevant pharmacodynamic effects in humans. We are evaluating other potential indications for which tirasemtiv and CK-2127107 may be useful. 

Tirasemtiv . Tirasemtiv, a fast skeletal troponin activator, is the lead drug candidate from our skeletal muscle contractility program. We conducted three &#147;evidence of effect&#148; Phase 2a clinical trials, including two Phase 2 dosing trials, of tirasemtiv. These evidence of effect clinical trials were randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, three-period cross-over studies of single doses of tirasemtiv administered to patients with impaired muscle function. These studies were intended to translate the mechanism of action of tirasemtiv into potentially clinically relevant pharmacodynamic effects. The first of these trials was conducted in patients with ALS, a chronic and progressive disease in which the motor neurons die, thus denervating skeletal muscles and causing them to atrophy. This leads to weakness, fatigue, and eventually complete paralysis and death, primarily from respiratory complications. The second of these trials was conducted in patients with myasthenia gravis, a 

&#160; 

chronic, autoimmune, neuromuscular disease which is the most common primary disorder of neuromuscular transmission. The third of these trials was conducted in patients with symptoms of claudication, which is pain or cramping in the leg muscles due to inadequate blood flow during exercise, associated with peripheral artery disease. Evidence of potentially clinically relevant pharmacodynamic effects was observed in each of these trials. 

In 2014, we completed BENEFIT-ALS (Blinded Evaluation of Neuromuscular Effects and Functional Improvement with Tirasemtiv in ALS), a Phase 2b clinical trial of tirasemtiv in patients with ALS and reported the results from BENEFIT-ALS in April 2014. We concluded that in this trial effects observed on slow vital capacity (&#147;SVC&#148;), a measure of the strength of the skeletal muscles responsible for breathing, in patients treated with tirasemtiv were robust and potentially clinically meaningful and support further evaluation of tirasemtiv in a Phase 3 clinical trial, known as VITALITY-ALS (Ventilatory Investigation of Tirasemtiv and Assessment of Longitudinal Indices after Treatment for a Year in ALS). 

Tirasemtiv Clinical Development 

BENEFIT-ALS (Blinded Evaluation of Neuromuscular Effects and Functional Improvement with Tirasemtiv in ALS) . In 2012, we initiated BENEFIT-ALS, a Phase 2b, multi-national, double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled, clinical trial designed to evaluate the safety, tolerability and efficacy of tirasemtiv in patients with ALS. 

In 2014, BENEFIT-ALS results were presented at the 66 th Annual Meeting of the American Academy of Neurology. BENEFIT-ALS did not achieve its primary efficacy endpoint, the mean change from baseline in the ALS Functional Rating Scale in its revised form (ALSFRS-R; p = 0.11). Treatment with tirasemtiv resulted in a statistically significant and potentially clinically meaningful reduction in the decline of slow vital capacity (SVC), a measure of the strength of the skeletal muscles responsible for breathing. SVC has been shown to be an important predictor of disease progression and survival in prior trials of patients with ALS. At week 12, the decline in SVC from baseline was -3.12 for patients receiving tirasemtiv versus -8.66 for those receiving placebo (p &#60; 0.0001). From week 0 to week 12, the slope of decline in SVC measured as percentage points per day was -0.0394 for patients receiving tirasemtiv versus -0.0905 for those receiving placebo (p = 0.0006). 

The analyses of other pre-specified secondary efficacy endpoints in BENEFIT-ALS produced mixed results. The muscle strength mega-score, a measure of strength combining the data from several muscle groups in each patient, declined more slowly on tirasemtiv versus placebo. The difference in the rate of decline for sniff nasal inspiratory pressure (SNIP) was not statistically significant); however, SNIP decreased more on tirasemtiv compared with placebo in a statistically significant manner at 4 and 12 weeks. No differences in maximum voluntary ventilation and hand grip fatigue were observed on tirasemtiv versus placebo. 

Serious adverse events (SAEs) during double-blind treatment were more frequent on tirasemtiv than on placebo (9.0% vs. 5.4%). The most common SAE was respiratory failure which occurred in 1 patient on tirasemtiv and 3 patients on placebo. Confusional state and delirium occurred in 2 patients on tirasemtiv and no patients on placebo. More patients on tirasemtiv withdrew from the trial following randomization than on placebo (99 vs. 33 patients, respectively). Adverse events more common on tirasemtiv than on placebo (&#62;10% difference) were dizziness, fatigue, and nausea. 

Throughout the remainder of 2014, we presented further results from BENEFIT-ALS. These results indicated that: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Differences in the decline in SVC on tirasemtiv versus placebo observed after 12 weeks of double-blind treatment were maintained for up to 4 weeks after discontinuation of treatment; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; The reduced decline in SVC on tirasemtiv versus placebo was observed consistently across all subgroups of patients in BENEFIT-ALS that were examined; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; The effects of tirasemtiv on SVC were observed at all doses studied and the concentration-response relationship was flat; and 

&#160; 

&#160; &#149; &#160; Riluzole did not increase plasma concentrations nor impact the tolerability of tirasemtiv. 

Later in 2014, we announced that we had completed our review of results from BENEFIT-ALS and concluded that effects observed on SVC in patients treated with tirasemtiv were robust and potentially clinically meaningful. We engaged with regulatory authorities in the U.S. and Europe regarding results from BENEFIT-ALS and have advanced tirasemtiv into Phase 3 clinical development. 

VITALITY-ALS (Ventilatory Investigation of Tirasemtiv and Assessment of Longitudinal Indices after Treatment for a Year in ALS): In July 2015, we started VITALITY-ALS, a Phase 3 clinical trial designed to assess the effects of tirasemtiv versus placebo on slow vital capacity and other measures of respiratory function in patients with ALS. VITALITY-ALS is designed to confirm and extend the results observed in BENEFIT-ALS. 

VITALITY-ALS is a multi-national, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial that was originally designed to enroll 445 patients with possible, probable or definite ALS diagnosed within 24 months, and with a baseline vital capacity &#62; 70 % of predicted, based on age, sex, and height. Patients may be enrolled whether or not they are on riluzole therapy. The primary endpoint of the trial will assess change from baseline in SVC, to be assessed after 24 weeks of double-blind, placebo-controlled treatment. Secondary endpoints include time to decline from baseline in percent predicted SVC by &#179; 20 percentage points or the onset of respiratory insufficiency or death; time to decline from baseline in percent predicted SVC to &#163; 50 percent predicted or the onset of respiratory insufficiency or death; time to first occurrence of any use of assisted ventilation or death; time to decline in any of the three respiratory domains of the ALSFRS-R or death; and change in the Mega-Score of muscle strength. 

Patients enrolled in VITALITY-ALS will receive two-weeks of open-label treatment with tirasemtiv administered at 250 mg/day and will then be randomized to double-blind treatment with placebo or one of three target tirasemtiv dose levels (250 mg/day, 375 mg/day, 500 mg/day) in a 3:2:2:2 ratio for a total of 48 weeks of randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled treatment. Then in a four-week double-blind, tirasemtiv withdrawal phase, patients on tirasemtiv will be randomized either to continue the double-blind tirasemtiv dose they were receiving or to be withdrawn to placebo in a 1:1 ratio. Patients who had been receiving placebo during the 48 weeks of double-blind, placebo-controlled treatment will continue to receive placebo. We expect VITALITY-ALS to be conducted in more than 75 centers in 11 countries in North America and Europe and to include most of the sites who participated in BENEFIT-ALS. 

The design of VITALITY-ALS addresses certain observations from BENEFIT-ALS. VITALITY-ALS provides for a longer open label phase (one week in BENEFIT-ALS versus two weeks in VITALITY-ALS) prior to patient randomization. The longer open label phase in VITALITY-ALS provides more time for patients to acclimate to potential side effects of tirasemtiv to potentially reduce the rate of early termination on study medication post randomization as compared to BENEFIT-ALS. In addition, VITALITY-ALS randomizes patients to three different target dose levels to evaluate the potential effect of dose on the safety, tolerability and efficacy of tirasemtiv. Patients in BENEFIT-ALS were randomized to one target dose level of 500 mg/day and investigators were encouraged to up-titrate patients to their maximally tolerated dose levels. In addition in VITALITY-ALS, patients are up-titrated more slowly (two weeks at each dose level before up-titration in VITALITY-ALS versus one week in BENEFIT-ALS). We believe these and other design changes in VITALITY-ALS may decrease the rate of early terminations on tirasemtiv after randomization compared to the rate we observed after randomization in BENEFIT-ALS. 

In 2015, we focused on the start-up phase of VITALITY-ALS, activating and initiating patient enrollment in a majority of the clinical trial sites in North America that are expected to participate in the trial. In the first quarter of 2016, we expect to activate other clinical trial sites in North America and Europe. VITALITY-ALS is expected to complete enrollment in the first half of 2016 with results anticipated in the third quarter of 2017. 

In January 2016, we amended the protocol of VITALITY-ALS to provide for an increase in the number of patients to be enrolled in the clinical trial from approximately 445 patients to approximately 600 patients. 

&#160; 

Increasing the number of patients enrolled in VITALITY-ALS will increase the statistical power to detect a difference in the primary efficacy endpoint (change from baseline in SVC at 24 weeks) between tirasemtiv and placebo. 

Also in January 2016, in collaboration with Knopp Biosciences, we presented exploratory analyses of data from patients with ALS combined from three different sources: First, the placebo data from EMPOWER, the Phase 3 clinical trial of Knopp&#146;s dexpramipexole in patients with ALS, second, the placebo data from Cytokinetics&#146; Phase 2b study of tirasemtiv in patients with ALS, BENEFIT-ALS, and finally, the open-access Pro-Act database. These combined databases included multiple observations of SVC over time from over 900 patients with ALS. Our analyses of this combined database demonstrated that the rate of decline of SVC predicts the risk of meaningful clinical events, including a decline in any one of the three respiratory questions of the ALSFRS-R, as well as the time to the first occurrence of respiratory insufficiency, tracheostomy or death. 

In July 2015, we were awarded a $1.5 million grant from The ALS Association (the &#147;ALSA Grant&#148;) to support the conduct of VITALITY-ALS as well as the collection of clinical data and plasma samples from patients in VITALITY-ALS in order to help advance the discovery of potentially useful biomarkers in ALS. The grant provides funding for collaboration among Cytokinetics, The ALS Association and the Barrow Neurological Institute to enable plasma samples collected from patients enrolled in VITALITY-ALS to be added to The Northeastern ALS Consortium (NEALS) Repository, a resource for the academic research community to identify biomarkers that may help to assess disease progression and underlying disease mechanisms in ALS. On August 28, 2015 Cytokinetics achieved its first milestone under the ALSA Grant which triggered a payment of $0.5 million in accordance with the ALSA Grant. We recorded $0.1 million as grant revenue as qualified expenses were incurred and approved by management. At December 31, 2015, we had $0.4 million of deferred revenue under the ALSA Grant, reflecting the unrecognized portion of the grant revenue. 

Tirasemtiv Strategic and Commercial Planning . During 2015, we continued preparing for the potential commercialization of tirasemtiv. These activities included interactions with manufacturers, and corporate development and commercial planning activities to support various scenarios. We expect to continue to engage extensively with ALS experts, both neuromuscular and pulmonary, and with payors, regulatory authorities and patient advocacy groups as we develop plans for the potential commercialization of tirasemtiv as a treatment for patients living with ALS. These commercialization plans will include market assessment and corporate development activities to support the launch of tirasemtiv in the U.S. and Europe, if appropriate. 

Background on ALS Market . Limited options exist for the treatment of patients with ALS, which affects as many as 30,000 Americans, with an estimated 5,600 new cases diagnosed each year in the U.S. Based on our primary market research, the per capita prevalence and incidence appears similar in the major European markets. ALS is 20% more common in men than women; however, with increasing age, the prevalence becomes more equal between men and women. The life expectancy of an ALS patient averages two to five years from the time of diagnosis, mostly due to respiratory issues. Of the patients diagnosed with ALS, 5 to 10% have a family history of the disease (familial ALS) and remaining 90 to 95% have the sporadic form. The majority of patients with ALS in the U.S. and Europe receive treatment at multidisciplinary centers that specialize in the unique needs of these patients. In the U.S., there are approximately 104 ALS centers of excellence, according to either the ALS Association or the Muscular Dystrophy Association. For most patients with ALS, death is usually due to respiratory failure because of diminished strength in the skeletal muscles responsible for breathing. We believe that the majority of ALS patients in the U.S. and Europe are treated at ALS centers of excellence; therefore, it is a concentrated market. We believe that there is a need for novel therapies to address the urgent unmet medical issues of this patient population which could be addressed by a small, targeted sales force. If tirasemtiv is approved by regulatory authorities in the U.S. or Europe for commercialization for ALS, we believe that we may be able to independently commercialize tirasemtiv in these concentrated markets. 

&#160; 

CK-2127107 and Other Skeletal Muscle Activators 

Astellas Strategic Alliance . CK-2127107 is being developed jointly by Cytokinetics and Astellas. In December 2014, we entered into an Amended and Restated License and Collaboration Agreement with Astellas (the &#147;Amended Astellas Agreement&#148;). This agreement superseded the License and Collaboration Agreement between Cytokinetics and Astellas of June 2013 (the &#147;Original Astellas Agreement&#148;). The Amended Astellas Agreement expanded the objective of the collaboration of advancing novel therapies for diseases and medical conditions associated with muscle weakness to include SMA and potentially other neuromuscular indications for CK-2127107 and other fast skeletal troponin activators, in addition to the non-neuromuscular indications provided for in the Original Astellas Agreement. 

Under the Amended Astellas Agreement, we expanded the exclusive license previously granted Astellas under the Original Astellas Agreement to co-develop and commercialize CK-2127107 for potential application in non-neuromuscular indications worldwide to include certain neuromuscular indications as well. Concurrent with the expanded collaboration, the companies agreed to advance CK-2127107 into Phase 2 clinical development. Cytokinetics started a Phase 2 clinical trial of CK-2127107 in patients with SMA in December 2015. The development program may include other neuromuscular indications as the companies may agree. Cytokinetics and Astellas will jointly develop and may jointly commercialize CK-2127107 and other fast skeletal troponin activators in neuromuscular indications. Astellas will be responsible for the costs associated with the development of all collaboration products, including CK-2127107, subject to Cytokinetics&#146; option to co-fund certain development costs as described below. 

Under the Amended Astellas Agreement, the parties extended through 2016 their joint research program to identify next-generation skeletal muscle activators to be nominated as potential drug candidates. This research will be conducted at Astellas&#146; expense. Under the Amended Astellas Agreement, Astellas has exclusive rights to co-develop and commercialize CK-2127107 and other fast skeletal troponin activators in SMA and potentially other indications and other novel mechanism skeletal muscle activators in all indications, subject to certain Cytokinetics&#146; development and commercialization rights. Cytokinetics may co-promote and conduct certain commercial activities in the U.S., Canada and Europe under agreed scenarios. 

Cytokinetics retains an option to conduct early-stage development for certain agreed indications at its initial expense, subject to reimbursement if development continues under the collaboration. Under the Amended Astellas Agreement, Cytokinetics also retains an option to co-promote collaboration products containing fast skeletal muscle activators for neuromuscular indications in the U.S., Canada and Europe, in addition to its option to co-promote other collaboration products in the U.S. and Canada as provided for in the Original Astellas Agreement. Astellas will reimburse Cytokinetics for certain expenses associated with its co-promotion activities. The Amended Astellas Agreement also provides for Cytokinetics to lead certain activities relating to the commercialization of collaboration products for neuromuscular indications in the U.S., Canada and Europe under particular scenarios. 

Cytokinetics received a non-refundable upfront payment of $30.0 million in connection with the execution of the Amended Astellas Agreement. Also, in conjunction with the execution of the Amended Astellas Agreement, we entered into a common stock purchase agreement which provided for the sale of 2,040,816 shares of our common stock to Astellas at a price per share of $4.90 and an aggregate purchase price of $10.0 million, which was received in December 2014. Pursuant to this agreement, Astellas agreed to certain trading and other restrictions with respect to our common stock. Concurrently, Cytokinetics earned a $15.0 million milestone payment relating to Astellas&#146; decision to advance CK-2127107 into Phase 2 clinical development. Cytokinetics is also eligible to potentially receive over $20.0 million in reimbursement of sponsored research and development activities during the two years of the collaboration following the execution of the Amended Astellas Agreement. 

Based on the achievement of pre-specified criteria, Cytokinetics may receive over $600.0 million in milestone payments relating to the development and commercial launch of collaboration products, including up 

&#160; 

to $112.0 million (of which Cytokinetics has now received $17.0 million) relating to early development of CK-2127107 and for later-stage development and commercial launch milestones for CK-2127107 in non-neuromuscular indications, and over $100.0 million in development and commercial launch milestones for CK-2127107 in each of SMA and other neuromuscular indications. Cytokinetics may also receive up to $200.0 million in payments for achievement of pre-specified sales milestones related to net sales of all collaboration products under the Amended Astellas Agreement. If Astellas commercializes any collaboration products, Cytokinetics will also receive royalties on sales of such collaboration products, including royalties ranging from the high single digits to the high teens on sales of products containing CK-2127107. Cytokinetics also holds an option to co-fund certain development costs for CK-2127107 and other compounds in exchange for increased milestone payments and royalties; such royalties may increase under certain scenarios to exceed twenty percent. In addition to the foregoing development, commercial launch and sales milestones, Cytokinetics may also receive payments for the achievement of pre-specified milestones relating to the joint research program. 

Cytokinetics retains the exclusive right to develop and commercialize tirasemtiv for the potential treatment of ALS and certain other neuromuscular disorders independently from the Amended Astellas Agreement. 

CK-2127107 Clinical Development 

Phase 1 Clinical Trials Program: We completed five Phase 1 clinical trials evaluating safety, tolerability and pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of CK-2127107 in both oral tablet and liquid suspension formulations in healthy volunteers. These include a single ascending dose study (Study CY 5011), a multiple ascending dose study in young vs. elderly subjects (CY 5012), a PK/PD study (CY 5013), a formulation study (CY 5014) and a food effect study (CY 5015). The Phase 1 clinical trials demonstrated that CK-2127107 appeared well-tolerated in healthy volunteers and that exposures generally increased across the dose ranges studied. CK-2127107 increased the response of muscle to neuromuscular input in a dose and plasma concentration related fashion in healthy volunteers consistent with preclinical observations. In addition, an oral tablet formulation of CK-2127107 appears appropriate for use in Phase 2 clinical trials. 

Phase 2 Clinical Development: Cytokinetics started a Phase 2 clinical trial of CK-2127107 in patients with SMA (CY 5021) in December 2015. The clinical trial is designed to assess effects of CK-2127107 on multiple measures of muscle function in both ambulatory and non-ambulatory patients with SMA. a severe, genetic neuromuscular disease that leads to debilitating muscle wasting and progressive, often fatal, muscle weakness. The primary objective of this double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled clinical trial is to determine the potential pharmacodynamic effects of a suspension formulation of CK-2127107 following multiple oral doses in patients with Type II, Type III, or Type IV SMA. Secondary objectives are to evaluate the safety, tolerability and pharmacokinetics of CK-2127107. The trial will enroll seventy-two patients in two sequential, ascending dose cohorts (two cohorts of 36 patients each, stratified half ambulatory and half non- ambulatory). 

The first cohort of patients will receive 150 mg of CK-2127107 dosed twice daily for eight weeks; the second cohort of patients will receive 450 mg of CK-2127107 dosed twice daily or a lower dose, depending on the data from the first cohort. At the conclusion of the trial, approximately 24 patients will have been randomized to placebo, approximately 24 patients to 150 mg of CK-2127107 twice daily and approximately 24 patients to 450 mg of CK-2127107 twice daily (or a lower dose, pending the review of data from the first cohort). In each of these three treatment groups of approximately 24 patients each, roughly half will be ambulatory and half will be non-ambulatory. Multiple assessments of skeletal muscle function and fatigability will be performed including respiratory assessments, upper limb strength and functionality for non-ambulatory patients, as well as six-minute walk and timed-up-and-go for ambulatory patients. 

An additional Phase 2 clinical trial to be conducted by Astellas in collaboration with Cytokinetics, will study CK-2127107 in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disorder (&#147;COPD&#148;) and is expected to be initiated in the first half of 2016. 

&#160; 

Background on SMA Market: Spinal muscular atrophy (SMA) is a severe neuromuscular disease that occurs in 1 in every 6,000 to 10,000 live births each year resulting in a prevalence of 10,000 to 25,000 patients in the U.S., and is one of the most common fatal genetic disorders. SMA manifests in various degrees of severity as progressive muscle weakness resulting in respiratory and mobility impairment. There are four types of SMA, distinguished by the time of the initial onset of muscle weakness and the severity of related symptoms: Type I (severe), Type II (intermediate), Type III (juvenile) and Type IV (adult onset). Life expectancy and disease severity varies by type of SMA from Type I, who have the worst prognosis and a life expectancy of approximately two years from birth, to Type IV, who have a normal life span but with gradual weakness in the proximal muscles of the extremities resulting in mobility issues. Type II, III and IV patients are often characterized by their ambulatory status as it is an important driver of clinical decisions and care. Few treatment options exist for these patients, resulting in a high unmet need for new therapeutic options to ameliorate symptoms, improve muscle function and modify disease progression. 

Ongoing Research in Skeletal Muscle Activators . Our research on the direct activation of skeletal muscle continues in two areas. We are conducting translational research in preclinical models of disease and muscle function with fast skeletal muscle troponin activators to explore the potential clinical applications of this novel mechanism in diseases or conditions associated with skeletal muscle dysfunction. We also intend to conduct preclinical research on other chemically and pharmacologically distinct mechanisms to activate the skeletal sarcomere. We are conducting a joint research program with Astellas directed to the discovery of next-generation skeletal muscle activators. Under the Amended Astellas Agreement, the joint research program will continue through 2016 and Astellas will reimburse us for certain research activities we perform. 

Cardiac Muscle Contractility Program 

Overview . Our cardiac muscle contractility program is focused on the cardiac sarcomere, the basic unit of muscle contraction in the heart. The cardiac sarcomere is a highly ordered cytoskeletal structure composed of cardiac muscle myosin, actin and a set of regulatory proteins. This program is currently directed towards the discovery and development of small molecule cardiac muscle myosin activators with the goal of developing novel drugs to treat acute and chronic heart failure. Cardiac muscle myosin is the cytoskeletal motor protein in the cardiac muscle cell. It is directly responsible for converting chemical energy into the mechanical force, resulting in cardiac muscle contraction. This program is based on the hypothesis that activators of cardiac muscle myosin may address certain adverse properties of existing positive inotropic agents. Current positive inotropic agents, such as beta-adrenergic receptor agonists or inhibitors of phosphodiesterase activity, increase the concentration of intracellular calcium, thereby increasing cardiac sarcomere contractility. The effect on calcium levels, however, also has been linked to potentially life-threatening side effects. In contrast, our novel cardiac muscle myosin activators work by a mechanism that directly stimulates the activity of the cardiac muscle myosin motor protein, without increasing the intracellular calcium concentration. They accelerate the rate-limiting step of the myosin enzymatic cycle and shift it in favor of the force-producing state. Rather than increasing the velocity of cardiac contraction, this mechanism instead lengthens the systolic ejection time, which results in increased cardiac function in a potentially more oxygen-efficient manner. 

Amgen Strategic Alliance . In December 2006, we entered into a collaboration and option agreement with Amgen to discover, develop and commercialize novel small molecule therapeutics, including omecamtiv mecarbil, that activate cardiac muscle contractility for potential applications in the treatment of heart failure (the &#147;Amgen Agreement&#148;). The agreement granted Amgen an option to obtain an exclusive license worldwide, except Japan, to develop and commercialize omecamtiv mecarbil and other drug candidates arising from the collaboration. In May 2009, Amgen exercised its option. As a result, Amgen became responsible for the development and commercialization of omecamtiv mecarbil and related compounds at its expense worldwide (excluding Japan), subject to our development and commercialization participation rights. Amgen reimburses us for certain research and development activities we perform under the collaboration. 

In June 2013, Cytokinetics and Amgen executed an amendment to the Amgen Agreement to include Japan, resulting in a worldwide collaboration (the &#147;Amgen Agreement Amendment&#148;). Under the terms of the Amgen 

&#160; 

Agreement Amendment, we received a non-refundable upfront license fee of $15.0 million in June 2013. Under the Amgen Agreement Amendment, we conducted a Phase 1 pharmacokinetic study intended to support inclusion of Japan in a potential Phase 3 clinical development program and potential global registration dossier for omecamtiv mecarbil. Amgen reimbursed us for the costs of this study. In addition, we are eligible to receive additional pre-commercialization milestone payments relating to the development of omecamtiv mecarbil in Japan of up to $50.0 million, and royalties on sales of omecamtiv mecarbil in Japan. In conjunction with the Amgen Agreement Amendment, we also entered into a common stock purchase agreement which provided for the sale of 1,404,100 shares of our common stock to Amgen at a price per share of $7.12 and an aggregate purchase price of $10.0 million which was received in June 2013. Pursuant to this agreement, Amgen agreed to certain trading and other restrictions with respect to our common stock. 

Under the Amgen Agreement as amended we are eligible for potential pre-commercialization and commercialization milestone payments of over $650.0 million in the aggregate on omecamtiv mecarbil and other potential products arising from research under the collaboration, and royalties that escalate based on increasing levels of annual net sales of products commercialized under the agreement. The Amgen Agreement also provides for us to receive increased royalties by co-funding Phase 3 development costs of omecamtiv mecarbil and other drug candidates under the collaboration. If we elect to co-fund such costs, we would be entitled to co-promote the co-funded drug in North America and participate in agreed commercialization activities in institutional care settings, at Amgen&#146;s expense. 

In July 2013, Amgen announced that it had granted an option to commercialize omecamtiv mecarbil in Europe to Servier, with Cytokinetics&#146; consent. The option and, if the option is exercised, the resulting commercialization sublicense to Servier, is subject to the terms and conditions of the Amgen Agreement. Amgen remains responsible for the performance of its obligations under the Amgen Agreement relating to Europe, including the payment of milestones and royalties relating to the development and commercialization of omecamtiv mecarbil in Europe. 

Omecamtiv Mecarbil . Our lead drug candidate from this program is omecamtiv mecarbil, a novel cardiac muscle myosin activator. We expect omecamtiv mecarbil to be developed as a potential treatment across the continuum of care in heart failure both for use in the hospital setting and for use in the outpatient setting. 

Omecamtiv Mecarbil Clinical Development 

Phase 2 Clinical Development Program 

COSMIC-HF . COSMIC-HF is a Phase 2, double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled, multicenter, clinical trial designed to assess the pharmacokinetics and tolerability of omecamtiv mecarbil dosed orally in patients with heart failure and left ventricular systolic dysfunction as well as its effects on echocardiographic measures of cardiac function. COSMIC-HF was conducted by Amgen in collaboration with Cytokinetics. The study began with two dose escalation cohorts of 40 patients each, randomized 1:1:1:1 to placebo or one of three different modified release oral formulations of omecamtiv mecarbil for seven days. The omecamtiv mecarbil dose in the first of these two dose escalation cohorts was 25 mg twice daily; in the second, it was 50 mg twice daily. The purpose of the dose escalation cohorts was to select one of the three modified release oral formulations of omecamtiv mecarbil for further evaluation in a larger group of patients treated for a longer period of time. 

The expansion phase of COSMIC-HF was designed to evaluate the pharmacokinetics, pharmacodynamics, safety and tolerability of the modified release oral formulation omecamtiv mecarbil selected based on the results of the two dose escalation cohorts in 448 patients with chronic heart failure and left ventricular systolic dysfunction. Patients were randomized 1:1:1 to receive either placebo or treatment with omecamtiv mecarbil 25 mg twice daily or a dose titration group where 25 mg twice daily dosing could be increased to 50 mg twice daily depending on plasma concentrations of omecamtiv mecarbil after two weeks of treatment with the 25 mg dose. 

&#160; 

In November 2015, we announced the results from the expansion phase of COSMIC-HF (Chronic Oral Study of Myosin Activation to Increase Contractility in Heart Failure) that were presented at American Heart Association in Orlando, Florida. Data from the expansion phase showed that dose titration controlled patient exposure to omecamtiv mecarbil. Approximately 60 percent of patients in the dose titration group escalated dosing to 50 mg twice daily. The study met its primary pharmacokinetics objective. 

Following 20 weeks of treatment, statistically significant improvements were observed in pre-specified secondary endpoint measures of cardiac function in the dose titration group, compared to placebo. Systolic ejection time increased by 25.0 msec ( p &#60;0.001), stroke volume increased by 3.63 mL ( p= 0.022) and heart rate decreased by 2.97 beats per min ( p =0.007). Left ventricular end-systolic and end-diastolic dimensions decreased by 1.79 mm ( p =0.003) and 1.29 mm ( p= 0.013), respectively, and were associated with statistically significant reductions in left ventricular end-systolic and end-diastolic volumes. N-terminal pro-brain natriuretic peptide (NT-proBNP) decreased by 970 pg/mL ( p =0.007). Additionally, in the 25 mg twice daily group, there were statistically significant increases in systolic ejection time and stroke volume and a decrease in NT-proBNP. All changes are from baseline compared to placebo. The pharmacodynamic effects of omecamtiv mecarbil were generally dose dependent and larger in patients that received oral dosing with 50 mg twice daily. 

Adverse events (AEs), including serious AEs, in patients on omecamtiv mecarbil were comparable to placebo. The incidence of adjudicated deaths (2.7 percent died on placebo, 1.4 percent died on omecamtiv mecarbil ), myocardial infarction (1.34 percent on placebo, 0.34 percent on omecamtiv mecarbil ) and unstable angina (0 percent on placebo, 0.34 percent on omecamtiv mecarbil ) was similar. Other cardiac AEs were generally balanced between placebo and active treatment groups. In the omecamtiv mecarbil groups, compared to placebo, cardiac troponin increased by 0.001 ng/mL and 0.006 ng/mL (median change from baseline at week 20) in the 25 mg twice daily group and dose titration group, respectively. Events of increased troponin (n=278 across all treatment groups) were independently adjudicated and none were determined to be myocardial ischemia or infarction. 

ATOMIC-AHF . ATOMIC-AHF (Acute Treatment with Omecamtiv Mecarbil to Increase Contractility in Acute Heart Failure) was an international, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, Phase 2b clinical trial of intravenous omecamtiv mecarbil in patients with left ventricular systolic dysfunction hospitalized with acutely decompensated heart failure, completed in 2013. ATOMIC-AHF was conducted by Amgen in collaboration with Cytokinetics. This clinical trial enrolled over 600 patients in three sequential, ascending-dose cohorts. In each cohort, patients were randomized to receive omecamtiv mecarbil or placebo. The primary efficacy objective of this trial was to evaluate the effect of 48 hours of intravenous omecamtiv mecarbil compared to placebo on dyspnea (shortness of breath). The secondary objectives were to assess the safety and tolerability of three dose levels of intravenous omecamtiv mecarbil compared with placebo and to evaluate the effects of 48 hours of treatment with intravenous omecamtiv mecarbil on additional measures of dyspnea, patients&#146; global assessments, change in N-terminal pro brain-type natriuretic peptide (a biomarker associated with the severity of heart failure) and short-term clinical outcomes in these patients. In addition, the trial evaluated the relationship between plasma concentrations of omecamtiv mecarbil and echocardiographic parameters in patients with acute heart failure. 

The primary efficacy endpoint of dyspnea symptom response was not met; however, the study demonstrated favorable trends between the dose and plasma concentration of omecamtiv mecarbil and dyspnea response. The incidence of worsening heart failure within seven days of initiating treatment appeared lower in each of the cohorts on omecamtiv mecarbil compared to the pooled placebo group of patients. Rates of adverse events (AEs), serious AEs, adjudicated deaths and hospitalizations were similar between omecamtiv mecarbil and placebo groups. Omecamtiv mecarbil was not associated with an increased incidence of tachyarrhythmias nor were heart rate or blood pressure adversely affected. 

Prior Clinical Experience with Omecamtiv Mecarbil. Nine Phase 1 clinical trials of omecamtiv mecarbil have been conducted in healthy subjects: five conducted by Cytokinetics and four conducted by Amgen in collaboration with Cytokinetics. Cytokinetics has also conducted two Phase 2a clinical trials of omecamtiv 

&#160; 

mecarbil. These clinical trials were designed to evaluate the safety, tolerability, pharmacodynamic and pharmacokinetic profiles of both intravenous and oral formulations in a diversity of patients, including patients with stable heart failure and patients with ischemic cardiomyopathy. In these trials, omecamtiv mecarbil exhibited generally linear, dose-proportional pharmacokinetics across the dose ranges studied. The adverse effects observed at intolerable doses in humans appeared similar to the adverse findings which occurred in preclinical safety studies at similar plasma concentrations. These effects are believed to be related to the mechanism of action of this drug candidate which, at intolerable doses, resulted in an excessive prolongation of the systolic ejection time (i.e., the time in which the heart is contracting). However, these effects resolved promptly with discontinuation of the infusions of omecamtiv mecarbil. 

Ongoing Research in Cardiac Muscle Contractility . We agreed with Amgen to additional research activities conducted in 2014 and 2015 under the research plan directed to next-generation compounds in our cardiac muscle contractility program. We expect to continue our joint research program with Amgen in 2016. Under the Amgen Agreement, Amgen reimburses us for certain research activities we perform. 

Background on Heart Failure Market . Heart failure is a widespread and debilitating syndrome affecting millions of people in the United States. The high and rapidly growing prevalence of heart failure translates into significant hospitalization rates and associated societal costs. About 6.4 million people in the United States have heart failure, resulting in nearly one million hospital discharges with the primary diagnosis of heart failure and approximately 300,000 deaths each year. For people over 65 years of age, heart failure incidences approach 10 per 1000 and approximately 50% of people diagnosed with heart failure will die within 5 years of diagnosis. These numbers are increasing due to the aging of the U.S. population and an increased likelihood of survival following acute myocardial infarctions. The costs to society attributable to the prevalence of heart failure are high, especially as many chronic heart failure patients suffer repeated acute episodes. Despite currently available therapies, readmission rates for heart failure patients remain high. In general, the mortality following hospitalization for patients with heart failure is 10.4% at 30 days, 22% at one year and 42.3% at 5 years, despite the availability of therapeutic alternatives for treatment of these patients. These poor outcomes in the setting of current therapies points to the need for novel therapeutics that may offer further reductions in morbidity and mortality. The annual cost of heart failure to the U.S. health care system is estimated to be $32 billion and is predicted to grow 120% to almost $70 billion by the year 2030. Today, a portion of that cost is attributable to drugs used to treat each of chronic and acute heart failure. Approximately 70% of those costs are due to hospitalization, home health and physician care. In the U.S., Medicare is one of the largest payors for heart failure related costs. Approximately 50% of Medicare beneficiaries with heart failure are concentrated in the top 20% of the hospital referral regions in the U.S, which generally include 5 to 10 hospitals in a geographic area. New drug therapies that could reduce the number of hospitalizations could decrease the cost to the health care system. 

Beyond Muscle Contractility 

We developed preclinical expertise in the mechanics of skeletal, cardiac and smooth muscle that extends from proteins to tissues to intact animal models. Our translational research in muscle contractility has enabled us to better understand the potential impact of small molecule compounds that increase skeletal or cardiac muscle contractility and to apply those findings to the further evaluation of our drug candidates in clinical populations. In addition to contractility, the other major functions of muscle include metabolism, growth and energetics, with each of these functions playing a role in certain diseases that could benefit from novel mechanism treatments. Accordingly, our knowledge of muscle contractility may serve as an entry point to the discovery of novel treatments for disorders involving muscle functions other than muscle contractility. We are leveraging our current understandings of muscle biology to investigate new ways of modulating these other aspects of muscle function for other potential therapeutic applications. For example, we are conducting research with compounds that affect muscle growth and that may have applications for serious diseases and medical conditions such as cachexia. Cachexia is a condition that can be associated with cancer, heart failure, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease or other conditions. This syndrome is characterized by the loss of muscle mass and may lead to weakness 

&#160; 

and disability. We are performing research on compounds that may increase muscle mass and which may impact patient functionality or potentially alter the course of diseases associated with muscle wasting. 

Intellectual Property 

Our policy is to seek patent protection for the technologies, inventions and improvements that we develop that we consider important to the advancement of our business. As of December 31, 2015, we owned or controlled 91 issued U.S. patents and over 125 additional pending U.S. and foreign patent applications. We also rely on trade secrets, technical know-how and continuing innovation to develop and maintain our competitive position. Our commercial success will depend on obtaining and maintaining patent protection and trade secret protection for our drug candidates and technologies and our successfully defending these patents against third-party challenges. We will only be able to protect our technologies from unauthorized use by third parties to the extent that valid and enforceable patents cover them or we maintain them as trade secrets. 

With regard to our drug candidates directed to muscle biology targets, we have a U.S. patent covering omecamtiv mecarbil and U.S. patents covering our skeletal muscle sarcomere activators including, but not limited to, tirasemtiv and CK-2127107, each of which will expire in 2027, 2027 and 2031, respectively, unless extended. We also have additional U.S. and foreign patent applications pending for each of our drug candidates. It is not known or determinable whether other patents will issue from any of our other pending applications or what the expiration dates would be for any other patents that do issue. 

All of our drug candidates are still in clinical development and have not yet been approved by the FDA. If any of these drug candidates is approved, then pursuant to federal law, we may apply for an extension of the U.S. patent term for one patent covering the approved drug, which could extend the term of the applicable patent by up to a maximum of five additional years. 

The degree of future protection of our proprietary rights is uncertain because legal means may not adequately protect our rights or permit us to gain or keep our competitive advantage. Due to evolving legal standards relating to the patentability, validity and enforceability of patents covering pharmaceutical inventions and the claim scope of these patents, our ability to enforce our existing patents and to obtain and enforce patents that may issue from any pending or future patent applications is uncertain and involves complex legal, scientific and factual questions. The standards that the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and its foreign counterparts use to grant patents are not always applied predictably or uniformly and are subject to change. To date, no consistent policy has emerged regarding the breadth of claims allowed in biotechnology and pharmaceutical patents. Thus, we cannot be sure that any patents will issue from any pending or future patent applications owned by or licensed to us. Even if patents do issue, we cannot be sure that the claims of these patents will be held valid or enforceable by a court of law, will provide us with any significant protection against competitive products, or will afford us a commercial advantage over competitive products. For example: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; we or our licensors might not have been the first to make the inventions covered by each of our pending patent applications and issued patents; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; we or our licensors might not have been the first to file patent applications for the inventions covered by our pending patent applications and issued patents; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; others may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or duplicate any of our technologies without infringing our intellectual property rights; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; some or all of our or our licensors&#146; pending patent applications may not result in issued patents or the claims that issue may be narrow in scope and not provide us with competitive advantages; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; our and our licensors&#146; issued patents may not provide a basis for commercially viable drugs or therapies or may be challenged and invalidated by third parties; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; our or our licensors&#146; patent applications or patents may be subject to interference, opposition or similar administrative proceedings that may result in a reduction in their scope or their loss altogether; 

&#160; 

&#160; &#149; &#160; we may not develop additional proprietary technologies or drug candidates that are patentable; or 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; the patents of others may prevent us or our partners from discovering, developing or commercializing our drug candidates. 

The defense and prosecution of intellectual property infringement suits, interferences, oppositions and related legal and administrative proceedings are costly, time-consuming to pursue and divert resources. The outcome of these types of proceedings is uncertain and could significantly harm our business. 

Our ability to commercialize drugs depends on our ability to use, manufacture and sell those drugs without infringing the patents or other proprietary rights of third parties. U.S. and foreign issued patents and pending patent applications owned by third parties exist that may be relevant to the therapeutic areas and chemical compositions of our drug candidates. While we are aware of certain relevant patents and patent applications owned by third parties, there may be issued patents or pending applications of which we are not aware that could cover our drug candidates. Because patent applications are often not published immediately after filing, there may be currently pending applications, unknown to us, which could later result in issued patents that our activities with our drug candidates could infringe. 

The development of our drug candidates and the commercialization of any resulting drugs may be impacted by patents of companies engaged in competitive programs with significantly greater resources. This could result in the expenditure of significant legal fees and management resources. 

We also rely on trade secrets to protect our technology, especially where we do not believe patent protection is appropriate or obtainable. However, trade secrets are often difficult to protect, especially outside of the United States. While we believe that we use reasonable efforts to protect our trade secrets, our employees, consultants, contractors, partners and other advisors may unintentionally or willfully disclose our trade secrets to competitors. Enforcing a claim that a third party illegally obtained and is using our trade secrets would be expensive and time-consuming, and the outcome would be unpredictable. Even if we are able to maintain our trade secrets as confidential, our competitors may independently develop information that is equivalent or similar to our trade secrets. 

We seek to protect our intellectual property by requiring our employees, consultants, contractors and other advisors to execute nondisclosure and invention assignment agreements upon commencement of their employment or engagement, through which we seek to protect our intellectual property. Agreements with our employees also preclude them from bringing the proprietary information or materials of third parties to us. We also require confidentiality agreements or material transfer agreements from third parties that receive our confidential information or materials. 

For further details on the risks relating to our intellectual property, please see the risk factors under Item 1A of this report, including, but not limited to, the risk factors entitled &#147;Our success depends substantially upon our ability to obtain and maintain intellectual property protection relating to our drug candidates and research technologies&#148; and &#147;If we are sued for infringing third party intellectual property rights, it will be costly and time-consuming, and an unfavorable outcome would have a significant adverse effect on our business.&#148; 

Government Regulation 

The FDA and comparable regulatory agencies in state and local jurisdictions and in foreign countries impose substantial requirements upon the clinical development, manufacture, marketing and distribution of drugs. These agencies and other federal, state and local entities regulate research and development activities and the testing, manufacture, quality control, labeling, storage, record keeping, approval, advertising and promotion of our drug candidates and drugs. 

&#160; 

In the United States, the FDA regulates drugs under the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act and implementing regulations. The process required by the FDA before our drug candidates may be marketed in the United States generally involves the following: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; completion of extensive preclinical laboratory tests, preclinical animal studies and formulation studies, all performed in accordance with the FDA&#146;s good laboratory practice regulations; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; submission to the FDA of an investigational new drug application (&#147;IND&#148;), which must become effective before clinical trials may begin; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; performance of adequate and well-controlled clinical trials to establish the safety and efficacy of the drug candidate for each proposed indication in accordance with good clinical practices; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; submission of a new drug application (&#147;NDA&#148;) to the FDA, which must usually be accompanied by payment of a substantial user fee; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; satisfactory completion of an FDA preapproval inspection of the manufacturing facilities at which the product is produced to assess compliance with current good manufacturing practice (&#147;cGMP&#148;) regulations and FDA audits of select clinical investigator sites to assess compliance with good clinical practices (&#147;GCP&#148;); and 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; FDA review and approval of the NDA prior to any commercial marketing, sale or shipment of the drug. 

Similar regulatory procedures generally apply in countries outside of the United States. This testing and approval process requires substantial time, effort and financial resources, and we cannot be certain that any approvals for our drug candidates will be granted on a timely basis, if at all. 

Nonclinical tests include laboratory evaluation of product chemistry, formulation and stability, and studies to evaluate toxicity and pharmacokinetics in animals. The results of nonclinical tests, together with manufacturing information and analytical data, are submitted as part of an IND application to the FDA. The IND automatically becomes effective 30 days after receipt by the FDA, unless the FDA, within the 30-day period, raises concerns or questions about the conduct of the clinical trial, including concerns that human research subjects may be exposed to unreasonable health risks. In such a case, the IND sponsor and the FDA must resolve any outstanding concerns before the clinical trial can begin. Our submission of an IND or a foreign equivalent, or those of our collaborators, may not result in authorization from the FDA or its foreign equivalent to commence a clinical trial. A separate submission to an existing IND must also be made for each successive clinical trial conducted during product development. Further, an independent institutional review board (&#147;IRB&#148;) or its foreign equivalent for each medical center proposing to conduct the clinical trial must review and approve the plan for any clinical trial before it commences at that center and it must monitor the clinical trial until completed. The FDA, the IRB or their foreign equivalents, or the clinical trial sponsor may suspend a clinical trial at any time on various grounds, including a finding that the subjects or patients are being exposed to an unacceptable health risk. 

Clinical Trials. For purposes of an NDA or equivalent submission and approval, clinical trials are typically conducted in the following three sequential phases, which may overlap: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Phase 1: Phase 1 includes the initial introduction of a drug candidate into humans. These studies may be conducted in patients, but are usually conducted in healthy volunteer subjects. These studies are designed to determine the metabolic and pharmacologic actions of the drug candidate in humans, the side effects associated with increasing doses, and, if possible, to gain early evidence on effectiveness. During Phase 1, sufficient information about the drug candidate&#146;s pharmacokinetics and pharmacological effects should be obtained to permit the design of well-controlled, scientifically valid, Phase 2 trials. 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Phase 2: Phase 2 includes the early controlled clinical studies conducted to obtain some preliminary data on the effectiveness of the drug candidate for a particular indication or indications in patients with the disease or condition. This phase of testing also helps determine the common short-term side effects and risks associated with the drug candidate. These clinical trials are generally conducted in a limited 

&#160; 

&#160; patient population to identify possible adverse effects and safety risks, to make an initial determination of potential efficacy of the drug candidate for specific targeted indications and to determine dose tolerance and optimal dosage. Multiple Phase 2 clinical trials may be conducted by the sponsor to obtain information prior to beginning larger and more expensive Phase 3 clinical trials. Phase 2a clinical trials generally are designed to study the pharmacokinetic or pharmacodynamic properties and to conduct a preliminary assessment of safety of the drug candidate over a measured dose response range. In some cases, a sponsor may decide to conduct a Phase 2b clinical trial, which is a second, typically larger, confirmatory Phase 2 trial that could, if positive and accepted by a regulatory authority, support approval of a drug candidate. 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Phase 3: If the Phase 2 clinical trials demonstrate that a dose range of the drug candidate is potentially effective and has an acceptable safety profile, Phase 3 clinical trials are then undertaken in large patient populations to further evaluate dosage, to provide substantial evidence of clinical efficacy and to further test for safety in an expanded and diverse patient population at multiple, geographically dispersed clinical trial sites. Phase 3 trials are also intended to provide an adequate basis for extrapolating the results to the general population and transmitting that information in the drug labeling. Phase 3 studies usually include several hundred to several thousand people. 

At any time during the conduct of a clinical trial, the FDA or a foreign equivalent can impose a clinical hold on the trial if it believes the trial is unsafe or that the protocol is clearly deficient in design in meeting its stated objectives, which requires the conduct of the trial to cease until the clinical hold is removed. In some cases, the FDA or foreign equivalent may condition approval of marketing approval for a drug candidate on the sponsor&#146;s agreement to conduct additional clinical trials to further assess the drug&#146;s safety and effectiveness after marketing approval, known as Phase 4 clinical trials. 

The clinical trials we conduct for our drug candidates, both before and after approval, and the results of those trials, are generally required to be included in a clinical trials registry database that is available and accessible to the public via the internet. A failure by us to properly participate in the clinical trial database registry could subject us to significant civil monetary penalties. 

Health care providers in the United States, including research institutions from which we or our partners obtain patient information, are subject to privacy rules under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 and state and local privacy laws. In the European Union, these entities are subject to the Directive 95/46-EC of the European Parliament on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and individual European Union member states implementing additional legislation. Other countries have similar privacy legislation. We could face substantial penalties if we knowingly receive individually identifiable health information from a health care provider that has not satisfied the applicable privacy laws. In addition, certain privacy laws and genetic testing laws may apply directly to our operations and/or those of our partners and may impose restrictions on the use and dissemination of individuals&#146; health information and use of biological samples. 

New Drug/Marketing Approval Application. The results of drug candidate development, preclinical testing and clinical trials are submitted to the FDA as part of an NDA. The NDA also must contain extensive manufacturing information. In addition, the FDA may require that a proposed Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy, also known as a REMS, be submitted as part of the NDA if the FDA determines that it is necessary to ensure that the benefits of the drug outweigh its risks. Similar, and in some cases additional, requirements apply in foreign jurisdictions for marketing approval applications for drugs in those jurisdictions. The FDA may refer the NDA to an advisory committee for review, evaluation and recommendation as to whether the application should be approved. The FDA often, but not always, follows the advisory committee&#146;s recommendations. The FDA may deny approval of an NDA by issuing a complete response letter if the applicable regulatory criteria are not satisfied, or it may require additional clinical data, including data in a pediatric population, or an additional Phase 3 clinical trial or impose other conditions that must be met in order to secure final approval for an NDA. 

&#160; 

Even if such data are submitted, the FDA may ultimately decide that the NDA does not satisfy the criteria for approval. Data from clinical trials are not always conclusive and the FDA may interpret data differently than we or our partners do. Once issued, the FDA or foreign equivalent may withdraw a drug approval if ongoing regulatory requirements are not met or if safety problems occur after the drug reaches the market. In addition, the FDA or its foreign counterparts may require further testing, including Phase 4 clinical trials, and surveillance or restrictive distribution programs to monitor the effect of approved drugs which have been commercialized. The FDA and its foreign counterparts have the power to prevent or limit further marketing of a drug based on the results of these post-marketing programs. Drugs may be marketed only for the approved indications and in accordance with the provisions of the approved label. Further, if there are any modifications to a drug, including changes in indications, labeling or manufacturing processes or facilities, we may be required to submit and obtain prior FDA approval of a new NDA or NDA supplement, or the foreign equivalent, which may require us to develop additional data or conduct additional preclinical studies and clinical trials. 

Satisfaction of FDA regulations and requirements or similar requirements of state, local and foreign regulatory agencies typically takes several years. The actual time required may vary substantially based upon the type, complexity and novelty of the drug candidate or disease. Typically, if a drug candidate is intended to treat a chronic disease, as is the case with some of our drug candidates, safety and efficacy data must be gathered over an extended period of time. Government regulation may delay or prevent marketing of drug candidates for a considerable period of time and impose costly procedures upon our activities. The FDA or any other regulatory agency may not grant approvals for new indications for our drug candidates on a timely basis, if at all. Even if a drug candidate receives regulatory approval, the approval may be significantly limited to specific disease states, patient populations and dosages or restrictive distribution programs. Further, even after regulatory approval is obtained, later discovery of previously unknown problems with a drug may result in restrictions on the drug or even complete withdrawal of the drug from the market. Delays in obtaining, or failures to obtain, regulatory approvals for any of our drug candidates would harm our business. In addition, we cannot predict what future U.S. or foreign governmental regulations may be implemented. 

Orphan Drug Designation. Some jurisdictions, including the United States, may designate drugs for relatively small patient populations as orphan drugs. The FDA grants orphan drug designation to drugs intended to treat a rare disease or condition, which is generally a disease or condition that affects fewer than 200,000 individuals in the United States. For example, the FDA has granted tirasemtiv an orphan drug designation for the treatment of ALS. In addition, the European Medicines Agency has granted tirasemtiv orphan medicinal product status for the treatment of ALS. 

An FDA orphan drug designation does not shorten the duration of the regulatory review and approval process. If a drug candidate that has an orphan drug designation receives the first FDA marketing approval for the indication for which the designation was granted, then the approved drug is entitled to orphan drug exclusivity. This means that the FDA may not approve another company&#146;s application to market the same drug for the same indication for a period of seven years, except in certain circumstances, such as a showing of clinical superiority to the drug with orphan exclusivity or if the holder of the orphan drug designation cannot assure the availability of sufficient quantities of the orphan drug to meet the needs of patients with the disease or condition for which the designation was granted. Competitors may receive approval of different drugs or biologics for the indications for which the orphan drug has exclusivity. 

Fast Track Designation. Fast track is a process designed by the FDA to facilitate the development and expedite the review of drugs to treat serious diseases and fill an unmet medical need. Tirasemtiv has been granted fast track designation by the FDA for the treatment of ALS. Although fast track designation does not affect the standards for approval, the benefits of this designation include scheduled meetings to seek FDA input into development plans, the option of submitting an NDA in sections rather than all components simultaneously, and the potential eligibility for priority review if supported by clinical data. 

Other Regulatory Requirements. Any drugs manufactured or distributed by us or our partners pursuant to FDA approvals or their foreign counterparts are subject to continuing regulation by the applicable regulatory 

&#160; 

authority, including recordkeeping requirements and reporting of adverse experiences associated with the drug. Drug manufacturers and their subcontractors are required to register their establishments with the FDA and other applicable regulatory authorities, and are subject to periodic unannounced inspections by these regulatory authorities for compliance with ongoing regulatory requirements, including cGMPs, which impose certain procedural and documentation requirements upon us and our third-party manufacturers. Failure to comply with the statutory and regulatory requirements can subject a manufacturer to possible legal or regulatory action, such as warning letters, suspension of manufacturing, seizure of product, injunctive action or possible civil penalties. We cannot be certain that we or our present or future third-party manufacturers or suppliers will be able to comply with the cGMP regulations and other ongoing FDA and other regulatory requirements. If our present or future third-party manufacturers or suppliers are not able to comply with these requirements, the FDA or its foreign counterparts may halt our or our partners&#146; clinical trials, require us to recall a drug from distribution, or withdraw approval of the NDA for that drug. 

For further details on the risks relating to government regulation of our business, please see the risk factors under Item 1A of this report, including, but not limited to, the risk factor entitled &#147;The regulatory approval process is expensive, time-consuming and uncertain and may prevent our partners or us from obtaining approvals to commercialize some or all of our drug candidates.&#148; 

Competition 

We compete in the segments of the pharmaceutical, biotechnology and other related markets that address neuromuscular and cardiovascular diseases and other diseases relating to muscle dysfunction, each of which is highly competitive. We face significant competition from most pharmaceutical companies and biotechnology companies that are also researching and selling products designed to address cardiovascular diseases and diseases and medical conditions associated with skeletal muscle weakness and wasting. Many of our competitors have significantly greater financial, manufacturing, marketing and drug development resources than we do. Large pharmaceutical companies in particular have extensive experience in clinical testing and in obtaining regulatory approvals for drugs. These companies also have significantly greater research capabilities than we do. In addition, many universities and private and public research institutes are active in research of neuromuscular and cardiovascular diseases and other diseases where there is muscle dysfunction, some in direct competition with us. 

We believe that our ability to successfully compete will depend on, among other things: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; our drug candidates&#146; efficacy, safety and tolerability; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; the speed and cost-effectiveness with which we develop our drug candidates; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; the selection of suitable indications for which to develop our drug candidates; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; the successful completion of clinical development and laboratory testing of our drug candidates; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; the timing and scope of any regulatory approvals we or our partners obtain for our drug candidates; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; our or our partners&#146; ability to manufacture and sell commercial quantities of our approved drugs to meet market demand; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; acceptance of our drugs by physicians and other health care providers; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; the willingness of third party payors to provide reimbursement for the use of our drugs; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; our ability to protect our intellectual property and avoid infringing the intellectual property of others; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; the quality and breadth of our technology; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; our employees&#146; skills and our ability to recruit and retain skilled employees; 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; our cash flows under existing and potential future arrangements with licensees, partners and other parties; and 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; the availability of substantial capital resources to fund development and commercialization activities. 

&#160; 

Our competitors may develop drug candidates and market drugs that are less expensive and more effective than our future drugs or that may render our drugs obsolete. Our current or future competitors may also commercialize competing drugs before we or our partners can launch any drugs developed from our drug candidates. These organizations also compete with us to attract qualified personnel and potential parties for acquisitions, joint ventures or other strategic alliances. 

If tirasemtiv is approved for marketing by the FDA or other regulatory authorities for the treatment of ALS, it may then compete with other potential new therapies for ALS that are currently being developed by companies such as Neuraltus Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Ionis Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (in collaboration with Biogen), Genervon Biopharmaceuticals, LLC, Orion Pharmaceuticals, Orphazyme, Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma Corporation, Eisai Co., Ltd., and MediciNova, Inc. In addition, BrainStorm Cell Therapeutics and Neuralstem, Inc. are each conducting clinical development of stem cell therapies for the potential treatment of ALS. 

If CK-2127107 is approved by the FDA or other regulatory authorities for the potential treatment of SMA, potential competitors include Roche (in collaboration with PTC Therapeutics), AveXis, Inc., Pfizer Inc., Ionis Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (in collaboration with Biogen), and Bioblast Pharma, Ltd. Drugs that could compete with CK-2127107 could also compete against tirasemtiv in ALS or other neuromuscular diseases, should the appropriate clinical trials be conducted. If CK-2127107 is approved by the FDA for the potential treatment of non-neuromuscular indications associated with muscle weakness, potential competitors include Ligand Pharmaceuticals, Inc., which is developing LGD-4033, a selective androgen receptor modulator, for muscle wasting; and GTx, Inc., which is developing ostarine, a selective androgen receptor modulator, for cancer cachexia and potentially other indications; Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (in collaboration with Sanofi), which is developing SAR391786, a monoclonal antibody targeted to GDF8, for sarcopenia; Eli Lilly &#38; Company, which is developing LY2495655, a monoclonal antibody targeted to myostatin, for muscular atrophy after hip arthroplasty; Acceleron Pharma, which is developing ACE-083 for diseases such as inclusion body myositis and certain forms of muscular dystrophy; Stealth Biotherapeutics, which is developing Bendavia for skeletal muscle disorders; Scholar Rock, which is developing SRK-015, a specific and local inhibitor of the activation of latent myostatin for the potential treatment of primary myopathies and Pfizer Inc., which is developing PF-06252616, a monoclonal antibody targeted to myostatin, in Duchenne muscular dystrophy. Novartis (in collaboration with Morphosys AG), is conducting clinical development with an activin type-IIB receptor antagonist, bimagrumab, to evaluate its ability to treat diseases involving the loss of muscle mass, strength and function. 

If omecamtiv mecarbil is approved for marketing by the FDA or other regulatory authorities for the treatment of heart failure, it would compete against other drugs used for the treatment of acute and chronic heart failure. These include generic drugs, such as milrinone, dobutamine or digoxin and branded drugs such as Natrecor (nesiritide) Corlanor (ivabradine) and Entresto (LCZ696). Omecamtiv mecarbil could also potentially compete against other novel drug candidates and therapies in development, such as Gencaro (bucindolol), which is being developed by ARCA biopharma, Inc.; Reasanz (serelaxin) and Tekturna, which are being developed by Novartis; finerenone which is being developed by Bayer, cenderitide (CD-NP), which is being developed by Carpicor Therapeutics, Inc., TRV-027, which is being developed by Trevena; ularitide, which is being developed by Cardiorentis Ltd.; ONO-4232 which is being developed by Ono Pharmaceutical Company; JVS-100, a gene therapy being developed by Juventas Therapeutics; aladorian, which is being developed by ARMGO Pharma, Inc; TRV027, which is being developed by Trevena, Inc. in partnership with Forest Laboratories, Inc.; certain cardioprotectants which are being developed by Cardioxyl Pharmaceuticals, Inc.; Neurocardin, which is being developed by Zensun Sci &#38; Tech, Ltd; and levosimendan, which was acquired for development by Tenax Therapeutics (formerly known as Oxygen Biotherapeutics, Inc.). In addition, there are a number of medical devices both marketed and in development for the potential treatment of heart failure. 

For further details on the risks relating to our competitors, please see the risk factors under Item 1A of this report, including, but not limited to, the risk factor entitled &#147;Our competitors may develop drugs that are less expensive, safer or more effective than ours, which may diminish or eliminate the commercial success of any drugs that we may commercialize.&#148; 

&#160; 

Employees 

As of December 31, 2015, our workforce consisted of 100 full-time employees, 28 of whom hold Ph.D. or M.D. degrees, or both, and 22 of whom hold other advanced degrees. Of our total full-time employees, 68 are engaged in research and development and 32 are engaged in business and new product development, finance and administration functions 

We have no collective bargaining agreements with our employees, and we have not experienced any work stoppages. We believe that our relations with our employees are good. 

Investor Information 

We file electronically with the SEC our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act. The public may read or copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC&#146;s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. The address of that site is www.sec.gov. 

You may obtain a free copy of our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports on the day of filing with the SEC on our website at www.cytokinetics.com or by contacting the Investor Relations Department at our corporate offices by calling 650-624-3060. The information found on our website is not part of this or any other report filed with or furnished to the SEC. 

