 ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

General 

We are the largest global industrial distributor , based on sales, of pipe, valves and fittings (&#8220;PVF&#8221;) and related products and services to the energy industry based on sales and hold a leading position in our industry across each of the upstream (exploration, production and extraction of underground oil and natural gas), midstream (gathering and transmission of oil and natural gas, natural gas utilities and the storage and distribution of oil and natural gas) and downstream (crude oil ref ining and petrochemical processing ) sectors. We offer more than 230,000 SKUs, including an extensive array of PVF, oilfield supply, automation, instrumentation and other general and specialty industry supply products from our global network of suppliers. Through our U.S., Canadian and International segm ents, we serve our more than 19,000 customers through approximately &#160; 350 service locations. We are diversified by geography, the industry sectors we serve and the products we sell. 

Our customers use the PVF and oilfield supplies that we supply in mission critical process applications that require us to provide a high degree of product knowledge, technical expertise and comprehensive value added services to our customers. We seek to provide best-in-class service and a one-stop shop for our customers by satisfying the most complex, multi-site needs of many of the largest companies in the energy sectors as their primary PVF supplier. We provide services such as product testing, manufacturer assessments, multiple daily deliveries, volume purchasing, inventory and zone store management and warehousing, technical support, training, just-in-time delivery, truck stocking, order consolidation, product tagging and system interfaces customized to customer and supplier specifications for tracking and replenishing inventory, engineering of control packages, and valve inspection and repair, which we believe result in deeply integrated customer relationships. We believe the critical role we play in our customers&#8217; supply chain, together with our extensive product offering, broad global presence, customer-linked scalable information systems and efficient distribution capabilities, serve to solidify our long-standing customer relationships and drive our growth. As a result, we have an a verage relationship of over 25 years with our 25 largest customers. 

We have seen customer spending fall off significantly beginning in late 2014 and continuing throughout all of 2015 as a result of the lower oil and natural gas price environment . Prominent exploration and production (&#8220;E&#38;P&#8221;) spending surveys, which include many of our customers, indicate that 2016 spending will be down an additional 15-20% globally , including a decline of more than 35-40% in North America following a 35% decline in 2015. Notwithstanding this decline, we have benefited historically from several growth trends within the energy industry, including high levels of customer expansion and maintenance expenditures. Several factors have driven the long-term growth in spending, including underinvestment in North American energy infrastructure, production and capacity constraints, and market expectations of future improvements in the oil , natural gas, refined products and petrochemical sectors. In the longer term, we believe carbon based energy will continue to play a critical role in supporting economic growth. In the near term, however, customer spending will be more sensitive to global oil and natural gas prices and general economic conditions. As such, our business will experience periods of cyclicality. 

MRC Global Inc. was incorporated in Delaware on November 20, 2006. Our principal executive office is located at 1301 McKinney Street, Suite 2300, Houston, Texas 77010. Our telephone number is (877) 294-7574. Our website address is www.mrcglobal.com . Information contained on our website is expressly not incorporated by reference into this document. 

Business Strategy 

As an industrial distributor of PVF and related products to the energy industry, our strategy is focused on growth, margin enhancement and the development of long - term customer relationships within the markets we serve. Our strategic objectives are to increase our market share by executing global preferred supplier contracts with new and existing customers, growing organically by maintaining a key focus on our managed and targeted growth accounts, enhanc ing our product and service offerings , extend ing our global platform to major PVF energy markets through acquisitions, invest ing in technology systems and branch infrastructure to achieve improved operational excellence and optimiz ing our working capital. 

We believe that global preferred supplier agreements allow us to better serve our customers&#8217; needs and provide the customer with a global platform in which to procure their products. The agreements vary by customer; however, in most cases, we are the preferred supplier, and while there are no minimum purchase requirements, we gain a larger proportion of the customer&#8217;s spending in our product categories. In addition, through system integration, we believe transactions with these customers can be more streamlined. We strive to add scope to these arrangements in various ways including adding geographies, product lines, inventory management and inventory logistics. 

Our approach to expanding existing markets and accessing new markets is multifaceted. We seek to expand our geographic footprint, pursue strategic acquisitions, and cultivate relationships with our existing customer base. We work with our customers to develop 

&#160;

innovative supply chain solutions that enable us to consistently deliver the high quality products they need when they need them. By being a consistent and reliable partner, we are able to maintain and grow our market share with both new and existing customers. 

We continually broaden our product offering and supplier base. Product expansion opportunities include alloy, chrome, stainless products, gaskets, seals, safety and other industrial supply products. We remain focused on higher margin products such as valves, valve automation and high alloy products and have eliminated our exposure to oil country tubular goods (&#8220;OCTG&#8221;), our most volatile, low est margin product group. 

We also target growth with our midsized customers and diversification of our midstream customer base. We do this through detailed account planning and by educating potential customers on the offerings and logistics services we provide. 

Our acquisition strategy is focused on those businesses that will broaden our international geographic footprint, in certain energy intensive regions, or those that expand our product offerings, particularly in valves, valve automation, instrumentation, stainless and alloy. We also consider &#8220;bolt-on&#8221; acquisitions that supplement our existing offerings . 

We invest in information technology (&#8220;IT&#8221;) systems and branch infrastructure to achieve improved operational excellence. Our concept of operational excellence is centered around premium customer service arrived at by hiring the right people in the right places utilizing common business processes. We also place the highest emphasis on safety. 

Operations 

Our business is segregated into three geographical operating segments, our U.S., Canadian, and International operations. These segments represent our business of providing PVF and related products and services to the energy industry, across each of the upstream, midstream and downstream sectors. Financial information regarding our reportable segments appears in &#8220;Item 7&#8212;Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Resul ts of Operations&#8221; and in Note 14 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Form 10-K. 

Our U.S. segment represented approximately 79% of our consolidated revenues in 2015. We maintain distribution operations throughout the country with concentrations in the most active oil and natural gas producing regions. Our network is comprised of 1 21 branch locations, 9 distribution centers, 13 valve automation service centers and 54 third-party pipe yards. 

Our Canadian segment represented approximately 7% of our consolidated revenues in 2015. Our distribution operations extend throughout the western part of Canada with concentrations in Alberta and western Sas katchewan. In Canada, we have 31 branch locations, one distribution center, one valve automation service center and 16 third-party pipe yards. 

Our International segment represented approximately 14% of our consolidated revenues in 2015. This segment includes 54 branch locations located throughout Europe, Asia, Australasia and the Middle East with seven distribution centers in the United Kingdom, Norway, Singapore, the Netherlands, the United Arab Emirates and Australia. We also maintain 16 valve automation service centers in Europe, Asia and Australia. 

Products: We distribute a complete line of PVF products, primarily used in specialized applications in the energy infrastructure sector. The products we distribute are used in the construction, maintenance, repair and overhaul of equipment used in extreme operating conditions such as high pressure, high/low temperature and high ly corrosive and abrasive environments. We are required to carry significant amounts of inventory to meet the rapid delivery, often same day, requirements of our customers. The breadth and depth of our product offerings and our extensive global presence allow us to provide high levels of service to our customers. Due to our broad inventory coverage, we are able to fulfill more orders more quickly, including those with lower volume and specialty items, than we would be able to if we operated on a smaller scale or only at a local or regional level. Key product types are described below: 

&#8226; Valves, Automation and Instrumentation. Product offering includes ball, butterfly, gate, globe, check, needle and plug valves , which are manufactured from cast steel, stainless/alloy steel, forged steel, carbon steel or cast and ductile iron. Valves are generally used in oilfield and industrial applications to control direction, velocity and pressure of fluids and gases within transmission networks. Other products include lined corrosion resistant piping systems, control valves, valve automation and top work components used for regulating flow and on/off service, and a wide range of steam and instrumentation products used in various process a pplications within our refinery and petrochemical sectors. 

&#8226; Carbon Steel Fittings and Flanges and Stainless Steel and Alloy Pipe and Fittings. Carbon steel fittings and flanges include carbon weld fittings, flanges and piping components used primarily to connect piping and valve systems for the transmission of various liquids and gases. These products are used across all the industries in which we operate. Stainless steel and alloy pipe and fittings include stainless, alloy and corrosion resistant pipe, tubing, fittings and flanges. These are used most often in the chemical, refining and power generation industries but are used across all of the sectors in which we operate. Alloy products are principally used in high-pressure, high-temperature and high-corrosion applications typically seen in process piping applications. 

&#8226; Line Pipe . Carbon line pipe is typically used in high-yield, high-stress and abrasive applications such as the gathering and transmission of oil, natural gas and phosphates. 

&#160;

&#8226; Oil Country Tubular Goods (&#8220;OCTG&#8221;). OCTG includes casing (used for production and to line the well bore) and tubing pipe (used to extract oil or natural gas from wells) and is either classified as carbon or alloy depending on the grade of material. In February 2016, we completed the disposition of our U.S. OCTG business, which represents substantially all of our OCTG sales globally. 

&#8226; Other. Other includes natural gas distribution products, oilfield supplies, and other industrial products such as mill and safety and electrical supplies. Natural gas distribution products include risers, meters, polyethylene pipe and fittings and various other components and industrial supplies used primarily in the distribution of natural gas to residential and commercial customers. We offer a comprehensive range of oilfield and industrial supplies and completion equipment, and products offered include high density polyethylene pipe, fittings and rods. Additionally, we can supply a wide range of specialized production equipment including meter runs, tanks and separators used in our upstream sector. 

Services : We provide many of our customers with a comprehensive array of services including multiple deliveries each day, zone store management, valve tagging and significant system interfaces that directly tie the customer into our proprietary information systems. This allows us to interface with our customers&#8217; IT systems and provide an integrated supply service. Such services strengthen our position with our customers as we become more integrated into the customer&#8217;s business and supply chain and are able to market a &#8220;total transaction value&#8221; solution rather than individual product prices. 

Our comprehensive information systems, which provide for customer and supplier electronic integrations, information sharing and e-commerce applications, further strengthen our ability to provide high levels of service to our customers. Our highly specialized implementation group focuses on the integration of our information systems and implementation of improved business processes with those of a new customer during the initiation phase. By maintaining a specialized team, we are able to utilize best practices to implement our systems and processes, thereby providing solutions to customers in a more organized, efficient and effective manner. This appro ach is valuable to large, multi location customers who have demanding service requirements. 

As major integrated and large independent energy companies have implemented efficiency initiatives to focus on their core business, many of these companies have begun outsourcing certain of their procurement and inventory management requirements. In response to these initiatives and to satisfy customer service requirements, we offer integrated supply services to customers who wish to outsource all or a part of the administrative burden associated with sourcing PVF and other related products, and we also often have MRC Global employees on-site full-time at many customer locations. Our integrated supply group offers procurement-related services, physical warehousing services, product quality assurance and inventory ownership and analysis services. 

Suppliers: We source the products we distribute from a globa l network of suppliers in over 45 countries. We have over 100 dedicated supply chain management employees that handle purchasing. Our suppliers benefit from access to our diversified customer base and, by consolidating customer orders, we benefit from stronger purchasing power and preferred vendor programs. Our purchases from our 25 largest suppliers in 2015 approximated 39% of our total purchases, with our single largest suppli er constituting approximately 5% . We are the largest customer for many of our suppliers, and we source a significant majority of the products we distribute directly from the manufacturer. The remainder of the products we distribute are sourced from manufacturer representatives, trading companies and, in some instances, other distributors. 

We believe our customers and suppliers recognize us as an industry leader in part due to the quality of products we supply and for the formal processes we use to evaluate vendor performance. This vendor assessment process is referred to as the MRC Global Supplier Registration Process, which involves employing individuals, certified by the International Registry of Certificated Auditors, who specialize in conducting on-site assessments of our manufacturers as well as monitoring and evaluating the quality of goods produced. The result of this process is the MRC Global approved manufacturer&#8217;s listing (&#8220;AML&#8221;). Products from the manufacturers on this list are supplied across many of the industries we support. Given that many of our largest customers, especially those in our downstream sector, maintain their own formal AML listing, we are recognized as an important source of information sharing with our key customers regarding the results of our on-site assessment. For this reason, together with our commitment to promote high quality products that bring the best overall value to our customers, we often become the preferred provider of AML products to these customers. Many of our customers regularly collaborate with us regarding specific manufacturer performance, our own experience with vendors&#8217; products and the results of our on-site manufacturer assessments. The emphasis placed on the MRC Global AML by both our customers and suppliers helps secure our central and critical position in the global PVF supply chain. 

We utilize a variety of freight carriers in addition to our corporate truck fleet to ensure timely and efficient delivery of our products. With respect to deliveries of products from us to our customers, or our outbound needs, we utilize both our corporate fleet and third-party transportation providers. With respect to shipments of products from suppliers to us, or our inbound needs, we principally use third-party carriers. 

Sales and Marketing: We distribute our products to a wide variety of end-us ers, and we have operations in 2 2 countr ies and direct sales into over 100 countries around the world. We have approximately 1,900 operations personnel around the world. Our broad distribution network and customer base allow us to capitalize on our extensive inventory offering. Local relationships, depth of inventory, service and timely delivery are critical to the sales process in the PVF distribution industry. Our sales efforts are customer 

&#160;

and product driven and provide a system that is more responsive to changing customer and product needs than a traditional, fully centralized structure. 

Our sales model applies a two-pronged approach to address both regional and national markets. Regional sales teams are based in our core geographic regions and are complemented by a global accounts sales team organized by sector or product expertise and focused on large regional, national or global customers. These sales teams are then supported by groups with additional specific service or product expertise, including integrated supply and implementation. Our overall sales force is then internally divided into outside and inside sales forces. 

Our over 47 0 account managers and outside sales representatives develop relationships with prospective and existing customers in an effort to better understand their needs and to increase the number of our products specified or approved by a given customer. Outside sales representatives may be branch outside sales representatives, focused on customer relationships in specific geographies, or technical outside sales representatives, who focus on specific products and provide detailed technical support to customers. Internationally, for valve sales, the majority of our sales force is comprised of qualified engineers who are able to meet complex customer requirements, select optimal solutions from a range of products to increase customers&#8217; efficiency and lower total product lifecycle costs. 

To address the needs of our customer base, our inside sales force of over 8 5 0 customer service representatives is responsible for processing orders generated by new and existing customers as well as by our outside sales force. The customer service representatives develop order packages based on specific customer needs, interface with manufacturers to determine product availability, ensure on-time delivery and establish pricing of materials and services based on guidelines and predetermined metrics that management establishes. 

Seasonality: Our business normally experiences mild seasonal effects as demand for the products we distribute is generally higher during the months of August, September and October. Demand for the products we distribute during the months of November and December and early in the year generally tends to be lower due to a lower level of activity near the end of the calendar year in the industry sectors we serve and due to winter weather disruptions. In addition, certain exploration and production (&#8220;E&#38;P&#8221;) activities, primarily in Canada, typically experience a springtime reduction due to seasonal thaws and regulatory restrictions, limiting the ability of drilling rigs to operate effectively during these periods. 

Customers: Our principal customers are companies active in the upstream, midstream and downstream sectors of the energy industry. Due to the demanding operating conditions in the energy industry, high costs and safety risks associated with equipment failure, customers prefer highly reliable products and vendors with established qualifications, reputation and experience. As our PVF products typically are mission critical and represent a fraction of the total cost of a given project, our customers often place a premium on service and high reliability given the high cost to them of maintenance or new project delays. We strive to build long-term relationships with our customers by maintaining our reputation as a supplier of high-quality, efficient and reliable products and value-added services and solutions. 

We have a diverse customer base of over 19,000 customers. We are not dependent on any one customer or group of customers. A majority of our customers are offered terms of net 30 days (payment is due within 30 days of the date of the invoice). Customers generally have the right to return products we have sold, subject to certain conditions and limitations, although returns have historically been immaterial to our sales. For the year ended December 31, 2015, our 25 largest customers represented approximately 51% of our total sales, with our single largest custom er constituting approximately 9%. For many of our largest customers, we are often their sole or primary PVF provider by sector or geography, their largest or second largest supplier in aggregate or, in certain instances, the sole provider for their upstream, midstream and downstream procurement needs. We believe that many customers for which we are not the exclusive or comprehensive sole source PVF provider will continue to reduce their number of suppliers in an effort to reduce costs and administrative burdens and focus on their core operations. As such, we believe these customers will seek to select PVF distributors with the most extensive product offering and broadest geographic presence. Furthermore, we believe our business will benefit as companies in the energy industry continue to consolidate and the larger, resulting companies look to larger distributors such as ourselves as their sole or primary source PVF provider. 

Backlog: We determine backlog by the amount of unshipped customer orders, either specific or general in nature (including orders held under pipe programs), which the customer may revise or cancel in certain instances. Our backlog at December 31, 2015 was $542 million ($500 million excluding OCTG) including $347 million ($305 million excluding OCTG), $34 &#160; million and $161 &#160; million in our U.S., Canadian and International segments, respectively. Our backlog at Decemb er 31, 2014 was $1.093 billion ( $936 million excluding OCTG) including $767 million ($610 million excluding OCTG), $66 million and $260 million in our U . S . , Canadian and International segments, respectively. There can be no assurance that the backlog amounts will ultimately be realized as revenue or that we will earn a profit on the backlog of orders, but we expect that substantially all of the sales in our backlog will be realized in 2016. 

Competition: We are the largest PVF distributor to the energy industry based on sales. The broad PVF distribution industry is fragmented and includes large, nationally recognized distributors, major regional distributors and many smaller local distributors. The principal methods of competition include offering prompt local service, fulfillment capability, breadth of product and service 

&#160;

offerings, price and total costs to the customer. Our competitors include inter nationally recognized PVF distributors, such as Distribution NOW, Ferguson Enterprises (a subsidiary of Wolseley, plc), Marubeni-Itochu, Van Leeuwen, FloWorks, Lockwood International and Sumitomo, several large regional or product-specific competitors and many local, family-owned and privately held PVF distributors. 

&#160; Employees: We have approximatel y 4,100 employees of which 209 employees belong to a union and are covered by collective bargaini ng agreements. We also have 35 employees in Australia that are not members of a union but are covered by union negotiated agreements. We consider our relationships with our employees to be good. 

For a breakdown of our annual rev enues by geography, see &#8220;Note 14 &#8212;Segment, Geographic and Product Line Information&#8221; to the audited consolidated financial statements as of December 31, 2015. 

Environmental Matters 

We are subject to a variety of federal, state, local, foreign and provincial environmental, health and safety laws, regulations and permitting requirements, including those governing the discharge of pollutants or hazardous substances into the air, soil or water, the generation, handling, use, management, storage and disposal of, or exposure to, hazardous substances and wastes, the responsibility to investigate, remediate, monitor and clean up contamination and occupational health and safety. Fines and penalties may be imposed for non-compliance with applicable environmental, health and safety requirements and the failure to have or to comply with the terms and conditions of required permits. Historically, the costs to comply with environmental and health and safety requirements have not been material to our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. We are not aware of any pending environmental compliance or remediation matters that, in the opinion of management, are reasonably likely to have a material effect on our business, financial position or results of operations or cash flows. However, the failure by us to comply with applicable environmental, health and safety requirements could result in fines, penalties, enforcement actions, employee, neighbor or other third-party claims for property damage and personal injury, requirements to clean up property or to pay for the costs of cleanup, or regulatory or judicial orders requiring corrective measures, including the installation of pollution control equipment or remedial actions. 

Under certain laws and regulations, such as the U.S. federal Superfund law or its foreign equivalents, the obligation to investigate, remediate, monitor and clean up contamination at a facility may be imposed on current and former owners, lessees or operators or on persons who may have sent waste to that facility for disposal. Liability under these laws and regulations may be imposed without regard to fault or to the legality of the activities giving rise to the contamination. Although we are not aware of any active litigation against us under the U.S. federal Superfund law or its state or foreign equivalents, contamination has been identified at several of our current and former facilities, and we have incurred and will continue to incur costs to investigate, remediate, monitor and clean up these conditions. Moreover, we may incur liabilities in connection with environmental conditions currently unknown to us relating to our prior, existing or future owned or leased sites or operations or those of predecessor companies whose liabilities we may have assumed or acquired. We believe that indemnities contained in certain of our acquisition agreements may cover certain environmental conditions existing at the time of the acquisition subject to certain terms, limitations and conditions. However, if these indemnification provisions terminate or if the indemnifying parties do not fulfill their indemnification obligations, we may be subject to liability with respect to the environmental matters that those indemnification provisions address. 

In addition, environmental, health and safety laws and regulations applicable to our business and the business of our customers, including laws regulating the energy industry, and the interpretation or enforcement of these laws and regulations, are constantly evolving and it is impossible to predict accurately the effect that changes in these laws and regulations, or their interpretation or enforcement, may have upon our business, financial condition or results of operations. Should environmental laws and regulations, or their interpretation or enforcement, become more stringent, our costs, or the costs of our customers, could increase, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 

In particular, legislation and regulations limiting emissions of greenhouse gases, including carbon dioxide associated with the burning of fossil fuels, are at various stages of consideration and implementation, at the international, national, regional and state levels. In 2005, the Kyoto Protocol to the 1992 United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, which established a binding set of emission targets for greenhouse gases, became binding on the countries that ratified it. Attention is now focused on the development of a post-2012 international policy framework to guide international action to address climate change when the Kyoto Protocol expired in 2012. Certain states and regions have adopted or are considering legislation or regulation imposing overall caps or taxes on greenhouse gas emissions from certain sectors or facility categories or mandating the increased use of electricity from renewable energy sources. Similar legislation has been proposed at the federal level. In addition, the U.S . Environmental Protection Agency (&#8220;EPA&#8221;) has implemented regulations that require permits for and reductions in greenhouse gas emissions for certain categories of emission sources, the most recent of which became effective in August 2012. Pursuant to the terms of a settlement agreement, the EPA is in the process of finalizing greenhouse gas emissions standards, known as New Source Performance Standards (&#8220;NSPS&#8221;), for new power plants, and issued proposed NSPS for exi sting power plants in October 2014, which were finalized in August 2015. The settlement agreement also calls for NSPS for greenhouse gas emissions from oil refineries; however the EPA has not proposed such NSPS to date. NSPS for other oil refinery emissions were issued by the EPA pursuant to the settlement agreement in September 2012 

&#160;

and became effective in November 2012 with minor amendments effective in December 2013. These laws and regulations could negatively impact the market for the products we distribute and, consequently, our business. 

In addition, federal, state, local, foreign and provincial laws, regulations and permitting requirements have been adopted or are being considered that could impose more stringent permitting, disclosure, wastewater and other waste disposal and well construction and testing requirements on hydraulic fracturing, a practice involving the injection of water containing certain other substances into rock formations under pressure to stimulate production of hydrocarbons, particularly natural gas, from shale basin regions. Other states and the federal government are considering regulating this practice. These regulations include a variety of well construction, set back, wastewater disposal, emissions, baseline sampling, operational and disclosure requirements limiting how fracturing can be performed and requiring various degrees of disclosures regarding the contents of chemicals injected into the rock formations, as well as moratoria on all hydraulic fracturing activity. Any increased federal, regional or state regulation of hydraulic fracturing could reduce the demand for our products in these regions. 

Exchange Rate Information 

In this report, unless otherwise indicated, foreign currency amounts are converted into U.S. dollar amounts at the exchange rates in effect on December 31, 2015 and 2014 for balance sheet figures. Income statement figures are converted on a monthly basis, using each month&#8217;s average conversion rate. 

Available Information 

Our website is located at www.mrcglobal.com . We make available free of charge on or through our internet website our annual report on Form 10-K, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file this material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. 

&#160; 

&#160;

