 Item 1. 

Business 

Overview 

Guidewire Software, Inc. is a provider of software products for property and casualty (&#8220;P&#38;C&#8221;) insurers. Our software serves as a technology platform for P&#38;C insurance carriers. Guidewire InsurancePlatform TM &#32;consists of three key elements: core transaction processing, data management and analytics, and digital engagement, which work together to strengthen our customers&#8217; ability to adapt and succeed. Guidewire InsuranceSuite&#8482; provides core transactional systems of record supporting the entire insurance lifecycle. Our data and analytics products enable insurers to manage data more effectively and gain insights into their business. Our digital engagement products support digital sales, service and claims experiences for policyholders, agents, and field employees. Our solutions are delivered through a web-based interface and can be deployed either on-premise, which a majority of customers choose, or in cloud environments. To support the global operations of our customers, our software has been localized for use in a variety of international regulatory, language and currency environments. 

Strong customer relationships are a key component of our business, which supports the long-term nature of our contracts and importance of customer references for new sales. Our customers range from some of the largest global insurance carriers or their subsidiaries such as AXA and Zurich to national carriers such as Basler Versicherung (Switzerland), Direct Line Group (U.K.), Farmers Insurance (U.S.), IAG (Australia), MS&#38;AD (Japan), Nationwide (U.S.), PZU (Poland), and San Cristobal Seguros S.A. (Argentina) and carriers that serve specific states and/or regions such as Automobile Club of Southern California, Canadian Automobile Association Insurance Company (Ontario), and Kentucky Farm Bureau. As of July 31, 2016, we had 260 customers using one or more of our products in 31 countries. This includes 23 new customers gained through our acquisition of EagleEye Analytics, Inc. during fiscal year 2016, but excludes new customers gained through our acquisition of FirstBest Systems, Inc. which closed on August 31, 2016 after the end of fiscal year 2016. &#32; 

We began our principal business operations in 2001 and sold the initial versions of ClaimCenter in 2003, PolicyCenter in 2004 and BillingCenter in 2006. We conducted our initial public offering of our common stock on January 25, 2012 and follow-on public offerings of our common stock on April 19, 2012 and October 22, 2013. We primarily generate software license revenues through annual license fees that recur during the multi-year term of a customer&#8217;s contract. We primarily derive our services revenues from implementation and training services performed for our customers. A significant majority of services are billed on a time and materials basis. 

Industry Background 

The P&#38;C insurance industry is large, fragmented, highly regulated and complex. This industry is highly competitive, with carriers competing primarily on the following factors: product differentiation, pricing options, customer service, marketing and advertising, affiliate programs and channel strategies. 

New technologies are placing demands on many insurers that require them to adapt how they engage with, sell to and manage relationships with customers. Insurers adopting modern infrastructures can more rapidly introduce innovative products that are intended to protect consumers in new ways from existing and emerging risks. We anticipate that insurers will respond to these new technologies and market demands by adopting software that will allow them to: 

&#8226; develop new distribution channels; 

&#8226; define products that are more targeted; 

&#8226; leverage data more effectively to improve underwriting and claims decisions; 

&#8226; improve customer service across different channels; and 

&#8226; lower their operating costs. 

The key functional areas in P&#38;C insurance are underwriting and policy administration, claims management and billing. Underwriting and policy administration involves collecting information from potential policyholders, determining appropriate coverages and terms, pricing the policy, issuing the policy and updating and maintaining the policy over its lifetime. Claims management includes loss report intake, investigation and evaluation of incidents, claims negotiation, payment processing and litigation management. Billing includes account creation, policyholder invoicing, payment collection, commission calculation and disbursement. 

Guidewire&#8217;s Products 

&#32;&#32;&#32;Core Transaction Processing 

Guidewire InsuranceSuite 

Guidewire InsuranceSuite is comprised of our individual core system applications: PolicyCenter, ClaimCenter and BillingCenter. We have built our suite on a unified technology platform, providing enhanced workflow and functionality between applications. 

Guidewire PolicyCenter 

Guidewire PolicyCenter is our flexible underwriting and policy administration application that serves as a comprehensive system-of-record supporting the entire policy lifecycle, including product definition, underwriting, quoting, binding, issuances, endorsements, audits, cancellations and renewals. 

Guidewire ClaimCenter 

Guidewire ClaimCenter is our claims management application for claim intake, assessment, settlement and processing of claim-related financial transactions. ClaimCenter enables claims lifecycle management improvements including dynamic, intuitive loss report intake, advanced adjudication processes and integrated operational reporting. ClaimCenter provides P&#38;C insurance carriers with modern productivity tools built within a sophisticated business rules-based claims application. 

Guidewire BillingCenter 

Guidewire BillingCenter is our billing and receivables management application. It automates the billing lifecycle, enables the design of a wide variety of billing and payment plans, manages agent commissions and integrates with external payment systems. 

Guidewire Underwriting Management. &#32; 

Guidewire Underwriting Management, gained through the acquisition of FirstBest Systems which closed on August 31, 2016, is a cloud-based, integrated business application designed for commercial and specialty line insurers to drive premium growth and profit from better underwriting. This feature-rich workstation delivers straight-through processing, exception-based underwriting, real-time collaboration, and knowledge management in one integrated solution. Guidewire Underwriting Management provides value alongside Guidewire PolicyCenter as well as any policy administration system (PAS), including non-Guidewire policy administration systems. 

InsuranceSuite Add-on Modules 

We also offer the following add-on modules for InsuranceSuite: 

Guidewire Rating Management. Guidewire Rating Management enables P&#38;C insurance carriers to manage the pricing of their insurance products. 

Guidewire Reinsurance Management. Guidewire Reinsurance Management enables P&#38;C insurance carriers to use rules-based logic to execute their reinsurance strategy through their underwriting and claims processes. 

Guidewire Client Data Management . Guidewire Client Data Management helps P&#38;C insurance carriers capitalize on customer information more coherently, overcoming traditional siloed practices that impair efficiency and customer service. 

Guidewire Product Content Management. &#32;Guidewire Product Content Management provides software tools and standards-based, line-of-business templates to enable insurers to introduce and modify products more rapidly by reducing product configuration and maintenance efforts which must connect to and incorporate regulatory or industry-standard data and content, such as ISO content. 

Guidewire London Market Messaging. Guidewire London Market Messaging is a specialized add-on for Guidewire ClaimCenter that provides out of the box functionality to address requirements of international insurers operating in the London Market. 

&#32;&#32;&#32;Data Management and Analytics 

Guidewire DataHub 

Guidewire DataHub is an operational data store that unifies, standardizes and stores data from the patchwork of an insurer&#8217;s systems as well as from external sources. DataHub enables carriers to accelerate legacy system replacement. 

Guidewire InfoCenter 

&#32;Guidewire InfoCenter is a business intelligence warehouse for P&#38;C insurers which provides information in easy-to-use formats for business intelligence, analysis and enhanced decision making. With InfoCenter, customers gain flexible operational insights as well as the ability to optimize their business. 

Guidewire Live 

Guidewire Live is a cloud-based suite of analytical applications that aggregate data from internal and third-party sources and analyze and visualize the data in ways that provide insurers with valuable insights into their business. These insights can be acted upon through the processes managed by InsuranceSuite. To date, Guidewire Live applications have been made available only to Guidewire ClaimCenter or PolicyCenter customers. 

Guidewire Predictive Analytics 

Guidewire Predictive Analytics is a cloud-based tool which allows insurers to make data-driven decisions throughout the insurance lifecycle. By building predictive models from multiple data sets, analyzing model output, and deploying predictive models, insurers can realize significant reductions in loss ratio and expenses. 

&#32;&#32;&#32;Digital Engagement 

&#32;Guidewire Digital Portals 

Our Digital Portals deliver real-time, self-service capabilities for people operating outside the corporate intranet. We have developed a number of different digital portal products that are targeted at different constituencies, such as customers, agents and brokers. These portals expose the data and business processes within Guidewire InsuranceSuite. 

Technology 

We developed our suite of applications on a unified technology platform, which combines standards-based elements and proprietary components. We designed our suite of applications to help P&#38;C insurance carriers grow their business, improve customer and agent engagement, and lower operating costs. Our customers&#8217; IT departments manage and administer our applications through their development, test and production environments. We continue to invest in research and development to enhance existing products and introduce new ones. These investments focus on continued architectural refinements of our core applications designed to meet evolving customer needs relating to scalability, features and functions, and cloud delivery. 

Services 

We provide implementation and integration services to help our customers realize benefits from our software products. Our implementation teams assist customers in building implementation plans, integrating our software with their existing systems and defining business rules and specific requirements unique to each customer and installation. We also partner with leading system integration consulting firms, certified on our software, to achieve scalable, cost-effective implementations for our customers. As of July 31, 2016, we had 573 &#32;employees in our professional services organization, compared to 500 &#32;as of July 31, 2015. 

Customers 

We market and sell our products to a wide variety of global P&#38;C insurance carriers ranging from some of the largest global insurers to national carriers to regional carriers. We believe strong customer relationships are a key driver of our success given the long-term nature of our contracts and importance of customer references for new sales. We focus on developing and maintaining our customer relationships through customer service and account management. As of July 31, 2016, we had 260 customers using one or more of our products in 31 countries. This includes 23 new customers gained through our acquisition of EagleEye Analytics, Inc. during fiscal year 2016, but excludes new customers gained through our acquisition of FirstBest Systems, Inc. which closed on August 31, 2016 after the end of fiscal year 2016. 

Strategic Relationships 

We have extensive relationships with system integration, consulting and industry partners. Our network of partners has expanded as interest in and adoption of our products has grown. We encourage our partners to co-market, pursue joint sales initiatives and drive broader adoption of our technology, helping us grow our business more efficiently and enabling us to focus our engineering resources on continued innovation and further enhancement of our solutions. 

Sales and Marketing 

Consistent with our industry focus and the mission-critical needs our products address, our sales and marketing efforts are tailored to communicate effectively to senior executives within the P&#38;C industry. Our sales, marketing and executive teams work together to cultivate long-term relationships with our current and prospective customers in each of the geographies in which we are active. 

As of July 31, 2016 , we employed 267 &#32;employees in a sales and marketing capacity, including 48 &#32;direct sales representatives organized by geographic region across the Americas, EMEA and APAC. This team serves as both our exclusive sales channel and our account management function. We augment our sales professionals with a presales team possessing insurance domain and technical expertise, who engage customers in sessions to understand their specific business needs and then represent our products through demonstrations tailored to address those needs. 

Our marketing team supports sales with competitive analysis and sales tools, while investing to strengthen our brand name and reputation. We participate at industry conferences, are published frequently in the industry press and have active relationships with all of the major industry analysts. We also host Connections, our annual user conference where customers both participate in and deliver presentations on a wide range of Guidewire and insurance technology topics. We invite potential customers and partners to our user conference, as we believe customer references are a key component of driving new sales. Our strong relationships with leading system integrators enhance our direct sales through co-marketing efforts and providing additional market validation of our products&#8217; distinctiveness and quality. 

Research and Development 

Our research and development efforts reflect the extensive IT needs of P&#38;C insurance carriers. These systems are required to perform millions of complex transactions that must balance on a daily basis. This accuracy must be maintained not only during normal business operations, but also during extraordinary events such as catastrophes, which may result in extremely high transaction volume in a short period of time. Our research and development efforts focus on enhancing our products to meet the increasingly complex requirements of P&#38;C insurance carriers and broadening our suite of applications with new product initiatives to form an end-to-end software platform for P&#38;C insurance carriers. 

As of July 31, 2016 , our research and development department had 464 &#32;employees. We incurred $112.5 million , $93.4 million &#32;and $76.2 million &#32;in research and development expenses for fiscal years 2016 , 2015 &#32;and 2014 , respectively. 

Competition 

The market to provide core system software to the P&#38;C insurance industry is highly competitive and fragmented. This market is subject to changing technology, shifting customer needs and introductions of new products and services. Our competitors vary in size and in the breadth and scope of the products and services offered. Our current competitors include, but are not limited to: 

Internally developed software 

&#160; 

Many large insurance companies have sufficient IT resources to maintain and augment their own proprietary internal systems, or consider developing new custom systems; 

IT services firms 

&#160; 

Firms such as Accenture, Computer Sciences Corporation and Tata Consultancy Services Limited offer software and systems or develop custom, proprietary solutions for the P&#38;C insurance industry; 

P&#38;C insurance software vendors 

&#160; 

Vendors such as 1insurer (formerly Innovation Group), Duck Creek, eBaoTech Corporation, Exigen, Fadata AD, FINEOS, Insurity, Inc., ISCS, Inc., Majesco, One, Inc., OneShield, Inc., Sapiens International Corporation, StoneRiver, Inc., and TIA Technology A/S provide software solutions that are specifically designed to meet the needs of P&#38;C insurance carriers; and 

Horizontal software vendors 

&#160; 

Vendors such as Pegasystems Inc. and SAP AG offer software that can be customized to address the needs of P&#38;C insurance carriers. 

Competitive factors in our industry depend on the size, geographic market and line of business of potential customers. The principal competitive factors include product functionality, performance, customer references, total cost of ownership, solution completeness, implementation track record, and in-depth knowledge of the P&#38;C insurance industry. We typically compete favorably on the basis of these factors in most geographies. 

Intellectual Property 

The software industry is characterized by the existence of a large number of patents and frequent claims and related litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. Our success and ability to compete depend in part upon our ability to protect our proprietary technology, to establish and adequately protect our intellectual property rights, and to protect against third-party claims and litigation related to intellectual property. To accomplish these objectives, we rely on a combination of patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws in the United States and other jurisdictions, as well as license agreements and other contractual protections. We own or have pending, a significant number of patents and patent applications, which generally apply to our software. Our owned patents have expiration dates starting in 2025. We also rely on several registered and unregistered trademarks, and applications for registrations, to protect our brand, both in the United States and internationally. 

Employees 

As of July 31, 2016 , we had 1,536 &#32;employees, including 267 &#32;in sales and marketing, 573 &#32;in professional services, 69 &#32;in technical support and licensing operations, 464 &#32;in research and development and 163 &#32;in general and administrative capacity. As of July 31, 2016 , we had 965 &#32;employees in the United States and 571 &#32;employees internationally. Our employees in the United States are not represented by a labor union, however, for certain foreign subsidiaries, workers&#8217; councils represent our employees. We have not experienced any work stoppages and we consider our relations with our employees to be good. 

Information about Segment and Geographic Revenue 

Information about segment and geographic revenue is set forth in Note 10 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Seasonality 

We have historically experienced seasonal variations in our revenues as a result of increased customer orders in our second and fourth fiscal quarters. We generally see increased orders in our second fiscal quarter, which is the quarter ended January 31, due to customer buying patterns. We also see increased orders in our fourth fiscal quarter, which is the quarter ended July 31, due to efforts by our sales team to achieve annual incentives. This seasonal pattern, however, may be absent in any given year. For example, in fiscal year 2016, we had higher licensing orders in the third fiscal quarter than in the second fiscal quarter. &#32;Our maintenance revenues are not impacted by these seasonal trends. 

Our services revenues are also subject to seasonal fluctuations, though to a lesser degree than our license revenues. Our services revenues are impacted by the number of billable days in a given fiscal quarter. The quarter ended January 31 usually has fewer billable days due to the impact of the Thanksgiving, Christmas and New Year&#8217;s holidays. The quarter ended July 31 usually also has fewer billable days due to the impact of vacation times taken by our professional staff. Because we pay our services professionals the same amounts throughout the year, our gross margins on our services revenues are lower in these quarters. 

WHERE YOU CAN FIND MORE INFORMATION 

The following filings are available through our investor relations website after we file them with the Securities and Exchange Commission (&#8220;SEC&#8221;): Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and our Proxy Statement for our annual meeting of stockholders. These filings are also available for download free of charge on our investor relations website. Our website is located at www.guidewire.com , and our investor relations website is located at http://ir.guidewire.com /. We also provide a link to the section of the SEC&#8217;s website at www.sec.gov &#32;that has all of our public filings, including periodic reports, proxy statements and other information. Further, a copy of this Annual Report on Form 10-K is located at the SEC&#8217;s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room can be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. 

We webcast our earnings calls and certain events we participate in or host with members of the investment community on our investor relations website. Additionally, we provide notifications of news or announcements regarding our financial performance, including SEC filings, investor events, press and earnings releases as part of our investor relations website. Investors and others can receive notifications of new information posted on our investor relations website in real time by signing up for email alerts and RSS feeds. Further corporate governance information, including our governance guidelines and code of business conduct and ethics, is also available on our investor relations website under the heading &#8220;Corporate Governance.&#8221; The contents of our websites are not intended to be incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K or in any other report or document we file with the SEC, and any references to our websites are intended to be inactive textual references only. 

