 Item 1. Business 

General 

Deckers Outdoor Corporation was incorporated in 1975 under the laws of the State of California and, in 1993, reincorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware. We are a global leader in designing, marketing and distributing innovative footwear, apparel and accessories developed for both everyday casual lifestyle use and high performance activities. We believe that our footwear is distinctive and appeals broadly to women, men and children. We sell our products, including accessories such as handbags and loungewear, through quality domestic and international retailers, international distributors, and directly to end-user consumers both domestically and internationally, through our websites, call centers, and retail stores. Our primary objective is to build our footwear lines into global lifestyle brands with market leadership positions. We seek to differentiate our brands and products by offering diverse lines that emphasize authenticity, functionality, quality, and comfort, and products tailored to a variety of activities, seasons, and demographic groups. All of our products are currently manufactured by independent contractors primarily in Asia. Our continued growth will depend upon the broadening of our products offered under each brand, the appeal of our products to our consumers, expanding domestic and international distribution, successfully opening new retail stores, increasing sales to consumers, and developing or acquiring new brands. 

Change in Fiscal Year 

In February 2014, our Board of Directors approved a change in our fiscal year end from December 31 to March 31. The change was intended to better align our planning, financial and reporting functions with the seasonality of our business. The 2016, 2015 and 2013 fiscal years relate to the periods ended March 31, 2016 , March 31, 2015 &#32;and December 31, 2013 , respectively. The 2014 transition period was the quarter ended March 31, 2014 &#32;to coincide with the change in our fiscal year end. 

Recent Developments 

In July 2014, we acquired our UGG brand distributor that had been selling to retailers in Germany and continues to operate as a wholesale business in Germany through the acquired subsidiary. The acquisition included certain intangible and tangible assets and the assumption of liabilities. The purchase price of the acquisition was not material to our consolidated financial statements. 

In April 2015, we acquired substantially all the assets related to the Koolaburra brand, a line of fashion casual footwear using sheepskin and other plush materials. We believe there is significant consumer demand for footwear using sheepskin and other plush materials at price points below those of the UGG brand. We intend to position Koolaburra as a high-quality, fashionable and affordable alternative to UGG and to distribute Koolaburra primarily through channels which do not offer the UGG brand. In November 2015, we added the "by UGG" attribute to the Koolaburra name to communicate to the consumer that the Koolaburra products come from the same company that designs and manufactures the UGG line. 

In July 2015, we sold certain tangible and intangible assets related to the MOZO&#174; brand, a footwear brand crafted for culinary professionals. In February 2016, we sold certain tangible and intangible assets, including the trade name related to the TSUBO brand, a line of mid and high-end dress and dress casual footwear. The impacts of these sales were not material to our consolidated financial statements. 

In February 2016, we announced the implementation of a retail store fleet optimization and office consolidation that was intended to streamline brand operations, reduce overhead costs, create operating efficiencies and improve collaboration and included the closure of facilities and relocation of employees. We have begun to realign our brands 

across two groups: Fashion Lifestyle and Performance Lifestyle. The Fashion Lifestyle group will include the UGG and Koolaburra brands. The Performance Lifestyle group will include the Teva, Sanuk and Hoka brands. As part of this realignment, we also relocated our Sanuk brand operations in Irvine, California to the corporate headquarters in Goleta, California. In addition, we closed our Ahnu brand operations office in Richmond, California. Furthermore, we are in the process of evaluating our portfolio of retail stores. We have identified 24 &#32;retail stores that are candidates for potential closure or relocation. 

Subsequent to the sales of the MOZO and TSUBO brands, the operating results for our other brands only include Hoka, Ahnu and Koolaburra. We plan to leverage elements, including particular styles, of the Ahnu brand under the umbrella of the Teva brand beginning in calendar year 2017. Refer to Part II, Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and Note 2 to our accompanying consolidated financial statements in Part IV of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information on our restructuring efforts. 

For the past several years, we have been planning and preparing to improve, automate and streamline our operational systems, processes, infrastructure and management (Business Transformation Project or BT). One such initiative was to upgrade our enterprise resource planning (ERP) system. Our ERP system integrates finance and accounting, purchase order management, inventory control, and sales across all lines of business. The ERP system centralizes all of our transactional data. We anticipate that the result is to increase efficiencies within the entire company. The initiative to upgrade our ERP system worldwide went live in April 2016. 

Products 

We currently market our products primarily under six proprietary brands, composed of the following three primary brands and other brands: 

UGG. The UGG brand is one of the most iconic and recognized brands in the global footwear industry and highlights our successful track record of building niche brands into lifestyle market leaders. With loyal consumers around the world, the UGG brand has proven to be a highly resilient line of premium footwear, with expanded product offerings and a growing global audience that attracts women, men and children. UGG brand footwear earns media exposure from numerous outlets both organically and from strategic public relations efforts, including an increasing amount of exposure internationally. Our long term growth strategy for the UGG brand relies on a combination of expanded distribution through wholesale partners, owned, branded third-party retail stores and our E-Commerce websites globally. We expect to continue to diversify the product offering to drive growth through our women&#8217;s, men&#8217;s and children's footwear offering, and enter new categories of loungewear, outerwear and home. We intend to do this by leveraging our industry expertise for capabilities and distribution as we target both existing and new customers of the brand. 

Teva. Teva is our active lifestyle brand, born from the outdoors and rooted in adventure. As the originator of the sport sandal, today the Teva product line includes casual sandals, shoes and boots built for ultimate versatility. We are focused on regaining our leadership position as a premium brand by focusing on the modern outdoor market, and continuing to expand our casual offerings to appeal to a wider range of consumers through utility-driven design, color and premium materials. 

Sanuk. Sanuk is our fun lifestyle footwear brand rooted in surf culture but embraced by an eclectic mix of style-savvy optimists. The Sanuk brand is probably best known for the patented SIDEWALK SURFERS&#174; shoe and its Yoga Mat TM and Beer Cozy sandal collections. The brand has a history of innovation, product invention, foot-friendly comfort, unexpected materials and clever branding. We plan to elevate the approach in which we communicate the Sanuk brand story to a broader audience, especially women, through highly targeted communications that retain the brand's unique attitude. We also expect to continue to build on the Sanuk brand's authentic position in the surf and outdoor markets through its relationships with prominent professional athletes and ambassadors, including surfers, photographers, artists, and musicians known as much for their unique personal styles and charisma as for their specialized talents. 

Other Brands. &#32;&#32;In addition to our three primary brands, our three other brands include Hoka, a line of footwear for all capacities of runners designed with a unique performance midsole geometry, oversize midsole volume and active foot frame; Ahnu, a line of performance outdoor and yoga footwear which we have discontinued operating as a separate brand and are looking to leverage under the Teva brand umbrella; and Koolaburra, a line of fashion casual footwear using sheepskin and other plush materials. 

With respect to Hoka, we plan to focus on growing awareness with a broader audience, focusing on women, and telling bold and brave innovative product stories through digital and social communications. We also plan to continue to build on Hoka&#8217;s authentic position in the specialty running market through relationships with prominent professional athletes and ambassadors. 

We plan to launch the Koolaburra line with a targeted group of national footwear retailers and mid-market department stores. 

Sales and Distribution 

US Distribution. &#32;&#32;At the wholesale level, we distribute our products in the US through sales representatives, who are organized geographically and by brand. In addition to our wholesale business, we also sell products directly to consumers through our websites and owned retail stores. Our brands are generally advertised and promoted through a variety of primarily digital consumer media campaigns. We benefit from editorial coverage in both consumer and trade publications. Each brand's dedicated marketing team works closely with targeted accounts to maximize advertising and promotional effectiveness. We also manage brand marketing on a global basis to ensure consistent consumer communications in all regions and channels. We determine our global communication plans based on brand strategies, consumer insights, and return on investment measures. 

Currently, our sales force is generally separated by brand, as each brand generally has certain specialty consumers; however, there is overlap between the sales teams and customers. We have aligned our brands' sales forces to position them for the future of the brands. Each brand's respective sales manager recruits and manages his or her network of sales representatives. We believe this approach for the US market currently maximizes our selling efforts, while we continue to explore synergies in our sales force operations to reflect the constantly evolving retail marketplace. 

We distribute products sold in the US through our distribution centers in Camarillo and Moreno Valley, California. Our distribution centers feature a warehouse management system that enables us to efficiently pick and pack products for direct shipment to customers. For certain customers requiring special handling, each shipment is pre-labeled and packed to the retailer's specifications, enabling the retailer to easily unpack our product and immediately display it on the sales floor. 

International Distribution. &#32;&#32;Internationally, we distribute our products through independent distributors and directly to retailers in many countries, including throughout Europe, Asia-Pacific, Canada, and Latin America, among others. In addition, as we do in the US, in certain countries, we sell products directly to consumers through our websites, e-commerce marketplaces and our owned retail stores. For our wholesale and DTC businesses, we operate distribution centers with third-party logistics providers (3PLs) in certain international locations. Our principal wholesale customers include specialty retailers, selected department stores, outdoor retailers, sporting goods retailers, shoe stores, and online retailers. 

UGG Wholesale. We sell our UGG footwear and accessories primarily through higher-end department stores such as Nordstrom, Neiman Marcus, Dillard's and Bloomingdale's, as well as independent specialty retailers such as Journeys, and online retailers such as Zappos.com. We believe these retailers support the luxury positioning of our brand and are the destination shopping choice for the consumer who seeks out the fashion and functional elements of our UGG products. As the retail marketplace continues to evolve and change to reflect changing consumer habits, we continually review and evaluate our UGG wholesale distribution approach and segmentation. 

Teva Wholesale. We sell our Teva footwear primarily through specialty outdoor and sporting goods retailers such as REI, L.L. Bean and Dick's Sporting Goods, as well as online retailers such as Zappos.com. Our brand strength in casual and women&#8217;s footwear has also expanded our business to a wider distribution of department store and mall channels including Nordstrom, Dillard's and Urban Outfitters, as well as family footwear with DSW, Famous Footwear and Rack Room. We believe distribution that services active lifestyle consumers with premium assortments, merchandising and customer experience will continue to be areas of growth for the brand. 

Sanuk Wholesale. We sell our Sanuk footwear primarily through independent action sports retailers, outdoor retailers, specialty footwear retailers and larger national retail chains including Nordstrom, Dillard's, Journeys, DSW, Urban Outfitters and Tilly's. We believe all these retailers showcase the brand's creativity, fun, and comfort and allow us to effectively reach our target consumers for the brand. 

Other Brands Wholesale. Our other brands are sold primarily at specialty running stores, high-end department stores, outdoor specialty accounts, independent specialty retailers, and with online retailers that support our brand ideals of comfort, style, and quality. Key accounts of our other brands include Nordstrom, Dillard's, Hanigs, REI, and Zappos.com. 

Direct-to-Consumer. Our DTC business is comprised of our retail store and E-Commerce businesses. As a result of our evolving Omni-Channel strategy, we believe that our retail stores and websites are largely intertwined and dependent on one another. We believe that in many cases consumers interact with both our brick and mortar stores and our websites before making purchase decisions. For example, consumers may feel or try on products in our retail stores and then place an order online later. Conversely, they may initially research products online, and then view inventory availability by store location and make a purchase in store. Some examples that demonstrate the extent to which the sales channels are combined include the following: 

&#8226; 

&#8220;UGG Rewards&#8221;: We have implemented a consumer loyalty program under which points and awards are earned across the DTC channel. 

&#8226; 

&#8220;Infinite UGG&#8221;: We provide online shopping access, inside retail stores, for all SKUs available on our E-Commerce websites. 

&#8226; 

&#8220;Buy online / return in-store&#8221;: Our consumers can buy online and return unwanted products to the store. 

&#8226; 

&#8220;Click and collect&#8221;: Our consumers can buy online and have products delivered to certain of our retail stores for pick-up. 

&#8226; 

&#8220;Retail inventory online&#8221;: Our consumers can view specific store location inventory online before visiting the store. 

Our retail stores enable us to directly impact our consumers' experiences, meet the growing demand for these products, sell the products at retail prices and generate greater gross margins. Our retail stores are predominantly UGG concept stores and UGG outlet stores. Through our outlet stores, we sell some of our discontinued styles from prior seasons, as well as full price in-line products, and products made specifically for the outlet stores. At March 31, 2016 , we had a total of 153 retail stores worldwide. Refer to Part II, Item 7, &#8220;Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations&#8221; and Note 2 "Restructuring" to our accompanying consolidated financial statements in Part IV of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further disclosure and discussion. 

Product Design and Development 

The design and product development team for each of our brands creates new innovative footwear products that combine our standards of aesthetic leadership, high quality, comfort, and functionality. The design function for all of our brands is performed by a combination of our internal design and development staff and outside freelance designers. By utilizing outside designers, we believe we are able to review a variety of different design perspectives on a cost-efficient basis and anticipate color and style trends more quickly. Refer to Note 1 to our accompanying consolidated financial statements in Part IV of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a discussion of the research and development costs we have incurred for the last three years. 

In order to ensure quality, consistency, and efficiency in our design and product development process, we continually evaluate the availability and cost of raw materials, the capabilities and capacity of our independent contract manufacturers, and the target retail price of new models and lines. The design and development staff works closely with brand management to develop new styles of footwear and accessories for our various product lines. We develop detailed drawings and prototypes of our new products to aid in conceptualization and to ensure our contemplated new products meet the standards for innovation and performance that our consumers demand. Throughout the development process, we have multiple design and development reviews, which we then coordinate with our independent manufacturers. This helps to ensure that we are addressing the needs of our consumers and are working toward a common goal of developing and producing a high quality product to be delivered on a timely basis. 

Manufacturing and Supply Chain 

We do not manufacture our products; we outsource the production of our brand footwear to independent manufacturers primarily in Asia. We require our independent contract manufacturers and designated suppliers to adopt our Supplier Code of Conduct, which specifies that they comply with all local laws and regulations governing human rights, working conditions, and environmental compliance before we are willing to conduct business with them. We also require our manufacturing partners and licensees to comply with our Restricted Substances Policy, Anti-Corruption Policy and other compliance policies and procedures as a condition of doing business with us. Primarily, as we grow, we expect to continue to rely exclusively on independent manufacturers for our sourcing needs. 

The production of footwear by our independent manufacturers is performed in accordance with our detailed specifications and is subject to our quality control standards. We maintain a buying office in Hong Kong and an on-site supervisory office in Pan Yu City, China that together serve as a link to our independent manufacturers, enabling us to carefully monitor the production process from receipt of the design brief to production of interim and final samples to shipment of finished product. We believe this regional presence provides predictability of material availability, product flow and adherence to final design specifications. To ensure the production of high-quality products, the majority of the materials and components used in production of our products by these independent manufacturers are purchased from independent suppliers that we designate. 

At our direction, our manufacturers currently purchase the majority of the sheepskin used in our products from two tanneries in China, which source their skins for our products primarily from Australia and the UK. We maintain communication with the tanneries to monitor the available supply of sufficient high quality sheepskin for our projected UGG brand production. To ensure adequate supplies for our manufacturers, we forecast our usage of sheepskin in advance at a forward price. We have also entered into purchase commitments with certain sheepskin suppliers. Refer to Note 7 to our accompanying consolidated financial statements in Part IV of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information on our minimum purchase commitments. We believe current supplies are sufficient to meet our current and anticipated demand, but we continue to investigate our options to accommodate our expected growth or unexpected supply chain issues. 

Excluding sheepskin and UGGpure, we believe that substantially all the various raw materials and components used to manufacture our footwear, including wool, rubber, leather, and nylon webbing are generally available from multiple sources at competitive prices. We began using UGGpure, wool woven into a durable backing, in many of our UGG products in 2013. We generally outsource our manufacturing requirements on the basis of individual purchase orders or short-term purchase commitments rather than maintaining long-term purchase commitments with our independent manufacturers. 

We have instituted pre-production, in-line, and post-production inspections to meet or exceed the high quality demanded by us and consumers of our products. Our quality assurance program includes our own employee on-site inspectors at our independent manufacturers who oversee the production process and perform quality assurance inspections. We also inspect our products upon arrival at our distribution centers. 

Patents and Trademarks 

We utilize trademarks with virtually all of our products and believe that having distinctive marks that are readily identifiable is an important factor in creating a market for our products, promoting our Company, and distinguishing our products from the products of others. We currently hold trademark registrations for UGG, Teva, Sanuk, Hoka One One, Ahnu, Koolaburra and UGGpure, and other marks in the US and in many other countries, including Canada, China, various countries in the European Union, Japan and Korea. At March 31, 2016 , we hold 186 utility and design patent registrations in the US and abroad and have filed 17 new patent applications which are currently pending. These patents expire at various times. We regard our proprietary rights as valuable assets and vigorously protect such rights against infringement by third parties. 

Seasonality 

Our business is seasonal, with the highest percentage of UGG brand net sales occurring in the quarters ending September 30 (our second fiscal quarter) and December 31 (our third fiscal quarter) and the highest percentage of Teva and Sanuk brand net sales occurring in the quarters ending March 31 (our fourth fiscal quarter) and June 30 (our first fiscal quarter) of each year. With the large growth in the UGG brand over the past several years, our aggregate net sales in the quarters ending September 30 and December 31 have exceeded net sales in the quarters ending March 31 and June 30. We currently expect this trend to continue. Nonetheless, actual results could differ materially depending upon a number of factors, including consumer preferences, unexpected changes in weather conditions, availability of product and raw materials, competition, and the willingness of our wholesale and distributor customers to continue to carry and promote our various product lines, among other risks and uncertainties. Refer to Part I, Item 1A, "Risk Factors" and Part II, Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations". 

Inventory Management 

Inventory management is important to the financial condition and operating results of our business. We manage our inventory levels based on existing orders, anticipated sales and the rapid-delivery requirements of our customers. Our inventory strategy is focused on continuing to meet consumer demand while improving our inventory efficiency over the long term by putting systems and processes in place to improve our inventory management. These systems and processes are designed to improve our forecasting and supply planning capabilities. In addition to systems and processes, key areas of focus that we believe will enhance inventory performance are added discipline around the purchasing of product, production lead time reduction, and better planning and execution in selling of excess inventory through our outlet stores and other liquidation channels. 

Our practice, and the general practice in the footwear and accessory industries, is to offer retail customers the right to return defective or improperly shipped merchandise. As it relates to new product introductions, which can often require large initial launch shipments, we commence production before receiving orders for those products from time to time. This can affect our inventory levels as we build pre-launch quantities. 

Backlog 

Historically, we have encouraged our wholesale and distributor customers to place, and we have received, a significant portion of orders as preseason orders, generally four to eight months prior to the anticipated shipment date. We work with our wholesale customers through preseason programs to enable us to better plan our production schedule, and inventory and shipping needs. Unfilled customer orders as of any date, which we refer to as backlog, represent orders scheduled to be shipped at a future date, which can be cancelled prior to shipment. The backlog as of a particular date is affected by a number of factors, including seasonality, manufacturing schedule, and the timing of product shipments as well as variations in the quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year preseason incentive programs. The mix of future and immediate delivery orders can vary significantly from quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year. As a result, comparisons of the backlog from period-to-period may be misleading. 

At March 31, 2016 , our backlog of orders from our wholesale customers and distributors was approximately $582,000 compared to approximately $609,000 at March 31, 2015 . While all orders in the backlog are subject to cancellation by customers, we expect that the majority of such orders will be filled in fiscal year 2017 . We believe that backlog at year-end is an imprecise indicator of total revenue that may be achieved for the full year for several reasons, including that backlog only relates to wholesale and distributor orders for the next season and current season fill-in orders, and it excludes potential sales in our DTC business during the year. Backlog is also affected by the timing of customers' orders and product availability. 

Competition 

The casual, outdoor, athletic, fashion and formal footwear markets are highly competitive. Our competitors include athletic and footwear companies, branded apparel companies, and retailers with their own private labels. Although the footwear industry is fragmented to a certain degree, many of our competitors are larger and have substantially greater resources than us, including athletic shoe companies, several of which compete directly with some of our products. In addition, access to offshore manufacturing has made it easier for new companies to enter the markets in which we compete, further increasing competition in the footwear and accessory industries. In particular, in part due to the popularity of our UGG products, we face increasing competition from a significant number of domestic and international competitors selling products designed to compete directly or indirectly with our UGG products. 

We believe that our ability to successfully compete depends on our ability to: 

&#8226; 

predict and respond to changing consumer preferences and tastes in a timely manner; 

&#8226; 

produce products that appeal to consumers; 

&#8226; 

produce products that meet our requirements and consumer expectations for quality; 

&#8226; 

accurately predict and forecast consumer demand; 

&#8226; 

ensure product availability; 

&#8226; 

manage the impact of seasonality, including unexpected changes in weather conditions; 

&#8226; 

maintain brand loyalty and authenticity; 

&#8226; 

price our products in a competitive manner; 

&#8226; 

implement our Omni-Channel strategy, including providing a unique customer service experience; 

&#160; 

&#8226; 

implement our Business Transformation Project in a cost-effective manner; and 

&#8226; 

manage the impact on our business of the rapidly changing retail environment. 

We believe we are well positioned to compete in our industry. However, we cannot ensure that we will be able to compete effectively, and competitive pressure may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 

Employees 

At March 31, 2016 , we employed approximately 3,500 employees in the US, Europe, and Asia, none of whom were represented by a union. This figure includes approximately 2,000 employees in our retail stores worldwide, which includes part-time and seasonal employees. We employed approximately 3,400 employees at March 31, 2015 , including approximately 1,900 employees in our retail stores. The overall increase in employees during fiscal year 2016 was primarily related to the increase in retail employees as a result of the net increase in retail stores open at March 31, 2016 &#32;compared to March 31, 2015 . As we optimize our retail store fleet, we expect that our employee count will fluctuate accordingly. We believe that we have good relationships with our employees. 

Financial Information about Segments and Geographic Areas 

Our five reportable business segments include the strategic business units responsible for the worldwide operations of our brands' (UGG, Teva, Sanuk and other brands) wholesale divisions, as well as our DTC business. The majority of our sales and long-lived assets are in the US. Refer to Notes 12 and 13 to our accompanying consolidated financial statements in Part IV of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further discussion of our business segments. Refer to Note 13 of our accompanying consolidated financial statements in Part IV of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for financial information about geographic areas and concentration of related business risks. Refer to Part I, Item 1A, "Risk Factors" for a discussion of the risks related to our foreign operations. 

Government Regulation 

Compliance with federal, state, and local environmental regulations has not had, and it is not expected to have, any material effect on our capital expenditures, earnings, or competitive position based on information and circumstances known to us at this time. 

Available Information 

Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements, and any amendments to these reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, are available free of charge on our website at www.deckers.com. Such documents are available as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission. Our filings may also be read and copied at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC also maintains a website at www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. 

We also make available through our website the following corporate governance documents: Audit Committee Charter, Compensation Committee Charter, Corporate Governance Charter, Code of Ethics, Accounting and Finance Code of Conduct, Corporate Governance Guidelines, Conflict Minerals Report and Conflict Minerals Policy. 

The information contained on or accessed through our website does not constitute part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and references to our website address in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are inactive textual references only. 

&#160; 

