 ITEM 1. BUSINESS

&#160;

General Overview

Sparta Commercial Services, Inc. ("Sparta," "we," "us," or the "Company") is a Nevada corporation serving three markets. Sparta is a technology company that develops, markets and manages business mobile applications (mobile apps) for smartphones and tablets. The Company also owns and manages websites which sell on-demand motorcycle, recreational vehicle, power-sport vehicle and truck title history reports for consumers, retail dealers, auction houses, insurance companies and banks/finance companies. Lastly, since 2007, Sparta has administered leasing programs for local and/or state agencies seeking to finance municipal vehicles and equipment.

In 2016, the Company changed the name of its majority-owned subsidiary Specialty Reports, Inc., to iMobile Solutions, Inc. The new name reflects the Company&#8217;s strategic evolution and focus on the fast-growing mobile application market.

Sparta&#8217;s mobile application (mobile app) offerings have broadened our base beyond our original base of vehicle dealers to include a wide range of businesses including, but not limited to, racetracks, private clubs, country clubs, restaurants and grocery stores. We also offer a private label version of our mobile app framework to enable other businesses to offer custom apps to their customers.

The Company&#8217;s vehicle history reports include Cyclechex (Motorcycle History Reports at www.cyclechex.com ); RVchecks (Recreational Vehicle History Reports at www.rvchecks.com ); CarVINreport (Automobile Reports at www.carvinreport.com ) and Truckchex (Heavy Duty Truck History Reports at www.truckchex.com ). Our Vehicle History Reports are designed for consumers, retail dealers, auction houses, insurance companies and banks/finance companies.

Sparta also administers a Municipal Leasing Program for local and/or state agencies throughout the country who are seeking a better and more economical way to finance their essential equipment needs, including police motorcycles, cruisers, buses, and EMS equipment. We are continuing to expand our roster of equipment manufacturers and the types of equipment we lease.

Sparta&#8217;s offices are located at 28 West 44th Street, Suite 2001, New York, NY 10036, (212) 239-2666. The Company maintains a corporate website at www.spartacommercial.com .

We identify our ongoing information technology business in two reporting groups: mobile apps and vehicle history reports, both of which operate under our wholly owned subsidiary, iMobile Solutions, Inc.

MOBILE APPS

Sparta creates mobile applications (mobile apps) for small and medium-size businesses under the tradename iMobileApp. iMobileApp employs a subscription business model and is positioned as a fast and affordable way for businesses to develop and launch a mobile app. The iMobileApp platform allows businesses to have a high-quality, fully functioning custom mobile app often at a lower cost than traditional marketing efforts, and typically at a significantly lower cost than a website.

The Company has developed and managed mobile apps since 2011, creating hundreds of mobile apps for a wide variety of businesses for customers in 49 states and Canada. Today, iMobileApp is the largest provider of mobile apps to the Harley-Davidson dealership network.

Mobile apps are becoming one of the most important digital tools that a consumer-facing business can employ. Smartphones and tablets are now the leading devices for accessing the internet, and it is estimated that upwards of 80% of mobile use time is dedicated to utilizing mobile apps. As consumers become more mobile, businesses are increasingly seeing the need to as well. Currently, the mobile app development industry serving small to medium-sized businesses is fragmented, and the Company believes that iMobileApp can become a brand leader in this category.

An iMobileApp provides consumers easy access to a business website simply by touching the Company&#8217;s application icon. There is no need to search for or type in a web address. iMobileApp has dozens of basic and advanced functions, including providing businesses the ability to send a segmented promotional message that appears on the consumer&#8217;s mobile device front page, rather than in an email or text message. &#8220;Geo-fencing&#8221; is a feature that allows businesses to message customers who are in the vicinity of their store or event, or even when visiting a competitor.

The iMobileApp pricing model includes a modest up-front development fee, and an auto-renewing monthly subscription. Once a business launches an iMobileApp, Sparta provides them with marketing tools to assist their customers in downloading the mobile app from the Apple and Android app stores. The Company offers two levels of on-going maintenance and support. The basic subscription provides training, technical support and software updates. The premium-priced program adds a fully managed feature, allowing businesses to contact iMobileApp Customer Service who will initiate campaigns, promotional messaging, and other iMobileApp features on behalf of the client.

&#160;

A partial listing of iMobileApp features includes:

Mobile Client Framework (&#8220;MCF&#8221;) - Our mobile framework software allows us to provide customized apps that can be installed on the individual mobile devices and deployed through the Apple and Android app stores.

Content Management System (CMS) -iMobileApp customers can use our web-based content management system to upload images to their mobile app, change text content, change colors, organize the order of tabs, and publish updates to the app.

Customized Registration System - iMobileApp customers can elect to present their users with a registration screen on startup that collects information such as first name, last name, email address and telephone number in order to track marketing information and push individual notification messages for future functionality.

Push Notification System &#8211; A direct communication channel between businesses and their mobile app users. Allows brands to socialize directly with their very best customers, anytime, anywhere, to build a relationship at a one-to-one level.

Geo-Fencing Feature &#8211; Allows businesses to create an invisible &#8220;message fence&#8221; around a specific geographic area. When their app users are within the fenced area, the user receives a pre-programmed message on their device. This is especially useful when businesses have special promotions or events they would like to advertise to nearby users who are most likely to take advantage of them. Businesses can also &#8220;geo-fence&#8221; around a competitor, offering their users special promotions before they enter the competitor&#8217;s venue.

Inventory Display Manager &#8211; Business can manage, display and sell from their inventory on their mobile app. Inventory can be integrated through web link, hand-key, or inventory management data feed.

Event Manager &#8211; Business can manage and display upcoming events on their mobile app. Customers can view the event calendar, RSVP and Inventory can be integrated through web link, hand-key, or inventory management data feed.

Quick Dial Feature &#8211; Users tap the Quick Dial option to get a list of the business phone numbers on their mobile phones. The user selects the number to dial by putting their finger on the number. The business can add, remove, and edit phone numbers that appear in the Quick Dial screen from their CMS.

QR Code Creator - The app customer can create QR codes from the CMS system and specify the action that should occur when a user scans the code. Actions include displaying information contained in the code, opening a URL, etc.

Multi-Location Management &#8211; Business can add and manage multiple locations on their app, each with distinct hours of operations, user database and notification segmentation. Businesses pay subscription fees for each location they wish to include in their app. Customers can use the client customization portal to add locations to their mobile app.

Marketing and Branding of iMobileApp

Marketing Materials - The CMS allows app customers to download stock artwork, including banners for website display, and to help promote their products and services.

Embedded Product Developer and SRI Branding - The &#8220;about&#8221; screen of the application contains information useful to the support of the product. It also contains a powered-by-the-product-developer logo and text. SRI can choose to use a different logo, but the powered-by-the-product-developer text remains on the &#8220;about&#8221; screen.

App store and Google Android Distribution - All native applications are deployed through the product developer&#8217;s App store and Android Market Place online accounts.

Marketing information - If an app customer has enabled first-time user data collection then that information will be available to the app customer on their portal.

&#160;

VEHICLE HISTORY REPORTS

The vehicle history report group is currently marketing through its websites: Cyclechex Motorcycle History Reports&#169; (www.cyclechex.com), RVchex&#8482; RV History Reports (www.rvchex.com), CarVinReport Car History Reports (www.carvinreports.com) and Truckchex Heavy Duty Truck History Reports (www.truckchex.com). These reports contain valuable information for consumers, dealers, insurers, auction houses, and lenders. The information includes a vehicle&#8217;s history, such as disclosed damage, salvaged or rebuilt title brands, the number of previous owners, the last recorded odometer reading, the manufacturer&#8217;s original equipment, and OEM recall data. We assemble the data for these reports from multiple sources, including, but not limited to, governmental agencies, in order to provide the most current information available for the benefit of all interested parties. We believe our products offer a compelling value because they are priced modestly and we provide a no-hassle, 90-day, and 100% money-back guarantee. We are confident that our Specialty Reports provide buyers and sellers the peace of mind that comes from being able to make an informed decision.

In June 2010, iMobile Solutions, Inc. entered into an exclusive five-year agreement with a U.S. government authorized third-party distributor of on-line data from National Motor Vehicle Title System (NMVTIS) for NMVTIS data on motorcycles, scooters, ATVs and recreational vehicles.

NMVTIS is an information system that federal law required the United States Department of Justice to establish and to provide an electronic means to verify vehicle title, brand, and theft data among motor vehicle administrators, law enforcement officials, prospective purchasers and insurance carriers. NMVTIS was initially authorized in the Anti-Car Theft Act of 1992 and reauthorized by the Anti-Car Theft Improvements Act of 1996. After passage of the 1996 reauthorization, responsibility was transferred from the U.S. Department of Transportation to the U.S. Department of Justice. The NMVTIS system is a Department of Justice program currently operated by the American Association of Motor Vehicle Administrators (AAMVA). The system also provides a means for states to share title information in order to prevent fraud and other crime.

NMVTIS was created to:

&#183; Prevent the introduction or reintroduction of stolen motor vehicles into interstate commerce 

&#183; Protect states, consumers (both individual and commercial), and other entities from fraud 

&#183; Reduce the use of stolen vehicles for illicit purposes including funding of criminal enterprises 

&#183; Provide consumer protection from unsafe vehicles 

NMVTIS information is supplied by state motor vehicle agency records and entire sectors (e.g., insurance, auto recyclers/junk/salvage, etc.) addressed by the Anti-Car Theft Act. As opposed to purchasing information from specific businesses or companies, entities are required to provide specific information to NMVTIS in a specific format. NMVTIS is intended to serve as a reliable source of title and brand history for automobiles, motorcycles and other vehicles. However, there are certain pieces of vehicle history data that NMVTIS&#8217; database does not contain; for example, a vehicle's repair history. Currently the data provided to NMVTIS by states is provided in a variety of time frames; while some report and update NVMTIS data in real-time (as title transactions occur) others send updates less frequently, such as once every 24 hours or within a period of days.

This information is available to consumers and dealers on Specialty Reports&#8217; website located at www.cyclechex.com. Cyclechex is similar to CARFAX&#174; in that it provides on-line vehicle history reports, for a fee, based on the vehicle&#8217;s VIN. However, neither CARFAX&#174; nor AutoCheck&#174; offers information on motorcycles, scooters, ATVs or recreational vehicles.

Vehicle History Reports benefit consumers:

&#9679; Consumers can purchase reports directly from the Cyclechex, RVchex, Truckchex or CarVinReport website

&#9679; Consumers can purchase reports via an Affiliate website

Vehicle History Reports benefit dealers:

&#9679; Dealers can purchase a block of history reports from Cyclechex, RVchex, Truckchex or CarVinReport (with pricing incentives to purchase a larger quantity of reports)

&#9679; Reports facilitate acceptance of trade-in vehicles and add value to the purchase of any pre-owned motorcycle, RV, automobile, light truck or heavy-duty truck

&#9679; Dealers can resell reports to customers

Vehicle History Reports Affiliate Program:

&#9679; Dealers and other industry sources can incorporate the Cyclechex, RVchex, Truckchex or CarVinReport website linking their sales and marketing strategies

&#9679; Affiliates earn commission on Cyclechex, RVchex, Truckchex or CarVinReport history reports generated from their sites 

Cyclechex Motorcycle History Reports&#174;

Cyclechex Motorcycle History Reports (Cyclechex.com) contain valuable information for consumers, motorcycle dealers, insurers, auction houses, and lenders including whether a pre-owned motorcycle is a specific model year, make and model, if it has reported damage, its title history including the last recorded odometer reading, any salvage or damaged titles, the manufacturer&#8217;s original equipment, and OEM recall data.

For consumers looking to buy a pre-owned motorcycle or a retail motorcycle dealer considering a trade-in or the purchase of other used motorcycles, a Cyclechex Motorcycle History Report can be invaluable. Moreover, for those dealers who want to provide a higher level of confidence to a potential buyer about the true history of the motorcycle being considered for purchase, the Cyclechex Motorcycle History Report is an outstanding sales support tool.

Our system extracts information from multiple sources, including, but not limited to, governmental agencies, in order to provide the most current information available for the benefit of all interested parties. With a no-hassle, 100% money-back guarantee, and at a modest cost, a Cyclechex Motorcycle History Report provide buyers and sellers peace of mind for decision-making. This critical information is available to any interested party by entering a seventeen digit Vehicle Identification Number (VIN), which covers vehicles dating back to 1981, on our website.

In February 2014, we announced a reciprocal marketing agreement with Allstate insurance company that makes Cyclechex Motorcycle History Reports a recommended tool for Allstate customers.

RVchex&#8482; Recreational Vehicle History Reports

RV History Reports (RVchex.com) contains important and valuable information about any reported damage, salvage, and other relevant data concerning a particular pre-owned RV. Our system extracts information from multiple data sources, including, but not limited to, government agencies throughout the United States. RVchex.com delivers up-to-date, accurate information to consumers, RV dealers, lenders, insurers, and other interested parties, and we offer a no-hassle, 100% money-back guarantee. This critical information is available to any interested party by entering a seventeen digit Vehicle Identification Number (VIN) on our website.

Truckchex Heavy Duty Truck History Reports

The Truckchex Heavy Duty Truck History Report (Truckchex.com) contains valuable information for truck drivers, trucking companies, dealers, insurers, auction houses, and lenders, including whether a specific pre-owned commercial truck has reported damage, recorded accidents, post-accident inspections, inspection violations, the last recorded odometer reading, any salvage or damaged titles, the manufacturer&#8217;s original equipment, and OEM recall data. Our system extracts information from multiple data sources, including, but not limited to, governmental agencies throughout the United States. Truckchecks.com delivers up-to-date, accurate to consumers, truck dealers, lenders, insurers, and other interested parties, and we offer a no-hassle, 100% money-back guarantee. This critical information is available to any interested party by entering a seventeen digit Vehicle Identification Number (VIN) on our website.

CarVin Reports

CarVINreport.com is an online provider of Automobile History Reports. The CarVinReport Car History Report (CarVINreport.com) contains extremely valuable information for consumers, dealers, insurers, auction houses, and lenders, including whether a specific pre-owned automobile has Salvage or Rebuilt Title status or has sustained Flood Damage, the last recorded odometer reading, the manufacturer's original equipment, and OEM recall data. For consumers looking to buy a pre-owned automobile or a retail automobile dealer considering a trade-in or the purchase of other used automobiles, a CarVinReport Car History Report can be invaluable. Moreover, for those dealers who want to provide a higher level of confidence to a potential buyer about the true condition of the automobile being considered for purchase, the CarVinReport Car History Report is an outstanding sales support tool.

The following websites are among those affiliated with iMobile Solutions, Inc. used to appropriately direct customer inquiries:

www.dmv.org 

www.kbb.com 

www.motorcycle-histories.com 

www.motorcycleshippers.jcmotors.com 

www.nadaguides.com 

www.cyclepedia.com 

http://www.allstateridernews.com/offers 

&#160;

&#160;

Each of our four-vehicle history reports search government databases for over 90 types of vehicle title problems and over 28 million Salvage or Loss title records. Our reports provide some, if not all, of the following information:

Crushed Vehicles

Disclosed Damage

Last Recorded Odometer Reading

Manufacturers&#8217; Recall History

Manufacturers&#8217; Specifications

Multi-State Searches

Rebuilt Titles

Salvage-Stolen Titles

Salvaged or Damaged Titles

VIN Decoding

Crash Data

Inspection Data

MARKETING AND SALES

Marketing

Our marketing starts with product development. We create compelling products that; (i) in the case of iMobile Solutions, Inc. and iMobileApp, provide a variety of small to mid-sized businesses with a state-of-the-art mobile application, and (ii) in the case of our four vehicle history report products, provide historical title information that assists consumers in purchase decision-making and dealers, auction houses, or other entities in making a sale or evaluating a vehicle.

&#160;

iMobile Solutions, Inc. (iMS)

The primary marketing objective for iMS is to continue penetrating new business verticals and to be the leader is mobile app development for growing businesses. While an iMobileApp can benefit any business, the Company identifies and focuses marketing efforts on specific verticals to build a presence in certain industries and become the &#8220;go-to&#8221; mobile app developer for those markets. As we continue to target franchised vehicle dealers by type of product and manufacturer by specifically approaching each dealership in their dealer network to promote our iMS mobile application we are gaining market share of the vehicle dealer marketplace. By selling our mobile applications throughout one manufacturer&#8217;s dealer network, we benefit from &#8220;word of mouth&#8221; referrals while building a recognizable presence in that particular market. For example, a leading motorcycle manufacturer has over 1,400 authorized dealers worldwide. By penetrating this market, we significantly improve our credibility with their entire dealer network, resulting in the individual dealers being more receptive to our sales call, and making them more likely to purchase an iMobileApp.and refer us to other dealers.

Additional marketing is done through targeted advertising as well as news stories in relevant trade publications.

iMobileApp (iMA)

There are two primary areas of focus to continue gaining market share for iMA &#8211; digital marketing and targeted sales efforts.

The digital marketing strategy is predicated on the fact that the business mobile app marketplace is emerging and highly fragmented. In parallel, the web is not yet dominated by any one business mobile app competitor. Our strategy is to build a strong digital web presence that will help grow our business in the short term, and establish iMA as the market leader in web search as the industry consolidates. The cornerstone of our digital strategy is a state-of-the-art web management platform (see www.iMobileApp.com) that is highly search engine optimized (SEO) in structure and content. Page rank and traffic will increase over time as we support the website with traffic building efforts through blogging, social networking, ad-clicks, remarketing, and continual technical and content optimization. The goal is to have a leadership market share in organic and accidental search for businesses seeking mobile application solutions.

Traditional sales and marketing efforts will be employed against key categories that have an established high level of acceptance for mobile apps and/or in which iMA has already established market share. Efforts include inside sales calls, email campaigns, category trade association marketing, and customer referrals.

Vehicle History Reports

&#160;

The vehicle categories that we are targeting - motorcycles, recreational vehicles and commercial trucks &#8211; are not the focus of our largest competitors (CARFAX, AutoCheck). Distribution in the vehicle history reports industry is web-based, and digital competition in our targeted categories is relatively weak and fragmented. Our digital strategy is to become the leading search result for consumers seeking information on used powersports vehicles RV&#8217;s, and heavy-duty trucks. We employ an advanced web management platform that is highly search engine optimized (SEO). Page rank and traffic will increase over time as we support the website with traffic building efforts through blogging, social networking, ad-clicks, remarketing, and continual technical and content optimization.

An equally important digital strategy is our affiliate and cross-marketing programs. By working with leading companies that serve this category &#8211; like NADA guides, DMV.org, Kelley Blue Book, and AllState &#8211; we are able to cross-promote our powersports and RV history reporting products on their websites. Consumers who are on affiliate or marketing partner sites can become aware of our reporting services and click through to our websites. If a purchase is completed, the referring affiliate receives a commission on the sale or in some cases may extend a discount to their customers.

In December 2010, Powersports Business chose Cyclechex as one of their &#8220;Nifty 50&#8221; winners, recognizing it as one of the top 50 new powersports products introduced during the year.

SRI has considerable opportunity to increase brand awareness and grow traffic through product development, targeted marketing programs and strategic partnerships.

Sales and Customer Support

Our sales team for Mobile Applications work out of our New York City office, with field reps in Colorado, New Jersey, and South Carolina.

The sales team is responsible for closing sales on leads generated from web inquires, email responses, inside sales calls and customer referrals. The team targets businesses, trade associations, national chains, manufacturers, vehicle dealers and vehicle auction houses.

Customer service is based in our New York office.

Competition

While there are numerous entities offering customized mobile apps, we believe that iMobileAppis the leading pre-packaged customizable mobile app for small to medium sized business, such as restaurants, country clubs, social clubs, racetracks, grocery stores, vehicle dealers, and more, at a price point significantly below other vendors of customized apps for the vehicle dealer industry.

Because of our strong customer service and our roots in marketing, we believe that our iMobileApp product can be effectively and competitively marketed.

The two major providers of used automobile history reports, CarFax&#174; and AutoCheck&#174; do not provide motorcycle, recreational vehicle or heavy duty truck history reports. In fact, CarFax states on their website that their database contains records primarily of cars and light trucks and &#8220;for heavy trucks, RVs, or motorcycles, CARFAX recommends checking with your DMV, enthusiast forums, and of course a pre-purchase vehicle inspection.&#8221; AutoCheck states on its web site &#8220;AutoCheck only reports on information for cars and light trucks.&#8221; Based on our existing roster of Cyclechex affiliates and current negotiations for additional affiliates, we do not see any company as a significant competitor at this time. We have not identified direct competition of the RV space and do not intend to compete directly with either CarFax&#174; or AutoCheck&#174;.

MUNICIPAL LEASING OF EQUIPMENT, INCLUDING POLICE MOTORCYCLES

Notwithstanding our discontinuance of consumer financing, we continue to offer, on a pass through basis, an equipment-leasing product for local and state agencies throughout the country seeking a better and more economical way to finance their essential equipment needs, including police motorcycles and cruisers, buses and EMS equipment. We are continuing to expand our roster of equipment manufacturers and the types of equipment we lease to agencies.

&#160;

DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS

&#160;

As discussed in NOTE C to the consolidated financial statements, in August 2013, the Company&#8217;s Board of Directors approved management&#8217;s recommendation to discontinue the Company&#8217;s consumer lease and loan business segments and the sale of all of the Company&#8217;s portfolio of RISCs, and a portion of its portfolio of leases. The sale was consummated in that quarter. The assets, liabilities and results of operations have been accounted for as discontinued operations in the Company&#8217;s consolidated financial statements for all periods presented. &#160; 

&#160;

As the Company sold all of its portfolio of RISCs, and a portion of its portfolio of leases with the remaining leases in final run-off mode (paying-off and terminating as agreed or by repossession), therefore no portfolio performance measures were calculated for the years ended April 30, 2016 and 2015 and the Company has discontinued segment reporting.

&#160;

Regulation

Our prior financing operations were and are subject to regulation, supervision, and licensing under various federal, state, and local statutes and ordinances. Additionally, the procedures that we must follow in connection with the repossession of vehicles securing contracts are regulated by each of the states in which we do business. Accordingly, the laws of such states, as well as applicable federal law, govern our operations. Compliance with existing laws and regulations has not had a material adverse effect on our operations to date. Our management believes that we maintain all requisite licenses and permits and are in material compliance with all applicable local, state, and federal laws and regulations. We periodically review our office practices in an effort to ensure such compliance.

&#160;

The following constitute certain of the federal, state, and local statutes and ordinances with which we must comply:

&#160;

&#183; Fair Debt Collection Practices Act. The Fair Debt Collection Practices Act and applicable state law counterparts prohibit us from contacting customers during certain times and at certain places, from using certain threatening practices and from making false implications when attempting to collect a debt. 

&#183; Truth in Lending Act. The Truth in Lending Act requires us and the dealers we do business with to make certain disclosures to customers, including the terms of repayment, the total finance charge, and the annual percentage rate charged on each contract. 

&#160;

&#183; Consumer Leasing Act. The Consumer Leasing Act applies to any lease of consumer goods for more than four months. The law requires the seller to disclose information such as the amount of initial payment, number of monthly payments, total amount for fees, penalties for default, and other information before a lease is signed. 

&#160;

&#183; The Consumer Credit Protection Act of 1968. The Act required creditors to state the cost of borrowing in a common language so that the consumer can figure out what the charges are, compare costs, and shop for the best credit deal. 

&#183; Equal Credit Opportunity Act. The Equal Credit Opportunity Act prohibits creditors from discriminating against loan applicants based on race, color, sex, age, or marital status. Pursuant to Regulation B promulgated under the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, creditors are required to make certain disclosures regarding consumer rights and advise consumers whose credit applications are not approved of the reasons for the rejection. 

&#183; Fair Credit Reporting Act. The Fair Credit Reporting Act requires us to provide certain information to consumers whose credit applications are not approved on the basis of a report obtained from a consumer reporting agency. 

&#183; Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act. The Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act requires us to maintain privacy with respect to certain consumer data in our possession and to periodically communicate with consumers on privacy matters. 

&#183; Soldiers&#8217; and Sailors&#8217; Civil Relief Act. The Soldiers&#8217; and Sailor&#8217;s Civil Relief Act requires us to reduce the interest rate charged on each loan to customers who have subsequently joined, enlisted, been inducted or called to active military duty, if requested to do so. 

&#160;

&#160;

&#183; Electronic Funds Transfer Act. The Electronic Funds Transfer Act prohibits us from requiring our customers to repay a loan or other credit by electronic funds transfer (&#8220;EFT&#8221;), except in limited situations that do not apply to us. We are also required to provide certain documentation to our customers when an EFT is initiated and to provide certain notifications to our customers with regard to preauthorized payments. 

&#160;

&#183; Telephone Consumer Protection Act. The Telephone Consumer Protection Act prohibits telephone solicitation calls to a customer&#8217;s home before 8 a.m. or after 9 p.m. In addition, if we make a telephone solicitation call to a customer&#8217;s home, the representative making the call must provide his or her name, our name, and a telephone number or address at which our representative may be contacted. The Telephone Consumer Protection Act also requires that we maintain a record of any requests by customers not to receive future telephone solicitations, which must be maintained for five years. 

&#183; Bankruptcy. Federal bankruptcy and related state laws may interfere with or affect our ability to recover collateral or enforce a deficiency judgment. 

&#183; Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act authorized the creation of a Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection. The impact on the Company of the newly created agency is unknown at this time as the agency is yet to be formed. 

&#160;

Employees

As of April 30, 2016, we had 11 full-time employees.

&#160;

