 ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

Ross Stores, Inc. and its subsidiaries (&#8220;we&#8221; or the &#8220;Company&#8221;) operate two brands of off-price retail apparel and home fashion &#32; stores&#8212;Ross Dress for Less &#174; &#32;(&#8220;Ross&#8221;) and dd&#8217;s DISCOUNTS &#174; . 

Ross is the largest off-price apparel and home fashion chain in the United States, with 1,274 &#32;locations in 34 states, the District of Columbia and Guam , as of January 30, 2016 . Ross offers first-quality, in-season, name brand and designer apparel, accessories, footwear, and home fashions for the entire family at savings of 20% to 60% off department and specialty store regular prices every day. Ross' target customers are primarily from middle income households. 

We also operate 172 &#32;dd&#8217;s DISCOUNTS stores in 15 states &#32;as of January 30, 2016 . dd's DISCOUNTS features more moderately-priced first-quality, in-season, name brand apparel, accessories, footwear, and home fashions for the entire family at savings of 20% to 70% off moderate department and discount store regular prices every day. The typical dd&#8217;s DISCOUNTS store is located in an established shopping center in a densely populated urban or suburban neighborhood and its target customers typically come from households with more moderate incomes than Ross customers. 

The merchant, store field, and distribution organizations for Ross and dd&#8217;s DISCOUNTS are separate and distinct. The two chains share certain other corporate and support services. 

Both our Ross and dd's DISCOUNTS brands target value-conscious women and men between the ages of 18 and 54. The decisions we make, from merchandising, purchasing, and pricing, to the locations of our stores, are based on these customer profiles. We believe that both brands derive a competitive advantage by offering a wide assortment of product within each of our merchandise categories in organized and easy-to-shop store environments. 

Our mission is to offer competitive values to our target customers by focusing on the following key strategic objectives: 

&#8226; Maintain an appropriate level of recognizable brands, labels, and fashions at strong discounts throughout the store. 

&#8226; Meet customer needs on a local basis. 

&#8226; Deliver an in-store shopping experience that reflects the expectations of the off-price customer. 

&#8226; Manage real estate growth to compete effectively across all our markets. 

We refer to our fiscal years ended January 30, 2016 , January 31, 2015 , and February 1, 2014 &#32;as fiscal 2015 , fiscal 2014 , and fiscal 2013 , respectively, all of which were 52-week years. 

Merchandising, Purchasing, and Pricing 

We seek to provide our customers with a wide assortment of first-quality, in-season, brand name and designer apparel, accessories, footwear, and home merchandise for the entire family at savings of 20% to 60% below department and specialty store regular prices every day at Ross, and 20% to 70% below moderate department and discount store regular prices at dd&#8217;s DISCOUNTS. We sell recognizable brand name merchandise that is current and fashionable in each category. New merchandise typically is received from three to six times per week at both Ross and dd&#8217;s DISCOUNTS stores. Our buyers review their merchandise assortments on a weekly basis, enabling them to respond to selling trends and purchasing opportunities in the market. Our merchandising strategy is reflected in our advertising, which emphasizes a strong value message. Our stores offer a treasure-hunt shopping experience where customers can find great savings every day on a broad assortment of brand name bargains for the family and the home. 

Merchandising. Our merchandising strategy incorporates a combination of off-price buying techniques to purchase advance-of-season, in-season, and past-season merchandise for both Ross and dd&#8217;s DISCOUNTS. We believe nationally recognized name brands sold at compelling discounts will continue to be an important determinant of our success. We generally leave the brand name label on the merchandise we sell. 

We have established merchandise assortments that we believe are attractive to our target customers. Although we offer fewer classifications of merchandise than most department stores, we generally offer a large selection within each classification with a wide assortment of vendors, labels, prices, colors, styles, and fabrics within each size or item. Our merchandise offerings include, but are not limited to, apparel (including footwear and accessories), small furniture, home accents, bed and bath, toys, luggage, gourmet food, cookware, watches, and sporting goods. 

Purchasing. We have a combined network of approximately 8,300 &#32;merchandise vendors and manufacturers for both Ross and dd&#8217;s DISCOUNTS and believe we have adequate sources of first-quality merchandise to meet our requirements. We purchase the vast majority of our merchandise directly from manufacturers, and we have not experienced any difficulty in obtaining sufficient merchandise inventory. 

We believe our ability to effectively execute certain off-price buying strategies is a key factor in our success. Our buyers use a number of methods that enable us to offer our customers brand name and designer merchandise at strong discounts every day relative to department and specialty stores for Ross and moderate department and discount stores for dd&#8217;s DISCOUNTS. By purchasing later in the merchandise buying cycle than department, specialty, and discount stores, we are able to take advantage of imbalances between retailers&#8217; demand for products and manufacturers&#8217; supply of those products. 

Unlike most department and specialty stores, we typically do not require that manufacturers provide promotional allowances, co-op advertising allowances, return privileges, split shipments, drop shipments to stores, or delayed deliveries of merchandise. For most orders, only one delivery is made to one of our six &#32;distribution centers. These flexible requirements further enable our buyers to obtain significant discounts on in-season purchases. 

The majority of the apparel and apparel-related merchandise that we offer in all of our stores is acquired through opportunistic purchases created by manufacturer overruns and canceled orders both during and at the end of a season. These buys are referred to as "close-out" purchases. Close-outs can be shipped to stores in-season, allowing us to get in-season goods into our stores at great values or can be stored as packaway merchandise. 

Packaway merchandise is purchased with the intent that it will be stored in our warehouses until a later date, which may even be the beginning of the same selling season in the following year. Packaway purchases are an effective method of increasing the percentage of prestige and national brands at competitive savings within our merchandise assortments. Packaway merchandise is mainly fashion basics and, therefore, not usually affected by shifts in fashion trends. 

In fiscal 2015 , we continued our emphasis on this important sourcing strategy in response to compelling opportunities available in the marketplace. Packaway accounted for approximately 47% &#32;and 45% &#32;of total inventories as of January 30, 2016 &#32;and January 31, 2015 , respectively. We believe the strong discounts we are able to offer on packaway merchandise are one of the key drivers of our business results. 

Our primary buying offices are located in New York City and Los Angeles, the nation's two largest apparel markets. These strategic locations allow our buyers to be in the market on a daily basis, sourcing opportunities and negotiating purchases with vendors and manufacturers. These locations also enable our buyers to strengthen vendor relationships&#8212;a key element to the success of our off-price buying strategies. 

At the end of fiscal 2015 , we had approximately 730 &#32;merchants for Ross and dd&#8217;s DISCOUNTS combined. The Ross and dd&#8217;s DISCOUNTS buying organizations are separate and distinct, and each includes merchandise management, buyers, and assistant buyers. Ross and dd&#8217;s DISCOUNTS buyers have on average eight &#32;years of experience, including merchandising positions with other retailers such as Bloomingdale's, Burlington Stores, Foot Locker, Kohl&#8217;s, Loehmann&#8217;s, Lord &#38; Taylor, Macy's, Nordstrom, Saks, and TJX. We expect to continue to make additional targeted investments in our merchant organization to further develop our relationships with an expanding number of manufacturers and vendors. Our ongoing objective is to strengthen our ability to procure the most desirable brands and fashions at competitive discounts. 

The off-price buying strategies utilized by our experienced team of merchants enable us to purchase Ross merchandise at net prices that are lower than prices paid by department and specialty stores, and to purchase dd&#8217;s DISCOUNTS merchandise at net prices that are lower than prices paid by moderate department and discount stores. 

Pricing. Our policy is to sell brand name merchandise at Ross that is priced 20% to 60% below most department and specialty store regular prices. At dd&#8217;s DISCOUNTS, we sell more moderate brand name product and fashions that are priced 20% to 70% below most moderate department and discount store regular prices. Our pricing policy is reflected on the price tag displaying our selling price as well as the comparable value for that item in department and specialty stores for Ross merchandise, or in more moderate department and discount stores for dd&#8217;s DISCOUNTS merchandise. 

Our pricing strategy at Ross differs from that of a department or specialty store. We purchase our merchandise at lower prices and mark it up less than a department or specialty store. This strategy enables us to offer customers consistently low prices and compelling value. On a weekly basis our buyers review specified departments in our stores for possible markdowns based on the rate of sale as well as at the end of fashion seasons to promote faster turnover of merchandise inventory and to accelerate the flow of fresh product. A similar pricing strategy is in place at dd&#8217;s DISCOUNTS where prices are compared to those in moderate department and discount stores. 

Stores 

As of January 30, 2016 , we operated a total of 1,446 &#32;stores comprised of 1,274 &#32;Ross stores and 172 &#32;dd&#8217;s DISCOUNTS stores. Our stores are located predominantly in community and neighborhood shopping centers in heavily populated urban and suburban areas. Where the size of the market and real estate opportunities permit, we cluster Ross stores to benefit from economies of scale in advertising, distribution, and field management. We do the same for dd&#8217;s DISCOUNTS stores. 

We believe a key element of our success at both Ross and dd&#8217;s DISCOUNTS is our organized, attractive, easy-to-shop, in-store environments which allow customers to shop at their own pace. While our stores promote a self-service, treasure hunt shopping experience, the layouts are designed to enhance customer convenience in their merchandise presentation, dressing rooms, checkout, and merchandise return areas. Our store's sales area is based on a prototype single floor design with a racetrack aisle layout. A customer can locate desired departments by signs displayed just below the ceiling of each department. We enable our customers to select among sizes and prices through prominent category and sizing markers. At most stores, shopping carts and/or baskets are available at the entrance for customer convenience. Cash registers are primarily located at store exits for customer ease and efficient staffing. 

We accept a variety of payment methods. We provide refunds on all merchandise (not used, worn, or altered) returned with a receipt within 30 days. Merchandise returns having a receipt older than 30 days are exchanged or refunded with store credit. 

Operating Costs 

Consistent with the other aspects of our business strategy, we strive to keep operating costs as low as possible. Among the factors which have enabled us to do this are: labor costs that are generally lower than full-price department and specialty stores due to a store design that creates a self-service retail format and due to the utilization of labor saving technologies; economies of scale with respect to general and administrative costs resulting from centralized merchandising, marketing, and purchasing decisions; and flexible store layout criteria which facilitate conversion of existing buildings to our formats. 

Information Systems 

We continue to invest in new information systems and technology to provide a platform for growth over the next several years. Recent initiatives include enhancements to our data security, merchandising, distribution, transportation, and store systems. These initiatives support future growth, the execution and achievement of our plans, as well as ongoing stability and compliance. 

Distribution 

We own and operate six &#32; distribution processing facilities&#8212;three in California, one in Pennsylvania, and two in South Carolina. We ship all of our merchandise to our stores through these distribution centers, which are large, highly automated, and built to suit our specific off-price business model. 

Currently we own four &#32;and lease three &#32;other warehouse facilities for packaway storage. We also use other third-party facilities as needed for storage of packaway inventory. 

We utilize third-party cross dock facilities to distribute merchandise to stores on a regional basis. Shipments are made by contract carriers to the stores three to six times per week depending on location. 

We believe that our distribution centers with their current expansion capabilities will provide adequate processing capacity to support our current store growth. Information on the size and locations of our distribution centers and warehouse facilities is found under &#8220;Properties&#8221; in Item 2. 

Advertising 

Advertising for Ross Dress for Less relies primarily on television to communicate the Ross value proposition&#8212; savings off the same brands carried at leading department or specialty stores every day. This strategy reflects our belief that television is the most efficient and cost effective medium for communicating our brand position. While television is our primary advertising medium, we continue to utilize additional channels, including social media, to communicate our brand position. Advertising for dd&#8217;s DISCOUNTS is primarily focused on new store grand openings and local media initiatives. 

Trademarks 

The trademarks for Ross Dress For Less &#174; &#32;and dd&#8217;s DISCOUNTS &#174; &#32;have been registered with the United States Patent and Trademark Office. 

Employees 

As of January 30, 2016 , we had approximately 77,800 &#32;total employees, which includes both full and part-time employees. Additionally, we hire temporary employees especially during the peak seasons. Our employees are non-union. Management considers the relationship between the Company and our employees to be good. 

Competition 

We believe the principal competitive factors in the off-price retail apparel and home fashion industry are offering significant discounts on brand name merchandise, offering a well-balanced assortment that appeals to our target customers, and consistently providing store environments that are convenient and easy to shop. To execute this concept, we continue to make strategic investments in our merchandising organization. We also continue to make improvements to our core merchandising system to strengthen our ability to plan, buy, and allocate product based on more local versus regional trends. We believe that we are well-positioned to compete based on each of these factors. 

Nevertheless, the retail apparel market is highly fragmented and competitive. We face a challenging macro-economic and retail environment that creates intense competition for business from department stores, specialty stores, discount stores, warehouse stores, other off-price retailers, and manufacturer-owned outlet stores, many of which are units of large national or regional chains that have substantially greater resources. We also compete to some degree with retailers that sell apparel and home fashions through catalogs or online. The retail apparel and home-related businesses may become even more competitive in the future. 

Available Information 

The internet address for our corporate website is www.rossstores.com. Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, Proxy Statements, and any amendments to those reports are made available free of charge on or through the Investors section of our corporate website promptly after being electronically filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The information found on our corporate website is not part of this, or any other report or regulatory filing we file with or furnish to the Securities and Exchange Commission. 

