 Item 1. 

Business 

ABOUT US 

Netflix, Inc. (&#8220;Netflix&#8221;, &#8220;the Company&#8221;, &#8220;we&#8221;, or &#8220;us&#8221;) is the world&#8217;s leading Internet television network with over 75 million streaming members in over 190 countries enjoying more than 125 million hours of TV shows and movies per day, including original series, documentaries and feature films. Our members can watch as much as they want, anytime, anywhere, on nearly any Internet-connected screen. Members can play, pause and resume watching, all without commercials or commitments. Additionally, in the United States ("U.S."), our members can receive DVDs delivered quickly to their homes. 

We are a pioneer in the Internet delivery of TV shows and movies, launching our streaming service in 2007. Since this launch, we have developed an ecosystem for Internet-connected screens and have added increasing amounts of content that enable consumers to enjoy TV shows and movies directly on their Internet-connected screens. As a result of these efforts, we have experienced growing consumer acceptance of, and interest in, the delivery of TV shows and movies directly over the Internet. 

Our core strategy is to grow our streaming membership business globally within the parameters of our consolidated net income and operating segment contribution profit (loss) targets. We are continuously improving our members' experience by expanding our streaming content with a focus on a programming mix of content that delights our members. In addition, we are perpetually enhancing our user interface and extending our streaming service to more Internet-connected screens. 

We continue to grow our streaming service both domestically and internationally. We began our international expansion with Canada in 2010 and have since launched our service globally, with the exception of The People's Republic of China and territories where U.S. companies are not allowed to operate. We have also expanded our streaming content offering to include more exclusive and original programming, including several Emmy, Golden Globe and Academy Award nominated original series and documentaries. Our original programming increasingly includes content that we produce. 

&#160; 

BUSINESS SEGMENTS 

The Company has three reportable segments: Domestic streaming, International streaming and Domestic DVD. The Domestic streaming segment derives revenues from monthly membership fees for services consisting solely of streaming content to our members in the United States. The International streaming segment derives revenues from monthly membership fees for services consisting solely of streaming content to our members outside the United States. The Domestic DVD segment derives revenues from monthly membership fees for services consisting solely of DVD-by-mail. For additional information regarding our segments, including information about our financial results by geography, see Note 12 &#32;of Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data . 

COMPETITION 

The market for entertainment video is intensely competitive and subject to rapid change. We compete against other entertainment video providers, such as multichannel video programming distributors ("MVPDs"), Internet-based movie and TV content providers (including those that provide pirated content), video gaming providers and DVD rental outlets and more broadly against other sources of entertainment that our members could choose in their moments of free time. We also compete against entertainment video providers in obtaining content that our members love, both for licensed streaming content and for original content projects. 

While consumers may maintain simultaneous relationships with multiple entertainment sources, we strive for consumers to choose us in their moments of free time. We have often referred to this choice as our objective of "winning moments of truth." In attempting to win these moments of truth with our members, we are continually improving our service, including both our technology and our content, which is increasingly exclusive and curated, and includes our own original programming. 

SEASONALITY 

Our membership growth exhibits a seasonal pattern that reflects variations when consumers buy Internet-connected screens and when they tend to increase their viewing. Historically, the first and fourth quarters (October through March)represent our greatest membership growth across our Domestic and International streaming segments and the fewest membership losses in our Domestic DVD segment. Our membership growth may be impacted by the release of certain high profile original content. Internationally, we expect each market to demonstrate more predictable seasonal patterns as our service offering in each market becomes more established and we have a longer history to assess such patterns. 

INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY 

We regard our trademarks, service marks, copyrights, patents, domain names, trade dress, trade secrets, proprietary technologies and similar intellectual property as important to our success. We use a combination of patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws and confidentiality agreements to protect our proprietary intellectual property. Our ability to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights is subject to certain risks and from time to time we encounter disputes over rights and obligations concerning intellectual property. We cannot provide assurance that we will prevail in any intellectual property disputes. 

EMPLOYEES 

As of December 31, 2015, we had approximately 3,700 total employees. Of these employees, approximately 3,500 were full-time, including approximately 400 categorized as temporary. 

OTHER INFORMATION 

We were incorporated in Delaware in August 1997 and completed our initial public offering in May 2002. Our principal executive offices are located at 100 Winchester Circle, Los Gatos, California 95032, and our telephone number is (408) 540-3700. 

We maintain a Web site at www.netflix.com. The contents of our Web site are not incorporated in, or otherwise to be regarded as part of, this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In this Annual Report on Form 10-K, &#8220;Netflix,&#8221; the &#8220;Company,&#8221; &#8220;we,&#8221; &#8220;us,&#8221; &#8220;our&#8221; and the &#8220;registrant&#8221; refer to Netflix, Inc. We make available, free of charge on our Web site, access to our Annual Report on Form 10-K, our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, our Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), as soon as reasonably practicable after we file or furnish them electronically with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). 

Investors and others should note that we announce material financial information to our investors using our investor relations Web site ( http://ir.netflix.com ), SEC filings, press releases, public conference calls and webcasts. We use these channels as well as social media to communicate with our members and the public about our company, our services and other issues. It is possible that the information we post on social media could be deemed to be material information. Therefore, we encourage investors, the media, and others interested in our company to review the information we post on the social media channels listed on our investor relations Web site. 

