 Item 1. Business 

Company Overview 

Founded in 2000, Ameresco, Inc. is a leading independent provider of comprehensive services, energy efficiency, infrastructure upgrades, asset sustainability and renewable energy solutions for businesses and organizations throughout North America and Europe. Ameresco&#8217;s sustainability services include upgrades to a facility&#8217;s energy infrastructure and the development, construction and operation of renewable energy plants. Ameresco has successfully completed energy saving, environmentally responsible projects with federal, state and local governments, healthcare and educational institutions, housing authorities, and commercial and industrial customers. With its corporate headquarters in Framingham, MA, Ameresco has more than 1,000 employees providing local expertise in the United States, Canada, and the United Kingdom. 

Strategic acquisitions of complementary businesses and assets have been an important part of our historical development. Since inception, we have completed numerous acquisitions, which have enabled us to broaden our service offerings and expand our geographical reach. 

Our principal service is the development, design, engineering and installation of projects that reduce the energy and operations and maintenance (&#8220;O&#38;M&#8221;) costs of our customers&#8217; facilities. These projects generally include a variety of measures customized for the facility and designed to improve the efficiency of major building systems, such as heating, ventilation, cooling and lighting systems. We typically commit to customers that our energy efficiency projects will satisfy agreed upon performance standards upon installation or achieve specified increases in energy efficiency. In most cases, the forecasted lifetime energy and operating cost savings of the energy efficiency measures we install will defray all or almost all of the cost of such measures. In many cases, we assist customers in obtaining third-party financing for the cost of constructing the facility improvements, resulting in little or no upfront capital expenditure by the customer. After a project is complete, we may operate, maintain and repair the customer&#8217;s energy systems under a multi-year O&#38;M contract, which provides us with recurring revenue and visibility into the customer&#8217;s evolving needs. 

We also serve certain customers by developing and building small-scale renewable energy plants located at or close to a customer&#8217;s site. Depending upon the customer&#8217;s preference, we will either retain ownership of the completed plant or build it for the customer. Most of our small-scale renewable energy plants to date have been constructed adjacent to landfills, using landfill gas (&#8220;LFG&#8221;) to generate energy, and solar photovoltaic (&#8220;PV&#8221;) installations. Our largest renewable energy project for a customer uses biomass as the primary source of energy. In the case of the plants that we own, the electricity, thermal energy or processed LFG generated by the plant is sold under a long-term supply contract with the customer, which is typically a utility, municipality, industrial facility or other purchaser of large amounts of energy. For information on how we finance these projects, please see the disclosures under Note 2, &#8220;Summary of Significant Accounting Policies&#8221;, Note 7, &#8220;Long-Term Debt&#8221; and Note 9, &#8220;Investment Fund&#8221; to our Consolidated Financial Statements appearing in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

As of December 31, 2015 , we had backlog of approximately $390.4 million &#32;in expected future revenues under signed customer contracts for the installation or construction of projects, which we sometimes refer to as fully-contracted backlog; and we also had been awarded projects for which we do not yet have signed customer contracts, which we sometimes refer to as awarded projects, with estimated total future revenues of an additional $955.8 million . As of December 31, 2014 , we had backlog of approximately $386.2 million &#32;in expected future revenues under signed customer contracts for the installation or construction of projects; and we also had been awarded projects for which we do not yet have signed customer contracts, with estimated total future revenues of an additional $853.8 million . As of December 31, 2013 , we had backlog of approximately $361.9 million &#32;in future revenues under signed customer contracts for the installation or construction of projects; and we also had been awarded projects for which we had not yet signed customer contracts with estimated total future revenues of an additional $936.5 million . The contracts reflected in our fully-contracted backlog typically have a construction period of 12 to 24 months and we typically expect to recognize revenue for such contracts over the same period. Where we have been awarded a project, but have not yet signed a customer contract for that project, we would not begin recognizing revenue unless a customer contract has been signed and we treat the project as fully-contracted backlog. Recently, awarded projects typically have been taking 12 to 18 months to result in a signed contract and thus convert to fully-contracted backlog. It may take longer, however, depending upon the size and complexity of the project. Historically, approximately 90% of our awarded projects ultimately have resulted in a signed contract. 

&#160; 

See &#8220;We may not recognize all revenues from our backlog or receive all payments anticipated under awarded projects and customer contracts&#8221; and &#8220;In order to secure contracts for new projects, we typically face a long and variable selling cycle that requires significant resource commitments and requires a long lead time before we realize revenues&#8221; in Item 1A, Risk Factors of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Revenues generated from backlog, which we refer to as project revenues, were $434.4 million , $ 388.3 million &#32;and $388.0 million &#32;for the twelve months ended December 31, 2015 , 2014 &#32;and 2013 , respectively. 

We also expect to realize recurring revenues both from long-term O&#38;M contracts and from energy supply contracts for renewable energy operating assets that we own. In addition, we expect to generate revenues from the sale of photovoltaic solar energy products and systems (&#8220;integrated-PV&#8221;) and other services, such as consulting services and enterprise energy management services. Information about revenues from these other service and product offerings may be found in Note 18 of &#8220;Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements&#8221; included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, which information is incorporated herein by reference. 

Ameresco&#8217;s Services and Products 

Our principal service is energy efficiency projects, which entails the design, engineering and installation of, and assisting with the arranging of financing for, equipment to improve the energy efficiency, and control the operation, of a building&#8217;s heating, ventilation, cooling and lighting systems. In certain projects, we also design and construct for a customer a central plant or cogeneration system providing power, heat and/or cooling to a building, or a small-scale plant that produces electricity, gas, heat or cooling from renewable sources of energy. Our projects generally range in size and scope from a one-month project to design and retrofit a lighting system to a more complex 30-month project to design and install a central plant or cogeneration system or other small-scale plant. 

After an energy efficiency project is completed, we often provide ongoing O&#38;M services under a multi-year contract. These services include operating, maintaining and repairing facility energy systems such as boilers, chillers and building controls, as well as central power and other small-scale plants. For larger projects, we frequently maintain staff on-site to perform these services. 

Our service offering also includes the sale of electricity, processed LFG, heat or cooling from the portfolio of assets that we own and operate. 

We have constructed and are currently designing and constructing a wide range of renewable energy plants using LFG, wastewater treatment biogas, solar, wind, biomass, other bio-derived fuels and hydro sources of energy. Most of our renewable energy projects to date have involved the generation of electricity from solar PV and LFG or the sale of processed LFG. We purchase the LFG that otherwise would be combusted or vented, process it, and either sell it or use it in our energy plants. 

As of December 31, 2015 , we owned and operated 49 small-scale renewable energy plants and solar photovoltaic (&#8220;PV&#8221;) installations. Of the owned plants, 24 are renewable LFG plants, two are wastewater biogas plants, and 23 are solar PV installations. The 49 small-scale renewable energy plants and solar PV installations that we own have the capacity to generate electricity or deliver LFG producing an aggregate of more than 158 megawatt equivalents. 

Our service and product offerings also include integrated-PV and consulting and enterprise energy management services. 

Customer Arrangements 

For our energy efficiency projects, we typically enter into energy savings performance contracts (&#8220;ESPCs&#8221;), under which we agree to develop, design, engineer and construct a project and also commit that the project will satisfy agreed upon performance standards that vary from project to project. These performance commitments are typically based on the design, capacity, efficiency or operation of the specific equipment and systems we install. Depending on the project, the measurement and demonstration may be required only once, upon installation, based on an analysis of one or more sample installations, or may be required to be repeated at agreed upon intervals generally over periods of up to 20 years. 

Under our contracts, we typically do not take responsibility for a wide variety of factors outside of our control and exclude or adjust for such factors in commitment calculations. These factors include variations in energy prices and utility rates, weather, facility occupancy schedules, the amount of energy-using equipment in a facility and the failure of the customer to operate or maintain the project properly. Typically, our performance commitments apply to the aggregate overall performance of a project rather than to individual energy efficiency measures. Therefore, to the extent an individual measure underperforms, it may be offset by other measures that overperform during the same period. In the event that an energy efficiency project does 

&#160; 

not perform according to the agreed upon specifications, our agreements typically allow us to satisfy our obligation by adjusting or modifying the installed equipment, installing additional measures to provide substitute energy savings or paying the customer for lost energy savings based on the assumed conditions specified in the agreement. Many of our equipment supply, local design and installation subcontracts contain provisions that enable us to seek recourse against our vendors or subcontractors if there is a deficiency in our energy reduction commitment. See &#8220;We may have liability to our customers under our ESPCs if our projects fail to deliver the energy use reductions to which we are committed under the contract&#8221; in Item 1A, Risk Factors. 

The projects that we perform for governmental agencies are governed by particular qualification and contracting regimes. Certain states require qualification with an appropriate state agency as a precondition to performing work or appearing as a qualified energy service provider for state, county and local agencies within the state. Most of the work that we perform for the federal government is performed under indefinite delivery, indefinite quantity (&#8220;IDIQ&#8221;) agreements between government agencies and us or our subsidiaries. These IDIQ agreements allow us to contract with the relevant agencies to implement energy projects, but no work may be performed unless we and the agency agree on a task order or delivery order governing the provision of a specific project. The government agencies enter into contracts for specific projects on a competitive basis. We and our subsidiaries and affiliates are currently party to an IDIQ agreement with the U.S. Department of Energy, expiring in 2019, with an aggregate maximum potential ordering amount of $5 billion. Payments by the federal government for energy efficiency measures are based on the services provided and products installed, but are limited to the savings derived from such measures, calculated in accordance with federal regulatory guidelines and the specific contract terms. The savings are typically determined by comparing energy use and O&#38;M costs before and after the installation of the energy efficiency measures, adjusted for changes that affect energy use and O&#38;M costs but are not caused by the energy efficiency measures. 

Sales and Marketing 

Our sales and marketing approach is to offer customers customized and comprehensive energy efficiency solutions tailored to meet their economic, operational and technical needs. The sales, design and construction process for energy efficiency and renewable energy projects recently has been averaging from 18 to 42 months. We identify project opportunities through referrals, requests for proposals (&#8220;RFPs&#8221;), conferences, web searches, telemarketing and repeat business from existing customers. Our direct sales force develops and follows up on customer leads and, in some cases, works with customers to develop their RFPs. By working with customers prior to the issuance of an RFP, we can gain a deeper understanding of the customers&#8217; needs and the scope of the potential project. As of December 31, 2015 , we had 109 &#32;employees in direct sales. 

In preparation for a proposal, our team typically conducts a preliminary audit of the customer&#8217;s needs and requirements, and identifies areas to enhance efficiencies and reduce costs. We read and analyze the customer&#8217;s utility bill and other energy-related expenses. If the bills are complex or numerous, we often utilize Ameresco&#8217;s enterprise energy management software tools to scan, compile and analyze the information. Our experienced engineers visit and assess the customer&#8217;s current energy systems and infrastructure. Through our knowledge of the federal, state, local governmental and utility environment, we assess the availability of energy, utility or environmental-based payments for usage reductions or renewable power generation, which helps us optimize the economic benefits of a proposed project for a customer. Once awarded a project, we perform a more detailed audit of the customer&#8217;s facilities, which serves as the basis for the final specifications of the project and final contract terms. 

For renewable energy plants that are not located on a customer&#8217;s site or use sources of energy not within the customer&#8217;s control, the sales process also involves the identification of sites with attractive sources of renewable energy and obtaining necessary rights and governmental permits to develop a plant on that site. For example, for LFG projects, we start with gaining control of a LFG resource located close to the prospective customer. For solar and wind projects, we look for sites where utilities are interested in purchasing renewable energy power at rates that are sufficient to make a project feasible. Where governmental agencies control the site and resource, such as a landfill owned by a municipality, the customer may be required to issue an RFP to use the site or resource. Once we believe we are likely to obtain the rights to the site and the resource, we seek customers for the energy output of the potential project. 

Customers 

In 2015 , we served customers throughout the United States, Canada and the United Kingdom (&#8220;U.K.&#8221;) Historically, including for the years ended December 31, 2015 , 2014 &#32;and 2013 &#32;approximately 80% of of our revenues have been derived from federal, state, provincial or local government entities, including public housing authorities and public universities. Our federal customers include various divisions of the U.S. federal government. The U.S. federal government, which is considered a 

&#160; 

single customer for reporting purposes, constituted 20.2% , 17.9% &#32;and 13.3% &#32;of our consolidated revenues for the years ended December 31, &#32; 2015 , 2014 &#32;and 2013 , respectively. For the year ended December 31, 2015 , our largest 20 customers accounted for approximately 40.7% &#32;of our total revenues. 

Our 20 largest customers for the year ended December 31, 2015 , by revenues, in alphabetical order, were: 

Auburn Community School District (Auburn, Illinois) 

Board of Trustees of Community College District No. 508 (Chicago, Illinois) 

British Columbia Housing Authority (Burnaby, British Columbia) 

Department of Accounting and General Services, State of Hawaii (Honolulu, Hawaii) 

Exelon Generation Company, LLC 

Federal Bureau of Prisons - Federal Medical Center (Carswell, Texas) and Federal Correctional Institutions (El Reno, Oklahoma and Fort Worth, Texas) 

Hoosier Energy Rural Electric Cooperative, Inc. (Davis Junction, Illinois) 

Knox Count Schools (Tennessee) 

Marana Unified School District (Marana, Arizona) 

Metropolitan Airport Commission (Minneapolis, Minnesota) 

New Mexico State University (Las Cruces, New Mexico) 

Newport News School Board (Newport News, Virginia) 

The City of Santa Clara (Santa Clara, California) 

The Housing Authority of the Birmingham District (Birmingham, Alabama) 

Truckee Meadows Water Authority (Reno, Nevada) 

U.S. Department of Energy - Savannah River Site (Aiken, South Carolina) 

U.S. Department of the Interior (Washington, D.C.) 

U.S. General Services Administration (Washington, D.C.) 

University of Illinois (Chicago, Illinois) 

University City School District (University City, Missouri) 

See &#8220;Provisions in our government contracts may harm our business, financial condition and operating results&#8221; in Item 1A, Risk Factors for a discussion of special considerations applicable to government contracting. 

Competition 

While we face significant competition from a large number of companies, we believe few offer the full range of services that we provide. 

Our principal competitors include Constellation Energy, Energy Systems Group, Honeywell, Johnson Controls, NORESCO, Pepco Energy Services, Schneider Electric, Siemens Building Technologies, TAC Energy Solutions and Trane. We compete primarily on the basis of our comprehensive, independent offering of energy efficiency and renewable energy services and the breadth and depth of our expertise. 

For renewable energy plants, we compete primarily with many large independent power producers and utilities, as well as a large number of developers of renewable energy projects. In the LFG market, our principal competitors include national project developers and owners of landfills who self-develop projects using LFG from their landfills, such as Waste Management. For the sale of solar energy products and systems, we face numerous competitors ranging from small web-based companies that sell components to PV module manufacturers and other multi-national corporations that sell both products and systems. We compete for renewable energy projects primarily on the basis of our experience, reputation and ability to identify and complete high quality and cost-effective projects. 

See &#8220;We operate in a highly competitive industry, and our current or future competitors may be able to compete more effectively than we do, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, revenues, growth rates and market share&#8221; in Item 1A, Risk Factors for further discussion of competition. 

&#160; 

Regulatory 

Various regulations affect the conduct of our business. federal and state legislation and regulations enable us to enter into ESPCs with Government agencies in the United States. The applicable regulatory requirements for ESPCs differ in each state and between agencies of the federal government. 

Our projects must conform to all applicable electric reliability, building and safety, and environmental regulations and codes, which vary from place to place and time to time. Various federal, state, provincial and local permits are required to construct an energy efficiency project or renewable energy plant. 

Renewable energy projects are also subject to specific Governmental safety and economic regulation. States and the federal government typically do not regulate the transportation or sale of LFG unless it is combined with and distributed with natural gas, but this is not uniform among states and may change from time to time. States regulate the retail sale and distribution of natural gas to end-users, although regulatory exemptions from regulation are available in some states for limited gas delivery activities, such as sales only to a single customer. The sale and distribution of electricity at the retail level is subject to state and provincial regulation, and the sale and transmission of electricity at the wholesale level is subject to federal regulation. While we do not own or operate retail-level electric distribution systems or wholesale-level transmission systems, the prices for the products we offer can be affected by the tariffs, rules and regulations applicable to such systems, as well as the prices that the owners of such systems are able to charge. The construction of power generation projects typically is regulated at the state and provincial levels, and the operation of these projects also may be subject to state and provincial regulation as &#8220;utilities.&#8221; At the federal level, the ownership and operation of, and sale of power from, generation facilities may be subject to regulation under the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 2005 (&#8220;PUHCA&#8221;), the Federal Power Act (&#8220;FPA&#8221;), and Public Utility Regulatory Policies Act of 1978 (&#8220;PURPA&#8221;). However, because all of the plants that we have constructed and operated to date are small power &#8220;qualifying facilities&#8221; under PURPA, they are subject to less regulation under the FPA, PUHCA and related state utility laws than traditional utilities. 

If we pursue projects employing different technologies or with a single project electrical capacity greater than 20 megawatts, we could become subject to some of the regulatory schemes which do not apply to our current projects. In addition, the state, provincial and federal regulations that govern qualifying facilities and other power sellers frequently change, and the effect of these changes on our business cannot be predicted. 

LFG power generation facilities require an air emissions permit, which may be difficult to obtain in certain jurisdictions. See &#8220;Compliance with environmental laws could adversely affect our operating results&#8221; in Item 1A, Risk Factors. Renewable energy projects may also be eligible for certain Governmental or Government-related incentives from time to time, including tax credits, cash payments in lieu of tax credits, and the ability to sell associated environmental attributes, including carbon credits. Government incentives and mandates typically vary by jurisdiction. 

Some of the demand reduction services we provide for utilities and institutional clients are subject to regulatory tariffs imposed under federal and state utility laws. In addition, the operation of, and electrical interconnection for, our renewable energy projects are subject to federal, state or provincial interconnection and federal reliability standards also set forth in utility tariffs. These tariffs specify rules, business practices and economic terms to which we are subject. The tariffs are drafted by the utilities and approved by the utilities&#8217; state, provincial or federal regulatory commissions. 

Employees 

As of December 31, 2015 , we had a total of 1,037 employees in offices located in 35 states, the District of Columbia, five Canadian provinces and the U.K. 

Seasonality 

See &#8220;Our business is affected by seasonal trends and construction cycles, and these trends and cycles could have an adverse effect on our operating results&#8221; in Item 1A, Risk Factors and &#8220;Overview &#8212; Effects of Seasonality&#8221; in Item 7, Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations&#8221; for a discussion of seasonality in our business. 

Segments and Geographic Information 

Financial information about our domestic and international operations and about our segments may be found in Notes 14 and 18, respectively, of &#8220;Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements&#8221; included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, which information is incorporated herein by reference. 

&#160; 

Additional Information 

Ameresco was incorporated in Delaware in 2000 and is headquartered in Framingham, Massachusetts. 

Periodic reports, proxy statements and other information are available to the public, free of charge, on our website, www.ameresco.com, as soon as reasonably practicable after they have been filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (&#8220;SEC&#8221;), and through the SEC&#8217;s website, www.sec.gov. We include our website address in this report only as an inactive textual reference and do not intend it to be an active link to our website. None of the material on our website is part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Executive Officers 

The following is a list of our executive officers, their ages as of March 1, 2016 &#32;and their principal positions. 

Name 

&#160; 

Age 

&#160; 

Position (s) 

George P. Sakellaris 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Chairman of the Board of Directors, President and Chief Executive Officer 

David J. Anderson 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Executive Vice President, Business Development and Director 

Michael T. Bakas 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Senior Vice President, Renewable Energy 

Nicole A. Bulgarino 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Senior Vice President and General Manager, Federal Solutions 

David J. Corrsin 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary and Director 

Joseph P. DeManche 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Executive Vice President, Engineering and Operations 

Louis P. Maltezos 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Executive Vice President and General Manager, Central Region 

John R. Granara, III 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer 

George P. Sakellaris: Mr. Sakellaris has served as chairman of our board of directors and our president and chief executive officer since founding Ameresco in 2000. 

David J. Anderson: Mr. Anderson has served as our executive vice president, business development, as well as a director, since 2000. 

Michael T. Bakas: Mr. Bakas has served as our senior vice president, renewable energy, since March 2010. From 2000 to February 2010, he was our vice president, renewable energy. 

David J. Corrsin: Mr. Corrsin has served as our executive vice president, general counsel and secretary, as well as a director, since 2000. 

Nicole A. Bulgarino : Ms. Bulgarino has served as our senior vice president and general manager of federal solutions since May 2015. Ms. Bulgarino served as vice president and general manager of federal solutions from February 2014 to May 2015; vice president, federal group operations from December 2012 to February 2014; director, implementation from May 2010 to December 2012; and senior engineer from June 2004 to May 2010. 

Joseph P. DeManche: Mr. DeManche has served as our executive vice president, engineering and operations since 2002. 

Louis P. Maltezos: Mr. Maltezos has also served as the chief executive officer of Ameresco Canada since September 2015 and served as the president of Ameresco Canada from September 2014 to September 2015. 

John R. Granara, III: Mr. Granara has served as our vice president, chief financial officer and treasurer since May 2015 and served as our vice president and chief accounting officer from September 2013 to May 2015. Prior to joining Ameresco, Mr. Granara served as Vice President Finance, Chief Accounting Officer and Corporate Controller for GT Advanced Technologies, Inc., a diversified technology company, from May 2011 through August 2013. 

&#160; 

