 ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

General 

Farmers &#38; Merchants Bancorp, Inc. (Company) is a bank holding company incorporated under the laws of Ohio in 1985 and elected to become a financial holding company under the Federal Reserve in 2014. Our primary subsidiary, The Farmers &#38; Merchants State Bank (Bank) is a community bank operating in Northwest Ohio since 1897. Our other subsidiary, Farmers &#38; Merchants Risk Management (Captive) is a captive insurance company formed in December 2014 and located in Nevada. We report our financial condition and net income on a consolidated basis and we report only one segment. 

Our executive offices are located at 307 North Defiance Street, Archbold, Ohio 43502, and our telephone number is (419) 446-2501. 

For a discussion of the general development of the Company&#146;s business throughout 2015, please see the portion of Management&#146;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations captioned &#147;2015 in Review&#148;. 

Nature of Activities 

The local economies of Northwest Ohio and Northeast Indiana continued to improve throughout 2015. Based on asset quality remaining strong, indicated by low delinquency levels, businesses profits also improved or held steady to 2014. Some industries, such as car dealers, recorded more sales in 2015 than in prior years. Farm customers dealt with lower commodity prices and most were still able to operate profitably. The farm community is better prepared to handle challenges in 2016 than it was in the 1980&#146;s. 2016 begins with the first prime rate increase in seven years and overall, the local economies should continue to improve while addressing the new challenges of a rising rate environment. 

&#160;

The Farmers &#38; Merchants State Bank engages in general commercial banking business. Its activities include commercial, agricultural and residential mortgage, consumer and credit card lending activities. Because the Bank&#146;s offices are located in Northwest Ohio and Northeast Indiana, a substantial amount of the loan portfolio is comprised of loans made to customers in the farming industry for such things as farm land, farm equipment, livestock and operating loans for seed, fertilizer, and feed. Other types of lending activities include loans for home improvements, and loans for such items as autos, trucks, recreational vehicles, motorcycles. With the expansion into newer market areas, the most recent increases in loan activity have been in commercial real estate, providing operation lines of credit and machinery purchases. 

The Bank also provides checking account services, as well as savings and time deposit services such as certificates of deposits. In addition, ATM&#146;s (automated teller machines) are provided at most branch locations along with other independent locations including major employers and hospitals in the market area. The Bank has custodial services for IRA&#146;s (Individual Retirement Accounts) and HSA&#146;s (Health Savings Accounts). The Bank provides on-line banking access for consumer and business customers. For consumers, this includes bill-pay and on-line statement opportunities. For business customers, it provides the option of electronic transaction origination such as wire and ACH file transmittal. In addition the Bank offers remote deposit capture or electronic deposit processing. Mobile banking was added in 2012 and has been widely accepted and used by consumers. 

The Bank&#146;s underwriting policies, exercised through established procedures, facilitate operating in a safe and sound manner in accordance with supervisory and regulatory guidance. Within this sphere of safety and soundness, the Bank&#146;s practice has been to avoid promoting innovative, unproven credit products which may not be in the best interest of the Bank or its customers. The Bank does offer a hybrid loan. Hybrid loans are loans that start as a fixed rate mortgage but after a set number of years automatically adjust to an adjustable rate mortgage. The Bank offers a three year fixed rate mortgage after which the interest rate will adjust annually. The majority of the Bank&#146;s adjustable rate mortgages are of this type. In order to offer longer term fixed rate mortgages, the Bank does participate in the Freddie Mac, Farmer Mac and Small Business Lending programs. The Bank also retains the servicing on these partially or 100% sold loans. In order for the customer to participate in these programs they must meet the requirements established by these agencies. The Bank&#146;s policies focus on initiating mainly qualified mortgages. 

All loan requests are reviewed as to credit worthiness and are subject to the Bank&#146;s underwriting guidelines as to secured versus unsecured credit. Secured loans are in turn subject to loan to value (LTV) requirements based on collateral types as set forth in the Bank&#146;s Loan Policy. In addition, credit scores of principal borrowers are reviewed and an approved exception from an additional officer is required should a credit score not meet the Bank&#146;s Loan Policy guidelines. 

Consumer Loans : 

Maximum loan to value (LTV) for cars, trucks and light trucks vary from 90% to 110% depending on whether direct or indirect. Loans above 100% are generally due to additional charges for extended warranties and/or insurance coverage periods of lost wages or death. 

Boats, campers, motorcycles, RV&#146;s and Motor Coaches range from 80%-90% based on age of vehicle. 

1 st or 2 nd mortgages on 1-4 family homes range from 75%-90% with &#147;in-house&#148; first real estate mortgages requiring private mortgage insurance on those exceeding 80% LTV. 

Raw land LTV maximum ranges from 65%-75% depending on whether or not the property has been improved. 

Commercial/Agriculture/Real Estate: 

Maximum LTVs range from 70%-80% depending on type. 

Accounts Receivable: 

Up 80% LTV 

Inventory: 

Agriculture: 

Livestock and grain up to 80% LTV, crops (insured) up to 75% and Warehouse Receipts up to 87% 

Commercial: 

Maximum LTV of 50% on raw and finished goods 

Used vehicles, new recreational vehicles and manufactured homes not to exceed (NTE) 80% LTV 

Equipment: 

New not to exceed 80% of invoice, used NTE 50% of listed book or 75% of appraised value 

Restaurant equipment up to 35% of market value 

Heavy trucks, titled trailers up to NTE 75% LTV and aircraft up to 75% of appraised value 

&#160;

F&#38;M Investment Services, the brokerage department of the Bank, opened for business in April, 1999. Securities are offered through Raymond James Financial Services, Inc. 

In December of 2014, the Company became a financial holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 as amended, in order to provide the flexibility to take advantage of the expanded powers available to a financial holding company under the Act. Our subsidiary bank is in turn regulated and examined by the Ohio Division of Financial Institutions, and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. The activities of our bank subsidiary are also subject to other federal and state laws and regulations. The Company also formed a Captive insurance company in December 2014. The Captive is located in Nevada and regulated by the State of Nevada Division of Insurance. 

The Bank&#146;s primary market includes communities located in the Ohio counties of Defiance, Fulton, Henry, Lucas, Williams, Wood and in the Indiana counties of DeKalb and Steuben. In the first half of 2016 the Bank will add the Indiana county of Allen to its service area with the opening of its newly constructed office in Fort Wayne. The commercial banking business in this market is highly competitive, with approximately 17 other depository institutions currently doing business in the Bank&#146;s primary market. In our banking activities, we compete directly with other commercial banks, credit unions, farm credit services, and savings and loan institutions in each of our operating localities. In a number of our locations, we compete against entities which are much larger than us. The primary factors in competing for loans and deposits are the rates charged as well as location and quality of the services provided. 

At December 31, 2015, we had 265 full time equivalent employees. The employees are not represented by a collective bargaining unit. We provide our employees with a comprehensive benefit program, some of which are contributory. We consider our employee relations to be good. 

Supervision and Regulation 

General 

The Company is a corporation organized under the laws of the State of Ohio. The business in which the Company and its subsidiaries are engaged is subject to extensive supervision, regulation and examination by various bank regulatory authorities. The supervision, regulation and examination to which the Company and its subsidiaries are subject are intended primarily for the protection of depositors and the deposit insurance funds that insure the deposits of banks, rather than for the protection of shareholders. 

Several of the more significant regulatory provisions applicable to banks and bank holding companies to which the Company and its subsidiary are subject are discussed below, along with certain regulatory matters concerning the Company and its subsidiaries. To the extent that the following information describes statutory or regulatory provisions, it is qualified in its entirety by reference to the particular statutory provisions. Any change in applicable law or regulation may have a material effect on the business and prospects of the Company and its subsidiaries. 

Regulatory Agencies 

The Company is a financial holding company and is subject to inspection, examination and supervision by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the &#147;Federal Reserve Board&#148;) pursuant to the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended. As a financial holding company, the Company is still subject to all the bank holding company regulations. 

The Bank is an Ohio chartered commercial bank. It is subject to regulation and examination by both the Ohio Division of Financial Institutions (ODFI) and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC). 

The Captive is an insurance company incorporated in Nevada and regulated by the State of Nevada, Division of Insurance. 

Holding Company Activities 

As a financial holding company incorporated and doing business within the State of Ohio, the Company is subject to regulation and supervision under the Bank Holding Act of 1956, as amended (the &#147;Act&#148;). The Company is required to file with the Federal Reserve Board on quarterly basis information pursuant to the Act. The Federal Reserve Board may conduct examinations or inspections of the Company and its subsidiaries. 

&#160;

On November 12, 1999, the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (the &#147;GLB Act&#148;) was enacted into law. The GLB Act made sweeping changes with respect to the permissible financial services which various types of financial institutions may now provide. The Glass-Steagall Act, which had generally prevented banks from affiliation with securities and insurance firms, was repealed. Pursuant to the GLB Act, bank holding companies may elect to become a &#147;financial holding company,&#148; provided that all of the depository institution subsidiaries of the bank holding company are &#147;well capitalized&#148; and &#147;well managed&#148; under applicable regulatory standards. 

Under the GLB Act, a bank holding company that has elected to become a financial holding company may affiliate with securities firms and insurance companies and engage in other activities that are financial in nature. Activities that are &#147;financial in nature&#148; include securities underwriting, dealing and market-making, sponsoring mutual funds and investment companies, insurance underwriting and agency, merchant banking, and activities that the Federal Reserve Board has determined to be closely related to banking. Federal Reserve Board approval is not required for the Company to acquire a company, other than a bank holding company, bank or savings association, engaged in activities that are financial in nature or incidental to activities that are financial in nature, as determined by the Federal Reserve Board. Prior Federal Reserve Board approval is required before the Company may acquire the beneficial ownership or control of more than 5% of the voting shares, or substantially all of the assets, of a bank holding company, bank or savings association. If any subsidiary bank of the Company ceases to be &#147;well capitalized&#148; or &#147;well managed&#148; under applicable regulatory standards, the Federal Reserve Board may, among other actions, order the Company to divest the subsidiary bank. Alternatively, the Company may elect to conform its activities to those permissible for a bank holding company that is not also a financial holding company. If any subsidiary bank of the Company receives a rating under the Community Reinvestment Act of 1977 of less than satisfactory, the Company will be prohibited from engaging in new activities or acquiring companies other than bank holding companies, banks or savings associations. 

Affiliate Transactions 

Various governmental requirements, including Sections 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act and Regulation W promulgated thereunder limit borrowings by holding companies and non-bank subsidiaries from affiliated insured depository institutions, and also limit various other transactions between holding companies and their non-bank subsidiaries, on the one hand, and their affiliated insured depository institutions on the other. Section 23A of the Federal Reserve Act also generally requires that an insured depository institution&#146;s loan to its non-bank affiliates be secured, and Section 23B of the Federal Reserve Act generally requires that an insured depository institution&#146;s transactions with its non-bank affiliates be on arms-length terms. 

Interstate Banking and Branching 

Under the Riegle-Neal Interstate Banking and Branching Efficiency Act (&#147;Riegle-Neal&#148;), subject to certain concentration limits and other requirements, adequately capitalized bank holding companies such as the Company are permitted to acquire banks and bank holding companies located in any state. Any bank that is a subsidiary of a bank holding company is permitted to receive deposits, renew time deposits, close loans, service loans and receive loan payments as an agent for any other bank subsidiary of that bank holding company. Banks are permitted to acquire branch offices outside their home states by merging with out-of-state banks, purchasing branches in other states and establishing de novo branch offices in other states. The ability of banks to acquire branch offices is contingent, however, on the host state having adopted legislation &#147;opting in&#148; to those provisions of Riegle-Neal. In addition, the ability of a bank to merge with a bank located in another state is contingent on the host state not having adopted legislation &#147;opting out&#148; of that provision of Riegle-Neal. The Company could from time to time use Riegle-Neal to acquire banks in additional states. 

Control Acquisitions 

The Change in Bank Control Act prohibits a person or group of persons from acquiring &#147;control&#148; of a bank holding company, unless the Federal Reserve Board has been notified and has not objected to the transaction. Under the rebuttable presumption established by the Federal Reserve Board, the acquisition of 10% or more of a class of voting stock of a bank holding company with a class of securities registered under Section 12 of the Exchange Act, such as the Company, would, under the circumstances set forth in the presumption, constitute acquisition of control of the bank holding company. In addition, a company is required to obtain the approval of the Federal Reserve Board under the 

&#160;

Bank Holding Company Act before acquiring 25% (5% in the case of an acquirer that is a bank holding company) or more of any class of outstanding voting stock of a bank holding company, or otherwise obtaining control or a &#147;controlling influence&#148; over that bank holding company. 

Liability for Banking Subsidiaries 

Under the current Federal Reserve Board policy, a bank holding company is expected to act as a source of financial and managerial strength to each of its subsidiary banks and to maintain resources adequate to support each subsidiary bank. This support may be required at times when the bank holding company may not have the resources to provide it. In the event of a bank holding company&#146;s bankruptcy, any commitment by the bank holding company to a U.S. federal bank regulatory agency to maintain the capital of a subsidiary bank would be assumed by the bankruptcy trustee and entitled to priority of payment. Any depository institution insured by the FDIC can be held liable for any loss incurred, or reasonably expected to be incurred, by the FDIC in connection with (1) the &#147;default&#148; of a commonly controlled FDIC-insured depository institution; or (2) any assistance provided by the FDIC to both a commonly controlled FDIC-insured depository institution &#147;in danger of default.&#148; The Bank is an FDIC-insured depository institution. If a default occurred with respect to the Bank, any capital loans to the Bank from its parent holding company would be subordinate in right of payment to payment of the Bank&#146;s depositors and certain of its other obligations. 

Regulatory Capital Requirements 

The Company is required by the various regulatory authorities to maintain certain capital levels. Bank holding companies are required to maintain minimum levels of capital in accordance with Federal Reserve Board capital adequacy guidelines. If capital falls below minimum guideline levels, a bank holding company, among other things, may be denied approval to acquire or establish additional banks or non-bank businesses. The required capital levels and the Company&#146;s capital position at December 31, 2015 and 2014 are summarized in the table included in Note 15 to the consolidated financial statements. 

Beginning in 2015, the Company and Bank were required to measure capital adequacy using Basel III accounting. Basel III is a comprehensive set of reform measures, developed by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, to strengthen the regulation, supervision and risk management of the banking sector. Implementation of the rules will be overseen by the Federal Reserve, the FDIC and the OCC. Reporting under the new rules began with the March 2015 quarterly regulatory filings. 

FDICIA 

The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of 1991 (&#147;FDICIA&#148;), and the regulations promulgated under FDICIA, among other things, established five capital categories for insured depository institutions-well capitalized, adequately capitalized, undercapitalized, significantly undercapitalized and critically undercapitalized-and requires U.S. federal bank regulatory agencies to implement systems for &#147;prompt corrective action&#148; for insured depository institutions that do not meet minimum capital requirements based on these categories. Unless a bank is well capitalized, it is subject to restrictions on its ability to offer brokered deposits and on certain other aspects of its operations. An undercapitalized bank must develop a capital restoration plan and its parent bank holding company must guarantee the bank&#146;s compliance with the plan up to the lesser of 5% of the bank&#146;s assets at the time it became undercapitalized and the amount needed to comply with the plan. As of December 31, 2015 the Bank was well capitalized pursuant to these prompt corrective action guidelines. 

Dividend Restrictions 

The ability of the Company to obtain funds for the payment of dividends and for other cash requirements will be largely dependent on the amount of dividends which may be declared by its banking subsidiary. Various U.S. federal statutory provisions limit the amount of dividends the Company&#146;s banking subsidiar y can pay to the Company without regulatory approval. In 2009, The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve Division of Banking Supervision and Regulation issued SR09-4 regarding the safe and sound payment of dividends by bank holding companies. In addition, dividend payments by the Bank are limited to its retained earnings during the current year and its prior two years. See Note 15 to the consolidated financial statements for the actual amount. 

&#160;

Deposit Insurance Assessments 

The deposits of the Bank are insured up to the regulatory limits set by the FDIC. The FDIC maintains the Deposit Insurance fund (&#147;DIF&#148;) by assessing depository institutions an insurance premium (assessment). The amount assessed to each institution is based on statutory factors that take into account the degree of risk the institution poses to the DIF. The primary purposes of the DIF are to (1) insure the deposits and protect the depositors of insured depository institutions; and (2) resolve failed banks. The DIF is primarily funded through quarterly assessments on insured depository institutions, but it also earns interest income on its securities. Decreases in the DIF result from loss provisions associated with the resolution of failed banks and FDIC operating expenses. 

The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 (&#147;Dodd-Frank Act&#148;) revised the statutory authorities governing the FDIC&#146;s management of the DIF. A key requirement from the Dodd-Frank Act resulted in the FDIC&#146;s adoption of new rules in February 2011 regarding Assessments, Dividends, Assessment Base, and Large Bank Pricing. The new rules implemented the following changes: (1) redefined the definition of an institution&#146;s deposit insurance assessment base from one based on domestic deposits to one based on assets now defined as &#147;average consolidated total assets minus average tangible equity&#148;; (2) changed the assessment rate adjustments to better account for risk based on an institution&#146;s funding sources; (3) revised the deposit insurance assessment rate schedule in light of the new assessment base and assessment rate adjustments; (4) implemented Dodd-Frank Act dividend provisions; (5) revised the large insured depository institution assessment system to better differentiate for risk and to take into account losses the FDIC may incur from large institution failures; and (6) provided technical and other changes to the FDIC&#146;s assessment rules. Though deposit insurance assessments maintain a risk-based approach, the FDIC imposed a more extensive risk-based assessment system on large insured depository institutions with at least $10 billion in total assets since they are more complex in nature and could pose greater risk. The rules became effective April 1, 2011 implementing the revised assessment rate schedule for the quarter beginning April 1, 2011. The revised assessment rate schedule was used to calculate the June 30, 2011 assessments which were due September 30, 2011 and subsequent quarterly assessments thereafter. 

Due to the changes to the assessment base and assessment rates, as well as the DIF restoration time frame, the impact on the Company&#146;s future deposit insurance assessments has been and should continue to be favorable. 

The Dodd-Frank Act permanently raised the standard maximum deposit insurance coverage amount to $250,000. 

The FDIC deposit insurance coverage limit applies per depositor, per insured depository institution for each account ownership category. 

Depositor Preference Statute 

In the &#147;liquidation or other resolution&#148; of an institution by any receiver, U.S. federal legislation provides that deposits and certain claims for administrative expenses and employee compensation against the insured depository institution would be afforded a priority over general unsecured claims against that institution, including federal funds and letters of credit. 

Government Monetary Policy 

The earnings of the Company are affected primarily by general economic conditions and to a lesser extent by the fiscal and monetary policies of the federal government and its agencies, particularly the Federal Reserve. Its policies influence, to some degree, the volume of bank loans and deposits, and interest rates charged and paid thereon, and thus have an effect on the earnings of the Company&#146;s subsidiary Bank. 

Additional Regulation 

Implementation of the Dodd-Frank Act provisions has resulted in new rulemaking by the federal regulatory agencies and new rules yet to be issued. Implementing the new and expanded regulations involve extreme diligence to ensure compliance with the complexities of the rules, as well as extensive new disclosure and reporting requirements. 

The Dodd-Frank Act created an independent regulatory body, the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection (&#147;Bureau&#148;), with authority and responsibility to set rules and regulations for most consumer protection laws applicable to all banks &#150; large and small - adds another regulator to scrutinize and police financial activities. Transfer to the Bureau of all consumer financial protection functions for designated laws by the other federal agencies was completed on July 21, 2011. The Bureau has responsibility for mortgage reform and enforcement, as well as broad new powers over consumer financial activities which could impact consumer financial products and services and how they are provided. 

&#160;

Significant mortgage rules mandated by the Dodd-Frank Act provisions have been enacted in response to the breakdown in the mortgage lending markets and to provide for consumer protections. Final rules were issued by the Bureau or jointly with other regulatory agencies to implement requirements under the Dodd-Frank Act regarding mortgage-related matters such as ability-to-repay, qualified mortgage standards, mortgage servicing, mortgage loan originator compensation, escrow requirements for higher-priced mortgage loans, and providing appraisals. Most of these rules were effective January 2014 and have been successfully implemented. New mortgage rules were intended to address problems consumers face in the three major steps in buying a home &#150; shopping for a mortgage, closing on a mortgage, and paying off a mortgage. 

Final rules on integrated mortgage disclosures under the Real Estate Settlement Act (RESPA) and Truth in Lending Act (TILA), issued in November 2013 to originally be effective on August 1, 2015, were subsequently postponed until October 3, 2015. Amendments to the integrated mortgage disclosure rules finalized on January 20, 2015, to be effective on August 1, 2015 were also subsequently postponed until October 3, 2015. The TILA-RESPA Integrated Disclosure rule commonly referred to as TRID combined required disclosures into a two single forms: 1) The Loan Estimate which is provided shortly after a mortgage loan application and 2) The Closing Disclosure which is provided prior to loan consummation. In addition, a mandated appraisal notice under the Equal Credit Opportunity Act and the servicing application disclosure under RESPA were also combined into the new integrated disclosures. Significant systems changes, as well as process and procedural adjustments were necessary to appropriately implement the new requirements. Implementation to successfully achieve TRID compliance involved extensive collaboration with the Mortgage Loan Origination software vendor, as well as outreach and coordination efforts with real estate agents, attorneys, and closing agents to cultivate preparedness for the new integrated mortgage loan disclosure forms. Overall mortgage loan volume was up through the end of the year. New TRID requirements, especially the timing requirements that had to be met, did slow the loan origination process slightly but did not result in excessive delays of scheduled loan closings. Due to the complexities of the TRID rule, the industry questions that remain to be answered with absolute clarity, and the status or existence of a safe harbor or protection from liability during the initial live implementation period, remaining attentive to these matters will ensure practices and procedures continue to be fully compliant. 

On June 22, 2015, five federal agencies announced the approval of a joint final rule implementing provisions of the Homeowner Flood Insurance Affordability Act of 2014 (HFIAA) and the Biggert-Waters Flood Insurance Reform Act of 2012 (the Biggert-Waters Act). The final rule, mostly effective on October 1, 2015, was issued by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, the Farm Credit Administration, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the National Credit Union Administration, and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency. This rule amended regulations which apply to loans secured by properties located in special flood hazard areas and included the following: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Implementation of a statutory exemption from the requirement to purchase flood insurance for a detached structure that is part of a residential property and does not serve as a residence. Under the HFIAA lenders may require flood insurance on these detached structures to protect collateral securing the mortgage. The Bank is presently evaluating all instances on a case-by-case basis as they are identified and determining the appropriate action to be taken. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Effective January 1, 2016 in accordance with the HFIAA, for loans made, increased, extended, or renewed to be secured by residential real estate or mobile homes, regulated lending institutions must; &#160;

&#160; &#161; &#160; &#160; Require an escrow for flood insurance premiums and fees, unless the loan qualifies for a statutory exception; &#160;

&#160; &#161; &#160; &#160; Provide borrowers with residential loans outstanding as of January 1, 2016 the option to escrow flood insurance premiums and fees. &#160;

&#160; &#161; &#160; &#160; Provide new and revised samples notice forms and clauses regarding the escrow requirements and the option to escrow. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; The Biggert-Waters Act provisions on force placement of flood insurance coverage: &#160;

&#160; &#161; &#160; &#160; Beginning on the date a borrower&#146;s flood coverage lapses or becomes insufficient, a regulated lending institutions has the authority to charge a borrower for the cost of force-placed insurance coverage. &#160;

&#160; &#161; &#160; &#160; Circumstances under which a lender must terminate force-placed flood insurance coverage and refund payments to the borrower are also stipulated. Changes to existing processes and procedures along with the implementation of new forms and notifications resulted from this new rule. Fines and penalties for compliance with flood insurance requirements promote a continued focused attention on adherence to the new flood rule and existing requirements. 

The Department of Defense (DOD) announced new rules amending its regulation that implements the Military Lending Act (MLA) on July 21, 2015. The MLA was enacted as part of the John Warner National Defense Act of 2007. These new rules significantly expanded the scope of the Act to cover all consumer credit except residential mortgages and purchase money loans. With an effective date of October 1, 2015, compliance is required by October 3, 2016. For credit cards, the required compliance date is October 3, 2017. Coverage applies to consumer credit defined as &#147;credit offered or extended for personal, family, or household purpose and that is subject to a finance charge or payable by written agreement in more than four installments&#148;. A covered borrower is a consumer who at the time of becoming obligated on a consumer credit transaction or establishing an account for consumer credit, is a covered member or dependent (including a spouse) of a covered member. A covered member is a member of the armed forces serving on active duty or active guard or reserve duty. More specifically, the final rule: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Makes financial institutions responsible for determining an applicant&#146;s military status through inquiry using the database maintained by the DOD or a consumer reporting agency that provides such information. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Limits what may be charged in fees and interest on covered consumer loans by imposing a 36% &#147;military annual percentage rate&#148; (MAPR) cap. The 36% cap is an &#147;all-in&#148; annual percentage rate (APR) that includes interest and fees associated with the loan such as application fee and annual fees, as well as fees and premiums for add-on products such as credit insurance, debt cancellation, and debt suspension often sold in connection with a consumer credit transaction. Providing a loan to a covered borrower that exceeds the 36% MAPR is prohibited. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Requires additional disclosures which must be provided to military personnel, their spouses, and dependents when they obtain a loan. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Prohibits certain terms or provisions that require arbitration, involve assessment of a prepayment penalty, or require service members or their dependents to waive any rights under the Service member&#146;s Civil Relief Act or any other federal or state law. Any covered loans made without providing proper disclosures or in violation of the MLA is void. Creditors who knowingly or willfully violate the rules could be subject to a fine, imprisonment up to one year or both. Full implementation of these new rules involve understanding its impact on the covered consumer credit products offered, collaboration with Loan Origination System vendors for assistance with calculations and required disclosures, and an efficient and effective process for identifying covered borrowers. Though the rule is designed to benefit service members, it involves a series of price controls which in essence may restrict the availability of some forms of conventional consumer credit for service members and their dependents. 

Amendments to the final rule regarding Small Creditors and Rural or underserved areas under the TILA were published on October 2, 2015. This expanded the definition of small creditor to a limit of 2,000 first-lien mortgage loans during the preceding calendar year and excluded loans held in portfolio by the lender. In addition, the definition of rural areas was expanded from counties that are considered rural to include smaller census blocks within a county that are not in urban areas. An automated tool for assessing whether a property is located in a rural or underserved area was made available by the Bureau. The Bank meets the criteria to qualify as a small creditor based on the number of loans made during the prior calendar year and due to its asset size of less than $2.052 billion (the asset size threshold subject to an annual CPI adjustment as of December 31, 2015) Due to an ambiguity created between the final rule amendments and the Helping Expand Lending Practices in Rural Communities Act of 2015 enacted on December 4, 2015, further clarification is needed to clearly define what constitutes whether a 

&#160;

lender is operating in a rural or underserved area. The Bank continues to seek Qualified Mortgage (QM) status for mortgage loans made as they provide certain presumptions of compliance under the Ability to Repay Regulation adopted under the Dodd-Frank Act. In satisfying QM requirements, any mortgage lender regardless of their size can make loans which are entitled to the QM presumption of compliance. 

Revised Regulation C rules which implement the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act (HMDA) were published by the Bureau. The effective date for these revisions starts on January 1, 2018 for reportable loan applications. The Dodd Frank Act provisions added new data points for HMDA and authorized the Bureau to require additional information. The types of transactions reportable have expanded to include most consumer purpose transactions that are dwelling-secured loans or open-end lines of credit. Reportable date fields were significantly expanded to 52 fields which included applicant or borrower age, credit score, automated underwriting system information, property value, application channel, points and fees, borrower-paid origination charges, discount points, lender credits, loan term, prepayment penalty, interest rate, loan originator identifier, as well as other data fields. Ethnicity categories were expanded to include certain subcategories. A requirement was added to report how information about an applicant&#146;s or borrower&#146;s ethnicity, race, and sex was collected by the institution. Year-end submission of the data to be reported will be completed using a yet-to-be-developed web-based tool. Steps to implement the new requirements will involve a thorough review of the final rule and requirements. A thorough assessment will be conducted regarding the impact on the data collection processes and procedures within each affected business line along with data collection provided within the loan origination systems utilized to generate loan applications and loan closing documentation. 

Section 5 of the Federal Trade Commission Act provides banking regulatory agencies with authority to take supervisory or enforcement actions on banks with regard to Unfair or Deceptive Acts or Practices (UDAP). UDAP standards developed years ago by the Federal Trade Commission address unacceptable practices that may not specifically be addressed elsewhere in banking or consumer finance law. Banking regulatory agencies have increasingly used this authority over the last few years to address acts or practices that are deemed harmful, deceptive, or misleading to consumers. The Dodd-Frank Act gave the Bureau similar authority to take action in connection with unfair and deceptive acts or practices, as well as abusive acts or practices by entities subject to Bureau&#146;s supervisory or enforcement authority. 

The Bank is also subject to federal regulation as to such matters as required reserves, limitation as to the nature and amount of its loans and investments, regulatory approval of any merger or consolidation, issuance or retirement of their own securities, limitations upon the payment of dividends and other aspects of banking operations. In addition, the activities and operations of the Bank are subject to a number of additional detailed, complex and sometimes overlapping laws and regulations. These include state usury and consumer credit laws, state laws relating to fiduciaries, the federal Equal Credit Opportunity Act and Regulation B, the federal Home Mortgage Disclosure Act and Regulation C, the federal Electronic Funds Transfer Act and Regulation E, the federal Fair Credit Reporting Act and Regulation V, the federal Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act (RESPA) and Regulation X, the federal Truth in Lending Act and Regulation Z, the federal Truth in Savings Act and Regulation DD, the Bank Secrecy Act, the federal Community Reinvestment Act, anti-discrimination laws and legislation, and antitrust laws. 

Future Legislation 

Changes to the laws and regulations, both at the federal and state levels, can affect the operating environment of the Company and its subsidiary in substantial and unpredictable ways. The Company cannot accurately predict whether those changes in laws and regulations will occur, and, if those changes occur, the ultimate effect they would have upon the financial condition or results of operations of the Company or its subsidiary. Various provisions and regulations authorized or required by the Dodd-Frank Act have not yet been proposed or implemented by federal regulators. Uncertainty also exists with respect to the Dodd-Frank Act regulations authorized or required that have not yet been proposed or finalized. 

Available Information 

The Company maintains an Internet web site at the following internet address: www.fm-bank.com. The Company files reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Because the Company makes its filing with the SEC 

&#160;

electronically, you may access such reports at the SEC&#146;s website (www.sec.gov). The Company makes available, free of charge through its internet address, copies of its annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to these reports as soon as reasonable practicable after such materials have been filed with or furnished to the SEC. Copies of these documents may also be obtained, either in electronic or paper form, by contacting Barbara J. Britenriker, Chief Financial Officer of the Company at (419) 446-2501. 

