 Item 1. Business.

Overview 

We were incorporated under the laws of the state of Nevada on March 13, 2013 and we intend to import small farming, household gardening and general small tools directly from manufacturers and market to consumers in the Republic of India. We plan to market via our website: http://www.ballycorp.com and sell these products directly to end users through our website.

To date, we have minimal assets. Our operations to have been merely preparatory and have not generated any revenues and we have incurred losses since inception. We currently have no employees other than our sole executive officer and director.

Number of Employees 

Knight Knox Development Corp. has no employees. The sole officer and director is donating his time to the development of the company, and intends to do whatever work is necessary in order to bring us to the point of earning revenues. We estimate that he will be able to complete his required work and complete whatever work is necessary by spending 20 hours per week without lending the Company additional funds. If this is not the case and additional time and funds will be require then he is willing to commit additional time funds although he has no commitment or contractual obligation to do so. We have no other employees, and do not foresee hiring any additional employees in the near future. We will be engaging independent contractors to design and develop our website and manage our internet marketing efforts.

Reports to Security Holders 

We will file the necessary reports with the SEC pursuant to the Exchange Act, including but not limited to, the report on Form 8-K, annual reports on Form 10-K, and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, as required by Section 15(d).

The public may read and copy any materials filed with the SEC at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street NE, Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports and other electronic information regarding Knight Knox Development Corp. and filed with the SEC at http://www.sec.gov.

&#160;

&#160;

