 ITEM 1. 

&#160; BUSINESS 

Forward Looking Statements 

This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains, and other periodic and current reports, press releases and other public stockholder communications of BankFinancial Corporation may contain, forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, which involve significant risks and uncertainties. Forward-looking statements may include statements relating to our future plans, strategies and expectations, as well as our future revenues, expenses, earnings, losses, financial performance, financial condition, asset quality metrics and future prospects. Forward looking statements are generally identifiable by use of the words &#8220;believe,&#8221; &#8220;may,&#8221; &#8220;will,&#8221; &#8220;should,&#8221; &#8220;could,&#8221; &#8220;expect,&#8221; &#8220;estimate,&#8221; &#8220;intend,&#8221; &#8220;anticipate,&#8221; &#8220;project,&#8221; &#8220;plan,&#8221; or similar expressions. Forward looking statements are frequently based on assumptions that may or may not materialize, and are subject to numerous uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated in the forward looking statements. We intend all forward-looking statements to be covered by the safe harbor provisions for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, and are including this statement for the purpose of invoking these safe harbor provisions. 

Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results anticipated or projected and which could materially and adversely affect our operating results, financial condition or future prospects include, but are not limited to: (i) less than anticipated loan growth due to intense competition for high quality loans and leases, particularly in terms of pricing and credit underwriting, or a dearth of borrowers who meet our underwriting standards; (ii) the impact of re-pricing and competitors&#8217; pricing initiatives on loan and deposit products; (iii) interest rate movements and their impact on the economy, customer behavior and our net interest margin; (iv) adverse economic conditions in general and in the Chicago metropolitan area in particular that could result in increased delinquencies in our loan portfolio or a decline in the value of our investment securities and the collateral for our loans; (v) declines in real estate values that adversely impact the value of our loan collateral, Other Real Estate Owned ("OREO"), asset dispositions and the level of borrower equity in their investments; (vi) borrowers that experience legal or financial difficulties that we do not currently foresee; (vii) results of supervisory monitoring or examinations by regulatory authorities, including the possibility that a regulatory authority could, among other things, require us to increase our allowance for loan losses or adversely change our loan classifications, write-down assets, reduce credit concentrations or maintain specific capital levels; (viii) changes, disruptions or illiquidity in national or global financial markets; (ix) the credit risks of lending activities, including risks that could cause changes in the level and direction of loan delinquencies and charge-offs or changes in estimates relating to the computation of our allowance for loan losses; (x) monetary and fiscal policies of the U.S. Government, including policies of the U.S. Treasury and the Federal Reserve Board; (xi) factors affecting our ability to access deposits or cost-effective funding, and the impact of competitors' pricing initiatives on our deposit products; (xii) the impact of new legislation or regulatory changes, including the Dodd-Frank Act and Basel III, on our products, services, operations and operating expenses; (xiii) higher federal deposit insurance premiums; (xiv) higher than expected overhead, infrastructure and compliance costs; (xv) changes in accounting principles, policies or guidelines; and (xvi) privacy and cybersecurity risks, including the risks of business interruption and the compromise of confidential customer information resulting from intrusions. 

These risks and uncertainties, as well as the Risk Factors set forth in Item 1A below, should be considered in evaluating forward-looking statements and undue reliance should not be placed on such statements. Forward looking statements speak only as of the date they are made. We do not undertake any obligation to update any forward-looking statement in the future, or to reflect circumstances and events that occur after the date on which the forward-looking statement was made. 

BankFinancial Corporation 

BankFinancial Corporation, a Maryland corporation headquartered in Burr Ridge, Illinois (the &#8220;Company&#8221;), became the owner of all of the issued and outstanding capital stock of BankFinancial, F.S.B. (the &#8220;Bank&#8221;) on June 23, 2005, when we consummated a plan of conversion and reorganization that the Bank and its predecessor holding companies, BankFinancial MHC, Inc. and BankFinancial Corporation, a federal corporation, adopted on August 25, 2004. BankFinancial Corporation, the Maryland corporation, was organized in 2004 to facilitate the mutual-to-stock conversion and to become the holding company for the Bank upon its completion. 

As part of the mutual-to-stock conversion, BankFinancial Corporation, the Maryland corporation, sold 24,466,250 shares of common stock in a subscription offering for $10.00 per share. The separate corporate existences of BankFinancial MHC and BankFinancial Corporation, the federal corporation, ceased upon the completion of the mutual-to-stock conversion. For a further discussion of the mutual-to-stock conversion, see our Prospectus as filed on April 29, 2005 with the Securities and Exchange 

Commission (&#8220;SEC&#8221;) pursuant to Rule 424(b)(3) of the Rules and Regulations of the Securities Act of 1933 (File Number 333-119217). 

We manage our operations as one unit, and thus do not have separate operating segments. Our chief operating decision-makers use consolidated results to make operating and strategic decisions. 

BankFinancial, F.S.B. 

The Bank is a full-service, community-oriented federal savings bank principally engaged in the business of commercial, family and personal banking. The Bank offers our customers a broad range of loan, deposit, and other financial products and services through 19 &#32;full-service Illinois based banking offices located in Cook, DuPage, Lake and Will Counties, and through our Internet Branch, www.bankfinancial.com . 

The Bank&#8217;s primary business is making loans and accepting deposits. The Bank also offers our customers a variety of financial products and services that are related or ancillary to loans and deposits, including cash management, funds transfers, bill payment and other online and mobile banking transactions, automated teller machines, safe deposit boxes, trust services, wealth management, and general insurance agency services. 

The Bank&#8217;s primary lending area consists of the counties where our branch offices are located, and contiguous counties in the State of Illinois. We derive the most significant portion of our revenues from these geographic areas. However, we also engage in multi-family lending activities in selected Metropolitan Statistical Areas outside our primary lending area and engage in healthcare lending and commercial leasing activities on a nationwide basis. 

We originate deposits predominantly from the areas where our branch offices are located. We rely on our favorable locations, customer service, competitive pricing, our Internet Branch and related deposit services such as cash management to attract and retain these deposits. While we accept certificates of deposit in excess of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (&#8220;FDIC&#8221;) deposit insurance limits, we generally do not solicit such deposits because they are more difficult to retain than core deposits and at times are more costly than wholesale deposits. 

Lending Activities 

Our loan portfolio consists primarily of investment and business loans (multi-family, nonresidential real estate, commercial, construction and land loans, and commercial leases), which represented $1.079 billion , or 87.0% , of our gross loan portfolio of $1.240 billion &#32;at December 31, 2015 . At December 31, 2015 , $506.0 million , or 40.8% , of our loan portfolio consisted of multi-family mortgage loans; $226.7 million , or 18.3% , of our loan portfolio consisted of nonresidential real estate loans; $79.5 million , or 6.4% , of our loan portfolio consisted of commercial loans; $265.4 million , or 21.4% , of our loan portfolio consisted of commercial leases; and $1.3 million , or 0.1% , of our loan portfolio consisted of construction and land loans. $159.5 million , or 12.9% , of our loan portfolio consisted of one-to-four family residential mortgage loans (of which $44.5 million , or 3.6% , were loans to investors in non-owner occupied single-family homes), including home equity loans and lines of credit. 

Deposit Activities 

Our deposit accounts consist principally of savings accounts, NOW accounts, checking accounts, money market accounts, certificates of deposit, and IRAs and other retirement accounts. We provide commercial checking accounts and related services such as cash management. We also provide low-cost checking account services. We rely on our favorable locations, customer service, competitive pricing, our Internet Branch and related deposit services such as cash management to attract and retain deposit accounts. 

At December 31, 2015 , our deposits totaled $1.213 billion . Interest-bearing deposits totaled $958.1 million , or 79.0% , and noninterest-bearing demand deposits totaled $254.8 million , or 21.0% . Savings, money market and NOW account deposits totaled $735.4 million , and certificates of deposit totaled $222.7 million , or 18.4% , of which $151.5 million &#32;had maturities of one year or less. 

Related Products and Services 

The Bank provides trust and financial planning services through our Trust Department. The Bank&#8217;s Wealth Management Group provides investment, financial planning and other wealth management services through arrangements with a third-party broker-dealer. The Bank&#8217;s wholly-owned subsidiary, Financial Assurance Services, Inc. (&#8220;Financial Assurance&#8221;), sells property and casualty insurance and other insurance products on an agency basis. During the year ended December 31, 2015 , Financial Assurance recorded a net loss of $44,000 . At December 31, 2015 , Financial Assurance had two &#32;full-time employees. The Bank&#8217;s other wholly-owned subsidiary, BF Asset Recovery Corporation, holds title to and sells certain Company-owned real estate acquired through foreclosure and collection actions, and recorded a net loss of $696,000 &#32;for the year ended December 31, 2015 . 

Website and Stockholder Information 

The website for the Company and the Bank is www.bankfinancial.com . Information on this website does not constitute part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

The Company makes available, free of charge, its Annual Report on Form 10-K, its Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, its Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to such reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (&#8220;Exchange Act&#8221;), as soon as reasonably practicable after such forms are filed with or furnished to the SEC. Copies of these documents are available to stockholders at the website for the Company and the Bank, www.bankfinancial.com , under Investor Relations, and through the EDGAR database on the SEC&#8217;s website, www.sec.gov . 

Competition 

We face significant competition in originating loans and attracting deposits. The Chicago Metropolitan Statistical Area and the other markets in which we operate generally have a high concentration of financial institutions, many of which are significantly larger institutions that have greater financial resources than we have, and many of which are our competitors to varying degrees. Our competition for loans and leases comes principally from commercial banks, savings banks, mortgage banking companies, the U.S. Government, credit unions, leasing companies, insurance companies, real estate conduits and other companies that provide financial services to businesses and individuals. Our most direct competition for deposits has historically come from commercial banks, savings banks and credit unions. We face additional competition for deposits from online financial institutions and non-depository competitors such as the mutual fund industry, securities and brokerage firms and insurance companies. 

We seek to meet this competition by emphasizing personalized service and efficient decision-making tailored to individual needs. In addition, we from time to time reward long-standing relationships with preferred rates and terms on deposit products based on existing and prospective lending business. We do not rely on any individual, group or entity for a material portion of our loans or our deposits. 

Employees 

At December 31, 2015 , we had 230 &#32;full-time employees and 43 &#32;part-time employees. The employees are not represented by a collective bargaining unit and we consider our working relationship with our employees to be good. 

Supervision and Regulation 

General 

As a federally chartered savings bank, the Bank is regulated and supervised primarily by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (&#8220;OCC&#8221;). The Bank is also subject to regulation by the FDIC in more limited circumstances because the Bank&#8217;s deposits are insured by the FDIC. This regulatory and supervisory structure establishes a comprehensive framework of activities in which a financial institution may engage, and is intended primarily for the protection of the FDIC&#8217;s deposit insurance fund, depositors and the banking system. Under this system of federal regulation, financial institutions are periodically examined to ensure that they satisfy applicable standards with respect to their capital adequacy, assets, management, earnings, liquidity and sensitivity to market interest rates. The OCC examines the Bank and prepares reports for the consideration of its Board of Directors on any identified deficiencies. After completing an examination, the OCC issues a report of examination and assigns a rating (known as an institution&#8217;s CAMELS rating). Under federal law and regulations, an institution may not disclose the contents of its reports of examination or its CAMELS ratings to the public. 

The Bank is a member of, and owns stock in, the Federal Home Loan Bank of Chicago (&#8220;FHLBC&#8221;), which is one of the 12 regional banks in the Federal Home Loan Bank System. The Bank also is regulated by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (&#8220;FRB&#8221;) with regard to reserves it must maintain against deposits, dividends and other matters. The Bank&#8217;s relationship with its depositors and borrowers also is regulated in some respects by both federal and state laws, especially in matters concerning the ownership of deposit accounts, and the form and content of the Bank&#8217;s consumer loan documents. 

The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (&#8220;Dodd-Frank Act&#8221;) of 2010, provided for the transfer of the authority for regulating and supervising federal savings banks from the Office of Thrift Supervision (&#8220;OTS&#8221;), the Bank&#8217;s previous regulator, to the OCC. The Dodd-Frank Act also provided for the transfer of authority for regulating and supervising savings and loan holding companies and their non-depository subsidiaries from the OTS to the FRB. The transfers occurred in 2011. The Dodd-Frank Act also created a new federal agency, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (&#8220;CFPB&#8221;), as an independent bureau within the FRB system, to conduct rule-making, supervision, and enforcement of federal consumer financial protection and fair lending laws and regulations. The CFPB has examination and primary enforcement authority in connection with these laws and regulations for depository institutions with total assets of more than $10 billion. Depository institutions with $10 billion or less in 

total assets, such as the Bank, continue to be examined for compliance with these laws and regulations by their primary federal regulators, and remain subject to their enforcement authority. 

There can be no assurance that laws, rules and regulations, and regulatory policies will not change in the future, and change could make compliance more difficult or expensive or otherwise adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects. Any change in these laws or regulations, or in regulatory policy, whether by the OCC, the FDIC, the FRB, the CFPB or Congress, could have a material adverse impact on the Company, the Bank and their respective operations. The following summary of laws and regulations applicable to the Bank and Company is not intended to be exhaustive and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the actual laws and regulations involved. 

Federal Banking Regulation 

Business Activities. &#32;As a federal savings bank, the Bank derives its lending and investment powers from the Home Owners&#8217; Loan Act, as amended, and the regulations, pronouncements or guidance of the OCC. Under these laws and regulations, the Bank may invest in mortgage loans secured by residential and nonresidential real estate, commercial business and consumer loans, certain types of securities and certain other loans and assets. Specifically, the Bank may originate, invest in, sell, or purchase unlimited loans on the security of residential real estate, while loans on nonresidential real estate generally may not, on a combined basis, exceed 400% of the Bank&#8217;s total capital. In addition, secured and unsecured commercial loans and certain types of commercial personal property leases may not exceed 20% of the Bank&#8217;s assets; however, amounts in excess of 10% of assets may only be used for small business loans. Further, the Bank may generally invest up to 35% of its assets in consumer loans, corporate debt securities and commercial paper on a combined basis, and up to the greater of its capital or 5% of its assets in unsecured construction loans. The Bank may invest up to 10% of its assets in tangible personal property, for rental or sale. Certain leases on tangible personal property are not aggregated with commercial or consumer loans for the purposes of determining compliance with the limitations set forth for those investment categories. The Bank also may establish subsidiaries that may engage in activities not otherwise permissible for the Bank directly, including real estate investment and insurance agency activities. A violation of the lending and investment limitations may be subject to the same enforcement mechanisms of the primary federal regulator as other violations of a law or regulation. 

Capital Requirements. &#32;&#32;Federal regulations require federally insured depository institutions to meet several minimum capital standards: a common equity Tier 1 capital to risk-based assets ratio of 4.5%, a Tier 1 capital to risk-based assets ratio of 6.0%, a total capital to risk-based assets of 8.0%, and a 4.0% Tier 1 capital to total assets leverage ratio. These capital requirements were effective January 1, 2015 and are the result of a final rule implementing recommendations of the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision and certain requirements of the Dodd-Frank Act. 

In determining the amount of risk-weighted assets for purposes of calculating risk-based capital ratios, all assets, including certain off-balance sheet assets ( e.g. , recourse obligations, direct credit substitutes, residual interests) are multiplied by a risk weight factor assigned by the regulations based on the risks believed inherent in the type of asset. Higher levels of capital are required for asset categories believed to present greater risk. Common equity Tier 1 capital is generally defined as common stockholders&#8217; equity and retained earnings. Tier 1 capital is generally defined as common equity Tier 1 and additional Tier 1 capital. Additional Tier 1 capital includes certain noncumulative perpetual preferred stock and related surplus and minority interests in equity accounts of consolidated subsidiaries. Total capital includes Tier 1 capital (common equity Tier 1 capital plus additional Tier 1 capital) and Tier 2 capital. Tier 2 capital is comprised of capital instruments and related surplus, meeting specified requirements, and may include cumulative preferred stock and long-term perpetual preferred stock, mandatory convertible securities, intermediate preferred stock and subordinated debt. Also included in Tier 2 capital is the allowance for loan and lease losses limited to a maximum of 1.25% of risk-weighted assets and, for institutions that have exercised an opt-out election regarding the treatment of Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income, up to 45% of net unrealized gains on available-for-sale equity securities with readily determinable fair market values. Calculation of all types of regulatory capital is subject to deductions and adjustments specified in the regulations. In assessing an institution&#8217;s capital adequacy, the OCC takes into consideration, not only these numeric factors, but qualitative factors as well, and has the authority to establish higher capital requirements for individual institutions where deemed necessary. 

In addition to establishing the minimum regulatory capital requirements, the regulations limit capital distributions and certain discretionary bonus payments to management if the institution does not hold a &#8220;capital conservation buffer&#8221; consisting of 2.5% of common equity Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted asset above the amount necessary to meet its minimum risk-based capital requirements. The capital conservation buffer requirement is being phased in beginning January 1, 2016 at 0.625% of risk-weighted assets and increasing each year until fully implemented at 2.5% on January 1, 2019. 

At December 31, 2015 , the Bank&#8217;s capital exceeded all applicable regulatory requirements and the Bank was considered well capitalized. 

The Company and the Bank each have adopted Regulatory Capital Plans that require the Bank to maintain a Tier 1 leverage ratio of at least 8% and a total risk-based capital ratio of at least 12%. The minimum capital ratios set forth in the Regulatory Capital Plans will be increased and other minimum capital requirements will be established if and as necessary. In accordance with the Regulatory Capital Plans, neither the Company nor the Bank will pursue any acquisition or growth opportunity, declare any dividend or conduct any stock repurchase that would cause the Bank's total risk-based capital ratio and/or its Tier 1 leverage ratio to fall below the established minimum capital levels. In addition, in accordance with its Regulatory Capital Plan, the Company will continue to maintain its ability to serve as a source of financial strength to the Bank by holding at least $5.0 million of cash or liquid assets for that purpose. 

Loans-to-One-Borrower. &#32;A federal savings bank generally may not make a loan or extend credit to a single or related group of borrowers in excess of 15% of unimpaired capital and surplus. An additional amount may be loaned, equal to 10% of unimpaired capital and surplus, if the loan is secured by readily marketable collateral, which generally does not include real estate. As of December 31, 2015 , the Bank was in compliance with the loans-to-one-borrower limitations. 

Qualified Thrift Lender Test. As a federal savings bank, the Bank is subject to a qualified thrift lender (&#8220;QTL&#8221;) test. Under the QTL test, the Bank must maintain at least 65% of its &#8220;portfolio assets&#8221; in &#8220;qualified thrift investments&#8221; in at least nine months of the most recent 12-month period. &#8220;Portfolio assets&#8221; generally means the total assets of a savings institution, less the sum of specified liquid assets up to 20% of total assets, goodwill and other intangible assets, and the value of property used in the conduct of the federal savings bank&#8217;s business. 

&#8220;Qualified thrift investments&#8221; include various types of loans made for residential and housing purposes, investments related to those purposes, including certain mortgage-backed and related securities, and loans for personal, family, household and certain other purposes up to a limit of 20% of portfolio assets. &#8220;Qualified thrift investments&#8221; also include 100% of an institution&#8217;s credit card loans, education loans and small business loans. The Bank also may satisfy the QTL test by qualifying as a &#8220;domestic building and loan association&#8221; as defined in the Internal Revenue Code of 1986. At December 31, 2015 , the Bank satisfied the QTL test. A federal savings bank that fails the QTL test must operate under specified restrictions, including limits on growth, branching, new investment and dividends. As a result of the Dodd-Frank Act, noncompliance with the QTL test is subject to regulatory enforcement action as a violation of law. 

Capital Distributions. &#32;The regulations of the OCC govern capital distributions by a federal savings bank, which include cash dividends, stock repurchases and other transactions charged to the institution&#8217;s capital account. A federal savings bank must file an application for approval of a capital distribution if: 

&#8226; 

the total capital distributions for the applicable calendar year exceed the sum of the institution&#8217;s net income for that year to date plus the federal savings bank&#8217;s retained net income for the preceding two years; 

&#8226; 

the institution would not be at least adequately capitalized following the distribution; 

&#8226; 

the distribution would violate any applicable statute, regulation, agreement or OCC-imposed condition; or 

&#8226; 

the institution is not eligible for expedited treatment of its filings. 

At December 31, 2015 , the Bank would have been required to file an application with the OCC for approval of a capital distribution to the Company only if the proposed capital distribution, together with Bank&#8217;s total capital distributions for the 2015 , exceeded the sum of the Bank&#8217;s net income for 2015 &#32;plus the Bank&#8217;s retained net income for the preceding two years. Whether or not an application to the OCC is required, every federal savings bank that is a subsidiary of a holding company must file a notice with the FRB at least 30 days before the board of directors declares a dividend or approves a capital distribution. If the dividend or other capital distribution does not require prior OCC approval, the OCC must concurrently be provided with an informational copy of the notice given to the FRB. 

The FRB may disapprove a notice or application if: 

&#8226; 

the federal savings bank would be undercapitalized following the distribution; 

&#8226; 

the proposed capital distribution raises safety and soundness concerns; or 

&#8226; 

the capital distribution would violate a prohibition contained in any statute, regulation or agreement. 

Liquidity. &#32;A federal savings bank is required to maintain a sufficient amount of liquid assets to ensure its safe and sound operation. 

Community Reinvestment Act and Fair Lending Laws. &#32;All federal savings banks have a responsibility under the Community Reinvestment Act (&#8220;CRA&#8221;) and related federal regulations to help meet the credit needs of their communities, including low- and moderate- income neighborhoods. In connection with its examination of a federal savings bank, the OCC is required to evaluate 

and rate the federal savings bank&#8217;s record of compliance with the CRA. In addition, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act and the Fair Housing Act prohibit lenders from discriminating in their lending practices based on the characteristics specified in those statutes. A federal savings bank&#8217;s failure to comply with the provisions of the CRA could, at a minimum, result in regulatory restrictions on its activities. The failure to comply with the Equal Credit Opportunity Act and the Fair Housing Act could result in enforcement actions by the OCC, as well as other federal regulatory agencies and the Department of Justice. The Bank&#8217;s CRA performance has been rated as &#8220;Outstanding,&#8221; the highest possible rating, in all of the seven CRA Performance Evaluations that have been conducted since 1998. 

Privacy Standards. &#32;Financial institutions are subject to regulations implementing the privacy protection provisions of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act. These regulations require the Bank to disclose its privacy policy, including identifying with whom it shares &#8220;nonpublic personal information&#8221; to customers at the time of establishing the customer relationship and annually thereafter. In addition, the Bank is required to provide its customers with the ability to &#8220;opt-out&#8221; of or consent to having the Bank share their nonpublic personal information with unaffiliated third parties before it can disclose such information, subject to certain exceptions. The implementation of these regulations did not have a material adverse effect on the Bank. The Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act also allows each state to enact legislation that is more protective of consumers&#8217; personal information. 

The OCC and other federal banking agencies have adopted guidelines establishing standards for safeguarding customer information to implement certain provisions of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act. The guidelines describe the agencies&#8217; expectations for the creation, implementation and maintenance of an information security program, which would include administrative, technical and physical safeguards appropriate to the size and complexity of a financial institution and the nature and scope of its activities. The standards set forth in the guidelines are intended to ensure the security and confidentiality of customer records and information, to protect against any anticipated threats or hazards to the security or integrity of such records, and to protect against unauthorized access to or use of such records or other information that could result in substantial harm or inconvenience to any customer. The Bank has implemented these guidelines, and such implementation has not had a material adverse effect on our operations. 

Transactions with Related Parties. &#32;A federal savings bank&#8217;s authority to engage in transactions with its &#8220;affiliates&#8221; is limited by OCC regulations and by Sections 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act and its implementing regulation, Regulation W. The term &#8220;affiliates&#8221; for these purposes generally means any company that controls or is under common control with an insured depository institution, although subsidiaries of federal savings banks are generally not considered affiliates for the purposes of Sections 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act. The Company is an affiliate of the Bank. In general, transactions with affiliates must be on terms that are as favorable to the federal savings bank as comparable transactions with non-affiliates. In addition, certain types of these transactions are restricted to an aggregate percentage of the federal savings bank&#8217;s capital. Collateral in specified amounts must usually be provided by affiliates in order to receive loans from the federal savings bank. Federal regulations also prohibit a federal savings bank from lending to any of its affiliates that are engaged in activities that are not permissible for bank holding companies, and from purchasing the securities of any affiliate, other than a subsidiary. 

The Bank&#8217;s authority to extend credit to its directors, executive officers and 10% stockholders, as well as to entities controlled by such persons, is currently governed by the requirements of Sections 22(g) and 22(h) of the Federal Reserve Act and Regulation O of the Federal Reserve Board. Among other things, these provisions require that extensions of credit to insiders be made on terms that are substantially the same as, and follow credit underwriting procedures that are not less stringent than, those prevailing for comparable transactions with unaffiliated persons and that do not involve more than the normal risk of repayment or present other unfavorable features, and not exceed certain limitations on the amount of credit extended to such persons, individually and in the aggregate, which limits are based, in part, on the amount of the Bank&#8217;s capital. In addition, extensions of credit in excess of certain limits must receive the prior approval of the Bank&#8217;s Board of Directors. 

Enforcement. &#32;The OCC has primary enforcement responsibility over federal savings banks, and this includes the authority to bring enforcement action against the Bank and all &#8220;institution-affiliated parties,&#8221; including stockholders, attorneys, appraisers and accountants who knowingly or recklessly participate in wrongful action likely to have an adverse effect on an insured institution. Formal enforcement action may range from the issuance of a capital directive or cease and desist order to the removal of officers and/or directors, receivership, conservatorship or the termination of deposit insurance. Civil monetary penalties cover a wide range of violations and actions, and range up to $25,000 per day, unless a finding of reckless disregard is made, in which case penalties may be as high as $1 million per day. The FDIC also has the authority to recommend to the OCC that an enforcement action be taken with respect to a particular savings institution. If action is not taken by the OCC, the FDIC has authority to take action under specified circumstances. 

Standards for Safety and Soundness. &#32;Federal law requires each federal banking agency to prescribe certain standards for all insured depository institutions. These standards relate to, among other things, internal controls, information systems and audit systems, loan documentation, credit underwriting, interest rate risk exposure, asset growth, compensation and other operational 

and managerial standards as the agency deems appropriate. The federal banking agencies adopted Interagency Guidelines Prescribing Standards for Safety and Soundness to implement the safety and soundness standards required under federal law. The guidelines set forth the safety and soundness standards that the federal banking agencies use to identify and address problems at insured depository institutions before capital becomes impaired. The guidelines address internal controls and information systems, internal audit systems, credit underwriting, loan documentation, interest rate risk exposure, asset growth, compensation, fees and benefits. If the appropriate federal banking agency determines that an institution fails to meet any standard prescribed by the guidelines, the agency may require the institution to submit to the agency an acceptable plan to achieve compliance with the standard. 

Prompt Corrective Action Regulations . &#32;Under the Federal Prompt Corrective Action statute, the OCC is required to take supervisory actions against undercapitalized savings institutions under its jurisdiction, the severity of which depends upon the institution&#8217;s level of capital. The previously mentioned final capital rule effective January 1 , 2015 revised the prompt corrective action categories to incorporate the revised minimum capital requirements, effective the same date. See &#8220;-Capital Requirements.&#8221; 

Under the revised categories, a savings institution that has total risk-based capital of less than 8%, a leverage ratio that is less than 4%, a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio that is less than 6%, or a common equity Tier 1 ratio of less than 4.5% is considered to be undercapitalized. A savings institution that has total risk-based capital less than 6%, a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of less than 4%, a leverage ratio that is less than 3%, or a common equity Tier 1 ratio of less than 3% is considered to be &#8220;significantly undercapitalized.&#8221; A savings institution that has a tangible capital to assets ratio equal to or less than 2% is deemed to be &#8220;critically undercapitalized." 

Generally, the banking regulator is required to appoint a receiver or conservator for a federal savings bank that is &#8220;critically undercapitalized.&#8221; The regulations also provide that a capital restoration plan must be filed with the OCC within 45 days of the date a bank receives notice that it is &#8220;undercapitalized,&#8221; &#8220;significantly undercapitalized&#8221; or &#8220;critically undercapitalized.&#8221; A parent holding company for the institution involved must guarantee performance under the capital restoration plan up to the lesser of the institution&#8217;s capital deficiency when deemed undercapitalized or 5% of the institution&#8217;s assets. In addition, numerous mandatory supervisory actions become immediately applicable to the federal savings bank, including, but not limited to, restrictions on growth, investment activities, capital distributions and affiliate transactions. The OCC may also take any one of a number of discretionary supervisory actions against undercapitalized federal savings banks, including the issuance of a capital directive and individual minimum capital requirements and the replacement of senior executive officers and directors. 

At December 31, 2015 , the Bank met the criteria for being considered &#8220;well-capitalized&#8221;. 

Insurance of Deposit Accounts. &#32;The Bank&#8217;s deposits are insured up to applicable limits by the Deposit Insurance Fund of the FDIC. Under the FDIC&#8217;s risk-based assessment system, insured institutions are assigned to one of four risk categories based on supervisory evaluations, regulatory capital levels and certain other factors, with less risky institutions paying lower assessments. An institution&#8217;s assessment rate depends upon the category to which it is assigned, subject to certain adjustments specified by the FDIC. The FDIC may adjust the scale uniformly, except that no adjustment may deviate by more than two basis points from the base scale without notice and comment. No institution may pay a dividend if it is in default of the federal deposit insurance assessment. 

Prior to the Dodd-Frank Act, assessment rates ranged from seven to 77.5 basis points of assessable deposits. The Dodd-Frank Act required the FDIC to revise its procedures to base its assessments upon total assets less tangible equity instead of on deposits. The FDIC issued a final rule, effective April 1, 2011, that implemented that change. The FDIC also revised the assessment schedule and certain of the possible adjustments so that the range of assessments is now 2.5 basis points to 45 basis points of total assets less tangible equity. 

The Dodd-Frank Act increased the minimum target Deposit Insurance Fund ratio from 1.15% of estimated insured deposits to 1.35% of estimated insured deposits. The FDIC must seek to achieve the 1.35% ratio by September 30, 2020. Insured institutions with assets of $10 billion or more are supposed to fund the increase. The Dodd-Frank Act eliminated the 1.5% maximum fund ratio, instead leaving the ratio to the discretion of the FDIC. The FDIC exercised that discretion by establishing a long-range fund ratio of 2%. 

The FDIC has authority to increase insurance assessments. A significant increase in insurance premiums would likely have an adverse effect on the operating expenses and results of operations of the Bank. The Bank cannot predict what its insurance assessment rates will be in the future. 

An insured institution&#8217;s deposit insurance may be terminated by the FDIC upon a finding that the institution has engaged in unsafe or unsound practices, is in an unsafe or unsound condition to continue operations or has violated any applicable law, regulation, 

rule, order or regulatory condition imposed in writing. The management of the Bank does not know of any practice, condition or violation that might lead to termination of deposit insurance. 

In addition to the FDIC assessments, the Financing Corporation (&#8220;FICO&#8221;) is authorized to impose and collect, with the approval of the FDIC, assessments for anticipated payments, issuance costs and custodial fees on bonds issued by the FICO in the 1980&#8217;s to recapitalize the former Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation. The bonds issued by the FICO are due to mature in 2017 through 2019. 

Prohibitions Against Tying Arrangements . &#32;Federal savings banks are prohibited, subject to some exceptions, from extending credit to or offering any other service, or fixing or varying the consideration for such extension of credit or service, on the condition that the customer obtain some additional service from the institution or its affiliates or not obtain services of a competitor of the institution. 

Federal Home Loan Bank System. &#32;The Bank is a member of the Federal Home Loan Bank System, which consists of 12 regional Federal Home Loan Banks. The Federal Home Loan Bank System provides a central credit facility primarily for member institutions. As a member of the FHLBC, the Bank is required to acquire and hold shares of capital stock in the FHLBC in specified amounts. As of December 31, 2015 , the Bank was in compliance with this requirement. 

The USA PATRIOT Act and the Bank Secrecy Act 

The USA PATRIOT Act and the Bank Secrecy Act require financial institutions to develop programs to detect and report money-laundering and terrorist activities, as well as suspicious activities. The USA PATRIOT Act also gives the federal government powers to address terrorist threats through enhanced domestic security measures, expanded surveillance powers, increased information sharing and broadened anti-money laundering requirements. The federal banking agencies are required to take into consideration the effectiveness of controls designed to combat money-laundering activities in determining whether to approve a merger or other acquisition application of a member institution. Accordingly, if we engage in a merger or other acquisition, our controls designed to combat money laundering would be considered as part of the application process. In addition, non-compliance with these laws and regulations could result in fines, penalties and other enforcement measures. We have developed policies, procedures and systems designed to comply with these laws and regulations. 

Federal Reserve System 

The FRB&#8217;s regulations require federal savings banks to maintain noninterest-earning reserves against their transaction accounts, such as negotiable order of withdrawal and regular checking accounts. At December 31, 2015 , the Bank was in compliance with the FRB's reserve requirements. The balances maintained to meet the reserve requirements imposed by the FRB may be used to satisfy liquidity requirements imposed by the federal regulation. 

Holding Company Regulation 

The Company is a unitary savings and loan holding company and is subject to regulation and supervision by the FRB. The FRB has enforcement authority over the Company and its non-savings institution subsidiaries. Among other things, this authority permits the FRB to restrict or prohibit activities that are determined to be a risk to the Bank. The Dodd-Frank Act provided for the transfer of the authority for supervising and regulating savings and loan holding companies and their non-depository subsidiaries from the OTS to the FRB. The transfer occurred on July 21, 2011. 

The Company's activities are limited to the activities permissible for financial holding companies or for multiple savings and loan holding companies. A financial holding company may engage in activities that are financial in nature, including underwriting equity securities and insurance, incidental to financial activities or complementary to a financial activity. The Dodd-Frank Act specifies that a savings and loan holding company may only engage in financial holding company activities if it meets the qualitative criteria necessary for a bank holding company to engage in such activities. A multiple savings and loan holding company is generally limited to activities permissible for bank holding companies under Section 4(c) (8) of the Bank Holding Company Act, subject to the prior approval of the FRB, and certain additional activities authorized by FRB regulations. 

Federal law prohibits a savings and loan holding company, directly or indirectly, or through one or more subsidiaries, from acquiring control of another savings institution or holding company thereof, without prior written approval of the FRB. It also prohibits the acquisition or retention of, with specified exceptions, more than 5% of the equity securities of a company engaged in activities that are not closely related to banking or financial in nature or acquiring or retaining control of an institution that is not federally insured. In evaluating applications by holding companies to acquire savings institutions, the FRB must consider the financial and managerial resources and future prospects of the savings institution, the effect of the acquisition on the risk to the insurance fund, the convenience and needs of the community and competitive factors. 

Capital. &#32;Savings and loan holding companies have not historically been subject to specific regulatory capital requirements. The Dodd-Frank Act, however, required the FRB to promulgate consolidated capital requirements for depository institution holding companies that are no less stringent, both quantitatively and in terms of components of capital, than those applicable to their subsidiary depository institutions. Instruments such as cumulative preferred stock and trust-preferred securities, which were previously includable within Tier 1 capital by bank holding companies, within certain limits, would no longer be includable as Tier 1 capital, subject to certain grandfathering. The previously discussed final rule regarding regulatory capital requirements implements the Dodd-Frank Act as to savings and loan holding companies. Consolidated regulatory capital requirements identical to those applicable to the subsidiary depository institutions applied to savings and loan holding companies as of January 1, 2015. As is the case with institutions themselves, the capital conservation buffer will be phased in between 2016 and 2019. 

Source of Strength Doctrine. &#32;The &#8220;source of strength doctrine&#8221; requires bank holding companies to provide financial assistance to their subsidiary depository institutions in the event the subsidiary depository institution experiences financial distress. The Dodd-Frank Act extends the source of strength doctrine to savings and loan holding companies. The FRB has issued regulations requiring that all bank holding companies and savings and loan holding companies serve as a source of strength to their subsidiary depository institutions by providing capital, liquidity and other support in times of financial distress. 

The FRB has issued a policy statement regarding the payment of dividends by bank holding companies that it has made applicable to savings and loan holding companies as well. In general, the policy provides that dividends should be paid only out of current earnings and only if the prospective rate of earnings retention by the holding company appears consistent with the organization&#8217;s capital needs, asset quality and overall financial condition. Regulatory guidance provides for prior regulatory review of capital distributions in certain circumstances such as where the company&#8217;s net income for the past four quarters, net of dividends previously paid over that period, is insufficient to fully fund a dividend or the company&#8217;s overall rate of earnings retention is inconsistent with the company&#8217;s capital needs and overall financial condition. The ability of a holding company to pay dividends may be restricted if a subsidiary bank becomes undercapitalized. These regulatory policies could affect the ability of the Company to pay dividends or otherwise engage in capital distributions and stock repurchases. 

Change in Control Regulations 

Under the Change in Bank Control Act, no person may acquire control of a savings and loan holding company such as the Company unless the FRB has been given 60 days&#8217; prior written notice and has not issued a notice disapproving the proposed acquisition, taking into consideration certain factors, including the financial and managerial resources of the acquiror and the competitive effects of the acquisition. Control, as defined under federal law, means ownership, control of or holding irrevocable proxies representing more than 25% of any class of voting stock, control in any manner of the election of a majority of the company&#8217;s directors, or a determination by the regulator that the acquiror has the power to direct, or directly or indirectly to exercise a controlling influence over, the management or policies of the institution. Acquisition of more than 10% of any class of a savings and loan holding company&#8217;s voting stock constitutes a rebuttable presumption of control under the regulations under certain circumstances including where, as is the case with the Company, the issuer has registered securities under Section 12 of the Exchange Act. 

Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 

The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 was enacted in response to public concerns regarding corporate accountability in connection with certain accounting scandals. The stated goals of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act are to increase corporate responsibility, to provide for enhanced penalties for accounting and auditing improprieties at publicly traded companies, and to protect investors by improving the accuracy and reliability of corporate disclosures pursuant to the securities laws. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act generally applies to all companies that file or are required to file periodic reports with the SEC, under the Exchange Act. 

The Sarbanes-Oxley Act includes specific additional disclosure requirements, requires the SEC and national securities exchanges to adopt extensive additional disclosure, corporate governance and other related rules, and mandates further studies of certain issues by the SEC. 

Federal Securities Laws 

The Company&#8217;s common stock is registered with the SEC under the Exchange Act. The Company is subject to the information, proxy solicitation, insider trading restrictions and other requirements of the Exchange Act. 

