 ITEM 1. BUSINESS. 

Overview

Global Clean Energy Holdings, Inc. is a U.S.-based energy agri-business focused on the development of ultra-low carbon non-food based feedstocks for renewable fuels and chemicals in the U.S. Mexico and the Caribbean. We have in-house development and operations capabilities that supports our own biofuel energy farms and provides advisory services to third parties. With international experience and capabilities in eco-friendly biofuel feedstock management, cultivation, production and distribution, we believe that we are well suited to scale our existing business.

Since 2007, our business focus has been on the commercialization of non-food based oilseed plants and biomass. We began with the development of farms growing Jatropha curcas ( " Jatropha " ) - a non-edible plant indigenous to many tropical and sub-tropical regions of the world, including Mexico, the Caribbean and Central America and the cultivation of Camelina sativa ( " Camelina " ) &#8211; an annual plant from the brassica family traditionally grown in northerly regions of the United States, Europe and Asia. We have focused on these two plant species primarily because we feel they have the potential to produce oil seed crops economically, they generally require less water and fertilizer than many conventional crops, and they can be grown on land that is normally unsuitable for food production or is fallow or idle due to crop rotation.

Both Jatropha and Camelina oil are high-quality plant oils used as direct substitutes for fossil fuels and as feedstock for the production of high quality " ultra-low carbon " biofuels and other bio-based products. Both crops have been tested and proven to be highly desirable feedstocks capable of being converted into ASTM approved fossil fuel replacements. The term " biofuels " refers to a range of biological based fuels including bio-kerosene (a.k.a bio-jet fuel), biodiesel, renewable diesel, green diesel, synthetic diesel and biomass, most of which have environmental benefits that are the major driving force for their adoption. Using biofuels instead of fossil fuels reduces net emissions of carbon dioxide and other green-house gases, which are associated with global climate change. Both Jatropha and Camelina oil can also be used as a chemical feedstock to replace fossil and non-food based products that currently use edible oils in their manufacturing or production process. The residual material derived from the oil extraction process is called press-cake, which in the case of Jatropha is a high-quality biomass that has been proven and tested as a replacement for a number of fossil-based feedstocks, fossil fuels and other high value products such as renewable charcoal, fertilizers, and animal feed. Camelina press-cake or meal is high in Omega3 fatty acids and has already been approved by the FDA and sold by our wholly owned subsidiary Sustainable Oils as a livestock (animal) feed ingredient in the United States.

Our business plan and current principal business activities include the plant science development, planting, cultivation, harvesting and processing of these oil seed plants to generate plant based oils and biomass for use as replacements for fossil fuels and other high value products. Our strategy is to leverage our plant science, agriculture and energy knowledge, experience and capabilities through the following means:

&#183; Own and operate biofuel energy farms for our own account. 

&#183; Own, operate and manage farms in a joint venture (JV) with either strategic partners or financial investors. 

&#183; Contract with third party farmers (such as wheat, canola and barley farmers) for the cultivation of Camelina sativa on their farms in the United States, Latin America and Europe. 

&#183; Produce and sell " certified " Camelina seeds that are based upon our patented, high-yielding elite varieties to farmers in the United states and internationally. 

&#183; Provide energy farm development, advisory and management services to third parties, including to non-farming industrial companies who have a demand for biofuels, to owners of biofuel energy farms, and to non-energy crop farmers looking to utilize energy crops in rotation or inter-cropped with their existing crops. 

&#183; Provide advisory services to farmers wishing to certify their farms under international sustainability or carbon certification standards like the Roundtable on Sustainable Biofuels (RSB) and Gold Standard Verified Emission Reductions (GS-VERs) 

&#183; Provide turnkey franchise operations for individuals and/or companies that wish to establish purpose specific energy farms in suitable geographical areas. 

The development of agricultural-based energy projects, like plant oil and related biomass, may produce carbon credits through the sequestration (storing) of carbon and the displacement of fossil-based fuels. Accordingly, in addition to generating revenues from the sale of non-food based plant oils and biomass and related advisory and management services, our goal is to certify our farms, where practical, to generate and monetize carbon credits. See, " Business--Carbon Credits, " below.

Organizational History

This company was originally incorporated under the laws of the State of Utah on November 20, 1991. On July 19, 2010, we changed the state of our incorporation from Utah to Delaware. Our principal executive offices are located at 2790 Skypark Drive, Torrance, California, Los Angeles County, California 90505, and our current telephone number at that address is (310) 641-GCEH (4234). We maintain a website at: www.gceholdings.com . Our annual reports, quarterly reports, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to such reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the " Exchange Act " ), and other information related to this company are available on our website as soon as we electronically file those documents with, or otherwise furnish them to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. Our Sustainable Oils subsidiary also maintains a website at www.susoils.com . Our Internet websites and the information contained therein, or connected thereto, are not and are not intended to be incorporated into this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Sale of Three Mexico Jatropha Farms

In 2008, we launched our first Jatropha venture in Mexico through GCE Mexico I, LLC ( " GCE Mexico " ) a Delaware limited liability company that we formed with two investors (one of whom sold his interest to the other investor). We owned 50% of the common membership interests of GCE Mexico, our investor owned the other 50% of the common membership interests and GCE Mexico ' s preferred units. During the first five years, GCE Mexico acquired three Jatropha farms in Mexico. The first farm comprised 5,149 acres; the second farm comprised 5,100 acres, and the third farm comprised 5,557 acres. The first two farms were developed and planted with various varieties of Jatropha; the third farm was not used for Jatropha and was, in 2014, eventually planted with non-Jatropha crops. Our first two Jatropha farms were planted with over 7.0 million Jatropha trees, consisting of over 25 varieties of Jatropha trees from around the world. The various varieties were tested to determine which varieties were most suitable for commercial production. While we have harvested significant quantities of Jatropha fruit and seed from this farm, the harvests did not meet our requirements for operating a commercial Jatropha seed farm. Accordingly, we stopped intense cultivation to allow the Jatropha trees in this farm to naturally grow and develop without commercial agricultural intervention. The second Jatropha farm was planted with fewer, more selective varieties of Jatropha trees. Based on our 2013, 2014 and 2015 crop year harvest results, the varieties planted in the second farm met our cumulative yield goals.

&#160;

The acquisition costs and operating expenses of the three Mexico Jatropha farms were funded by our GCE Mexico joint venture partners. The total amount contributed by our joint venture partners to GCE Mexico since inception was approximately $22,600,000. Because our Jatropha farms (the first farm in particular) were not producing the quantities of Jatropha seeds that we had initially anticipated, the projected amount of funds our joint venture partner would have to fund to continue the operations of the three farms continued to increase. In addition, our business plan called for an expansion of the three Mexico farms. Due to our joint venture partner ' s other financial commitments, our partner was not able to invest the significant additional capital needed to expand the farms to the required 10,000 hectares needed to achieve commercial profitability. Accordingly, in 2015 we jointly decided to sell the three farms and to dispose of these operations in order to focus our resources on other Jatropha and camelina bio-fuel opportunities. Our GCE Mexico joint venture partner continues, through his family ' s investment in our common stock, to be a significant stockholder of this Company.

On December 2, 2015, we sold the three Jatropha farms to an unaffiliated, a Mexican agricultural operator in the region. The cash purchase price for the three farms was MXP $89 Million (approx. US$5,908,000). In addition, as a result of the structured transaction we extinguished approximately $4.7 &#160; million of accrued interest and $12.1 million of preferred return. GCE Mexico assigned U.S. $5.1 million of the purchase price the our joint venture partner to repay the U.S. $5.1 million of mortgage loans made by the investor to GCE Mexico ' s operating subsidiaries. In addition, as part of the sale of the three farms and the repayment of the mortgage loans, the investor agreed to forgive and extinguish (i) approximately $4.7 million of unpaid interest that had accrued on the three mortgage loans, and (ii) the preferred return (approximately $12.1 million) that the preferred unit holders had accrued. We did not receive any cash from the sale of the three farms. However, as result of the repayment of the three mortgage loans, the forgiveness of the accrued interest on those loans, and the extinguishment of the accrued preferred return, approximately US$21.9 million of long term liabilities were extinguished from this Company ' s consolidated balance sheet.

GCE Mexico sold the three farms, but did not sell any of the Jatropha intellectual property that we developed on those farms (including the Jatropha varieties we developed on the farms). In addition, we retained the rights to complete some of our Jatropha research on portions of the three farms, and the sales agreements granted us access to our elite genetics on these farms for an extended period, allowing us to continue our Jatropha genetic development program. As a result, our Jatropha genetics are preserved as a core company asset, along with the significant institutional knowledge, experience and know-how we have acquired over the years. We also retain the proprietary delivery platform developed over the last seven years in Mexico. As part of the sale, we also retained access rights to our Certified Nursery and Research areas for an extended period of time.

The sale of the three farms significantly improved our balance sheet by eliminating $21.9 million of long-term liabilities and enables us to continue to pursue our biofuels operations. As a result of the sales, we eliminated 100% of our long term, high cost liabilities (the loans accrued interest at 12% per annum, and the preferred return accrued at a rate of 12% per annum) that we incurred during the initial research and development phase of the three farms our Mexico Jatropha operations, and we reduced our overall consolidated liabilities by approximately 77%. We believe that reducing debt is critical for us to be able to raise additional capital for the expansion phase of our business and to deploy the superior genetics we have spent years developing on a commercial scale.

Developments During 2015 and Part of 2016

During the fiscal year ended December 31, 2015 and through the date of this Annual Report, we achieved the following milestones in the development of this company, which developments are further discussed below:

&#160;

&#183; We have been issued the first-of-its-kind Low Carbon Fuel Standard (LCFS) feedstock pathway through California ' s Air Resources Board for fuels based upon our patented Camelina varieties. The uniqueness is that only Sustainable Oils ' Camelina oil can be supplied into the California market and qualify for LCFS credits; and 

&#183; The EPA has recently issued a pathway for Jatropha oil from the companies application which was filed in 2011. This allows Jatropha oil to be used in the U.S. as a feedstock for advanced biofuels, qualifying it to generate Renewable Identification Numbers (RINs) under the Renewable Fuels Standard (RFS2). 

&#183; We have been issued two new additional plant patents for Camelina which will allow us to continue our genetic development further improving our varieties; and 

&#183; We have entered into plant research and/or materials transfer Agreements with University of California Davis, University of Colorado, Kansas University, University of Nebraska &#8211; Lincoln and University of Nevada &#8211; Reno. All of which are designed to either improve our plant genetics or sort through our extensive tilling library for high value Camelina varieties; and 

&#183; We continued to expand our intellectual property necessary to develop and commercialize Jatropha and Camelina sativa as a biofuels feedstock; and 

&#183; We completed the development of our research farm in the Caribbean, which we are using to assess the growth of multiple varieties of Jatropha plants and, more recently, to explore the production of Camelina throughout the Caribbean, and; 

&#183; We obtained funding and began the development of a Certified Seed Nursery in the Caribbean to produce production seed for the future development of a commercial bio-fuel operations we are workign on developing in the region with a strategic partner, and; 

&#183; We significantly expanded the amount and type of management and advisory services we provide to partners and/or third parties, and; 

&#183; We divested our three Jatropha farms in Mexico, thereby reducing our long term debt by 98% and our overall liabilities by over 77%. 

Business Operations-Strategy

We are an energy agri-business with development and operations capabilities in the U.S., Mexico and the Caribbean. We maintain in-house staff for the development, management, cultivation, production and distribution of plant-based feedstock used to offset fossil fuels. Our business plan and current principal business activities include the plant science, planting, cultivation, harvesting and processing of non-food based plants to generate seed oils and biomass for use in the biofuels industry, including the production of ultra-low carbon renewable-jet, biodiesel, renewable diesel and renewable chemicals. As a co-product of our farming and production processes, we also produce feedstocks and product streams that substitute and displace fossil- and edible oil-based inputs in many industrial processes, including fertilizer, paint and fossil fuel production.

With as much as 85% of the production cost of renewable fuels being the feedstock, we made the decision in 2007 to focus our strategy on becoming a diversified bio-energy feedstock provider by growing and expanding our energy farming and processing business to include numerous bio-based feedstock crops. We continue to push the plant science and operational platform to allow us to expand to the level where economies of scale and our methods of operations allow us to generate significant revenues and profits without the need for any government subsidies.

The processes and procedures we employ to plant and cultivate our crops for our business are being continually refined in order to produce " best practices " for energy farm operations. By focusing on improving our farming practices and the technology we apply to our operations, we can operate economical, environmental and socially sustainable energy farms which can replace fossil fuels or food based feedstocks at a production cost well below the market price of their alternatives. By continuing to invest in research and development, and acquiring or strategically aligning with companies that possess leading-edge technology in plant genetics, we will continue to develop high-yielding energy crops that deliver renewable energy feedstock into the market at competitive prices.

&#160;

Our strategy is to leverage our farming and energy knowledge, experience and capabilities through the following means:

Research Farms. &#160; We began our first research farms in early 2007 in Mexico and have continued that commitment. Our latest research farm was established in 2013, when we completed land preparation and planting, and began operations on an energy farm in the Caribbean. This farm is being used to test and research the growth of multiple varieties of Jatropha and other oil seed plants, and to adapt them to the local conditions for future commercial farm expansion in the Caribbean region. We are also using this farm to perform a full trial of Camelina production in the Caribbean.

Genetic Nursery Operation. We developed our first " Certified Germplasm Nursery " in Mexico in 2013 and in 2015 developed another one in the Caribbean to produce locally adapted Jatropha and Camelina seeds of the best varieties for this growing region. As our business progresses, we will continue to work on plant genetics, soil science and cultivation practices to improve short-, medium- and long-term yields.

Jatropha Farm Development and Management Services. We continue to provide development and management services to unaffiliated companies and individuals who are planning the development and implementation of energy farms domestically and internationally. These services are provided on a fee-for-service basis. During the past four fiscal years, we have provided such advisory and management services for the evaluation of new Jatropha and Camelina farm operations based in Mexico, the Caribbean, South America and Africa. The fees from these agreements have been used to fund corporate operations and the expansion of our technical services delivery platform. To date, our management services agreements have been short-term agreements that have to be renewed periodically or replaced with new agreements. As a result, revenues from development and management services fluctuate significantly.

Contract Farms . Our contract farming operations have historically focused on the production of our annual crops, Camelina, but we expect these same type of contracts can be used for our perennials, Jatropha. We intend to continue with the relationships established by our wholly owned subsidiary, Sustainable Oils, which are expected to allow us to quickly expand contract farming operations on non-company owned farms. Under the existing contract farm arrangement, we sell our certified Camelina seeds to third party farmers who own or rent the land and have skills, labor and equipment to properly farm the land. We will also provide these farmers with previously proven " best practices " for Camelina cultivation and with the support of our technical services team of agri-business professionals. The majority of the farmers that grow the Camelina plants are expected to enter into contracts to sell the Camelina seeds harvested from their farms to us, following the harvest (usually 90-100 days after planting). This procedure will allow us to quickly expand our business without the need to acquire land or any of the machinery, equipment or personnel to operate large farming operations.

Franchise Jatropha Farms . We have established a program for offering franchise operations for Jatropha farms. This program consists of all of the necessary programs and procedures to establish and operate a profitable Jatropha farm. The program also entails establishing and providing methods to obtain all necessary equipment and supplies. To date, we have not entered into any such franchise agreements.

Our core activities consist of planting, cultivating, harvesting and processing non-food based oil seeds to generate liquid and solid feedstocks used in the biofuels industry and other high value, energy intensive industries where fossil- or plant-based oils are used as primary feedstocks. These industries include those that produce biodiesel and renewable diesel, renewable jet, and other high value biofuels and renewable chemicals.

&#160;

We have identified the Jatropha curcas and Camelina sativa plants as our primary feedstocks for producing biodiesel, other biofuels including renewable diesel and renewable jet fuel and renewable chemicals, but we continue to research and test other plant species. The seeds from these plants contain oil with beneficial properties for the production of biofuels or as direct, drop-in replacements for fossil fuels. We plan to utilize the seed oils for producing biofuels and bio-chemicals, the press-cake (the residue of oil seeds when the oil has been pressed out) from Jatropha as a solid fuel, and the press-cake (meal) from Camelina as a high value animal feed. We have obtained regulatory approval from the FDA for the use of Camelina meal as a protein-rich animal feed for cattle, poultry or swine. We currently use the fruit shell (hull) from the Jatropha fruit as an ingredient in our soil amendment program fertilizer to reduce our fertilizer input and costs.

The Jatropha plant is a perennial tree that produces inedible fruit containing large seeds with a high percentage of high-quality inedible oil. Camelina is in the mustard seed family and produces small, very high oil content seeds that, like Jatropha, are well suited to the production of renewable fuels and bio-chemicals. Sustainable Oils ' Camelina oil-based jet fuel has been tested, approved and certified for use in multiple military aircraft, including many tactical combat jets and helicopters. It is among the most highly tested and approved feedstocks for renewable fuels and chemicals to date.

We have identified a number of strategic locations ideally suited to Jatropha or Camelina cultivation and processing. These locations have been selected for a number of key strategic reasons, including proximity to large customers who require the products, close to ports for logistics purposes, relatively stable democratic governments, favorable trade agreements with the United States, low-cost land, reasonably priced labor, favorable weather conditions and acceptable soil conditions. Our primary focus remains the ultra-low carbon renewable feedstock oil market, and we will continue expanding our operations, primarily in the areas of planting, harvesting and sale of feedstocks to end users in the energy and bio-chemical industries. In the short term, we will continue our farm development activities and prepare for large-scale operations which will include both Jatropha and Camelina seeds. We expect to generate short-term revenues through the sale of Jatropha and Camelina seeds for germination, and the sale of oil, biomass and presscake (meal) as a thermal fuel or approved animal feed. We continue to pursue the sale of our oil and biomass products into higher value, non-fuel, specialty markets like " green chemicals, " &#160; " green plastics, " and nutraceuticals. Some of these specialty sales could represent a significant source of future revenues at substantially higher profit margins than the renewable energy feedstock sales.

Our board, management, employees, partners, technical advisors and consultants are senior energy, agricultural and business professionals that possess extensive experience in the energy and alternative fuels market. The group has experience in the production of biofuels, renewable energy, and the agriculture businesses. Accordingly, we have the resident expertise to provide development and management services to other companies pursuing biofuels and/or feedstock development activities, on a fee for services basis. As described below, we currently provide such biofuel consulting services in locations, and for parts of the business, that are strategically beneficial to our existing or planned sites and businesses.

Jatropha Farming Operations

Mexico .

As described above, pursuant to agreements entered into on December 2, 2015 we sold our three farms in Mexico, and ceased operations effective on December 31, 2015. This transaction allowed us to reduce high-cost debt by 98% and overall liabilities by 74%, which was mostly incurred during the initial research and development phase of our business. The mortgages on the land totaling $5,110,000 were paid in full. Additionally, as part of the structured transaction with our JV Partners, we eliminated the liability of the accrued interest of $4,734,000 and preferred return of $12,140,000. Reducing debt is critical for us to be able to raise additional capital for the expansion phase of our business and to deploy the genetics we have spent years developing on a commercial scale. We did not sell any of our Jatropha intellectual property (IP) rights to the buyer. As a result, our Jatropha genetics are preserved as a core GCEH asset along with the enormous amount of institutional knowledge, experience and know-how that we developed over the past 8+ years in Mexico. As we move forward with our long-term development plan, we need a stronger balance sheet to raise additional capital for our ongoing business expansions in both Latin America and the Caribbean , as well as domestically.

&#160;

Caribbean .

We currently operate two Jatropha farms in the Caribbean on leased land which are used as a research farm and certified seed nursery.

Camelina Farming Operations

On March 13, 2013, we completed the purchase of certain assets, patents, and other intellectual property and rights related to the development of Camelina sativa as a biofuels feedstock (the " Camelina Assets " ) and all of the membership interests of Sustainable Oils, LLC, ( " SusOils " ) a Delaware limited liability company. SusOils is a company that, since 2007, has been engaged in the development, production and commercialization of Camelina-based biofuels and FDA approved animal feed.

The Camelina Assets, at the time, included: three issued U.S. patents on Camelina Sativa varieties; a substantial portfolio of other IP assets, all of the seller ' s intellectual property related to the research, development, breeding and/or genetic development of Camelina; germplasm; licenses, consents, permits, variances, certifications and approvals granted by any governmental agencies relating to Camelina operations; machines, equipment, tractors and vehicles used in Camelina operations; the name " Sustainable Oils " and the Sustainable Oils logo; and certain trade secrets, know-how, and technical data. Our goal is to continue, and expand, the operations of Sustainable Oils (although such operations may be conducted under a new subsidiary), and to obtain additional funding for that subsidiary.

Since its formation, SusOils has, among other things, developed new Camelina products, been issued five U.S. plant protection patents on technologies it developed, arranged for the planting and harvesting of over 100,000 acres of Camelina in 10 states and Canadian provinces, performed Camelina research or field level trials in 34 US States and 6 Canadian provinces, as well as seven other countries (Spain, Italy, Portugal, Australia, New Zealand, Ukraine and Saudi Arabia). SusOils has contract processed Camelina oil into renewable jet fuel that they supplied to the U.S. Navy ' s aircraft fleet. During the years 2010 through 2012, Sustainable Oils generated over $20 million of revenues from its operations and incurred net losses in part due to its research and business development activities of over $5.8 million (unaudited estimate). Although we intend to utilize SusOils ' technologies and to capitalize on that company ' s business development efforts, our business plan for the Camelina business differs from the Sustainable Oils business model. Specifically, at this time, we have no planned sales of oil to the U.S. military.

We are currently operating our Camelina business through a subsidiary, Sustainable Oils Inc, a Delaware Corporation. We have capitalized that subsidiary with certain of the Sustainable Oils intellectual properties and operating and intangible assets that we purchased. In order to fund the operations and expansion of the Camelina operations, we will need to raise additional capital through the sale of debt or equity in the newly formed Delaware Camelina subsidiary, Sustainable Oils, Inc. Sustainable Oils ' research operations have been headquartered in Bozeman, Montana. We intend to continue to conduct our Camelina research operations in Montana but manage the business from our offices in Southern California.

With the approval of Camelina oil by the EPA as an advanced biofuels feedstock under national renewable fuel standards, and the recent and unique California ARB Camelina pathway approval, the focus for Sustainable Oils is to quickly expand its footprint of planted acreage to achieve economies of scale and profitability. We plan to commercialize Camelina products and expand into areas where the highest value can be obtained. This includes for various biofuels, renewable chemicals, specialty chemicals and high value animal feed. We plan to continue to:

&#160;

1. Utilize established farmers with available land which is either fallow or idle due to crop rotation. By using their existing equipment and labor we will minimize capital costs and maximize resource utilization, increasing net revenue and profits to the farmers, and; 

2. Utilize existing regional processing resources. This will add incremental revenue to existing processing facilities and allow us to utilize facilities during slower or idle times, further adding revenue and profit for oil and meal processers, and; 

3. Expand research and development efforts to continue to increase yield from Camelina production. We will support our contract farmers with strong plant and soil science. This will further improve revenue and reduce unit production costs, generating additional revenue and profits to be shared with farmers and processers, and; 

4. Strategically locate " Camelina Farming Regions " near regional support services which include processing and logistics hubs, and; 

5. Develop strategic partnerships and supply agreements near " Camelina Farming Regions " throughout the U.S. and Europe to produce significant purpose-specific acreage, supplying more regional and local users. This will optimize logistics and processing costs and provide for higher revenue and profit, and; 

6. In 2016, subject to receiving adequate funding, our plan is to contract with sufficient farmers in order to increase the number planted acres of Camelina to a level that will eventually achieve the economies of scale that we believe we need to operate profitably. 

In order to develop our Camelina business as set forth above, we will have to raise additional capital. While we have identified a number of sources of funding, we have not entered into any binding agreements for such financing. No assurance can be given that we will be able to obtain any funding for our Camelina operations, or if we do secure such funding, that the terms will be favorable to this company and our stockholders.

Principal Products

The Jatropha curcas &#160; and Camelina sativa plants will be our primary agricultural focus for the foreseeable future. Jatropha is a perennial, inedible tree, and all of its by-products can be used for either fuel, a vegetable oil substitute in non-food products of biomass-based energy production. It is a very efficient tree that produces high quality seed oil and high-energy content biomass. Camelina sativa is an annual plant grown primarily in northerly climates, including the United States, as a rotational crop with wheat and other food crops when land is either fallow or not being used. As a result, Camelina does not compete with food production or create direct land use change. We expect our principal products to include the biofuels oil feedstock, vegetable oil replacement and biomass derived from the cultivation and processing of the both plants. In addition, we expect to generate revenues from the sale of carbon credits earned from our agricultural operations.

Biofuels Oil Feedstock

The feedstock oil needed for the production of renewable jet fuel, biodiesel, renewable diesel and green diesel that is currently available on the market today is primarily supplied from edible seed oils, including soy, canola (rapeseed), sunflower and palm. There are other types of feedstock that can be converted into biofuels, like animal fats and recycled cooking grease, but while they currently make up a meaningful portion of the market, their preferential classification as a " waste " product may be short lived. When these " waste " feedstocks are re-classified as non-waste, many of their regulatory advantages would be significantly reduced, specifically their artificially low carbon intensity. Our primary source of biofuels feedstock will be from Jatropha and Camelina seed oil. The significant advantages of Jatropha and Camelina over other traditional oil seed crops is that they are ultra-low carbon based and do not compete for resources with other crops grown primarily for food consumption.

&#160;

Camelina sativa is a member of the mustard family, a distant relative to canola, and a relatively new and attractive entrant into the biofuels feedstock sector. Camelina plants are heavily branched, growing from one to three feet tall and have branched stems that become woody as they mature. As the reproductive cycle progresses, seed pods form which contain many relatively small, oily seeds. Because there is no seed dormancy in Camelina, it can be grown in multiple seasons and has a very short maturity curve.

Camelina can produce seeds with relatively little water and can be harvested early. It is classified as a low input crop and can survive on low water/rainfall, and it requires less fertilizer than many other crops. Camelina can be seeded and harvested with conventional farm equipment, making it a perfect rotation crop for existing farmers.

Camelina seeds typically contain between 35-38% oil and are high in omega-3 fatty acids. This makes the oil very desirable for biofuels production and the meal left after the oil has been removed is a very good option for livestock feed&#8212;competing directly with soy and canola meal.

Biomass Feedstock

The Jatropha plant produces a fruit (about the size of a walnut) containing three large seeds that contain 32%-38% oil content by weight. The non-oil components of the fruit, which represents 62-68% of the total fruit, contain high energy biomass (carbon values) that is an excellent source of feedstock for a number of energy producing processes including direct combustion, gasification, power production, and cellulosic ethanol (alcohol) production. Fifty percent of the energy in the Jatropha seed resides in the biomass.

Camelina produces a co-product from the oil extraction process which is a high protein press-cake (meal) that has been tested and approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) as a livestock (animal) feed for cattle, chickens and pigs. This provides additonal revenue and reduces the net production cost of the crude Camelina oil, further improving project economics.

Emissions Reduction Regulations

In response to anthropogenic climate change intergovernmental organizations like the United Nations and World Bank, as well as numerous governments, supranational organizations, like the European Union, and sub-national actors, like California and British Columbia, have implemented regulations to curtail the production of greenhouse gas emissions. Regulations are beginning to span and interlace cap-and-trade policies, low carbon fuel standards, renewable portfolio standards and carbon taxes, as well as others. The overarching objective is GHG reductions and associated climate change mitigation. With the exception of a carbon tax, GHG reduction schemes utilize tradable credit that represent the reduction of a certain amount of carbon dioxide equivalent (CO 2 e) or the production of a certain volume of fuel.

Renewable energy and energy efficiency projects make up the bulk of mitigation and reduction strategies currently deployed around the world. Biofuels have been the cornerstone of renewable energy policies since the beginning and offer regulators, end users and consumers a unique set of attributes that include sustainability, meaningful emissions reductions and economic and energy security. Furthermore, as biofuel policies evolve, first generation feedstocks, those based on, or derived from food crops are being replaced with second generation, non-food based crops like Camelina and Jatropha. Both Camelina and Jatropha are grown on land that is fallow for one reason or another or otherwise unsuitable for food crop production and as a result, sidestep the controversial food versus fuel tradeoff currently hampering certain feedstocks development. Jatropha is grown on marginal land which would otherwise be unproductive or underutilized, while Camelina is grown on fallow rotational land or in other formats that do not displace food crops. This distinction between food and non-food is critical as regulated markets mature and policies shift to discourage the conversion of food into fuel.

&#160;

Furthermore, as regulations affecting biofuels mature and are refined, it is expected that benefits once given to feedstocks inaccurately defined as waste streams will be replaced with classifications consistent with their parental origin, which are primarily food crops. The result will be a move away from food based inputs to low carbon non-food based feedstocks like Camelina and Jatropha.

In the United States, federal legislation called the renewable fuel standard (RFS) mandates that a certain volume of biofuels are blended into the fuel supply every year. In California, the low carbon fuel standard (LCFS) requires regulated parties to reduce the overall emissions of their fuels to a predefined ceiling. In both cases, renewable fuel producers generate tradable financial instruments, which represent either a volume of fuel or a set amount of CO 2 e reduction. These credits are then surrendered by regulated parties to demonstrate compliance. The RFS and LCFS require that fuels are made from approved pathways and feedstocks. Camelina has full EPA approval under the RFS and Jatropha is currently pending approval, which EPA has indicated will occur in mid-2015. On November 12, 2015 the EPA issued a feedstock pathway for Jatropha oil as a result of GCE ' s application which was filed on June 10, 2011. This approval provides for Jatropha oil to be used as a feedstock for Advanced Biofuels production, qualifying it to generate Renewable Identification Numbers (RINs) under the Renewable Fuels Standard (RFS2).

In March 2015, California ARB approved a first-of-its-kind feedstock-only pathway for Sustainable Oils patented Camelina oil. The pathway only applies to Sustainable Oils' US Patent and Trademark Office-registered seed varieties - no other Camelina seed or oil can be used to produce LCFS compliant fuel. At a cumulative carbon intensity (CI) of 7.58 g/MJ, final fuels can be produced at between 18.7 and 19.1, and with a co-product credit can be reduced to a CI of 6 or lower. The result is that fuel producers and obligated parties in California can meet their LCFS emissions reduction requirements with significantly less fuel that would otherwise be required using traditional feedstocks like soybean (83 g/MJ) or canola oil (63 g/MJ). LCFS credits are generated based upon the CI of the underlying fuel, which means Camelina-based fuels will generate significantly more value per gallon than any other virgin oil-based fuel. By example, if the LCFS credit price is $125 /MT of carbon, as it has been for the past 4 months, Camelina biodiesel produces up to $0.50 or more per gallon than soybean-based fuel.

Currently, California (LCFS), Oregon (LCFS) and British Columbia (RLCFRR) have LCFS-style regulations, as well as the European Union (FQD). Washington is close behind and the Northeast States for Coordinated Air Use Management (NESCAUM), which represents 11 states is considering a Northeast/Mid-Atlantic Clean Fuels Standard. Together, the U.S jurisdictions represent over 30 percent of all domestic transportation related fuel consumption.

California has a history of implementing environmental policies that are subsequently adopted by the federal government. In 1967, Ronald Reagan signed legislation that established the California Air Resources Board (CARB), which was subsequently integrated into Cal EPA. California is the only state that is permitted to have such a regulatory agency, since it is the only state that had one before the passage of the federal Clean Air Act and the establishment of US EPA in 1970. Other states are permitted to follow CARB standards, or use the federal ones, but not set their own. More recently, California vehicle emissions standards were adopted by US EPA as federal standards, which will be enforced in 2016.

As LCFS-style regulations are adopted by other states, regions or nationally, the pathway review and adoption process is expected to be very similar to that of California, for the reasons stated above. In some cases, CARB pathways and associated fuel CIs maybe directly adopted by implementing state agencies. In all cases, GCEH expects the pathway work conducted to date on Camelina and Jatropha will provide a significant advantage in obtaining timely approval of our proprietary products into newly regulated markets.

&#160;

As emissions reduction regulations change and evolve, GCEH will continue to evaluate which credit generating activities offer the best financial return for our products. The European Emissions Trading Scheme (EU ETS), the largest credit trading market in the world, will continue to be monitored for future opportunities. However, continued instability in the EU ETS credit pricing has prompted GCEH to focus on domestic and regional credit generating activities in the short to medium term.

Technology and Patents

Camelina : On July 15, 2014 we were issued an additional U.S. Patent, No, US 8,779,238 B2, for our " Floral Dip " method of (non-GMO) transformation of Camelina plants that can manipulate its agronomic qualities.

On May 19, 2015 we were issued an additional patent, U.S. Patent, No, US 9,035,131 B2, for a method to alter and/or improve the fatty acid composition of a Camelina plant cell has been approved for issuance. The issued patent is for a method of altering and/or improving fatty acid composition of a Camelina plant cell, plant part, tissue culture or whole plant, and the method comprising disrupting one, two, or three copies of FAD2 genes and/or one, two or three copies of FAE1 genes in the Camelina plant cell, plant part, tissue culture or whole plant. Also included is a method of breeding Camelina &#160; plants to produce altered levels of fatty acids in seed oil and/or meal.

Jatropha : We do not currently possess any patentable technology relating to our Jatropha operations, but we have developed considerable know-how, trade secrets, and proprietary processes and procedures for farm development and operations management. We are currently engaged in research and development activities focused on improved Jatropha varieties, and we continue to expand on technical know-how and proprietary processes for optimizing the quality of our Jatropha yields, reducing operating costs and improving production capacity and efficiency. These research and development activities currently consist of plant biology and molecular genetic research, and are being conducted primarily through in-house research and in joint development activities with the non-profit Center for Sustainable Energy Farming. We continue to develop our proprietary Sustainable Energy Farming Systems, and believe that some of these technologies may become patentable. However, there can be no assurance that patentable technologies will be developed, or if they are developed, that we would be the sole owners of such patents.

Any technology we develop will be in one of three main categories: (i) plant and soil sciences, (ii) agricultural technology and procedure development, or (iii) material processing and end use applications. Such technologies developed are expected to assist in reducing costs, improving efficiency and allowing us to move our products higher up the value creation.

Market

According to both the International Energy Agency ( " IEA " ) and the U.S. Department of Energy ' s Energy Information Administration ( " EIA " ) estimates, the world demand for crude oil in 2015 was approximately 93.7 million barrels per day, with approximately 28% of that demand being diesel and fuel oil (distillate fuel oil). This equates to a global consumption of distillate fuel oil of approximately 27 million barrels per day, or 408 billion gallons per year. At a 5% blend, the world market for biodiesel exceeds 20.4 billion gallons per year.

U.S. diesel fuel oil consumption for 2014 was over 60 billion gallons. At a 5% blend, the U.S. biodiesel market was over 3.04 billion gallons per year, which we expect will continue to grow.

As reported by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), U.S. biodiesel refineries produced approximately 1.3 billion gallons of neat (100%) biodiesel fuel in 2015 from a reported 100+ active producers with a total capacity of over 2 billion gallons. This is just under 60% of capacity and represents just over 2% of U.S. demand for diesel fuel.

&#160;

The trend of production and consumption of biodiesel is growing. In 2005, U.S. refineries produced and sold approximately 75 million gallons; in 2006, approximately 250 million gallons; in 2007, approximately 450 million gallon; and in 2008, approximately 678 million gallons; in 2009 approximately 506 million gallons. The drop in production in 2009 is primarily due to increased feedstock costs. In 2011, biodiesel production exceeded one billion gallons for the first time. In 2012, it rose to more than 1.1 billion gallons and by 2013 production was nearly 1.8 billion gallons, according to EPA figures. In 2014, production declined to approximately 1.3 billion gallons, due in large part of regulatory uncertainty.

Year

Biodiesel Production Volume

(million gallons)

Total Production Capacity

(million gallons)

75

-

250

-

450

2,240

678

1,759

506

2,095

343

1,994

1,091

2,075

1,105

2,117

1,759

2,140

1,270

2,090

1,268

2,120

2016 * 

1,900

-

2017 * 

2,000

-

* EPA RFS Final Biodiesel Volume Requirements: 2016 &#8211; 2017

Our primary market is the direct sale of Jatropha and Camelina oil for biodiesel, renewable diesel, renewable jet fuel, green plastics and renewable chemicals. In addition we will sell biomass for energy production and animal feed and we will sell carbon credits we generate from our agricultural operations. Our primary customers are processors of biofuels and users of plant based oils for chemical production. We estimate that there are approximately 95 active biodiesel plants in the United States alone, which can utilize up to 100% of our crude or refined Jatropha and Camelina oil. However, we expect to generate our highest revenues and greatest margins from customers who have logistical capacity on a water port accessible from the Gulf of Mexico or those located in close proximity to strategic Camelina growing regions. This will reduce redundant transportation costs and allow us to ship large quantities economically. These customers have historically paid a higher price for feedstock oil, since the majority of feedstock oil supplies have been shipped from the Midwestern United States. We anticipate that our key customer profile will include well-financed, low-cost biodiesel refiners and specialty oleo chemical companies.

In cooperation with Honeywell ' s UOP and Emerald Biofuels, we submitted a pathway application for Jatropha oil to the EPA in June 2011, which was published for public comment in October 2015 and approved in November 2015.

As our business develops, we expect to utilize industry professionals and distributors for the sale of Jatropha and Camelina oil and biomass in order to strategically target certain specialty markets and reduce overall costs.

Environmental Impact

Biofuels have social, economic and environmental benefits that are a major driving force behind their adoption. Using biofuels instead of fossil fuels reduces net emissions of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gasses, which are associated with global climate change and adverse regional health impacts. Biofuels are produced from renewable plant resources that " recycle " the carbon dioxide created when biofuels are consumed. Life-cycle analyses consistently show that using biofuels produced in modern facilities results in net reductions of greenhouse gas compared to using fossil fuel-based petroleum equivalents. These life-cycle analyses include the well-to-wheel energy equivalent of farming and production of biomass, including harvesting, conversion, transportation and utilization. Biofuels help nations achieve their goals of reducing carbon emissions and reducing importation of foreign oil. They burn cleanly in vehicle engines and reduce emissions of unwanted products, particularly unburned hydrocarbons, carbon monoxide and particulate matter. These characteristics contribute to improvements in local air quality and all associated health benefits. In a life-cycle study published in October 2002, entitled " A Comprehensive Analysis of Biodiesel Impacts on Exhaust Emissions, 2002, " the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency ( " EPA " ) analyzed biodiesel produced from virgin soy oil, rapeseed (canola) and animal fats. The study concluded that the emission impact of biodiesel potentially increased NOx emissions slightly while significantly reducing other major emissions.

&#160;

We believe there is sufficient global demand for alternative, non-food based inedible biofuel feedstocks to allow a number of companies to successfully compete worldwide. In particular, we note that we are the only U.S.-based public company producing non-food based inedible oils for the production of biodiesel, which gives us a unique competitive advantage over many foreign competitors when competing in the U.S.

The price basis for our oil and biomass products will be comparable to their edible oil and biomass equivalents. To date, we have not identified any substantial effort being undertaken for the commercialization of other inedible oils that could compete with Jatropha or Camelina. With the growing demand for plant-based feedstocks, and the high price of oil and biofuels, we anticipate that we will be able to sell our plant oils and biomass profitably .

Employees.

As of December 31, 2015, across all of our subsidiaries, we had 10 full time employees, contract employees and consultants. We will continue to " right size " our work force to support our operational needs. Neither this company, nor any of our subsidiaries is a party to any collective bargaining agreements.