 ITEM 1. DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS. 

Data Call Technologies, Inc. was incorporated under the laws of the State of Nevada as Data Call Wireless, Inc. on April 4, 2002, and is sometimes referred to herein as "we", "us", "our", "Data Call" or the "Company." On March 1, 2006, we changed our name to Data Call Technologies, Inc. Since our inception, we have been engaged in the business of offering real-time information/content via digital signage and kiosk networks to our clients, who we consider to be our partners rather than simply as customers.

Our mission is to integrate cutting-edge information/content delivery solutions currently deployed by the media and make this content rapidly available to and within the control of our retail and commercial clients/customers. The Company's services put its clients in control of real-time news and other dynamic content, displayed within one or more locations, as well as to thousands of local, regional and national clients, through Digital Signage and Kiosk networks.

Our business plan is to focus on growing our client base by continually offering real-time information/content via Digital Signage and Kiosk networks, seeking to improve the delivery, security and variety of information/content services to the Digital Signage and Kiosk community. 

Overview - What Is Digital Signage? 

LED and LCD displays are continually replacing printed marketing materials such as signs and placards, as well as the old-fashioned whiteboard, for product and corporate branding, marketing and assisted selling. The appeal of instantly updating product videos and promotional messages on one or a thousand remotely located displays is driving the adoption of this exciting marketing tool. Digital Signage presentations are typically comprised of repeating loops of information used to brand, market or sell the owner's products and services. But once viewed, this information becomes repetitive and the viewer tunes it out, resulting in low retention of the client's message. As digital signage "comes of age," the dynamic characteristics of the digital signage presentations has taken center-stage requiring fresh, relevant and updated dynamic content.

Digital Signage Comes of Age 

We believe that the Digital Signage industry is "coming of age" and that Data Call through multiple industry relationships has been engaged in the business for more than a decade. Our company has virtually been there from the start and is in in a prime position to enjoy and benefit from our industry's growth. A few short years ago, a business wanting to derive commercial benefit from use of digital signage was often confronted with a myriad of hardware and software companies, all offering their own version of what digital signage should be. Typical customers for digital signage were most-often offered the hardware for digital signage but without the full package of content with which to build and tailor their systems for their target customer base. 

Those early digital signage customers often had to deal with the fact that their digital signage hardware vendors lacked the know-how to provide them with the "do's and don'ts" of content development. However, from our inception, Data Call recognized that our competitors and their typical customers lacked a key component which includes the offering of a comprehensive content package. 

Recently, as the cost of platforms supporting infrastructure and digital displays have fallen significantly, digital signage has become more accessible to a wider range of potential users while the growing Kiosk market has cross-pollinated with Digital Signage. Companies in our industry have come to understand, as we have understood almost since our inception in 2002, that the initial, one-time, up-front cost of Data Call's integrated, content-flexible, hardware and software package is far more customer friendly and, as a result, far surpasses outweighs the up-front savings by not doing so. The benefit that Data Call provides to our customers, in the form of ongoing content development, is expected to continue to provide our customers with desirable user friendly services.

As the cost of deployment has decreased, Data Call has continued to focus, as well as other providers have only begun focusing, on offering "attention-grabbing content" as a means of drawing target customers' attention to the core message of clients, thereby keeping their target customers engaged throughout Digital Signage and Kiosk presentations.

The Need for Speed - Active Content 

Active and dynamic content is the integral part of digital signage presentations that must be constantly updated with timely and relevant information in order to attract and retain target customers to the product and service offered by clients. For instance, a typical presentation may contain ten 15-second loops that provide the primary message of the presentation, but the active dynamic content, such as that provided by Data Call, is updated with new information throughout the day. Those seeking to add active and dynamic content to their digital signage presentations are advised to employ Data Call's integrated content rather than attempting to "cut and paste" broadcast content of others into their digital signage presentation.

Our clients, by integrating Data Call's active content as a meaningful component of their digital signage presentations, can provide the entertainment and information content necessary to enhance the target customer's information retention without disrupting the core message of the presentation. Information categories provided by Data Call include news, weather, sports, financial data and the latest traffic alerts, among others. With such a broad range of offerings, our clients have access to the active and dynamic content they need, regardless of the target customers and market they are addressing.

Our Business Opportunities 

Our many opportunities for client development in the digital signage industry are growing virtually exponentially. While many companies in our industry have traditionally outsourced all or part of their content creation, Data Call serves as a provider of dynamic active content to clients on a tailored basis. Whether a client desires general entertainment information for customers, such as news, sports, stock market quotes, etc. or location-specific content, such as local weather, traffic, product sales and specials, etc., our research has validated our long-held assumption that dynamic content draws and retains our clients' target viewers to their digital signage and keeps them engaged throughout the presentation.

Since our inception, management has developed strong relationships working with the leaders in digital signage. Collaborative efforts successfully created the data formats and means of communication to facilitate the delivery of our dynamic content more easily and efficiently by our clients for integration into their hardware and software products, setting industry standards.

Partners, Not Customers 

Data Call's approach to our clients is to build long-lasting partnerships by creating client relationships that we believe are unique in the digital signage industry. We do this because we understand that each client has its own content requirement. In developing dynamic content for individual digital signage clients, we have identified three content-related factors: (i) reliability; (ii) objectivity; and (iii) ease of implementation. To address the reliability requirement, we have elected to enter into license arrangements with the leading providers of news, weather, sports and financial information, among other client-desired content rather than either: (i) downloading and repackaging content sourced from the Internet (which may be illegal); or (ii) pulling RSS feeds (which may come and go at the provider's whim). Licensing data from these premier providers has also served us by satisfying the second criteria, objectivity. Because it is commonly recognized that Internet content may often be unreliable, unverifiable and biased, we have determined that we could not simply use unfiltered Internet content for delivery to our clients. To achieve ease of implementation, our licensing of data facilitates the ease of delivery to and implementation and use by our client/partners. Data Call has understood that it's Digital Signage and Kiosk clients needed more complete service than to endeavor the sourcing of active content from multiple vendors. As a result, our flexible content packages permit our clients to do "one stop shopping" for all of their dynamic content requirements by a single sublicense from us. Ease of implementation also would require that the multiple formats of all Data Call's data providers be distilled into a single, usable format. 

We enable our clients to receive customized dynamic content which may be displayed in a multitude of ways (banners, tickers, scrolls or artistically integrated with the overall presentations). We have created and produced multiple sets of common data layouts in the industry-standard XML (extensible markup language) format inclusive of MRSS. With the advent of HTML5, even more delivery methods have been made available to our clients, many of whom have found these new formats to be easily integrated into their products. Nevertheless, we have also produced customized data formats to the exact and specific requirements of our clients/partners, which, we believe ensures a higher level of reliability and ease of integration.

Market demand, opportunity and technology converge at a single point in time, and Data Call is there. Our integrity continues to build our business. Digital signage platforms are evolving to meet mass market requirements, costs for hardware and software are falling to the point of becoming commodities and the markets for digital signage are clarifying through historical trial and error.

Business Operations 

In August of 2013, we announced the release of our Direct Lynk Media (DLMedia) product. The DLMedia product encapsulates the Direct Lynk Messenger product with major enhancements and options that allow the client to select and include in their feed images relative to the news feeds. Also in the release, both Weather and Traffic image products have been enhanced considerably. Other additions included within the release bring more value to the company's clients and create more interest from new and existing clients.

The current types of data and information, for which a client is able to subscribe to through the Direct Lynk System include:

&#159 Headline News top world and national news headlines; &#159 Business News top business headlines; &#159 Financial Highlights world-based financial indicators; &#159 Entertainment News top entertainment headlines; &#159 Health/Science News top science/health headlines; &#159 Quirky News Bits latest off-beat news headlines; &#159 Sports Headlines top sports headlines; &#159 Latest Sports Lines - latest sports odds for NFL, NBA, NHL, NCAA Football and NCAA Basketball; &#159 National Football League latest game schedule, and in-game updates; &#159 National Basketball Association - latest game schedule, and in-game updates; &#159 Major League Baseball - latest game schedule, and in-game updates; &#159 National Hockey League - latest game schedule, and in-game updates; &#159 NCAA Football - latest game schedule, and in-game updates; &#159 NCAA Men's Basketball - latest game schedule, and in-game updates; &#159 Professional Golf Association top 10 leaders continuously updated throughout the four-day tournament; &#159 NASCAR top 10 race positions updated every 20 laps throughout the race; &#159 Major league soccer; &#159 Traffic Mapping; &#159 Animated Doppler Radar and Forest Maps; &#159 Listings of the day's horoscopes; &#159 Listings of the birthdays of famous persons born on each day; &#159 Trivia; &#159 Listings of historical events which occurred on each day in history; and &#159 Localized Traffic and Weather Forecasts. We currently offer our Direct Lynk Messenger and DLMedia services to our clients and other potential customers through the Internet. Both DLM Services are Digital Signage products and real-time information services which provides a wide range of up-to-date information for display. Both DLM services are able to work concurrently with customers' existing digital signage systems. The Direct Lynk Messenger product is slowly becoming a legacy product with the DLMedia product in the forefront. 

The Digital Signage and Kiosk industry is still a relatively new and since our inception in 2002 we have come to understand that it provides an exciting method for advertisers, including our clients, to promote, inform, educate, and entertain their customers regarding their business products and services. Through Digital Signage, businesses can use a single display or a complex, networked series of flat screen LED, LCD and even combined as video walls as display devices to market their products and services directly at their facilities and elsewhere to their customers and patrons in real time. Additionally, because Digital Signage advertising takes place in real time, businesses can change their marketing efforts literally from moment to moment and over the course of a day or such other period as they may determine. 

We believe that the ability of our clients to display in real-time the information and content we deliver better allows our clients companies to tailor their products, services and advertising to individual and target-group customers, thereby advertising and offering, for example, inventory and sales discounts that may be designed to appeal to those individual customers and target customer groups, increasing sales and revenues. We believe that the benefits of on-site, real-time Digital Signage displays compared to regular print or video advertising are substantial and include, among other advantages, being able to immediately change digitally-displayed images/advertisements depending on our client's customers own situation, not simply being restricted by in-store print circulars produced days, weeks or even months in advance, which may become stale or obsolete prior to or shortly after publication and dissemination. 

We specialize in allowing clients to create their own Digital Signage dynamic content feeds which are delivered online directly to their chosen, electronic digital display devices at their various facilities. The only requirements our clients must have are: (i) a supported, third-party Digital Signage and/or Kiosk equipment solution, or similar device, which receives the data from our servers online; and (ii) an Internet connection. Our Direct Lynk System is supported by various, readily available third-party systems, varying in costs from inexpensive monthly cloud-based licenses to much more extensive and expensive content management/playback systems. Our Direct Lynk Systems allow customers to select from the pre-determined data and information subscriptions of those described above. We enable our clients to also select location specific content they wish to receive based on how and where their Digital Signage network is configured.

During the first quarter of fiscal 2014, we released our "Playlist-Ready" content products, enhancing our ability to further accommodate our current clients and appease new prospects. One product within the "Above the Fold" line has received a high level of acceptance at the industry trade shows, most recently at the Digital Signage Expo held in Las Vegas in March 2015. 

In the end of 2015, we made available to our clients an online video creation tool. This tool is simple to use no matter what the level of computer skills a user may have. This online product requires no special artistic training. It is also ideal for re-purposing content originally created by a creative agency: customizing such content for local marketing, franchisee or dealer ID, web, digital signage, or agile marketing. It can create thousands of customized versions of a master piece of creative automatically. It has full brand compliance features built-in and satisfies professional artist specs. The system provides the client with the tools needed to create HD videos and video advertising in minutes. There are two available online options "Do It Myself" for extreme flexibility and control as the client creates HD videos and advertising from online templates, or a "Do It For Me" automated solution that lets the system do the work for the client. The client just needs to provide their business name and zip code. All of our products and services can be viewed on our website: datacalltech.com.

Dependence On A Few Major Customers 

At December 31, 2015, we had over 1,000 customer/subscribers for our Direct Lynk System, which customers are relatively small, paying cumulatively an average monthly fee to Data Call of $10,000. We also have several larger new potential partner/clients that are testing our Digital Link Media products, and we expect that some or all of them may be expected to become significant clients in the near future. During the years ended December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014, we were dependent upon three major customers, who accounted for approximately 84% of our revenues. 

Notwithstanding the forgoing, based upon recent communications with several potential clients who are volume users and/or wholesale distributors of digital signage content and content management systems, we believe that during 2016, several new clients will contribute significant revenue which should materially reduce our reliance on our three major customers to less than 50%. As a result, we believe that that we should become far less reliant on a few business clients for our source of revenue. However, there can be no assurance that our belief will prove to be justified or, if justified, that such trend will continue for any future period, if at all. 

Employees 

At December 31, 2015, we had 3 full-time employees, including our two executive officers. Depending upon our level of our growth, if any, we expect that we may or will be required to hire additional personnel in the areas of sales and marketing, software design, research and development and otherwise, during 2016 and continuing into 2017. However, we will be dependent upon revenue growth and profitability, of which there can be no assurance, to fund any increase in staff. None of our employees are covered by a selective bargaining agreement

Estimate Of The Amount Spent On Research And Development Activities 

Since our inception in April 2002, the majority of our expenditures have been on research and development to create our Direct Lynk Messenger Systems, including software and hardware development and testing costs. The amount spent on this research and development from inception through December 31, 2015 is approximately $2,000,000.

