 Item 1. Business 

Overview 

LivePerson, Inc. (&#8220;LivePerson&#8221;, the &#8220;Company&#8221;, &#8220;we&#8221; or &#8220;our&#8221;) is a leading provider of mobile and online messaging technologies that power digital communication between brands and consumers. LiveEngage, the Company&#8217;s enterprise-class, cloud-based platform, enables businesses to create a meaningful connection with consumers by offering messaging as a preferred channel of communication. Messaging diminishes the need to rely on email systems or call a 1-800 number. Brands leverage LivePerson&#8217;s sophisticated intelligence engine and suite of text and mobile messaging, real-time chat messaging, content delivery, and cobrowsing offerings to proactively engage with consumers through m-dot sites, mobile apps, the desktop, social media and third-party consumer messaging platforms. More than 18,000 businesses, including Adobe, Bankers Trust, Citibank, HSBC, IBM, Orbitz, PNC, The Home Depot, and Walt Disney employ our technology to keep pace with rising customer service expectations and to align with preferences for digital communication channels. 

Our campaign-based messaging enables the brand to target the right consumer at the right time on a brand&#8217;s site by leveraging proprietary analysis and data-driven intelligence. According to our internal measures, during 2015, we monitored an average of 2.7 billion visitor sessions per month across our customers&#8217; websites. The data we gather and analyze from these sessions, on behalf of our customers, spans the breadth of an online or mobile visitor session, starting from an initial keyword search or application login, through actions on our customer&#8217;s website or mobile application, and even into a shopping cart and an executed sale. 

LivePerson combines this session data with other historical, behavioral, and operational information to develop insights into each step of a consumer&#8217;s journey for sales and service transactions. These unique, industry- and use-case specific insights are then mapped to each brand&#8217;s business goals in order to deliver successful campaign outcomes. 

LivePerson&#8217;s products, coupled with our domain knowledge, industry expertise and consulting services, have been proven to maximize the effectiveness of consumer engagement. Our business solutions deliver measurable return on investment by enabling our customers to: 

&#8226; 

accelerate sales cycles, increase conversion rates, increase average order value and reduce abandonment by intelligently engaging website visitors; 

&#8226; 

redirect spending from driving traffic to spending on visitor conversions; 

&#8226; 

increase consumer satisfaction, improve the overall digital experience, and enhance retention and loyalty, while reducing customer service costs; 

&#8226; 

refine and improve performance by understanding which initiatives deliver the highest rate of return; 

&#8226; 

lower operating costs in the contact center by deflecting costly phone and email interactions and improving agent efficiency; 

&#8226; 

increase lead generation by providing a single messaging platform that engages consumers through advertisements and listings on branded and third-party websites; 

&#8226; 

increase mobile app retention and engagement by providing a connected messaging experience and turning an app into an engaging support app; and 

&#8226; 

maintain a valued connection with consumers via mobile devices, either through native applications, websites, text messages, or third-party messaging platforms. 

&#160; 

We continue to invest in products that can leverage the value of our proprietary data to provide new and innovative solutions for our customers. 

As a &#8220;cloud computing&#8221; or software-as-a-service (SaaS) provider, LivePerson provides solutions on a hosted basis. This model offers significant benefits over premise-based software, including lower up-front costs, faster implementation, lower total cost of ownership, scalability, cost predictability, and simplified upgrades. Organizations that adopt a fully-hosted, multi-tenant architecture that is maintained by LivePerson eliminate the majority of the time, server infrastructure costs, and IT resources required to implement, maintain, and support traditional on-premise software. 

Our consumer services offering is an online marketplace that connects independent service providers (Experts) who provide information and knowledge for a fee via mobile and online messaging with individual consumers (Users). Users seek assistance and advice in various categories including personal counseling and coaching, computers and programming, education and tutoring, spirituality and religion, and other topics. 

LivePerson was incorporated in the State of Delaware in November 1995 and the LivePerson service was introduced in November 1998. In April 2000, the company completed an initial public offering and is currently traded on The NASDAQ Global Select Market and the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange. LivePerson is headquartered in New York City, with U.S. offices in Alpharetta (Georgia) and San Francisco, and international offices in Amsterdam, Berlin, London, Mannheim, Melbourne, Milan, Paris, Ra'anana (Israel), Redding (UK), and Tokyo. 

Market Opportunity 

LivePerson's technology platform offers a sophisticated intelligence engine and suite of text and mobile messaging, real-time chat messaging, content delivery and cobrowsing offerings to proactively engage with consumers through m-dot sites, mobile apps, websites and social media. These brand-to-consumer messaging capabilities provide an alternative channel of communication to calling a 1-800 number and empower brands to run messaging-based business campaigns on their websites. 

Globally, brands predominately promote calling the 1-800 number as the primary means of contact with consumers. According to a 2013 IBM report, approximately 270 billion calls are made to contact centers each year. We believe that brands can move a portion of these calls onto our LiveEngage platform by offering messaging as an alternative channel of communication to voice. 

Industry reports suggest challenges with the traditional channel of calling 1-800 numbers. Roughly 50% of calls to 1-800 numbers go unresolved, according to IBM, and a 2014 Harris Interactive survey found that &#8220;81% of all consumers agree that it is frustrating to be tied to a phone or computer to wait for customer service help.&#8221; Research by enterprise analytics firm Mattersight, reinforces this view, with 74% of consumers feeling that call centers are getting worse or at best staying the same. The risk of poor customer service is material, according to Harris Interactive, which found that 89% of consumers will leave and go to a competitor due to bad customer experiences. 

We believe that digital messaging has surpassed voice as the consumer's preferred channel of communication. WhatsApp users send more than 30 billion messages a day and, according to Portio Research, people worldwide were forecasted to send an estimated 23 billion text messages a day in 2015. The International Smartphone Mobility Report by mobile data tracking firm Infomate found that U.S. smartphone users send and receive five times as many texts as compared to phone calls each day. In total, Americans spend about 26 minutes a day texting, as compared to six minutes a day on voice calls. A survey by transportation booking app, Hailo, found that making phone calls has dropped to the sixth most popular use of a mobile device, behind sending messages, receiving messages, checking email, surfing the Web, and using the alarm clock. The adoption of messaging has not been constrained to younger generations. According to a 2014 comScore report, for ages 55 and older, two of the top ten apps by time spent are messaging apps. 

&#32;We believe consumer preference has shifted to messaging versus voice because it saves time and sustains a continuous connection with the other party. Individuals can send and respond to messages when it suits their need, as opposed to dedicating blocks of time to making voice calls. According to Forrester Research's Customer Experience Survey, 77% of US online adults say that valuing their time is the most important thing a company can do to provide them with good service. Harris Interactive data supports this view: &#8220;64% of consumers with texting capabilities would prefer to use texting over voice as a customer service channel.&#8221; An Amdocs global consumer survey had a similar finding, with 76% of consumers stating they would rather use a mobile app than call the contact center. 

Messaging also presents a potential cost savings benefit to brands versus voice, as skilled agents can typically manage multiple text-based conversations simultaneously, but only one voice call at a time. 

&#32; LivePerson also anticipates stronger demand for campaign-based messaging on our customers' websites as e-commerce continues to become more mainstream. 

According to Forrester Research &#8220;74% of U.S. and 65% of European online adults now regularly shop online,&#8221; and &#8220;28% of online sales now flow through mobile devices.&#8221; According to Goldman Sachs, by 2018, there will be roughly as much global mobile commerce ($626 billion) as there was global e-commerce in 2013. Forrester estimates that U.S. online retail sales reached $334 billion in 2015, or 10% of all sales, up from $263 billion or 8% of sales in 2013. E-commerce is projected to climb at a 10% compound annual growth rate to $480 billion in 2019. 

Although brands are investing to capture their share of eyeballs on the Web, spending to capture sales from those visitors attracted to their sites has lagged and conversion rates have stagnated. According to a recent eConsultancy report, for every $92 spent by retailers to attract a visitor to their website, approximately $1 is spent on efforts to convert each visitor. We believe that conversion rates can be improved through optimized on-site engagement, and that this represents an opportunity for our messaging solutions on both desktop and mobile channels. LivePerson customers have demonstrated increases in website sales of greater than 20% and boosts in average order value by as much as 35%, while lowering the cost of engagement relative to voice or email. A 2013 Customer Service Benchmark by eDigitalResearch also found that &#8220;live chat has the highest satisfaction levels for any customer service channel, with 73%, compared with 61% for email and 44% for phone.&#8221; 

These drivers are likely a key factor in the steady uptake of campaign-based messaging. According to Forrester Research, chat adoption by consumers has increased to 58% in 2014 from 43% in 2012. 

We believe that LiveEngage, LivePerson&#8217;s enterprise-class, cloud-based platform, will enable LivePerson to deliver increased value to brands as the software is purpose built for messaging in mobile and online channels, designed for ease of use, and features robust real-time reporting, role-based real-time analytics, predictive intelligence, and innovations in customer satisfaction and connection measurement. The LiveEngage platform, in concert with our enterprise references, best-in-class scalability and security, domain knowledge, global footprint, consulting organization and customer value managers, also uniquely positions LivePerson to optimize the effectiveness of real-time, campaign-based messaging and create a viable alternative to the traditional channel of calling the 1-800 number. 

Strategy 

The key elements of LivePerson&#8217;s business solutions strategy include: 

Strengthening Our Position in both Existing and New Markets and Growing Our Recurring Revenue Base. &#32;&#32;&#32;LivePerson plans to continue to develop its market position by increasing its customer base, and expanding within its installed base. We will continue to focus primarily on key target markets: automotive, financial services, retail, technology, telecommunications, and travel/hospitality within both our enterprise and midmarket sectors, as well as the small business (SMB) sector. Healthcare, insurance, real estate and energy utilities are new target industries and natural extensions of our primary target markets. We plan to leverage our new LiveEngage platform to increase adoption of real-time, campaign-based messaging across our customer&#8217;s online properties and also to expand with brands interested in using our mobile messaging platform to address a portion of calls traditionally made to 1-800 numbers. We intend to capitalize on our growing base of existing customers by collaborating with them to optimize the value and effectiveness they derive from our services. Continuing to grow our customer base and signing larger, more strategic deals will enable us to strengthen our recurring revenue stream. 

&#160; Fuel Increased Usage by Expanding our Engagement Tools and Offering Platform Pricing. &#32;Today, our customers intelligently engage with approximately two percent of their website visitors via real-time messaging. As part of our strategy, we are striving to provide our brands with the ability to intelligently engage a greater proportion of their customers, both via mobile and web channels. In 2011, we began expanding on our market leading real-time messaging product by adding new technologies, including content engagement, transcript analytics and voice solutions. In 2014, we introduced LiveEngage, our first offering that seamlessly integrates all of our messaging technologies into a single platform. Our next-generation LiveEngage platform delivers sophisticated real-time data dashboards, integrated campaign management, voice-of-the customer capabilities, and advanced out-of-the-box mobile messaging engagement. With mobile adoption accelerating, LivePerson designed LiveEngage to seamlessly integrate across devices and offer rich, contextually aware targeting and personalized experiences. We also began offering a new platform pricing model, which provides brands access to our entire suite of messaging technologies across their entire agent pool for a pre-negotiated cost per interaction. We believe this model is more attractive and will lead to increased usage versus our historic approach of requiring brands to negotiate each agent seat and product license separately. 

Leverage Partners to Enhance our Offering. In addition to developing our own applications, we continue to cultivate a partner eco-system capable of offering additional applications and services to our customers. For example, in 2015 we integrated LiveEngage with one of the leading consumer messaging platforms. In addition, we have opened up access to our platform and our products with application programming interfaces (APIs) that allow third parties to develop on top of our platform. Customers and partners can utilize these APIs to build our capabilities into their own applications and to enhance our applications with their services. 

&#160; Maintaining Market Leadership in Technology and Security Expertise. &#32;As described above, we are devoting significant resources to creating new products and enabling technologies designed to accelerate innovation and delivery of new products and technologies to our customer base. We evaluate emerging technologies and industry standards and continually update our technology in order to retain our leadership position in each market we serve. We monitor legal and technological developments in the area of information security and confidentiality to ensure our policies and procedures meet or exceed the demands of the world&#8217;s largest and most demanding corporations. We believe that these efforts will allow us to effectively anticipate changing customer and consumer requirements in our rapidly evolving industry. 

&#160; International Presence. &#32;In 2015, LivePerson generated positive results from recent investments in direct sales and services personnel in the United Kingdom and Western Europe. International revenue increased 11% year over year to a record $79 million in 2015 from $71 million in 2014, despite approximately $10 million of adverse foreign currency exchange impact. We also continued to focus on expanding our presence in the Asia Pacific region, forging a new partnership with NTT Solco, a subsidiary of telecom firm NTT Docomo. This relationship complements our existing partnerships in the region with Information Services International-Dentsu, Ltd. (ISID), Vixia, and Dentsu Razorfish, group subsidiaries of Dentsu Inc., Japan's largest advertising agency. 

&#160; Continuing to Build Brand Recognition. &#32;As a pioneer of brand-to-consumer digital messaging, LivePerson enjoys strong brand recognition and credibility. Our focus on creating meaningful connections among employees, with our customers, and between brands and their consumers, is a key component of our culture and our market strategy. We strategically target decision makers and influencers within key vertical markets, leveraging customer successes to generate increased awareness and demand for brand-to-consumer messaging. In addition, we continue to develop relationships with the media, industry analysts and relevant business associations to enhance awareness of our leadership within the industry. Our brand name is also visible to both business users and consumers. When a consumer messages a customer care professional on a brand&#8217;s website, our brand name is usually displayed on the dialog messaging window. We believe that this high-visibility placement will continue to create brand awareness for our solutions. 

&#160; Increasing the Value of Our Service to Our Customers. &#32;We regularly add both new products and services, and new features and functionality to our existing services to further enhance value to our customers. Because we directly manage the server infrastructure, we can make new features available to our customers immediately upon release, without customer or end-user installation of software or hardware. We continue to enhance our reporting, analysis, and administrative tools as part of our overall portfolio of services, as well as our ability to capture, analyze, and report on the substantial amount of online activity data we collect on behalf of our customers to further our customers&#8217; online strategies. Our customers may use these capabilities to increase productivity, manage call center staffing, develop one-to-one marketing tactics, and pinpoint consumer engagement opportunities. Through these and other innovations, we intend to reinforce our value proposition to customers, which we believe will result in additional revenue from new and existing customers over time. 

&#160; &#160; Evaluating Strategic Alliances and Acquisitions When Appropriate. &#32;We have successfully integrated several acquisitions over the past decade. In addition to our acquisition of Engage referenced above, most recently we acquired Contact At Once!, LLC. (&#8220;CAO!&#8221;), a unique messaging platform with leading market share in the automotive industry. While we have in the past, and may from time to time in the future, engage in discussions regarding acquisitions or strategic transactions or to acquire other companies that can accelerate our growth or broaden our product offerings, we currently have no binding commitments with respect to any future acquisitions or strategic transactions. &#32; 

Products and Services 

LivePerson&#8217;s hosted platforms power intelligent messaging on m-dot sites, mobile apps, the desktop, and third-party consumer messaging and social media platforms. Our business-to-business services are all managed from a single workspace. By supplying a complete, unified consumer view, our solutions enable businesses to deliver a relevant, timely, personalized, and seamless consumer experience. In addition to product offerings, LivePerson provides professional services and value-added business consulting to support complete deployment and optimization of our enterprise solutions. 

&#160; LiveEngage. LiveEngage, LivePerson&#8217;s enterprise-class, cloud-based engagement platform, delivers actionable insights, empowering businesses to get the most out of their existing online, mobile and social platforms by intelligently engaging consumers based on a real-time understanding of consumer needs. LiveEngage combines sophisticated engagement technology with robust business intelligence and big data to produce compelling, measurable results for e-commerce, marketing, and contact center executives. LiveEngage enables the combination of real time on-site data with off-site behavioral data with a broad set of consumer and business data, including historical and operational data enabling proprietary analytics to target end users with compelling engagement options at any step in the conversion funnel and throughout the customer lifecycle. 

LiveEngage enables customers to maximize online revenue opportunities, improve conversion rates and reduce shopping cart abandonment by proactively engaging the right visitor, using the right channel, at the right time. Our solution identifies segments of website visitors who demonstrate the highest propensity to convert, and engages them in real-time with relevant content and offers, helping to generate incremental sales. LiveEngage also reduces costs in the contact center relative to voice, by identifying consumers who may be struggling with their self-help experience, and proactively connecting them to a live consumer care specialist, who can manage several conversations at once. This comprehensive solution blends a proven value-based methodology with an active rules-based engagement engine and deep domain expertise to increase first contact resolution, improve consumer satisfaction, and reduce attrition rates. 

LiveEngage mobile and messaging technologies are built to provide meaningful connections between brands and consumers, from any mobile or messaging application. A specific messaging software development kit is available to completely customize and incorporate into any brand&#8217;s app. The LiveEngage messaging API also provides the option to bring messaging from any third party apps such as Facebook or text messages directly into the LiveEngage platform. 

Professional Services. &#32; The mission of our Professional Services team is to help customers optimize the performance of our products in order to drive incremental value through their online sales and/or service channel(s). This talented group utilizes their deep domain expertise and years of hands-on experience to provide customers with detailed analyses and measurements of their LivePerson deployment that drive strategies and decisions on how to optimize the chat channel and broaden intelligent engagement of their consumers. Deliverables of the team include scorecards that measure and chart performance trends, analyses and recommendations for web design and process improvement, transcript reviews to discover both voice of the consumer insight 

and agent improvement opportunities, custom training of call center agents and management, and ongoing management of chat programs to ensure alignment with current business practices and objectives. The team&#8217;s value-added methodology and approach to guiding customers towards chat channel optimization is an important component of the LivePerson offering, and gives our customers a competitive advantage in the online world. 

Consumer Offering. Our consumer services offering is an online marketplace that connects independent service providers (Experts) who provide information and knowledge for a fee via mobile and online messaging with individual consumers (Users). Users seek assistance and advice in various categories including personal counseling and coaching, computers and programming, education and tutoring, spirituality and religion, and other topics. 

Customers 

Our business operations customer base includes Fortune 500 companies, dedicated Internet businesses, a broad range of online merchants, as well as numerous universities, libraries, government agencies and not-for-profit organizations. Our solutions benefit organizations of all sizes conducting business or communicating with consumers online. We plan to continue to focus on key target markets: automotive, financial services, retail, technology, telecommunications, and travel/hospitality industries, as well as the SMB sector, within the United States and Canada, Latin America, Europe and the Asia-Pacific region. We continue to invest in sales and support personnel in the United Kingdom, Australia and Western Europe. We are also working with sales and support partners in North America and our international locations. 

No single customer accounted for or exceeded 10% of our total revenue in 2015. 

Sales and Marketing 

Sales 

We sell our business products and services by leveraging a common methodology through both direct and indirect sales channels: 

Direct Sales. &#32; Our sales process focuses on how our solutions and industry expertise deliver financial and operational value that support our customers&#8217; strategic initiatives. Our sales and marketing-focused solutions are targeted at business executives whose primary responsibility is maximizing digital consumer acquisition and driving website and mobile business outcomes. These executives have a vested interest in improving the overall digital experience, increasing conversion rates, increasing application completion rates and increasing average order value, as well as enhancing consumer satisfaction. The value proposition for our customer service-focused solutions appeals to professionals who hold both top and bottom line responsibility for consumer service and technical support functions within their organization, as well as enhancing consumer satisfaction. Our proactive service solution enables these organizations to provide effective consumer service by deflecting costly phone calls and emails to the more cost efficient chat channel. LivePerson supports any organization with a company-wide strategic initiative to improve the overall online consumer experience. 

Our focus on creating meaningful connections among employees, with our customers, and between our customers and their consumers, is a key component of our culture and our market strategy. Our annual user conference, Aspire, is run in a format that seeks to maximize the opportunity for creating meaningful connections between our customers. Our unique culture permeates all facets of our organization. We were recognized in 2015 by Crain&#8217;s as one of &#8220;NYC&#8217;s best places to work,&#8221; and received a SmartCEO Corporate Culture Award from SmartCEO Magazine for our distinct culture of &#8220;creating meaningful connections.&#8221; 

In 2014, LivePerson modified its sales structure to better align the Company's resources with targeted market segments. Our full service group consists of direct sales and customer success teams focused on mid-market, enterprise and global strategic customers and prospects. For our large and more complex customers, our sales methodology often begins with research and discovery meetings that enable us to develop a deep understanding of the value drivers and key performance metrics of a prospective customer. We then present an analytical review detailing how our solutions and industry expertise can affect these value drivers and metrics. Once we validate solution capabilities and prove financial return on investment, we transition to a program management model wherein we work hand-in-hand with the customer, providing detailed analysis, measurements and recommendations that help optimize their performance and ensure ongoing program success. 

Our self-service group focuses primarily on small business customers and prospects. Self service is a scalable online channel that enables organizations to download and pay for subscriptions to LiveEngage through our website, www.LivePerson.com. Sales and service are supported via live chat on our website. Our customer acquisition strategy centers on leveraging customer word-of-mouth, our leading brand name, online marketing and partnerships. 

&#160; Indirect Sales. &#32; Resources within our organization are focused on developing partnerships to generate revenues via referral partnerships and indirect sales through channel partners. By maximizing market coverage via partners who provide lead referrals and complementary products and services, we believe this channel supports revenue opportunities without incurring the costs associated with traditional direct sales. 

Customer Support 

Our Professional Services group provides deployment support and ongoing business consulting to enterprise and mid-market customers and maintains involvement throughout the engagement lifecycle. All LivePerson customers have access to 24/7 help desk services through chat, email and phone. 

Marketing 

Our marketing efforts in support of our business operations are organized around the needs, trends and characteristics of our existing and prospective customer base. Our deep relationship with existing customers fosters continuous feedback and critical data analysis, thereby allowing us to develop and refine marketing programs that drive adoption across multiple customer segments. We have a global team, spread across key geographies that is focused on marketing our brand, products and services to executives responsible for the digital channel and consumer service operations of their organization. The global team is committed to marketing in a common voice, but is focused on delivering localized campaigns depending on the region. Our main focus is on the automotive, financial services, retail, technology, telecommunications, and travel/hospitality industries. Our integrated marketing strategy is focused on driving demand, building customer and consumer advocacy, driving adoption of our LiveEngage platform, and supporting key areas of business including small business, international and the channel. We aim to achieve this by delivering high-level thought leadership campaigns, industry event participation, personalized lead generation campaigns to reach potential and existing customers using mediums such as paid and organic search, direct email and mail, industry- and category-specific tradeshows and events, and telemarketing. 

Our marketing strategy also encompasses a strategic communications approach that integrates public relations, social media, and analyst/influencer relations. We are focused on using those channels to communicate our brand value, to those key stakeholders, to increase overall brand and technology awareness. Communications seeks to highlight key customer success stories, and promote executive thought leadership via contributed content, speaking opportunities and press interviews, to raise LivePerson&#8217;s profile and reinforce our position as an industry leader. 

Competition 

The markets for digital engagement technology and web and mobile based consumer-facing services are intensely competitive, rapidly changing and characterized by aggressive marketing, pricing pressure, evolving industry standards, rapid technology developments and frequent new product introductions. We believe that competition will continue to increase as our current competitors increase the sophistication of their offerings and as new participants enter the market, which may cause additional pricing pressure. If we are unable to continue to innovate in the markets in which we compete, or our competitors are more successful than us at developing compelling new products and services or at attracting and retaining customers, we may lose revenue and market share and our operating results could be adversely affected. 

We have current and potential competition from providers of messaging and digital engagement solutions that enable companies to engage and connect with their consumer customers, as well as technology providers that offer customer relationship management and contact center solutions. We have current and potential competitors in many different industries, including: 

&#8226; 

technology or service providers offering or powering competing digital engagement, contact center, communications or customer relationship management solutions such as, eGain, Genesys, Oracle, Salesforce.com, and TouchCommerce; 

&#8226; 

service providers that offer basic messaging products or services with limited functionality free of charge or at significantly reduced entry level prices; 

&#8226; 

social media, social listening, messaging, e-commerce, and/or data and data analytics companies, such as Facebook, Google, and WeChat, which may leverage their existing or future capabilities and consumer relationships to offer competing B2B solutions; 

&#8226; 

customers that develop and manage their messaging solutions in-house; and 

&#8226; 

companies that provide cross-category and vertical-specific advice, such as About.com, UpWork and Yahoo Answers. 

In addition, many of our current and potential competitors have substantial competitive advantages, such as greater brand recognition, significantly larger financial, marketing, and resource and development budgets, access to larger customer and/or consumer bases, larger and more established marketing and distribution relationships, and/or more diverse product and service offerings. As a result, these competitors may be able to respond more quickly and effectively than we can to any change in the general market acceptance of messaging services or any new or changing opportunities, technologies, standards, pricing strategies or customer requirements. Also, because of these advantages, potential customers may select a competitor&#8217;s products and services, even if our services are more effective. For all of these reasons, we may not be able to compete successfully against our current and future competitors. 

Technology 

Three key technological features distinguish the LivePerson services: 

&#8226; 

We support our customers through a secure, scalable server infrastructure. In North America, our primary servers are hosted in a fully-secured, top-tier, third-party server center located in the Mid-Atlantic United States, and are supported by a top-tier backup server facility located in the Western United States. In Europe, our primary servers are hosted in a fully-secured, top-tier, third-party server center located in the United Kingdom and are supported by a top-tier backup server facility located in The Netherlands. In the Asia Pacific region, our primary and backup servers are hosted in fully-secured, top-tier, third-party server centers located in Australia. Nearly all of our larger customers outside of the United States are hosted within our UK- and Australia-based facilities. By managing our servers directly, we maintain greater flexibility and control over the production environment allowing us to be responsive to customer needs and to continue to provide a superior level of service. Utilizing advanced network infrastructure and protocols, our network, hardware and software are designed to accommodate our customers&#8217; demand for secure, high-quality 24/7 service, including during peak times such as the holiday shopping season. 

&#8226; 

As a hosted service, we are able to add additional capacity and new features quickly and efficiently. This has enabled us to provide these benefits simultaneously to our entire customer base. In addition, it allows us to maintain a relatively short development and implementation cycle. 

&#8226; 

As a SaaS provider, we focus on the development of tightly integrated software design and network architecture. We dedicate significant resources to designing our software and network architecture based on the fundamental principles of security, reliability and scalability. 

Software Design. &#32; Our software design is based on client-server architecture. As a SaaS provider, our customers either use a standard Web browser or install only the LivePerson Agent Console (Windows or Java-based) on their operators&#8217; workstations. Visitors to our customers&#8217; websites require only a standard Web browser and do not need to download software from LivePerson in order to interact with our customers&#8217; operators or to use the LivePerson services. 

&#160; Network Architecture. &#32; The software underlying our services is integrated with scalable and reliable network architecture. Our network is scalable; we do not need to add new hardware or network capacity for each new LivePerson customer. This network architecture is hosted in co-location facilities with redundant network connections, servers and other infrastructure, enabling superior availability. Our backup server infrastructure housed at separate locations provides our primary hosting facilities with effective disaster recovery capability. We maintain the highest level of compliance with standards such as SOC2 and PCI. For increased security, through a multi-layered approach, we use advanced firewall architecture and industry-leading encryption standards and employ third-party experts to further validate our systems&#8217; security. We also enable our customers to further encrypt their sensitive data using more advanced encryption algorithms. 

Government Regulation 

We and our customers are subject to a number of laws and regulations in the United States and abroad, including laws related to conducting business on the Internet, such as laws regarding privacy, data protection, information security, cybersecurity, restrictions or technological requirements regarding the collection, use, storage, protection or transfer of consumer data, content, consumer protection, internet (or net) neutrality, advertising, electronic contracts, taxation, provision of online payment services (including credit card processing), and intellectual property rights, which are continuously evolving and developing. Because our services are accessible worldwide, certain foreign jurisdictions may claim that we are required to comply with their laws, even if we don&#8217;t have a local entity, employees or infrastructure. Often, foreign data protection, privacy, and other laws and regulations are more restrictive than those in the United States. The scope and interpretation of the laws and other obligations that apply to us, including those related to user privacy and data security, are often uncertain and may be conflicting, particularly laws and obligations outside the United States. There is a risk that these laws may be interpreted and applied differently in any given jurisdiction in a manner that is not consistent with our current practices, which could cause us to incur substantial cost and could negatively impact our brand, reputation and business. 

U.S. and international privacy laws and regulations are evolving and changing, subject to differing interpretations, may be costly to comply with, and may be inconsistent among countries and jurisdictions or conflict with other rules. As we expand our operations in these countries, our liability exposure and the complexity and cost of compliance with data and privacy requirements will likely increase. Any failure by us to comply with our posted privacy policies, applicable federal, state or international privacy-related or data protection laws and regulations, or the privacy commitments contained in our contracts could result in proceedings against us by governmental entities, customers or others, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the increased attention focused upon liability issues as a result of lawsuits and legislative proposals could harm our reputation or otherwise impact the growth of our business. 

Laws and practices regarding handling and use of personal and other information by companies have come under increased public scrutiny, and government, consumer agencies and consumer advocacy groups have called for increased regulation and changes in industry practices. For example, in December 2015, following the conclusion of the &#8220;trilogue&#8221; meetings between the European Parliament, the Council of the European Union, and the European Commission, an agreement was announced with respect to a new EU data protection framework, the General Data Protection Regulation (&#8220;GDPR&#8221;), which will likely become effective in 2018 and will apply across the European Union.. The GDPR is expected to replace the prior data protection directive and will impose significantly greater compliance burdens on companies with users and/or operations in the European Union and to provide for considerable fines up to the higher of 20 million Euros and 4% of global annual revenue for noncompliance. One material change is that data processors (as that term is defined by applicable EU data protection law) have direct obligations, including implementing technical and organizational measures, and enhanced notification rules. The GDPR may also impose technological requirements in connection with the conduct of our business, and could impact how data protection is addressed in our customer agreements. The European Union is also considering an update to the EU&#8217;s Privacy and Electronic Communications (e-Privacy) Directive to, among other things, amend the current directive&#8217;s rules on the use of cookies and other tracking technologies. Compliance with changes in laws and regulations related to privacy may require significant cost, limit the use and adoption of our services, and require material changes in our business practices that result in reduced revenue. Noncompliance could result in material fines and penalties or governmental orders requiring us to change our data practices, which could damage our reputation and harm our business. 

Additionally, as Internet commerce continues to evolve, regulation by federal, state and foreign governments or agencies in the areas of data privacy and data security is likely to increase. For instance, the EU-US Safe Harbor program (&#8220;Safe Harbor&#8221;), which provided a valid legal basis for transfers of personal data from Europe to the United States, was invalidated on October 6, 2015, which has a significant impact on the transfer of data from the European Union to U.S. companies, including us. While we have other legally recognized mechanisms in place that we believe allow for the lawful transfer of EU member and customer and employee information to the United States, it is possible that these mechanisms may also be challenged or evolve to include new legal requirements that could have an impact on how we move data from the European Union to LivePerson entities outside the European Union. Recently, the United States and the European Union agreed in principle upon the Privacy Shield as a potential replacement for the Safe Harbor, but it has not yet been finalized, published or interpreted. The Privacy Shield may add significant requirements that could impact our business and result in substantial expense, and changes to our operations, to implement, and it is unclear that it will be appropriate for us. In response to these regulatory changes, we may have to require some of our vendors who process personal data to take on additional privacy and security obligations, and some may refuse, causing us to incur potential disruption and expense related to our business processes. If our policies and practices, or those of our vendors, are, or are perceived to be, insufficient or if our members and customers have concerns regarding the transfer of data from the European Union to the United States, we could be subject to enforcement actions or investigations by EU Data Protection Authorities or lawsuits by private parties, member engagement could decline and our business could be negatively impacted. 

In addition to government activity, privacy advocacy and other industry groups have established or may establish new self-regulatory standards that may place additional burdens on us. If our privacy practices are deemed unacceptable by watchdog groups or privacy advocates, such groups may take measures that harm our business by, for example, disparaging our reputation and our business, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, privacy concerns may cause Internet users to avoid online sites that collect various forms of data or to resist providing the data necessary to allow our customers to use our services effectively. Even the perception of security and privacy concerns, whether or not valid, could inhibit sales and market acceptance of our products and services. 

Businesses using our products and services may collect data from their website users. Various federal, state and foreign government bodies and agencies impose laws regarding collection, use and retention of data from website visitors. We offer our customers a variety of data security procedures and practices, such as encryption for data at rest and masking algorithms for sensitive data prior to transfer to our database, in an effort to protect information. Changes to applicable laws and how they are interpreted relating to data security and other consumer protection areas could significantly increase the cost to us and our customers of regulatory compliance and could negatively impact our business. 

For instance, some states in the United States have enacted legislation designed to protect consumer privacy by prohibiting the distribution of &#8220;spyware&#8221; over the Internet. Such legislation typically focuses on restricting the proliferation of software that, when installed on an end user&#8217;s computer, is used to intentionally and deceptively take control of the end user&#8217;s machine. We do not believe that the data monitoring methods that we employ constitute &#8220;spyware&#8221; or are prohibited by applicable laws. However, federal, state and foreign laws and regulations, many of which can be enforced by government entities or private parties, are constantly evolving and can be subject to significant changes in application and interpretation. If, for example, the scope of the previously mentioned &#8220;spyware&#8221; legislation were changed to include web analytics, such legislation could apply to the technology we use and potentially restrict our ability to conduct our business. 

In addition, regulatory authorities and governments around the world are considering a number of legislative and regulatory proposals concerning privacy, collection and use of website visitor data, data storage, data protection, content regulation, 

cybersecurity, government access to personal information, online advertising, email and other categories of electronic spam, and other matters that may be applicable to our business. Compliance with these laws may require substantial investment or may be technologically challenging for us. For example, some jurisdictions, including the United States, are considering whether the collection of anonymous data may invade the privacy of website visitors. If laws or regulations are enacted that limit data collection or use practices related to anonymous data, we and/or our customers may be required to obtain the express consent of web visitors in order for our technology to perform certain basic functions that are based on the collection and use of technical data. Requirements that a website must first obtain consent from its web visitors before using our technology could reduce the amount and value of the services we provide to customers, which might impede sales and/or cause some existing customers to discontinue using our services. 

It is also likely that, as our business grows and evolves, an increasing portion of our business shifts to mobile, and our solutions are offered and used in a greater number of countries, we will become subject to laws and regulations in additional jurisdictions. We could need to expend considerable effort and resources to develop new product features and/or procedures to comply with any such legal requirements. It is difficult to predict how existing laws will apply to our business and what new laws and legal obligations we may become subject to. If we are not able to comply with these laws or other legal obligations, or if we become liable under them, we may be forced to implement material changes to our business practices, delay release of new and enhanced services and expend substantial resources, which would negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, any increased attention focused on liability issues, or as a result of regulatory fines or lawsuits, could harm our reputation or otherwise impact the growth of our business. Any costs incurred as a result of this potential liability could harm our business and operating results. 

The Company monitors pending legislation and regulatory initiatives to ascertain relevance, analyze impact and develop strategic direction surrounding regulatory trends and developments. A range of other proposed or existing laws and new interpretations of existing laws could have an impact on our business. For example: 

Government agencies and regulators have reviewed, are reviewing and will continue to review, the personal data handling practices of companies doing business online, including privacy and security policies and practices. This review may result in new laws or the promulgation of new regulations or guidelines that may apply to our products and services. For example, the State of California and other states have passed laws relating to disclosure of companies&#8217; practices with regard to Do-Not-Track signals from Internet browsers, the ability to delete information of minors, and new data breach notification requirements. California has also adopted privacy guidelines with respect to mobile applications. Outside the European Union and the United States, a number of countries have adopted or are considering privacy laws and regulations that may result in significant greater compliance burdens. Existing and proposed laws and regulations regarding cybersecurity and monitoring of online behavioral data, such as the proposed &#8220;Do Not Track&#8221; regulations, regulations aimed at restricting certain targeted advertising practices and collection and use of data from mobile devices, and other proposed online privacy legislation could potentially apply to some of our current or planned products and services. Existing and proposed laws and regulations related to email and other categories of electronic spam could impact the delivery of commercial email and other electronic communications by us or on behalf of customers using our services. 

The U.S. Federal Trade Commission, or FTC, in particular has aggressively investigated and brought enforcement actions against companies that fail to comply with their privacy or data security commitments to consumers, or fail to comply with regulations or statutes such as the Children&#8217;s Online Privacy Protection Act. Any investigation or review of our practices may require us to make changes to our products and policies, which could harm our business. Currently there are many proposals by lawmakers and industry groups in this area, both in the United States and overseas, which address the collection, maintenance and use of personal information, web browsing and geolocation data, and establish data security and breach notification requirements. Further, regulators and industry groups have also released self-regulatory principles and guidelines for various data privacy and security practices. Given that this is an evolving and unsettled area of regulation, the imposition of any new significant restrictions or technological requirements could have a negative impact on our business. 

We might unintentionally violate such laws now and in the future; such laws or their interpretation or application may be modified; and new laws may be enacted in the future. Any such developments could subject us to legal liability exposure, and harm our business, operating results and financial condition. 

Intellectual Property and Proprietary Rights 

We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trade secret, trademark and other common law in the United States and other jurisdictions, as well as confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions, to protect our proprietary technology, processes and other intellectual property. We own a portfolio of patents and patent applications in the United States and internationally and regularly file patent applications to protect intellectual property that we believe is important to our business, including intellectual property related to real-time sales, marketing and customer service solutions. We believe the duration of our patents is adequate relative to the expected lives of our products and services. We pursue the registration of our domain names, trademarks and trade names in the United States and in certain locations outside the United States. We also own copyrights, including in our software, publications and other documents authored by us. These intellectual property rights are important to our business and marketing 

efforts. We seek to protect our intellectual property rights by relying on federal, state, and common law rights, including registration, or otherwise in the United States and certain foreign jurisdictions, as well as contractual restrictions. However, we believe that factors such as the technological and creative skills of our personnel, new service developments, frequent enhancements and reliable maintenance are more essential to establishing and maintaining a competitive advantage. Others may develop technologies that are similar or superior to our technology. We enter into confidentiality and other written agreements (including invention assignment agreements) with our employees, consultants, customers, potential customers, strategic partners, and other third parties, and through these and other written agreements, we attempt to control access to and distribution of our software, documentation and other proprietary information. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, third parties may, in an unauthorized manner, attempt to use, copy or otherwise obtain and market or distribute our intellectual property rights or technology or otherwise develop a service with the same functionality as our services. Policing unauthorized use of our services and intellectual property rights is difficult, and we cannot be certain that the steps we have taken will prevent misappropriation of our technology or intellectual property rights, particularly in foreign countries where we do business, where our services are sold or used, where the laws may not protect proprietary rights as fully as do the laws of the United States or where enforcement of laws protecting proprietary rights is not common or effective. 

Substantial litigation regarding intellectual property rights exists in the software industry. In the ordinary course of our business, our services have been and may be increasingly subject to third-party infringement claims as claims by non-practicing entities become more prevalent and as the number of competitors in our industry segment grows and the functionality of services in different industry segments overlaps. Some of our competitors in the market for real-time sales, marketing and customer service solutions or other third parties may have filed or may intend to file patent applications covering aspects of their technology and have asserted or may assert claims against us. Any claims alleging infringement of third-party intellectual property rights could require us to spend significant amounts in litigation (even if the claim is invalid), distract management from other tasks of operating our business, pay substantial damage awards, prevent us from selling our products, delay delivery of the LivePerson services, develop non-infringing software, technology, business processes, systems or other intellectual property (none of which might be successful), or limit our ability to use the intellectual property that is the subject of any of these claims, unless we enter into license agreements with the third parties (which may be costly, unavailable on commercially reasonable terms, or not available at all). Therefore, any such claims could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. 

The duration of the protection afforded to our intellectual property depends on the type of property in question, the laws and regulations of the relevant jurisdiction and the terms of its license agreements with others. With respect to our trademarks and trade names, trademark laws and rights are generally territorial in scope and limited to those countries where a mark has been registered or protected. While trademark registrations may generally be maintained in effect for as long as the mark is in use in the respective jurisdictions, there may be occasions where a mark or title is not registrable or protectable or cannot be used in a particular country. In addition, a trademark registration may be cancelled or invalidated if challenged by others based on certain use requirements or other limited grounds. The duration of property rights in trademarks, service marks and tradenames in the United States, whether registered or not, is predicated on our continued use. 

Employees 

As of December 31, 2015 we had 1,006 full-time employees. Our employees are not covered by collective bargaining agreements. We believe our relations with our employees are satisfactory. 

&#160; Segments and Geographic Areas 

Information about segment and geographic revenue is set forth in Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. For a discussion of the risks attendant to foreign operations, see the information under the heading &#8220;Risk Factors&#8221; under the caption &#8220;Continuing expansion into international markets is important for our growth, and as we continue to expand internationally, we face additional business, political, regulatory, operational, financial and economic risks, any of which could increase our costs or otherwise limit our growth.&#8221; For a discussion of revenue, net income and total assets, see Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Website Access to Reports 

We make available, free of charge, on our website ( www.liveperson.com &#32;), our annual reports on Form 10-K, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and our current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Sections 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as soon as reasonably practicable after we have electronically filed such material with, or furnished it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company&#8217;s web site address provided above is not intended to function as a hyperlink, and the information on the Company&#8217;s web site is not and should not be considered part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and is not incorporated by reference herein. 

&#160; 

