 ITEM 1. BUSINESS

Overview 

Triumph Bancorp, Inc. ("we", "Triumph" or the "Company"), is a financial holding company headquartered in Dallas, Texas and registered under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (the "BHC Act"). Through our wholly owned bank subsidiary, TBK Bank, SSB ("TBK Bank"), we offer traditional banking services as well as commercial finance products to businesses that require specialized financial solutions. Our community banking operations include a full suite of lending and deposit products and services focused on our local market areas. These activities generate a stable source of core deposits and a diverse asset base to support our overall operations. Our commercial finance products include factoring, asset-based lending, equipment lending, healthcare lending and premium finance products offered on a nationwide basis. These product offerings supplement the asset generation capacity in our community banking markets and enhance the overall yield of our loan portfolio, enabling us to earn attractive risk-adjusted net interest margins. In addition, through our wholly owned subsidiary Triumph Capital Advisors, LLC ("Triumph Capital Advisors"), we provide investment management services currently focused on the origination and management of collateralized loan obligations. We believe our integrated business model distinguishes us from other banks and non-bank financial services companies in the markets in which we operate. As of December 31, 2015, we had consolidated total assets of $1.691 billion, total loans held for investment of $1.292 billion, total deposits of $1.249 billion and total stockholders’ equity of $268 million.

Our business is conducted through four reportable segments (Banking, Factoring, Asset Management, and Corporate). For the year ended December 31, 2015, our banking segment generated 65% of our total revenue (comprised of interest and noninterest income, excluding the bargain purchase gain), our factoring segment generated 29% of our total revenue, our asset management segment generated 5% of our total revenue, and our corporate segment generated 1% of our total revenue. 

Our Corporate Structure 

We operate our business through several corporate entities. 

- 

TBK Bank, SSB is a Texas state savings bank. Effective October 1, 2015, the Company completed the merger of its two subsidiary banks, Triumph Savings Bank, SSB and Triumph Community Bank, N.A., into a single bank. The combined bank was named TBK Bank, SSB. Under the Triumph Community Bank brand, TBK Bank operates eleven branches in the Quad Cities Metropolitan Area of Iowa and Illinois, eight other branches throughout central and northwestern Illinois and one branch in northeastern Illinois. Through this branch network, we offer our customers a variety of financial products and services that both augment our revenue (fee and interest income) and help us expand and retain our core deposit network, including checking and savings accounts, debit cards, electronic banking, trust services and treasury management. TBK Bank also operates two locations in Dallas, Texas under the name Triumph Savings Bank, consisting of our corporate office and a branch that is dedicated to deposit gathering activities. Through TBK Bank, we originate a full suite of commercial and retail loans including commercial real estate, general commercial, mortgage warehouse, one-to-four family residential and construction and development loans, primarily focused on customers in and around our primary market areas. In addition, TBK Bank originates many of our commercial finance products and services, including healthcare asset-based loans under our Triumph Healthcare Finance brand, asset-based loans, equipment loans and general factoring products under our Triumph Commercial Finance brand and premium finance loans under our Triumph Premium Finance brand. These specialized commercial finance products and services are offered on a nationwide basis through loan production offices (consisting of a loan production office in Portland, Oregon dedicated to healthcare asset-based lending and in Kansas City, Missouri dedicated to premium finance lending) and our network of nationwide sales personnel. 

- 

Advance Business Capital, LLC (d/b/a "Triumph Business Capital") is a Delaware limited liability company and wholly owned subsidiary of TBK Bank that focuses on providing working capital financing through the purchase of accounts receivable, a product known as factoring. Substantially all of Triumph Business Capital’s factoring relationships are currently originated with small-to-mid-sized owner-operators, trucking fleets and freight brokers in the transportation industry, though it has recently expanded into non-transportation factoring markets as well. 

- 

Triumph Insurance Group, Inc. is a Texas corporation and a wholly owned subsidiary of TBK Bank. Triumph Insurance Group was formed to provide insurance brokerage services, initially focused on the insurance needs of our factoring, asset-based lending and equipment lending clients. 

- 

Triumph Capital Advisors, LLC is a Texas limited liability company and registered investment advisor that provides investment management services for primarily institutional clients, currently focused on the origination and management of collateralized loan obligations. 

Lending and Factoring Activities 

We offer a broad range of lending and factoring products. Our business lending categories include commercial, commercial real estate, factoring, agriculture, construction and development, and mortgage warehouse facilities. Our retail lending consists primarily of residential first and second mortgage loans and a small portfolio of additional consumer loans focused on our community banking markets.

Our strategy is to maintain a broadly diversified loan portfolio by type and location. Within this general strategy, we focus on growth in the commercial finance areas where we believe we have expertise and market insights, including our factoring operations, the asset-based loans and equipment loans we originate under our Triumph Commercial Finance brand, the asset-based healthcare loans we originate under our Triumph Healthcare Finance brand, and the premium finance loans we originate under our Triumph Premium Finance brand. 

A substantial portion of our lending is in the areas surrounding our community banking operations in Illinois and Iowa. We expect that we will continue to focus on the commercial and personal credit needs of businesses and individuals in these markets. We also have a significant amount of lending in Texas, the home of our corporate headquarters and a significant portion of our commercial finance operations. With respect to our commercial finance products, we also seek out customers and maintain loan production offices or sales personnel for such product lines on a nationwide basis.

The following is a discussion of our major types of lending activity:

Commercial Loan s. We offer commercial loans to small-to-mid-sized businesses across a variety of industries. These loans include general commercial and industrial loans, loans to purchase capital equipment and business loans for working capital and operational purposes. 

A portion of our commercial loan portfolio consists of specialty commercial finance products including asset-based loans, equipment loans, healthcare asset-based loans, and premium finance loans. A more detailed description of these product lines is set forth below:

- 

Asset-Based Loans . Under our Triumph Commercial Finance brand, we originate asset-based loans to borrowers to support general working capital needs. Our asset-based loan structure involves advances of loan proceeds against a "borrowing base," which typically consists of accounts receivable, identified readily marketable inventory or other collateral of the borrower. The maximum amount a customer may borrow at any time is fixed as a percentage of the borrowing base outstanding. These loans typically bear interest at a floating rate comprised of LIBOR or the prime rate plus a premium and include certain other transaction fees, such as origination and unused line fees. We target asset-based loan facilities between $1 million and $15 million for borrowers with annual net revenues between $4 million and $60 million. We originate asset-based loans across a variety of industries . 

- 

Equipment Loans . We originate equipment loans under our Triumph Commercial Finance brand. These equipment loans focus primarily on the construction, transportation and waste management industries. Equipment in these industries is essential use and generally has a broad resale market. Our equipment loans are typically fully amortizing, fixed rate loans secured by the underlying collateral with a term of three to five years. 

- 

Healthcare Loans . Under our Triumph Healthcare Finance brand, we originate healthcare asset-based loans, generally on secured credit facilities of $1 million to $20 million for healthcare service providers in the areas of skilled nursing, home healthcare, physical therapy and healthcare product delivery. The borrowing base for our healthcare asset-based loans generally consists of reimbursement receivables payable to our healthcare provider clients from insurance companies and governmental programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid. 

- 

Premium Finance Loans. We originate premium finance loans under our Triumph Premium Finance brand. These premium finance loans provide customized premium financing solutions for the acquisition of property and casualty insurance coverage. These short-term premium finance loans allow insureds to pay their insurance premiums over the life of the underlying policy, instead of paying the entire premium at the outset. 

Commercial Real Estate Loans . We originate real estate loans to finance commercial property that is owner-occupied as well as commercial property owned by real estate investors. The real estate securing our existing commercial real estate loans includes a wide variety of property types, such as office buildings, warehouses, production facilities, hotels and mixed-use residential/commercial and multifamily properties. 

Factored Receivables . As a part of our commercial finance product offerings, we offer factoring services to our customers, primarily in the transportation sector, with an increasing focus on other industries. In contrast to a lendin g relationship, in a factoring transaction we directly purchase the receivables generated by our clients at a discount to their face value. These transactions are structured to provide our clients with immediate liquidity to meet operating expenses when th ere is a mismatch between payments to our client for a good or service and the incurrence of operating costs required to provide such good or service. For example, in the transportation industry, invoices are typically paid 30 to 60 days after delivery whe reas the truckers providing such transportation services require immediate funds to pay for fuel and other operating costs. 

Our transportation factoring clients include small owner-operator trucking companies (one-to-four trucks), mid-sized fleets (5-to-50 trucks) and freight broker relationships whereby we manage all carrier payments on behalf of a broker client. The features and pricing of our transportation factoring relationships vary by client type. Typically our smaller owner-operator relationships are structured as "non-recourse" relationships ( i.e. , we retain the credit risk associated with the ability of the account debtor on an invoice we purchase to ultimately make payment) and our larger relationships are structured as "recourse" relationships ( i.e. , our client agrees to repurchase from us any invoices for which payment is not ultimately received from the account debtor). 

Our non-transportation factoring business targets small businesses with annual sales between $1 million and $25 million in industries such as manufacturing, distribution, and staffing.

Residential Real Estate Loans . We offer first and second mortgage loans to our individual customers primarily for the purchase of primary and secondary residences. We made the decision to exit the residential mortgage production business in the fourth quarter of 2015. We chose to exit this business as the operational and compliance risk associated with the business outweighed the amount of profitability generated. 

Mortgage Warehouse Facilities . We enter into mortgage warehouse arrangements whereby we directly fund the origination of one-to-four family residential mortgage loans on behalf of our mortgage banker clients. These arrangements provide our mortgage banker clients with the resources to fund their mortgage originations more quickly and efficiently than they could by using their own balance sheet. 

Commercial Construction, Land and Land Development Loans . We offer loans to small-to-mid-sized businesses to construct owner-user properties, as well as loans to developers of commercial real estate investment properties and residential developments. These loans are typically disbursed as construction progresses and carry interest rates that vary with the prime rate. 

Agriculture Loans . A portion of our loan portfolio consists of loans secured by farmland. These loans originate primarily in the areas surrounding our community banking markets in Iowa and Illinois. 

Consumer Loans . We also originate personal loans for our retail banking customers. These loans originate exclusively out of our community banking operations in Iowa and Illinois. 

Other Products and Services

Asset Management Services . Triumph Capital Advisors is a registered investment adviser that provides fee-based asset management services primarily for institutional clients, currently focused on the issuance and management of collateralized loan obligation ("CLO") vehicles. We view this business as being a natural extension of our credit focus that will allow us to generate a recurring stream of noninterest fee income. 

In general, a CLO is an investment fund whose assets are comprised primarily of senior secured corporate loans. These senior secured corporate loans are generally large, broadly syndicated financing transactions arranged by a lead agent bank and then assigned to numerous additional lenders. Such loans are typically rated below investment grade and are sometimes referred to as "leveraged loans." The total size of such loan facilities typically range from $200 million to $2.0 billion, though certain individual facilities can be several times larger. CLOs acquire assignments in these senior secured corporate loans generally ranging from $1 million to $5 million. We do not originate or syndicate any of the senior secured corporate loans acquired by our CLO clients, nor do we acquire any of the loan assignments on the balance sheet of our bank and then transfer them to our CLO clients. All such loan assignments are acquired directly by the CLO issuers under the direction of Triumph Capital Advisors as asset manager.

A CLO issues its investors securities in a series of tranches, typically ranging from an AAA-rated debt tranche to an unrated subordinated debt or equity tranche. The payment rate on each security is linked to such security’s payment priority ( e.g. , the AAA-rated tranche of a CLO will receive all interest payments before any payments are made to the next most senior tranche of security issued by such CLO, but will pay a lower interest rate). The sole source of payment for the securities issued by the CLO consists of interest, fee and principal payments from its underlying senior secured loan assets.

Triumph Capital Advisors earns asset management fees for selecting and continuously managing t he underlying assets of CLOs. In general, these management fees are calculated as a percentage of eligible assets within each fund. A portion of these fees are payable as senior fees ( i.e. , payable before any payments to the debt investors in such fund) an d a portion of these fees are payable as subordinated fees ( i.e. , payable only in the event interest payments are made to the debt investors in such CLO for such payment period). Such asset management fees typically range from 0.30% to 0.50% per annum of t he total eligible assets of the fund, but may also be higher or lower depending on market conditions or the requirements of the investors in each specific CLO. In certain cases, we may offer a portion of our asset management fees to investors in a CLO as a n inducement to get such investor to invest in the transaction. In addition, we may earn performance fees in the event the return of the subordinated or equity investors in a CLO exceeds a specified return threshold. We are currently focusing on CLOs with $300 million to $500 million in total assets. Historically, we have not invested directly in the securities of the CLO offerings we manage, though we may choose to do so in the future. 

In addition to providing asset management services to CLO issuers following the consummation of their CLO securities offerings (at which point we begin to earn the asset management fees described above), we also act as asset manager to CLO issuers during their "warehouse" phase. During its "warehouse" phase, a prospective CLO issuer begins to acquire loan assets in anticipation of a future CLO securities offering. These assets are generally acquired with the proceeds of a credit facility (often provided by an affiliate of the placement agent for the CLO securities offering) as well as equity invested in the prospective CLO issuer during this period. Upon the consummation of a CLO securities offering, the warehouse credit facility is repaid and terminated and the warehouse equity is redeemed. We have from time to time invested in the equity of CLO issuers during their warehouse phase. We make these investments primarily to facilitate the successful consummation of the CLO securities offerings and the corresponding generation of asset management fees for us that commence following the completion of these offerings. 

On March 3, 2015, Triumph Capital Advisors acquired all of the equity of Doral Money, Inc. ("Doral Money"), a subsidiary of Doral Bank, in connection with the FDIC’s auction process for Doral Bank. As a result of this transaction, Triumph Capital Advisors also acquired the management contracts of two active CLOs consisting of approximately $700 million in managed assets.

In connection with pending effectiveness of the U.S. risk retention requirements applicable to managers of CLO transactions (which, generally, require the manager of a CLO transaction originated on or after the effective date of such rule (December 24, 2016) to hold five percent of the credit risk of the CLO, which may be retained horizontally in the equity tranche of the CLO or vertically as a five percent interest in each tranche of the securities issued by the CLO), Triumph Capital Advisors contemplates entering into transactions whereby it will earn fee income through the provision of middle and back office services to other CLO managers formed to manage new CLOs and to hold the risk retention interests in such CLOs. In 2015 a new asset manager, Trinitas Capital Management, LLC ("Trinitas"), was formed for this purpose. Trinitas is an independent entity governed by a board of managers elected by its members, a majority of whom are independent of Triumph Capital Advisors or the Company. Certain of our officers and other Triumph Capital Advisors personnel also serve as officers or managers of Trinitas. We anticipate that Trinitas will issue new CLOs and hold the risk retention interests in such CLOs and that Triumph Capital Advisors will (subject to the approval of our board of directors and the board of managers of Trinitas) provide middle and back office services for CLOs managed by Trinitas for a fee to be agreed upon between Trinitas and Triumph Capital Advisors for each transaction. At or prior to the issuance of the first CLO to be managed by Trinitas, the Company may also make a minority investment (not to exceed 9.9%) in the membership interest of Trinitas.

Additional Products and Services. We offer a full range of commercial and retail banking services to our customers, including checking and savings accounts, debit cards, electronic banking, and trust services. These products both augment our revenue and help us expand our core deposit network. A number of our additional products and services focus on providing turnkey solutions to our specialized commercial finance clients in order to improve acquisition and retention of these clients. For example, we provide comprehensive treasury management services for commercial clients to manage their cash and liquidity, including lock box, accounts receivable collection services, electronic payment solutions, fraud protection, information reporting, reconciliation and data integration and balance optimization solutions. Through Triumph Insurance Group, an insurance brokerage agency initially focused on meeting the insurance needs of our commercial clients, particularly our factoring clients in the transportation industry and our equipment lending clients, we provide insurance brokerage services. We believe these ancillary product offerings have the ability to diversify our revenue and increase customer acquisition and retention for our primary product lines. 

Credit Risk Management

We mitigate credit risk both through disciplined underwriting of each transaction we originate, as well as active credit management processes and procedures to manage risk and minimize loss throughout the life of a transaction. We seek to maintain a broadly diversified loan portfolio in terms of type of customer, type of loan product, geographic area and industries in which our business customers are engaged. We have developed tailored underwriting criteria and credit management processes for each of the various loan product types we offer our customers.

Underwriting 

In evaluating each potential loan relationship, we adhere to a disciplined underwriting evaluation process including the following: 

- 

understanding of the customer’s financial condition and ability to repay the loan; 

- 

verifying that the primary and secondary sources of repayment are adequate in relation to the amount and structure of the loan; 

- 

observing appropriate loan to value guidelines for collateral secured loans; 

- 

maintaining our targeted levels of diversification for the loan portfolio, both as to type of borrower and geographic location of collateral; and 

- 

ensuring that each loan is properly documented with perfected liens on collateral. 

Our non-owner occupied commercial real estate loans are generally secured by income producing property with adequate margins, supported by a history of profitable operations and cash flows and proven operating stability in the case of commercial loans. Except in limited circumstances, our commercial real estate loans and commercial loans are supported by personal guarantees from the principals of the borrower.

With respect to our asset-based loans, in addition to an overall evaluation of the borrower and the transaction considering the applicable criteria set forth above, we also engage in an evaluation of the assets comprising the borrowing base for such loans, to confirm that such assets are readily recoverable and recoverable at rates in excess of the advance rate for such loans. With respect to our healthcare asset-based loans, this process requires an analysis of the payment rates applied to the reimbursement obligations payable to our customers by applicable payers.

Our factoring relationships in particular require a specialized underwriting process. For each factoring transaction, in addition to a credit evaluation of our client, we also evaluate the creditworthiness of underlying account debtors, as such account debtors represent the substantive underlying credit risk. Transportation factoring also presents the additional challenge of underwriting high volumes of invoices of predominantly low value per invoice and managing credit requests for a large industry pool of account debtors. We facilitate this process through a proprietary web-based "Online Broker Credit" application, which processes invoice purchase approval requests for our clients through an online proprietary scoring model and delivers either preliminary responses for small dollar requests or immediate referral to our servicing personnel for larger dollar requests. We also set and monitor concentration limits for individual account debtors that are tracked across all of our clients (as multiple clients may have outstanding invoices from a particular account debtor).

Our bank implements its underwriting evaluation and approval process through a tiered system of loan authorities. Under these authorities, transactions at certain identified levels are eligible to be approved by a designated officer or a combination of designated officers. Transactions above such individual thresholds require approval of a management-level loan committee. Transactions above the approval levels for our management-level loan committee must be approved by an executive loan committee comprised of directors. Our underwriting and approval processes also employ limits we believe to be appropriate as to loan type and category, loan size, and other attributes.

Ongoing Credit Risk Management

We also perform ongoing risk monitoring and review processes for all credit exposures. Although we grade and classify our loans internally, we have an independent third party professional firm perform regular loan reviews to confirm loan classification. We strive to identify potential problem loans early in an effort to seek resolution of these situations before the loans create a loss, record any necessary charge-offs promptly and maintain adequate allowance levels for probable loan losses incurred in the loan portfolio. In general, whenever a particular loan or overall borrower relationship is downgraded to pass-watch or substandard based on one or more standard loan grading factors, our credit officers engage in active evaluation of the asset to determine the appropriate resolution strategy. Management of each bank regularly reviews the status of the watch list and classified assets portfolio as well as the larger credits in the portfolio.

In addition to our general credit risk management processes, we employ specialized risk management processes and procedures for certain of our commercial finance products, in particular our asset-based lending and factoring products. With respect to our asset-based lending relationships, we require dominion over the borrower’s cash accounts in order to actively control and manage the cash flows from the conversion of borrowing base collateral into cash and its application to the loan. We also engage in active review and monitoring of the borrowing base collateral itself, including field audits typically conducted on a 90-180 day cycle.

With respect to our factoring operati ons, we employ a proprietary risk management program whereby each client is assigned a risk score based on measurable criteria. Our risk model is largely geared toward early detection and mitigation of fraud, which we believe represents the most material r isk of loss in this asset class. Risk scores are presented on a daily basis through a proprietary software application. These risk scores are then used to assign such client into a particular classification level. The classification level is not a predicto r of loss exposure but rather the determinant for monitoring levels and servicing protocols, such as the percentage requirements for collateral review and invoice verification prior to purchase. This scoring and risk allocation methodology helps us to mana ge and control fraud and credit risk. 

Marketing 

We market our loans and other products and services through a variety of channels. Fundamentally, we focus on a high-touch direct sales model and building long-term relationships with our customers. In our community banking markets, our lending officers actively solicit new and existing businesses in the communities we serve. For our commercial finance product lines, we typically maintain sales personnel across the country with designated regional responsibilities for clients within their territories. We market our products and services through secondary channels, including e-marketing and search engine optimization, as well as key strategic sourcing relationships. Importantly, while we seek to ensure that the pricing on all of our loans and factoring products is competitive, we also attempt to distinguish ourselves with our clients on criteria other than price, including service, industry knowledge and a more complete value proposition than our competitors. We believe that our suite of complementary commercial finance product options and our other available banking services, including treasury management services and our recently launched insurance brokerage initiatives allows us to offer full-service banking relationships to clients and industries that have historically been served by smaller non-bank commercial finance companies. 

Deposits

Deposits are our primary source of funds to support our earning assets. We offer depository products, including checking, savings, money market and certificates of deposit with a variety of rates. Deposits at our bank subsidiary are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation ("FDIC") up to statutory limits. In addition, required deposit balances associated with our commercial loan arrangements and treasury management relationships maintained by our commercial lending clients provide an additional source of deposits. In our community banking markets, we have a network of 19 deposit-taking branch offices. We also maintain a branch office in Dallas, Texas, dedicated to deposit generation activities. 

Competitors

The bank and non-bank financial services industries in our markets and the surrounding areas is highly competitive. We compete with a wide range of regional and national banks located in our market areas as well as non-bank commercial finance and factoring companies on a nationwide basis. We experience competition in both lending and attracting funds from commercial banks, savings associations, credit unions, consumer finance companies, pension trusts, mutual funds, insurance companies, mortgage bankers and brokers, brokerage and investment banking firms, non-bank lenders, government agencies and certain other non-financial institutions. Many of these competitors have more assets, capital and lending limits, and resources than we do and may be able to conduct more intensive and broader-based promotional efforts to reach both commercial and individual customers. Competition for deposit products can depend heavily on pricing because of the ease with which customers can transfer deposits from one institution to another.

Supervision and Regulation

Banking is a complex, highly regulated industry. Consequently, our growth and earnings performance can be affected, not only by management decisions and general and local economic conditions, but also by the statutes administered by and the regulations and policies of, various governmental regulatory authorities. These authorities include, but are not limited to, the Federal Reserve, the FDIC, the Texas Department of Savings and Mortgage Lending ("TDSML"), the Internal Revenue Service ("IRS"), and state taxing authorities. The effect of these statutes, regulations and policies and any changes to any of them can be significant and cannot be predicted.

The primary goals of the bank regulatory scheme are to maintain a safe and sound banking system and to facilitate the conduct of sound monetary policy. In furtherance of those goals, the U.S. Congress and the individual states have created numerous regulatory agencies and enacted numerous laws, such as the Dodd-Frank Act, that govern banks and the banking industry. The system of supervision and regulation applicable to the Company establishes a comprehensive framework for our operations and is intended primarily for the protection of the FDIC’s deposit insurance funds, our depositors and the public, rather than the stockholders and creditors.

New regulations and statutes are regularly proposed that contain wide-ranging proposals for altering the structures, regulations and competitive relationships of financial institutions operating in the United States. The feder al banking agencies have issued a number of significant new regulations as a result of the Dodd-Frank Act and a number of additional regulations are pending or may be proposed. We cannot predict whether or in what form any proposed regulation or statute wi ll be adopted or the extent to which of our businesses may be affected by any new regulation or statute. 

The following is an attempt to summarize some of the relevant laws, rules and regulations governing banks and bank holding companies, but does not purport to be a complete summary of all applicable laws, rules and regulations governing banks. The descriptions are qualified in their entirety by reference to the specific statutes and regulations discussed.

Bank Holding Company Regulation

The Company is a financial holding company registered under the BHC Act and is subject to supervision and regulation by the Federal Reserve. Federal laws subject bank holding companies to particular restrictions on the types of activities in which they may engage and to a range of supervisory requirements and activities, including regulatory enforcement actions, for violation of laws and policies.

Activities Closely Related to Banking

The BHC Act prohibits a bank holding company, with certain limited exceptions, from acquiring direct or indirect ownership or control of any voting shares of any company that is not a bank or from engaging in any activities other than those of banking, managing or controlling banks and certain other subsidiaries or furnishing services to or performing services for its subsidiaries. Bank holding companies also may engage in or acquire interests in companies that engage in a limited set of activities that are closely related to banking or managing or controlling banks. If a bank holding company has become a financial holding company (an "FHC"), as we have, it may engage in a broader set of activities, including insurance underwriting and broker-dealer services as well as activities that are jointly determined by the Federal Reserve and the U.S. Treasury to be financial in nature or incidental to such financial activity. FHCs may also engage in activities that are determined by the Federal Reserve to be complementary to financial activities. The Company has elected to be an FHC. To maintain FHC status, the bank holding company and all subsidiary depository institutions must be well managed and "well capitalized." Additionally, all subsidiary depository institutions must have received at least a "Satisfactory" rating on its most recent Community Reinvestment Act ("CRA") examination. Failure to meet these requirements may result in limitations on activities and acquisitions.

Safe and Sound Banking Practices

Bank holding companies are not permitted to engage in unsafe and unsound banking practices. The Federal Reserve may order a bank holding company to terminate an activity or control of a non-bank subsidiary if such activity or control constitutes a significant risk to the financial safety, soundness or stability of a subsidiary bank and is inconsistent with sound banking principles. Regulation Y also requires a holding company to give the Federal Reserve prior notice of any redemption or repurchase of its own equity securities if the consideration to be paid, together with the consideration paid for any repurchases or redemptions in the preceding year, is equal to 10% or more of the company’s consolidated net worth.

Consistent with the Dodd-Frank Act codification of the Federal Reserve’s policy that bank holding companies must serve as a source of financial strength for their subsidiary banks, the Federal Reserve has stated that, as a matter of prudence, a bank holding company generally should not maintain a rate of distributions to stockholders unless its available net income has been sufficient to fully fund the distributions and the prospective rate of earnings retention appears consistent with a bank holding company’s capital needs, asset quality and overall financial condition. In addition, we are subject to certain restrictions on the making of distributions as a result of the requirement that our subsidiary bank maintains an adequate level of capital as described below.

In addition, the Federal Reserve Supervisory Letter SR 09-4 provides guidance on the declaration and payment of dividends, capital redemptions and capital repurchases by a bank holding company. Supervisory Letter SR 09-4 provides that, as a general matter, a bank holding company should eliminate, defer or significantly reduce its dividends if: (i) the bank holding company’s net income available to stockholders for the past four quarters, net of dividends previously paid during that period, is not sufficient to fully fund the dividends, (ii) the bank holding company’s prospective rate of earnings retention is not consistent with the bank holding company’s capital needs and overall current and prospective financial condition or (iii) the bank holding company will not meet, or is in danger of not meeting, its minimum regulatory capital adequacy ratios. Failure to do so could result in a supervisory finding that the bank holding company is operating in an unsafe and unsound manner.

Limitations on our subsidiary bank paying dividends could, in turn, affect our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders. For more information concerning our subsidiary bank’s ability to pay dividends, see below.

The Federal Reserve has broad authority to prohibit activities of bank holding companies and their non-banking subsidiaries which represent unsafe and unsound banking practices or which constitute violatio ns of laws or regulations. Notably, the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery and Enforcement Act of 1989 ("FIRREA") provides that the Federal Reserve Board can assess civil money penalties for such practices or violations which can be as high as $1 mill ion per day. FIRREA contains expansive provisions regarding the scope of individuals and entities against which such penalties may be assessed. 

Annual Reporting and Examinations

The Company is required to file annual and quarterly reports with the Federal Reserve and such additional information as the Federal Reserve may require pursuant to the BHC Act. The Federal Reserve may examine a bank holding company or any of its subsidiaries and charge the bank holding company for the cost of such an examination. The Company is also subject to reporting and disclosure requirements under state and federal securities laws.

New Rules on Regulatory Capital

New regulatory capital rules pursuant to the Basel III requirements, released in July 2013, implement higher minimum capital requirements for bank holding companies and banks effective on January 1, 2015. The new rules include a new common equity Tier 1 capital requirement and establish criteria that instruments must meet to be considered common equity Tier 1 capital, additional Tier 1 capital or Tier 2 capital. These enhancements are designed to both improve the quality and increase the quantity of capital required to be held by banking organizations, better equipping the U.S. banking system to deal with adverse economic conditions. The revised capital rules require banks and bank holding companies to maintain a minimum common equity Tier 1 ("CET1") capital ratio of 4.5%, a total Tier 1 capital ratio of 6%, a total capital ratio of 8% and a leverage ratio of 4%. Bank holding companies are also required to hold a capital conservation buffer of CET1 capital of 2.5% to avoid limitations on capital distributions and executive compensation payments. Under the revised rules, bank holding companies must maintain a total risk-based capital ratio of 10% and a total Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 6% to be considered "well capitalized" for purposes of certain rules and requirements.

The revised capital rules also require banks to maintain a CET1 capital ratio of 6.5%, a total Tier 1 capital ratio of 8%, a total capital ratio of 10% and a leverage ratio of 5% to be deemed "well capitalized" for purposes of certain rules and prompt corrective action requirements. The risk-based ratios include a "capital conservation buffer" of 2.5%. The new capital conservation buffer requirement is to be phased in beginning in January 2016 at 0.625% of risk-weighted assets and will increase by that amount each year until fully implemented in January 2019. An institution would be subject to limitations on certain activities including payment of dividends, share repurchases and discretionary bonuses to executive officers if its capital level is below the buffer amount. This buffer will help to ensure that banking organizations conserve capital when it is most needed, allowing them to better weather periods of economic stress.

The new rule attempts to improve the quality of capital by implementing changes to the definition of capital. Among the most important changes are stricter eligibility criteria for regulatory capital instruments that would disallow the inclusion of instruments, such as trust preferred securities, in Tier 1 capital going forward and new constraints on the inclusion of minority interests, mortgage-servicing assets, deferred tax assets and certain investments in the capital of unconsolidated financial institutions. In addition, the new rule requires that most regulatory capital deductions be made from common equity Tier 1 capital.

The Federal Reserve may also set higher capital requirements for holding companies whose circumstances warrant it. For example, holding companies experiencing internal growth or making acquisitions are expected to maintain strong capital positions substantially above the minimum supervisory levels, without significant reliance on intangible assets. At this time, the bank regulatory agencies are more inclined to impose higher capital requirements to meet well-capitalized standards and future regulatory change could impose higher capital standards as a routine matter. The Company’s regulatory capital ratios and those of its subsidiary bank are in excess of the levels established for "well-capitalized" institutions under the new rules.

The new rules also set forth certain changes in the methods of calculating certain risk-weighted assets, which in turn will affect the calculation of risk based ratios. Under the new rules, higher or more sensitive risk weights would be assigned to various categories of assets, including, certain credit facilities that finance the acquisition, development or construction of real property, certain exposures or credits that are 90 days past due or on non-accrual, foreign exposures and certain corporate exposures. In addition, the new rules include (i) alternative standards of credit worthiness consistent with the Dodd-Frank Act, (ii) greater recognition of collateral and guarantees and (iii) revised capital treatment for derivatives and repo-style transactions.

In addition, the new rules include certain exemptions to address concerns a bout the regulatory burden on community banks. For example, banking organizations with less than $15 billion in consolidated assets as of December 31, 2009 are permitted to include in Tier 1 capital trust preferred securities and cumulative perpetual prefe rred stock issued and included in Tier 1 capital prior to May 19, 2010 on a permanent basis, without any phase out. Community banks may also elect on a one time basis in their March 31, 2015 quarterly filings to opt-out of the requirement to include most a ccumulated other comprehensive income ("AOCI") components in the calculation of CET1 capital and, in effect, retain the AOCI treatment under the current capital rules. Under the new rules, we elected to make the one-time permanent election to continue to e xclude AOCI from capital. 

Imposition of Liability for Undercapitalized Subsidiaries

The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of 1991 ("FDICIA") required each federal banking agency to revise its risk-based capital standards to ensure that those standards take adequate account of interest rate risk, concentration of credit risk and the risks of nontraditional activities, as well as reflect the actual performance and expected risk of loss on multifamily mortgages.

As discussed above, in accordance with the law, each federal banking agency has specified, by regulation, the levels at which an insured institution would be considered "well capitalized," adequately capitalized, undercapitalized, significantly undercapitalized and critically undercapitalized. As of December 31, 2015, the Company’s subsidiary bank exceeded the capital levels required to be deemed "well capitalized."

Additionally, FDICIA requires bank regulators to take prompt corrective action to resolve problems associated with insured depository institutions. In the event an institution becomes undercapitalized, it must submit a capital restoration plan.

Under these prompt corrective action provisions of FDICIA, if a controlled bank is undercapitalized, then the regulators could require the bank to submit a capital restoration plan. If an institution becomes significantly undercapitalized or critically undercapitalized, additional and significant limitations are placed on the institution. The capital restoration plan of an undercapitalized institution will not be accepted by the regulators unless each company having control of the undercapitalized institution guarantees the subsidiary’s compliance with the capital restoration plan until it becomes adequately capitalized. The Company has control of its subsidiary bank for the purpose of this statute.

Further, by statute and regulation, a bank holding company must serve as a source of financial and managerial strength to each bank that it controls and, under appropriate circumstances, may be required to commit resources to support each such controlled bank. This support may be required at times when the bank holding company may not have the resources to provide the support. In addition, if the Federal Reserve believes that a bank holding company’s activities, assets or affiliates represent a significant risk to the financial safety, soundness or stability of a controlled bank, then the Federal Reserve could require the bank holding company to terminate the activities, liquidate the assets or divest the affiliates. The regulators may require these and other actions in support of controlled banks even if such actions are not in the best interests of the bank holding company or its stockholders.

Acquisitions by Bank Holding Companies

The BHC Act requires every bank holding company to obtain the prior approval of the Federal Reserve before it may acquire all or substantially all of the assets of any bank or ownership or control of any voting shares of any bank if after such acquisition it would own or control, directly or indirectly, more than 5% of the voting shares of such bank. In approving bank acquisitions by bank holding companies, the Federal Reserve is required to consider the financial and managerial resources and future prospects of the bank holding company and banks concerned, the convenience and needs of the communities to be served, the effect on competition as well as the financial stability of the United States. The Attorney General of the United States may, within 30 days after approval of an acquisition by the Federal Reserve, bring an action challenging such acquisition under the federal antitrust laws, in which case the effectiveness of such approval is stayed pending a final ruling by the courts. Under certain circumstances, the 30-day period may be shortened to 15 days.

Control Acquisitions

The Change in Bank Control Act ("CBCA") prohibits a person or group of persons from acquiring "control" of a bank holding company unless the Federal Reserve has been notified and has not objected to the transaction. Under a rebuttable presumption established by the Federal Reserve, the acquisition of 10% or more of a class of voting stock of a bank holding company with a class of securities registered under Section 12 of the Exchange Act, such as the Company, would, under the circumstances set forth in the presumption, constitute acquisition of control of the Company.

In addition, the CBCA prohibits any entity from acquiring 25% (the BHC Act has a lower limit for acquirers that are existing bank holding companies) or more of a bank holding company’s or bank’s voting securities, or otherwise obtaining control or a controlling influence over a bank holding company or bank without the approval of the Federal Reserve. On September 22, 2008, the Federal Reserve Board issued a policy statement on equity investments in bank holding companies and banks, which states the Federal Reserve generally will not consider an entity’s investment to be "controlling" if the entity owns or controls less than 25% of the voting shares and 33% total equity of the bank holding company or bank and has limited business relationships, director representation or other indicia of control. Depending on the nature of the overall investment and the capital structure of the ba nking organization, the Federal Reserve will permit, based on the policy statement, noncontrolling investments in the form of voting and nonvoting shares that represent in the aggregate (i) less than one-third of the total equity of the banking organizatio n (and less than one-third of any class of voting securities, assuming conversion of all convertible nonvoting securities held by the entity) and (ii) less than 15% of any class of voting securities of the banking organization. 

Anti-Tying Restrictions

Bank holding companies and their affiliates are prohibited from tying the provision of certain services, such as extensions of credit, to other services offered by a holding company or its affiliates.

Bank Regulation

TBK Bank

TBK Bank is a Texas state savings bank and is subject to various requirements and restrictions under the laws of the United States and Texas and to regulation, supervision and regular examination by the FDIC and the TDSML. TBK Bank is required to file reports with the FDIC and the TDSML concerning its activities and financial condition in addition to obtaining regulatory approvals before entering into certain transactions such as mergers with, or acquisitions of, other financial institutions. The regulators have the power to enforce compliance with applicable banking statutes and regulations. Those regulations include requirements to maintain reserves against deposits, restrictions on the nature and amount of loans that may be made and the interest that may be charged on loans and restrictions relating to investments and other activities of TBK Bank.

Standards for Safety and Soundness

As part of FDICIA’s efforts to promote the safety and soundness of depository institutions and their holding companies, appropriate federal banking regulators are required to have in place regulations specifying operational and management standards (addressing internal controls, loan documentation, credit underwriting and interest rate risk), asset quality and earnings. As discussed above, the Federal Reserve and the FDIC have extensive authority to police unsafe or unsound practices and violations of applicable laws and regulations by depository institutions and their holding companies. For example, the FDIC may terminate the deposit insurance of any institution that it determines has engaged in an unsafe or unsound practice. The agencies can also assess civil money penalties of up to $1 million per day, issue cease-and-desist or removal orders, seek injunctions and publicly disclose such actions.

The ability of TBK Bank, as a Texas state savings bank, to pay dividends is restricted under the Texas Finance Code. Pursuant to the Texas Finance Code, a Texas state savings bank may declare and pay a dividend out of current or retained earnings, in cash or additional stock, to the holders of record of the stock outstanding on the date the dividend is declared. However, without the prior approval of the TDSML, a cash dividend may not be declared by the board of a Texas state savings bank that the TDSML considers to be in an unsafe condition or to have less than zero total retained earnings on the date of the dividend declaration.

TBK Bank is also subject to certain restrictions on the payment of dividends as a result of the requirement that it maintain an adequate level of capital in accordance with guidelines promulgated from time to time by the federal regulators.

The present and future dividend policy of TBK Bank is subject to the discretion of its board of directors. In determining whether to pay dividends to Triumph and, if made, the amount of the dividends, the board of directors of TBK Bank considers many of the same factors discussed above. TBK Bank cannot guarantee that they will have the financial ability to pay dividends to Triumph, or if dividends are paid, that they will be sufficient for Triumph to make distributions to stockholders. TBK Bank is not obligated to pay dividends.

Restrictions on Transactions with Affiliates 

Section 23A of the Federal Reserve Act imposes quantitative and qualitative limits on transactions between a bank and any affiliate and requires certain levels of collateral for such loans. It also limits the amount of advances to third parties which are collateralized by the securities or obligations of the Company. Section 23B requires that certain transactions between the Company’s subsidiary bank and its affiliates must be on terms substantially the same, or at least as favorable, as those prevailing at the time for comparable transactions with or involving other nonaffiliated companies. In the absence of such comparable transactions, any transaction between the bank and its affiliates must be on terms and under circumstances, including credit standards, which in good faith would be offered to or would apply to nonaffiliated companies.

Capital Adequacy

In addition to the capital rules applicable to both banks and bank holding companies discussed above, under the prompt corrective action regulations, the federal bank regulators are required and authorized to take supervisory actions against undercapitalized banks. For this purpose a bank is placed in one of the following five categories based on the bank’s capital (as of the new capital rules discussed above):

- 

well-capitalized (at least 5% leverage capital, 6.5% common equity Tier 1 risk-based capital, 8% Tier 1 risk-based capital and 10% total risk-based capital); 

- 

adequately capitalized (at least 4% leverage capital, 4.5% common equity Tier 1 risk-based capital, 6% Tier 1 risk-based capital and 8% total risk-based capital); 

- 

undercapitalized (less than 4% leverage capital, 4.5% common equity Tier 1 risk-based capital, 6% Tier 1 risk-based capital and 8% total risk-based capital); 

- 

significantly undercapitalized (less than 3% leverage capital, 3% common equity Tier 1 risk-based capital, 4% Tier 1 risk-based capital and 6% total risk-based capital); and 

- 

critically undercapitalized (less than 2% tangible capital). 

Federal banking regulators are required to take various mandatory supervisory actions and are authorized to take other discretionary actions with respect to institutions in the three undercapitalized categories. The severity of the action depends upon the capital category in which the institution is placed. Generally, subject to a narrow exception, banking regulators must appoint a receiver or conservator for an institution that is "critically undercapitalized." The federal banking agencies have specified by regulation the relevant capital level for each category. An institution that is categorized as "undercapitalized," "significantly undercapitalized," or "critically undercapitalized" is required to submit an acceptable capital restoration plan to its appropriate federal banking agency.

Failure to meet capital guidelines could subject our subsidiary bank to a variety of enforcement remedies, including issuance of a capital directive, the termination of deposit insurance by the FDIC, a prohibition on accepting brokered deposits and other restrictions on our business.

Deposit Insurance

The FDIC insures the deposits of federally insured banks up to prescribed statutory limits for each depositor, through the Deposit Insurance Fund ("DIF") and safeguards the safety and soundness of the banking and thrift industries. The amount of FDIC assessments paid by each insured depository institution is based on its relative risk of default as measured by regulatory capital ratios and other supervisory factors.

The FDIC’s deposit insurance premium assessment is based on an institution’s average consolidated total assets minus average tangible equity.

We are generally unable to control the amount of premiums that we are required to pay for FDIC insurance. At least semi-annually, the FDIC will update its loss and income projections for the DIF and, if needed, will increase or decrease assessment rates, following notice-and-comment rulemaking, if required. If there are additional bank or financial institution failures or if the FDIC otherwise determines to increase assessment rates, TBK Bank may be required to pay higher FDIC insurance premiums. Any future increases in FDIC insurance premiums may have a material and adverse effect on our earnings.

Consumer Financial Protection Bureau 

The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau ("CFPB") is granted broad rulemaking, supervisory and enforcement powers under various federal consumer financial protection laws, including the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, Truth in Lending Act, Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act, Fair Credit Reporting Act, Fair Debt Collection Act, the Consumer Financial Privacy provisions of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act and certain other statutes. The CFPB has examination and primary enforcement authority with respect to depository institutions with $10 billion or more in assets. Depository institutions with less than $10 billion in assets, such as our subsidiary depository institution, are subject to rules promulgated by the CFPB, which may increase their compliance risk and the costs associated with their compliance efforts, but the banks will continue to be examined and supervised by federal banking regulators for consumer compliance purposes. The CFPB has authority to prevent unfair, deceptive or abusive practices in connection with the offering of consumer financial products.

The Dodd-Frank Act authorizes the CFPB to establish certain minimum standards for the origination of residential mortgages, including a determination of the borrower’s ability to repay. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act allows borrowers to raise certain defenses to foreclosure if they receive any loan other than a "qualified mortgage" as defined by the CFPB.

The CFPB has issued a number of regulations related to the origination of mortgages, foreclosure, and overdrafts as well as many other consumer issues. Additionally, the CFPB has proposed, or will be proposing, additional regulations on issues that directly relate to our business. Although it is difficult to predict at this time the extent to which the CFPB’s final rules impact the operations and financial condition of our subsidiary bank, such rules may have a material impact on the bank’s compliance costs, compliance risk and fee income. These additional compliance costs and associated compliance risks were one of the factors in our decision to exit the residential mortgage production business in the fourth quarter of 2015.

Privacy

Under the Right to Financial Privacy Act, which imposes a duty to maintain confidentiality of consumer financial records and prescribes procedures for complying with administrative subpoenas of financial records, financial institutions are required to disclose their policies for collecting and protecting confidential information. Customers generally may prevent financial institutions from sharing personal financial information with nonaffiliated third parties except for third parties that market the institutions’ own products and services. Additionally, financial institutions generally may not disclose consumer account numbers to any nonaffiliated third party for use in telemarketing, direct mail marketing or other marketing through electronic mail to consumers.

The Patriot Act, International Money Laundering Abatement and Financial Anti-Terrorism Act and Bank Secrecy Act

A major focus of governmental policy on financial institutions has been aimed at combating money laundering and terrorist financing. The Patriot Act and the International Money Laundering and Financial Anti-Terrorism Act of 2001 substantially broadened the scope of U.S. anti-money laundering laws and penalties, specifically related to the Bank Secrecy Act and expanded the extra-territorial jurisdiction of the United States. The U.S. Treasury has issued a number of implementing regulations which apply various requirements of the Patriot Act to financial institutions such as TBK Bank. These regulations impose obligations on financial institutions to maintain appropriate policies, procedures and controls to detect, prevent and report money laundering and terrorist financing and to verify the identity of their customers.

Failure of a financial institution and its holding company to maintain and implement adequate programs to combat money laundering and terrorist financing, or to comply with relevant laws and regulations, could have serious legal, reputational and financial consequences for the institution. Because of the significance of regulatory emphasis on these requirements, TBK Bank will continue to expend significant staffing, technology and financial resources to maintain programs designed to ensure compliance with applicable laws and regulations and an effective audit function for testing of the bank’s compliance with the Bank Secrecy Act on an ongoing basis.

Community Reinvestment Act

The CRA requires that, in connection with examinations of financial institutions within its jurisdiction, the FDIC and the state banking regulators, as applicable, evaluate the record of each financial institution in meeting the credit needs of its local community, including low and moderate-income neighborhoods. These facts are also considered in evaluating mergers, acquisitions and applications to open a branch or facility. Failure to adequately meet these criteria could impose additional requirements and limitations on us. Additionally, we must publicly disclose the terms of various CRA-related agreements.

Qualified Thrift Lender 

As a Texas state savings bank, TBK Bank is required to meet a Qualified Thrift Lender ("QTL") test to avoid certain restrictions on its activities. TBK Bank is currently, and expects to remain, in compliance with QTL standards. 

Other Regulations

Interest and other charges that our subsidiary bank collects or contracts for are subject to state usury laws and federal laws concerning interest rates. 

Our bank’s loan operations are also subject to federal laws applicable to credit transactions, such as:

-  the federal Truth-In-Lending Act, governing disclosures of credit terms to consumer borrowers; 

-  the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act, requiring financial institutions to provide information to enable the public and public officials to determine whether a financial institution is fulfilling its obligation to help meet the housing needs of the community it serves; 

-  the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, prohibiting discrimination on the basis of race, creed or other prohibited factors in extending credit; 

-  the Fair Credit Reporting Act, governing the use and provision of information to credit reporting agencies; 

-  the Fair Debt Collection Act, governing the manner in which consumer debts may be collected by collection agencies; and 

-  the rules and regulations of the various governmental agencies charged with the responsibility of implementing these federal laws. 

In addition, our subsidiary bank’s deposit operations are subject to the Electronic Funds Transfer Act and Regulation E issued by the Federal Reserve to implement that act, which govern automatic deposits to and withdrawals from deposit accounts and customers’ rights and liabilities arising from the use of automated teller machines and other electronic banking services.

Concentrated Commercial Real Estate Lending Regulations

The Federal Reserve and other federal banking regulatory agencies promulgated guidance governing financial institutions with concentrations in commercial real estate lending. The guidance provides that a bank has a concentration in commercial real estate lending if (i) total reported loans for construction, land development and other land represent 100% or more of total capital or (ii) total reported loans secured by multifamily and non-farm residential properties and loans for construction, land development and other land represent 300% or more of total capital and the bank’s commercial real estate loan portfolio has increased 50% or more during the prior 36 months. If a concentration is present, management must employ heightened risk management practices including board and management oversight and strategic planning, development of underwriting standards, risk assessment and monitoring through market analysis and stress testing and increasing capital requirements.

All of the above laws and regulations add significantly to the cost of operating the Company and our subsidiary depository institution and thus have a negative impact on profitability. We would also note that there has been a tremendous expansion experienced in recent years by certain financial service providers that are not subject to the same rules and regulations as the Company and our subsidiary depository institution. These institutions, because they are not so highly regulated, have a competitive advantage over us and our subsidiary depository institution and may continue to draw large amounts of funds away from banking institutions, with a continuing adverse effect on the banking industry in general.

Effect of Governmental Monetary Policies

The commercial banking business is affected not only by general economic conditions but also by both U.S. fiscal policy and the monetary policies of the Federal Reserve. Some of the instruments of fiscal and monetary policy available to the Federal Reserve include changes in the discount rate on member bank borrowings, the fluctuating availability of borrowings at the "discount window," open market operations, the imposition of and changes in reserve requirements against member banks’ deposits and assets of foreign branches, the imposition of and changes in reserve requirements against certain borrowings by banks and their affiliates and the placing of limits on interest rates that member banks may pay on time and savings deposits. Such policies influence to a significant extent the overall growth of bank loans, investments and deposits and the interest rates charged on loans or paid on time and savings deposits. We cannot predict the nature of future fiscal and monetary policies and the effect of such policies on the future business and our earnings.

Employees 

As of December 31, 2015, we had 500.5 full-time equivalent employees. None of our employees are represented by any collective bargaining unit or is a party to a collective bargaining agreement.

Available Information

The Company’s internet address is www.triumphbancorp.com . The Company makes available at this address, free of charge, its annual report on Form 10-K, its annual reports to shareholders, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act") as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"). These documents are also available on the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov . 

