 Item 1. BU SINESS. General 

PrimeEnergy Corporation (the &#147;Company&#148;) was organized in March, 1973, under the laws of the State of Delaware. 

We are an independent oil and natural gas company engaged in acquiring, developing and producing oil and natural gas. We presently own producing and non-producing properties located primarily in Texas, Oklahoma, West Virginia, New Mexico, Colorado and Louisiana. All of our oil and gas properties and interests are located in the United States. Through our subsidiaries Prime Operating Company, Southwest Oilfield Construction Company, Eastern Oil Well Service Company and EOWS Midland Company, we act as operator and provide well servicing support operations for many of the onshore oil and gas wells in which we have an interest, as well as for third parties. We have owned and operated properties in the Gulf of Mexico through our subsidiary Prime Offshore L.L.C. We are also active in the acquisition of producing oil and gas properties through joint ventures with industry partners. Our subsidiary, PrimeEnergy Management Corporation (&#147;PEMC&#148;), acts as the managing general partner of eighteen oil and gas limited partnerships (the &#147;Partnerships&#148;), and acts as the managing trustee of two asset and income business trusts (&#147;the Trusts&#148;). 

Exploration, Development and Recent Activities 

The Company&#146;s activities include development and exploratory drilling. Our strategy is to develop a balanced portfolio of drilling prospects that includes lower risk wells with a high probability of success and higher risk wells with greater economic potential. Based upon the results of horizontal wells drilled by us and other offsetting operators and historical vertical well performance, we have decided to reduce the number of vertical wells in our drilling program and drill more horizontal wells. We believe horizontal development of our resource base will provide the opportunity to improve returns relative to vertical drilling by accessing a larger base of reserves in target zones with a lateral wellbore. 

Maintaining a strong balance sheet and ample liquidity are key components of our business strategy. For 2016, we will continue our focus on preserving financial flexibility and ample liquidity as we manage the risks facing our industry. Our 2016 capital budget is reflective of decreased commodity prices and has been established based on an expectation of available cash flows, with any cash flow deficiencies expected to be funded by borrowings under our revolving credit facility. As we have done historically to preserve or enhance liquidity we may adjust our capital program throughout the year, divest non-strategic assets, or enter into strategic joint ventures. We are actively in discussions with financial partners for funding to develop our asset base and, if required, pay down our revolving credit facility should our borrowing base become limited due to the deterioration of commodity prices. 

Due to the uncertainty of financing availability we have removed all but one PUD location from our yearend reserve report in accordance with the SEC rules governing the scheduling of the drilling of PUD reserves within 5 years. We expect to continue development of those reserves when our borrowing base is redetermined and, if required, we have secured additional sources of financing. The one PUD included in our report was drilled in the first quarter of 2016 as part of our joint venture with Apache Corporation in Upton County, Texas. 

We began our West Texas, Upton County horizontal drilling program during 2015 and through the first quarter of 2016 we have drilled 4 wells in this phase. Discussions with our joint venture partner in that program, Apache Corporation, indicate that including additional phases of development, the program will result in approximately 60 horizontal wells being drilled at a cost of approximately $470 million. We own various interests, ranging from 16% up to 50% interest in the lands to be developed in the program, and expect our share of these capital expenditures to be approximately $120 million. The actual number of wells to be drilled and the timing of the drilling may vary based on commodity market conditions. Currently the Company and Apache have agreed until oil and gas prices recover to limit drilling to those wells required to maintain our acreage position. Apache drilling plans indicated two of these wells will be drilled later this year at a cost of $12 million, of which our share is $6 million. These two wells meet the definition of proved undeveloped reserves however they were not included in our yearend reserve report because we have not confirmed our financing for those wells at this time. 

During the first quarter of 2016 we commenced our Martin County, Texas horizontal drilling program, two wells have been drilled and cased, at a cost of $8.3 million of which our share is $8.1 million, and they are currently awaiting completion. These wells did not meet the definition of proved undeveloped reserves and therefore are not included as PUDs in our yearend reserve report. We maintain an acreage position of over 26,000 gross (16,500 net) acres in the Permian Basin in West Texas, primarily in Reagan, Upton, Martin and Midland counties. We believe this acreage has significant resource potential in the Spraberry and Wolfcamp intervals for drilling opportunities. Our Oklahoma horizontal development is primarily in Grant and Canadian counties where we have approximately 6,450 net acres which we believe have significant resource potential based on our drilling results and those of offset operators. 

&#160;

During the first quarter of 2016 we have farmed out certain non-core acreage in exchange for cash and a royalty or working interest in both West Texas and Oklahoma. Proceeds received under these agreements are $3.7 million with an additional $1.0 million expected in the next 45 days. 

Significant 2015 Activity 

As of December 31, 2015, we had net capitalized costs related to proved oil and gas properties of $191 million. Total expenditures for the acquisition, exploration and development of our properties during 2015 were $15 million. Proved reserves as of December 31, 2015, were 10.2 thousand barrels of oil equivalent (&#147;MBoe&#148;) which consisted of 99% proved developed reserves. 

During 2015, we participated in drilling a total of 8 gross (3.6 net) wells; all of these wells are currently producing. This included 6 wells in our West Texas drilling program and 2 wells in our Mid-Continent region. 

We believe that our diversified portfolio approach to our drilling activities results in more consistent and predictable economic results than might be experienced with a less diversified or higher risk drilling program profile. 

We attempt to assume the position of operator in all acquisitions of producing properties. We will continue to evaluate prospects for leasehold acquisitions and for exploration and development operations in areas in which we own interests and are actively pursuing the acquisition of producing properties. In order to diversify and broaden our asset base, we will consider acquiring the assets or stock in other entities and companies in the oil and gas business. Our main objective in making any such acquisitions will be to acquire income producing assets so as to increase our net worth and increase our oil and gas reserve base. 

We presently own producing and non-producing properties located primarily in Texas, Oklahoma, West Virginia, New Mexico, Colorado and Louisiana, and we own a substantial amount of well servicing equipment. 

We do not own any refinery or marketing facilities, and do not currently own or lease any bulk storage facilities or pipelines other than adjacent to and used in connection with producing wells and the interests in certain gas gathering systems. All of our oil and gas properties and interests are located in the United States. 

In the past, the supply of gas has exceeded demand on a cyclical basis, and we are subject to a combination of shut-in and/or reduced takes of gas production during summer months. Prolonged shut-ins could result in reduced field operating income from properties in which we act as operator. 

Exploration for oil and gas requires substantial expenditures particularly in exploratory drilling in undeveloped areas, or &#147;wildcat drilling.&#148; As is customary in the oil and gas industry, substantially all of our exploration and development activities are conducted through joint drilling and operating agreements with others engaged in the oil and gas business. 

Summaries of our oil and gas drilling activities, oil and gas production, and undeveloped leasehold, mineral and royalty interests are set forth under Item 2., &#147;Properties,&#148; below. Summaries of our oil and gas reserves, future net revenue and present value of future net revenue are also set forth under Item 2., &#147;Properties&#151;Reserves&#148;, below. 

Well Operations 

Our operations are conducted through our principal offices in Houston, Texas, and district offices in Houston and Midland, Texas, Oklahoma City, Oklahoma, and Charleston, West Virginia. We currently operate 1,387 wells, 314 through the Houston office, 356 through the Midland office, 248 through the Oklahoma City office and 469 through the Charleston, West Virginia office. Substantially all of the wells we operate are wells in which we have an interest. 

We operate wells pursuant to operating agreements which govern the relationship between us, as operator, and the other owners of working interests in the properties, including the Partnerships, Trusts and joint venture participants. For each operated well, we receive monthly fees that are competitive in the areas of operations and we also are reimbursed for expenses incurred in connection with well operations. 

The Partnerships, Trusts and Joint Ventures 

Since 1975, PEMC has acted as managing general partner of various partnerships, trusts and joint ventures. 

&#160;

PEMC, as managing general partner of the Partnerships and managing trustee of the Trusts, is responsible for all Partnership and Trust activities, the drilling of development wells and the production and sale of oil and gas from productive wells. PEMC also provides administration, accounting and tax preparation for the Partnerships and Trusts from our offices in Stamford, Connecticut. PEMC is liable for all debts and liabilities of the Partnerships and Trusts, to the extent that the assets of a given limited partnership or trust are not sufficient to satisfy its obligations. We stopped sponsoring partnerships and trusts in 1992. Today there are only 18 partnerships and 2 trusts remaining. The aggregate number of limited partners in the Partnerships and beneficial owners of the Trusts now administered by PEMC is approximately 1600. 

Regulation 

Regulation of Oil and Natural Gas Exploration and Production: 

Exploration and production operations of oil and natural gas are subject to various types of regulations under a wide range of local, state and federal statutes, rules, orders and regulations. These regulations include requiring permits to drill wells, maintaining bonding requirements to drill or operate wells, and govern the location of wells, the method of drilling and casing wells, the surface use and restoration of properties on which wells are drilled, and the plugging and abandoning of wells. Our operations are also subject to various conservation laws and regulations. These include the regulation of the size of drilling and spacing units or proration units, the density of wells that may be drilled in a given field and the unitization or pooling of oil and natural gas properties. Some states allow the forced pooling or integration of tracts to facilitate exploration while other states rely on voluntary pooling of lands and leases. In addition, state conservation laws establish maximum rates of production from oil and natural gas wells, generally prohibiting the venting or flaring of natural gas and imposing certain requirements regarding the ratability of production. The effect of these regulations is to limit the amounts of oil and natural gas we can produce from our wells, and to limit the number of wells or the locations where we can drill. Moreover, each state generally imposes a production or severance tax with respect to the production and sale of oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids within its jurisdiction. Because these statutes, rules and regulations undergo constant review and often are amended, expanded and reinterpreted, we are unable to predict the future cost or impact of regulatory compliance. The failure to comply with these rules and regulations can result in substantial penalties. The regulatory burden on the oil and natural gas industry increases the cost of doing business and, consequently, affects profitability. Our competitors in the oil and natural gas industry are subject to the same regulatory requirements and restrictions affecting operations. 

Regulation of Transportation and Sale of Natural Gas: 

Historically, the transportation and sale for resale of natural gas in interstate commerce have been regulated pursuant to the Natural Gas Act of 1938, as amended (&#147;NGA&#148;), the Natural Gas Policy Act of 1978, as amended (&#147;NGPA&#148;), and regulations promulgated thereunder by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (&#147;FERC&#148;) and its predecessors. In the past, the federal government has regulated the prices at which natural gas could be sold. While sales by producers of natural gas can currently be made at uncontrolled market prices, Congress could reenact price controls in the future. Deregulation of wellhead natural gas sales began with the enactment of the NGPA. In 1989, Congress enacted the Natural Gas Wellhead Decontrol Act, as amended (the &#147;Decontrol Act&#148;). Effective January 1, 1993, the Decontrol Act removed all NGA and NGPA price and non-price controls affecting wellhead sales of natural gas and deregulated natural gas prices for all &#147;first sales&#148; of natural gas, which definition covers all sales of our own production. In addition, as part of the broad industry restructuring initiatives described below, the FERC has granted to all producers such as us a &#147;blanket certificate of public convenience and necessity&#148; authorizing the sale of gas for resale without further FERC approvals. As a result, all of our produced natural gas may now be sold at market prices, subject to the terms of any private contracts that may be in effect. In addition, under the provisions of the Energy Policy Act of 2005, as amended (the &#147;2005 Act&#148;), the NGA has been amended to prohibit any forms of market manipulation in connection with the purchase or sale of natural gas. Pursuant to the 2005 Act, the FERC established new regulations that are intended to increase natural gas pricing transparency through, among other things, requiring market participants to report their gas sales transactions annually to the FERC, and new regulations that require certain non-interstate pipelines to post daily scheduled volume information and design capacity for certain points on their systems. The 2005 Act also significantly increased the penalties for violations of the NGA and the FERC&#146;s regulations. In 2010, the FERC issued Penalty Guidelines for the determination of civil penalties in an effort to add greater fairness, consistency and transparency to its enforcement program. 

Our natural gas sales prices continue to be affected by intrastate and interstate gas transportation regulation, because the prices we receive for our production are affected by the cost of transporting the gas to the consuming market. Through a series of comprehensive rulemakings, beginning with Order No. 436 in 1985 and continuing through Order No. 636 in 1992 and Order No. 637 in 2000, the FERC has adopted regulatory changes that have significantly altered the transportation and marketing of natural gas. These changes were intended by the FERC to foster competition by, among other things, transforming the role of interstate pipeline companies from wholesale marketers of gas to the primary role of gas transporters, and by increasing the transparency of pricing for pipeline services. The FERC has also established regulations governing the relationship of pipelines with their marketing affiliates, which essentially require that designated employees function independently of each other, and that certain information not be shared. The FERC has also implemented standards relating to the use of electronic data exchange by the pipelines to make transportation information available on a timely basis and to enable transactions to occur on a purely electronic basis. 

&#160;

In light of these statutory and regulatory changes, most pipelines have divested their gas sales functions to marketing affiliates, which operate separately from the transporter and in direct competition with all other merchants, and most pipelines have also implemented the large-scale divestiture of their gas gathering facilities to affiliated or non-affiliated companies. Interstate pipelines thus now generally provide unbundled, open and nondiscriminatory transportation and transportation-related services to producers, gas marketing companies, local distribution companies, industrial end users and other customers seeking such services. Sellers and buyers of gas have gained direct access to the particular pipeline services they need, and are better able to conduct business with a larger number of counterparties. We believe these changes generally have improved our access to markets while, at the same time, substantially increasing competition in the natural gas marketplace. We cannot predict what new or different regulations the FERC and other regulatory agencies may adopt, or what effect subsequent regulations may have on our activities. Similarly, we cannot predict what proposals, if any, that affect the oil and natural gas industry might actually be enacted by Congress or the various state legislatures and what effect, if any, such proposals might have on us. Further, we cannot predict whether the recent trend toward federal deregulation of the natural gas industry will continue or what effect future policies will have on our sale of gas. 

In December 2007, the FERC issued rules (Order No. 704) requiring that any market participant that engages in wholesale sales or purchases of natural gas that equal or exceed 2.2 million British thermal units (&#147;MMBtu&#148;) during a calendar year must annually report, starting May 1, 2009, such sales and purchases to the FERC. These rules are intended to increase transparency of the wholesale natural gas markets and assist the FERC in monitoring such markets and in detecting market manipulation. 

Additional proposals and proceedings that might affect the natural gas industry are pending before FERC and the courts. The natural gas industry historically has been very heavily regulated; therefore, there is no assurance that the less stringent regulatory approach recently pursued by FERC will continue. However, we do not believe that any action taken will affect us in a way that materially differs from the way it affects other natural gas producers, gatherers and marketers. 

Intrastate natural gas transportation is subject to regulation by state regulatory agencies. The basis for intrastate regulation of natural gas transportation and the degree of regulatory oversight and scrutiny given to intrastate natural gas pipeline rates and services varies from state to state. Insofar as such regulation within a particular state will generally affect all intrastate natural gas shippers within the state on a comparable basis, we believe the regulation of similarly situated intrastate natural gas transportation in any states in which we operate and ship natural gas on an intrastate basis will not affect our operations in any way that is materially different from the effect of such regulation on competitors. 

Regulation of Transportation and Sale of Oil: 

Our sales of crude oil, condensate and natural gas liquids are not currently regulated and are made at negotiated prices. The price received from the sale of these products is affected by the cost of transporting the products to market. Much of that transportation is through interstate common carrier pipelines, which are regulated by FERC under the Interstate Commerce Act (&#147;ICA&#148;). FERC requires that pipelines regulated under the ICA file tariffs setting forth the rates and terms and conditions of service, and that such service not be unduly discriminatory or preferential. 

Effective January 1, 1995, the FERC implemented regulations generally grandfathering all previously approved interstate transportation rates and establishing an indexing system for those rates by which adjustments are made annually based on the rate of inflation, subject to certain conditions and limitations. These regulations may tend to increase the cost of transporting oil and natural gas liquids by interstate pipeline, although the annual adjustments may result in decreased rates in a given year. Every five years, the FERC must examine the relationship between the annual change in the applicable index and the actual cost changes experienced in the oil pipeline industry In December 2015, to implement this required five-year re-determination, the FERC established an upward adjustment in the index to track oil pipeline cost changes and determined that the Producer Price Index for Finished Goods plus 1.23% should be the oil pricing index for the five-year period beginning July 1, 2016. The result of indexing is a &#147;ceiling rate&#148; for each rate, which is the maximum at which the pipeline may set its interstate transportation rates. A pipeline may also file cost-of-service based rates if rate indexing will be insufficient to allow the pipeline to recover its costs. Rates are subject to challenge by protest when they are filed or changed. For indexed rates, complaints alleging that the rates are unjust and unreasonable may only be pursued if the complainant can show that a substantial change has occurred since the enactment of the Energy Policy Act of 1992 in either the economic circumstances of the pipeline or in the nature of the services provided, that were a basis for the rate. There is no such limitation on complaints alleging that the pipeline&#146;s rates or term and conditions of service are unduly discriminatory or preferential. 

Another FERC matter that may impact our transportation costs relates to a policy that allows a pipeline structured as a master limited partnership or similar non-corporate entity to include in its rates a tax allowance with respect to income for which there is an &#147;actual or potential income tax liability,&#148; to be determined on a case by case basis. Generally speaking, where the holder of a 

&#160;

partnership unit interest is required to file a tax return that includes partnership income or loss, such unit-holder is presumed to have an actual or potential income tax liability sufficient to support a tax allowance on that partnership income. We currently do not transport any of our oil or natural gas liquids on a pipeline structured as a master limited partnership. 

Intrastate oil pipeline transportation rates are subject to regulation by state regulatory commissions. The basis for intrastate oil pipeline regulation, and the degree of regulatory oversight and scrutiny given to intrastate oil pipeline rates, varies from state to state. Insofar as effective interstate and intrastate rates are equally applicable to all comparable shippers, we believe the regulation of oil transportation rates will not affect our operations in any way that is materially different from the effect of such regulation on competitors. 

Further, interstate and intrastate common carrier oil pipelines must provide service on a non-discriminatory basis. Under this open access standard, common carriers must offer service to all shippers requesting service on the same terms and under the same rates. When oil pipelines operate at full capacity, access is governed by prorationing provisions set forth in the pipelines&#146; published tariffs. Accordingly, we believe access to oil pipeline transportation services generally will be available to us to the same extent as to competitors. 

In November 2009, the Federal Trade Commission (the &#147;FTC&#148;) issued regulations pursuant to the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007 intended to prohibit market manipulation in the petroleum industry. Violators of the regulations face civil penalties of up to $1.0 million per violation per day. In July 2010, the U.S. Congress passed the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, which incorporated an expansion of the authority of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (the &#147;CFTC&#148;) to prohibit market manipulation in the markets regulated by the CFTC. This authority, with respect to oil swaps and futures contracts, is similar to the anti-manipulation authority granted to the FERC with respect to anti-manipulation in the gas industry and the FTC with respect to oil purchases and sales, as described above. In July 2011, the CFTC issued final rules to implement their new anti-manipulation authority. The rules subject violators to a civil penalty of up to the greater of $1.0 million or triple the monetary gain to the person for each violation. 

Transportation of Hazardous Materials: 

The federal Department of Transportation has adopted regulations requiring that certain entities transporting designated hazardous materials develop plans to address security risks related to the transportation of hazardous materials. The Company does not believe that these requirements will have an adverse effect on the Company or its operations. The Company cannot provide any assurance that the security plans required under these regulations would protect against all security risks and prevent an attack or other incident related to the Company&#146;s transportation of hazardous materials. 

Environmental Regulations: 

General. Our operations are subject to extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the generation, storage, handling, emission, transportation and discharge of materials into the environment. Various federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the protection of the environment, such as the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, as amended (&#147;CERCLA&#148;), the Federal Oil Pollution Act of 1990, as amended (&#147;OPA&#148;), the Federal Water Pollution Control Act of 1972, as amended (the &#147;Clean Water Act&#148;), the Safe Drinking Water Act of 1974, as amended (the &#147;Safe Drinking Water Act&#148;), and the Federal Clean Air Act, as amended (the &#147;Clean Air Act&#148;) affect our operations and costs. In particular, exploration, development and production operations, activities in connection with storage and transportation of oil and other hydrocarbons and use of facilities for treating, processing or otherwise handling hydrocarbons and related wastes may be subject to regulation under these and similar state legislation. These laws and regulations: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; restrict the types, quantities and concentration of various substances that can be released into the environment in connection with drilling and production activities; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; limit or prohibit drilling activities on certain lands lying within wilderness, wetlands and other protected areas; and &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; impose substantial liabilities for pollution resulting from operations. Permits are required for the operation of our various facilities. These permits can be revoked, modified or renewed by issuing authorities. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the assessment of administrative, civil and criminal fines and penalties or the imposition of injunctive relief. Changes in environmental laws and regulations occur regularly, and any changes that result in more stringent and costly waste handling, storage, transport, disposal or cleanup requirements could materially adversely affect our operations and financial position, as well as those in the oil and natural gas industry in general. Although we believe that compliance with environmental regulations will not have a material adverse effect on us, risks of substantial costs and liabilities related to environmental compliance issues are part of oil and gas production operations. No assurance can be given that significant costs and liabilities will not be incurred. Also, it is possible that other developments, such as stricter environmental laws and regulations, and claims for damages to property or persons resulting from oil and gas production could result in substantial costs and liabilities to us. 

&#160;

The transition zone and shallow-water areas of the U.S. Gulf Coast are ecologically sensitive. Environmental issues have led to higher drilling costs and a more difficult and lengthy well permitting process. U.S. laws and regulations applicable to our operations include those controlling the discharge of materials into the environment, requiring removal and cleanup of materials that may harm the environment, requiring consistency with applicable coastal zone management plans, or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment. 

As with the industry generally, compliance with existing regulations increases the overall cost of business. The areas affected include: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; unit production expenses primarily related to the control and limitation of air emissions and the disposal of produced water; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; capital costs to drill exploration and development wells primarily related to the management and disposal of drilling fluids and other oil and natural gas exploration wastes; and &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; capital costs to construct, maintain and upgrade equipment and facilities. Superfund. The CERCLA, also known as the &#147;Superfund&#148; law, and comparable state laws and regulations imposes liability, without regard to fault or the legality of the original conduct, on certain parties with respect to the release of hazardous substances into the environment. These parties include the current and past owners and operators of a site where the release occurred and any party that treated or disposed of or arranged for the treatment or disposal of hazardous substances found at a site. Under CERCLA, such parties may be subject to joint and several strict liability for the costs of cleaning up the hazardous substances that have been released into the environment, for damages to natural resources and for the costs of certain health studies. CERCLA also authorizes the Environmental Protection Agency (&#147;EPA&#148;), and in some cases, private parties, to undertake actions to clean up such hazardous substances, or to recover the costs of such actions from the responsible parties. In addition, it is not uncommon for neighboring landowners and other third parties to file claims for personal injury and property damage allegedly caused by the hazardous substance released into the environment. In the course of ordinary operations, we have used materials and generated wastes and will continue to use materials and generate wastes that may fall within CERCLA&#146;s definition of hazardous substances. We may also be an owner or operator of sites on which hazardous substances have been released. As a result, we may be responsible under CERCLA for all or part of the costs to clean up sites where such substances have been released. 

We currently own or lease properties that for many years have been used for the exploration and production of oil and natural gas. Although we and our predecessors have used operating and disposal practices that were standard in the industry at the time, hydrocarbons or other wastes may have been disposed or released on, under or from the properties currently owned or leased by us or on, under or from other locations where these wastes have been taken for disposal. In addition, many of these properties have been operated by third parties whose actions with respect to the treatment and disposal or release of hydrocarbons or other wastes were not under our control. State and federal laws applicable to oil and gas wastes and properties have become stricter over time. Under these increasingly stringent requirements, these properties and wastes disposed on these properties may be subject to CERCLA and analogous state laws. Under these laws, we could be required: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; to remove or remediate previously disposed wastes, including wastes disposed or released by prior owners or operators; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; to clean up contaminated property, including contaminated groundwater; or &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; to perform remedial operations to prevent future contamination. At this time, we do not believe that we are associated with any Superfund site and have not been notified of any claim, liability or damages under CERCLA. 

Oil Pollution Act of 1990. The OPA and regulations thereunder impose liability on responsible parties for damages resulting from oil spills into or upon navigable waters, and adjoining shorelines or in the exclusive economic zone of the United States. Liability under OPA is strict, and under certain circumstances joint and several, and potentially unlimited. A &#147;responsible party&#148; includes the owner or operator of an onshore facility and the lessee or permittee of the area in which an offshore facility is located. A failure to comply with OPA&#146;s requirements or inadequate cooperation during a spill response action may subject a responsible party to civil or criminal enforcement actions. We are not aware of any action or event that would subject us to liability under OPA and believe that compliance with OPA&#146;s operating requirements will not have a material adverse effect on our operations. 

&#160;

U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency regulations address the disposal of oil and natural gas operational wastes under three federal acts more fully discussed in the paragraphs that follow. The Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976, as amended (&#147;RCRA&#148;), provides a framework for the safe disposal of discarded materials and the management of solid and hazardous wastes. The direct disposal of operational wastes into offshore waters is also limited under the authority of the Clean Water Act. When injected underground, oil and natural gas wastes are regulated by the Underground Injection Control program under the Safe Drinking Water Act. If wastes are classified as hazardous, they must be properly transported, using a uniform hazardous waste manifest, documented, and disposed at an approved hazardous waste facility. 

Resource Conservation and Recovery Act. The RCRA is the principal federal statute governing the treatment, storage and disposal of hazardous wastes. RCRA imposes stringent operating requirements and liability for failure to meet such requirements on a person who is either a &#147;generator&#148; or &#147;transporter&#148; of hazardous waste or an &#147;owner&#148; or &#147;operator&#148; of a hazardous waste treatment, storage or disposal facility. At present, RCRA includes a statutory exemption that allows most oil and natural gas exploration and production waste to be classified as nonhazardous waste. A similar exemption is contained in many of the state counterparts to RCRA. As a result, we are not required to comply with a substantial portion of RCRA&#146;s requirements because the operations generate minimal quantities of hazardous wastes. At various times in the past, proposals have been made to amend RCRA to rescind the exemption that excludes oil and natural gas exploration and production wastes from regulation as hazardous waste. Repeal or modification of the exemption by administrative, legislative or judicial process, or modification of similar exemptions in applicable state statutes, would increase the volume of hazardous waste we are required to manage and dispose of and would cause us to incur increased operating expenses. 

Clean Water Act. The Clean Water Act and resulting regulations imposes restrictions and controls on the discharge of produced waters and other wastes into navigable waters. Permits must be obtained to discharge pollutants into state and federal waters and to conduct construction activities in waters and wetlands. Certain state regulations and the general permits issued under the Federal National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System program prohibit the discharge of produced waters and sand, drilling fluids, drill cuttings and certain other substances related to the oil and natural gas industry into certain coastal and offshore waters. Further, the EPA has adopted regulations requiring certain oil and natural gas exploration and production facilities to obtain permits for storm water discharges. 

Costs may be associated with the treatment of wastewater or developing and implementing storm water pollution prevention plans. The Clean Water Act and comparable state statutes provide for civil, criminal and administrative penalties for unauthorized discharges for oil and other pollutants and impose liability on parties responsible for those discharges for the costs of cleaning up any environmental damage caused by the release and for natural resource damages resulting from the release. We believe that our operations comply in all material respects with the requirements of the Clean Water Act and state statutes enacted to control water pollution. 

Safe Drinking Water Act. Underground injection is the subsurface placement of fluid through a well, such as the reinjection of brine produced and separated from oil and natural gas production. The Safe Drinking Water Act establishes a regulatory framework for underground injection, with the main goal being the protection of usable aquifers. The primary objective of injection well operating requirements is to ensure the mechanical integrity of the injection apparatus and to prevent migration of fluids from the injection zone into underground sources of drinking water. Hazardous-waste injection well operations are strictly controlled, and certain wastes, absent an exemption, cannot be injected into underground injection control wells. In Louisiana and Texas, no underground injection may take place except as authorized by permit or rule. We currently own and operate various underground injection wells. Failure to abide by the permits could subject us to civil and/or criminal enforcement. We believe we are in compliance in all material respects with the requirements of applicable state and federal underground injection control programs and permits. 

Hydraulic Fracturing. Many of our exploration and production operations depend on the use of hydraulic fracturing to enhance production from oil and gas wells. This technology involves the injection of fluids, usually consisting mostly of water but typically including small amounts of several chemical additives, as well as sand into a well under high pressure in order to create fractures in the rock that allow oil or gas to flow more freely to the wellbore. Most of our wells would not be economical without the use of hydraulic fracturing to stimulate production from the well. Hydraulic fracturing operations have historically been overseen by state regulators as part of their oil and gas regulatory programs. However, bills have been introduced in Congress that would subject hydraulic fracturing to federal regulation under the Safe Drinking Water Act. If adopted, these bills could result in additional permitting requirements for hydraulic fracturing operations as well as various restrictions on those operations. These permitting requirements and restrictions could result in delays in operations at well sites as well as increased costs to make wells productive. Moreover, the bills introduced in Congress would require the public disclosure of certain information regarding the chemical makeup of hydraulic fracturing fluids, many of which are proprietary to the service companies that perform the hydraulic fracturing operations. Such disclosure could make it easier for third parties to initiate litigation against us in the event of perceived problems with drinking water wells in the vicinity of an oil or gas well or other alleged environmental problems. In addition to these federal legislative proposals, some states and local governments have adopted, and others are considering adopting, regulations that could restrict 

&#160;

hydraulic fracturing in certain circumstances, including but not limited to requirements regarding chemical disclosure, casing and cementing of wells, withdrawal of water for use in high-volume hydraulic fracturing of horizontal wells, baseline testing of nearby water wells, and restrictions on the type of additives that may be used in hydraulic fracturing operations. If these types of conditions are adopted, we could be subject to increased costs and possibly limits on the productivity of certain wells. 

Greenhouse Gas. In response to studies suggesting that emissions of carbon dioxide and certain other gases may be contributing to global climate change, the United States Congress has considered legislation to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases from sources within the United States between 2012 and 2050. In addition, many states have already taken legal measures to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases, primarily through the planned development of greenhouse gas emission inventories and/or regional greenhouse gas cap and trade programs. The EPA has also begun to regulate carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gas emissions under existing provisions of the Clean Air Act. This includes proposed regulation of methane emissions from the oil and gas sector. If we are unable to recover or pass through a significant portion of our costs related to complying with current and future regulations relating to climate change and GHGs, it could materially affect our operations and financial condition. To the extent financial markets view climate change and GHG emissions as a financial risk, this could negatively impact our cost of, and access to, capital. Future legislation or regulations adopted to address climate change could also make our products more or less desirable than competing sources of energy. 

Consideration of Environmental Issues in Connection with Governmental Approvals. Our operations frequently require licenses, permits and/or other governmental approvals. Several federal statutes, including OCSLA, the National Environmental Policy Act (&#147;NEPA&#148;), and the Coastal Zone Management Act (&#147;CZMA&#148;) require federal agencies to evaluate environmental issues in connection with granting such approvals and/or taking other major agency actions. OCSLA, for instance, requires the U.S. Department of Interior (&#147;DOI&#148;) to evaluate whether certain proposed activities would cause serious harm or damage to the marine, coastal or human environment. Similarly, NEPA requires DOI and other federal agencies to evaluate major agency actions having the potential to significantly impact the environment. In the course of such evaluations, an agency would have to prepare an environmental assessment and, potentially, an environmental impact statement. CZMA, on the other hand, aids states in developing a coastal management program to protect the coastal environment from growing demands associated with various uses, including offshore oil and natural gas development. In obtaining various approvals from the DOI, we must certify that we will conduct our activities in a manner consistent with an applicable program. 

Lead-Based Paints. Various pieces of equipment and structures we own may have been coated with lead-based paints as was customary in the industry at the time these pieces of equipment were fabricated and constructed. These paints may contain lead at a concentration high enough to be considered a regulated hazardous waste when removed. If we need to remove such paints in connection with maintenance or other activities and they qualify as a regulated hazardous waste, this would increase the cost of disposal. High lead levels in the paint might also require us to institute certain administrative and/or engineering controls required by the Occupational Safety and Health Act and BSEE to ensure worker safety during paint removal. 

Air Pollution Control. The Clean Air Act and state air pollution laws adopted to fulfill its mandates provide a framework for national, state and local efforts to protect air quality. Operations utilize equipment that emit air pollutants subject to federal and state air pollution control laws. These laws require utilization of air emissions abatement equipment to achieve prescribed emissions limitations and ambient air quality standards, as well as operating permits for existing equipment and construction permits for new and modified equipment. Air emissions associated with offshore activities are projected using a matrix and formula supplied by BSEE, which has primacy from the EPA for regulating such emissions. 

Naturally Occurring Radioactive Materials. Naturally Occurring Radioactive Materials (&#147;NORM&#148;) are materials not covered by the Atomic Energy Act, whose radioactivity is enhanced by technological processing such as mineral extraction or processing through exploration and production conducted by the oil and natural gas industry. NORM wastes are regulated under the RCRA framework, but primary responsibility for NORM regulation has been a state function. Standards have been developed for worker protection, treatment, storage and disposal of NORM waste, management of waste piles, containers and tanks, and limitations upon the release of NORM contaminated land for unrestricted use. We believe that our operations are in material compliance with all applicable NORM standards established by the states, as applicable. 

OSHA and Other Laws and Regulations. We are subject to the requirements of the federal Occupational Safety and Health Act (OSHA), and comparable state laws. The OSHA hazard communication standard, the EPA community right-to-know regulations under the Title III of CERCLA and similar state laws require that we organize and/or disclose information about hazardous materials used or produced in our operations. Also, pursuant to OSHA, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration has established a variety of standards related to workplace exposure to hazardous substances and employee health and safety. 

Taxation. Our oil and gas operations are affected by federal income tax laws applicable to the petroleum industry. For U.S. income tax reporting purposes, intangible drilling and development costs incurred or borne during the year are permitted to be deducted currently, rather than capitalized. As an independent producer, we are also entitled to a deduction for percentage depletion 

&#160;

with respect to the first 1,000 barrels per day of domestic crude oil (and/or equivalent units of domestic natural gas) produced, if such percentage depletion exceeds cost depletion. Generally, this deduction is computed based upon the lesser of 100% of the net income, or 15% of the gross income from a property, without reference to the basis in the property. The amount of the percentage depletion deduction so computed which may be deducted in any given year is limited to 65% of taxable income. Any percentage depletion deduction disallowed due to the 65% of taxable income test may be carried forward indefinitely. 

Substantive changes to existing federal income tax laws have been proposed that, if adopted, would repeal many tax incentives and deductions that are currently used by U.S. oil and gas companies and would impose new taxes. The proposals include: repeal of the percentage depletion allowance for oil and natural gas properties; elimination of the ability to fully deduct intangible drilling costs in the year incurred; repeal of the manufacturing tax deduction for oil and gas companies; and increase in the geological and geophysical amortization period for independent producers. Should some or all of these proposals become law, our taxes will increase, potentially significantly, which would have a negative impact on our net income and cash flows. This could also reduce our drilling activities in the U.S. Since none of these proposals have yet to become law, we do not know the ultimate impact these proposed changes may have on our business. 

See Notes 1 and 9 to the consolidated financial statements included in this Report for a discussion of accounting for income taxes. 

Competition and Markets 

The business of acquiring producing properties and non-producing leases suitable for exploration and development is highly competitive. Our competition, in our efforts to acquire both producing and non-producing properties, include oil and gas companies, independent concerns, income programs and individual producers and operators, many of which have financial resources, staffs and facilities substantially greater than those available to us. Furthermore, domestic producers of oil and gas must not only compete with each other in marketing their output, but must also compete with producers of imported oil and gas and alternative energy sources such as coal, nuclear power and hydroelectric power. Competition among petroleum companies for favorable oil and gas properties and leases can be expected to increase. 

The availability of a ready market for any oil and gas produced by us at acceptable prices per unit of production will depend upon numerous factors beyond our control, including the extent of domestic production and importation of oil and gas, the proximity of our producing properties to gas pipelines and the availability and capacity of such pipelines, the marketing of other competitive fuels, fluctuation in demand, governmental regulation of production, refining, transportation and sales, general national and worldwide economic conditions, and use and allocation of oil and gas and their substitute fuels. There is no assurance that we will be able to market all of the oil or gas produced by us or that favorable prices can be obtained for the oil and gas production. 

Major Customers 

Listed below are the percent of our total oil and gas sales made to each of our customers whose purchases represented more than 10% of our oil and gas sales in 2015. 

&#160;

Oil Purchasers:

&#160; Plains All American Inc.

&#160; &#160; 43.55 % Sunoco, Inc.

&#160; &#160; 24.92 % Primexx Corporation

&#160; &#160; 10.90 % Gas Purchasers:

&#160; Targa Pipeline Mid-Continent

&#160; &#160; 23.27 % Although there are no long-term purchasing agreements with these purchasers, we believe that they will continue to purchase our oil and gas products and, if not, could be readily replaced by other purchasers. 

Employees 

At March 1, 2016, we had 180 full-time and 2 part-time employees, 26 of whom were employed at our principal offices in Houston, Texas, at the offices of Prime Operating Company, Eastern Oil Well Service Company and EOWS Midland Company, 10 employees in Stamford, Connecticut, and 146 employees who were primarily involved in our district operations in Houston and Midland, Texas, Elmore City and Oklahoma City, Oklahoma and Charleston, West Virginia. 

&#160;

