 ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

General 

The Corporation was incorporated on January 2, 1985 under the laws of the State of New York and is headquartered in Elmira, NY. The Corporation was organized for the purpose of acquiring the Bank. The Bank was established in 1833 under the name Chemung Canal Bank, and was subsequently granted a New York State bank charter in 1895. In 1902, the Bank was reorganized as a New York State trust company under the name Elmira Trust Company, and its name was changed to Chemung Canal Trust Company in 1903. 

The Corporation became a financial holding company in June 2000. Financial holding company status provided the Corporation with the flexibility to offer an array of financial services, such as insurance products, mutual funds, and brokerage services, which provide additional sources of fee based income and allow the Corporation to better serve its customers. The Corporation established a financial services subsidiary, CFS, in September 2001 which offers non-banking financial services such as mutual funds, annuities, brokerage services, insurance and tax preparation services. 

The Corporation&#8217;s Board of Directors has concluded that the expansion of the franchise&#8217;s geographic footprint, an increase in the Bank&#8217;s earning assets and the generation of new sources of non-interest income are important components of its strategic plan. Towards that end, in recent years it has completed the following transactions: 

&#8226; 

On May 3, 2007, the Bank acquired the trust business of Partners Trust Bank, Utica, New York. At the time of the acquisition, the Bank acquired $351.0 million in trust assets. 

&#8226; 

On March 14, 2008, the Bank acquired three branches from Manufacturers and Traders Trust Company in the New York counties of Broome and Tioga. At the time of the acquisition, the Bank assumed $64.4 million in deposits and acquired $12.6 million in loans. 

&#8226; 

On May 29, 2009, the Corporation acquired Canton Bancorp, Inc., the holding company of Bank of Canton based in Canton, Pennsylvania. At the time of the merger, Canton Bancorp, Inc. had $81.1 million in assets, $58.8 million in loans and $72.9 million in deposits. 

&#8226; 

On April 8, 2011, the Corporation acquired FOFC, the holding company of Capital Bank &#38; Trust Company based in Albany, New York. At the time of the merger, Capital Bank had $254.4 million in assets, $170.7 million in loans and $199.2 million in deposits. 

&#8226; 

On November 23, 2013, the Bank completed the acquisition of six branch offices from Bank of America located in Cayuga, Cortland, Seneca and Tompkins counties in New York. As part of the transaction, the Corporation acquired $177.7 million in deposits and $1.2 million in loans. 

As a result of these transactions and organic growth, the Corporation had $1.620 billion &#32;in assets, $1.169 billion &#32;in loans, $1.400 billion &#32;in deposits and $137.2 million &#32;in shareholders&#8217; equity at December 31, 2015 . 

Growth Strategy 

The Corporation&#8217;s growth strategy is to leverage its expanding branch network in current or new markets to build client relationships and grow loans and deposits. Consistent with the Corporation&#8217;s community banking model, emphasis is placed on acquiring stable, low-cost deposits, primarily checking account deposits and other low interest-bearing deposits to fund high-quality loans. Expanding the branch network involves branch purchases or opening de novo branches in contiguous markets and acquiring other financial institutions in the Northeast. The Corporation evaluates acquisition targets based on the economic viability of the markets they are in, the degree to which they can be effectively integrated into the Corporation&#8217;s current operations and the degree to which they are accretive to capital and earnings. 

Description of Business 

The Corporation, through the Bank and CFS, provides a wide range of financial services, including demand, savings and time deposits, commercial, residential and consumer loans, interest rate swaps, letters of credit, wealth management services, employee benefit plans, insurance products, mutual funds and brokerage services. The Bank derives its income primarily from interest and fees on loans, interest on investment securities, WMG fee income and fees received in connection with deposit and other services. The Bank&#8217;s operating expenses are interest expense paid on deposits and borrowings, salaries and employee benefit plans and general operating expenses. 

In order to compete with other financial services companies, the Corporation relies upon personal relationships established with clients by its officers, employees and directors. The Corporation has maintained a strong community orientation by supporting the active participation of officers and employees in local charitable, civic, school, religious and community development activities. The Corporation believes that its emphasis on local relationship banking together with a prudent approach to lending, are important factors in its success and growth. 

Lending Activities 

Lending Strategy 

The Corporation&#8217;s objective is to channel deposits gathered locally into high-quality, market-yielding loans without taking unacceptable credit and/or interest rate risk. The Corporation seeks to have a diversified loan portfolio consisting of commercial and agricultural loans, commercial mortgages, residential mortgages, home equity lines of credit and home equity term loans, consumer and indirect auto loans. The Bank operates with a traditional community bank model where the relationship manager possesses credit skills and has significant influence over credit decisions. This creates value since clients and prospects know they are dealing with a decision maker. 

Lending Authority 

The Board of Directors establishes the lending policies, underwriting standards and loan approval limits of the Bank. In accordance with those policies, the Board of Directors has designated certain officers to consider and approve loans within their designated authority. These officers exercise substantial authority over credit and pricing decisions, subject to loan committee approval for larger credits. The Bank recognizes that exceptions to the lending policies may occasionally occur and has established procedures for approving exceptions to these policies. 

In underwriting loans, primary emphasis is placed on the borrower&#8217;s financial condition, including ability to generate cash flow to support the debt and other cash expenses. In addition, substantial consideration is given to collateral value and marketability as well as the borrower&#8217;s character, reputation and other relevant factors. Interest rates charged by the Bank vary with degree of risk, type, size, complexity, repricing frequency and other relevant factors associated with the loans. Competition from other financial services companies also impacts interest rates charged on loans. 

The Corporation has also implemented reporting systems to monitor loan originations, loan quality, concentration of credit, loan delinquencies, non-performing loans and potential problem loans. 

Lending Segments 

The Corporation segments its loan portfolio into the following major lending categories: (i) commercial and agricultural, (ii) commercial mortgages, (iii) residential mortgages and (iv) consumer loans. 

Commercial and agricultural loans primarily consist of loans to small to mid-sized businesses in the Corporation's market area in a diverse range of industries. These loans are of higher risk and typically are made on the basis of the borrower&#8217;s ability to make repayment from the cash flow of the borrower&#8217;s business. Further, the collateral securing the loans may depreciate over time, may be difficult to appraise and may fluctuate in value. The credit risk related to commercial loans is largely influenced by general economic conditions and the resulting impact on a borrower&#8217;s operations or on the value of underlying collateral, if any. 

Commercial mortgage loans generally have larger balances and involve a greater degree of risk than residential mortgage loans, and they, therefore, pose higher potential losses on an individual customer basis. Loan repayment is often dependent on the successful operation and management of the properties and/or the businesses occupying the properties, as well as on the collateral securing the loan. Economic events or conditions in the real estate market could have an adverse impact on the cash flows generated by properties securing the Corporation&#8217;s commercial real estate loans and on the value of such properties. 

The Corporation offers interest rate swaps to certain larger commercial mortgage borrowers. These swaps allow the Corporation to originate a mortgage based on short-term LIBOR rates and allow the borrower to swap into a longer term fixed rate. The Corporation simultaneously sells an offsetting back-to-back swap to an investment grade national bank so that it does not retain this fixed-rate risk. The swap agreements are free-standing derivatives and are recorded at fair value in the Corporation's consolidated balance sheets, which typically involves a day one gain. 

Residential mortgage loans are generally made on the basis of the borrower&#8217;s ability to make repayment from his or her employment and other income, but are secured by real property whose value tends to be more easily ascertainable. Credit risk for these types of loans is generally influenced by general economic conditions, the characteristics of individual borrowers and the nature of the loan collateral. 

The consumer loan segment includes home equity lines of credit and home equity loans, which exhibit many of the same risk characteristics as residential mortgages. Indirect and other consumer loans may entail greater credit risk than residential mortgage and home equity loans, particularly in the case of other consumer loans which are unsecured or, in the case of indirect consumer loans, secured by depreciable assets, such as automobiles, RV's or boats. In such cases, any repossessed collateral for a defaulted consumer loan may not provide an adequate source of repayment of the outstanding loan balance. In addition, consumer loan collections are dependent on the borrower&#8217;s continuing financial stability, thus are more likely to be affected by adverse personal circumstances such as job loss, illness or personal bankruptcy. Furthermore, the application of various federal and state laws, including bankruptcy and insolvency laws, may limit the amount which can be recovered on such loans. 

Funding Activities 

Funding Strategy 

The Corporation&#8217;s deposit strategy is to fund the Bank with stable, low-cost deposits, primarily checking account deposits and low interest-bearing deposit accounts. A checking account is the driver of a banking relationship and consumers consider the bank where they have their checking account as their primary bank. These customers will typically turn to their primary bank first when in need of other financial services. The Corporation also considers brokered deposits to be an element of its deposit strategy and anticipates that it will continue using brokered deposits as a secondary source of funding to support growth. Borrowings may be used on a short-term basis for liquidity purposes or on a long-term basis to fund asset growth. 

Funding Sources 

The Corporation&#8217;s primary sources of funds are deposits, principal and interest payments on loans and securities, borrowings and funds generated from operations of the Bank. The Bank also has access to advances from the FHLBNY, other financial institutions and the FRBNY. Contractual loan payments are a relatively stable source of funds, while deposit inflows and outflows and loan prepayments are significantly influenced by general market interest rates and economic conditions. 

The Corporation considers core deposits, consisting of non-interest-bearing and interest-bearing checking accounts, savings accounts, and insured money market accounts, to be a significant component of its deposits. The Corporation monitors the activity on these core deposits and, based on historical experience and pricing strategy, believes it will continue to retain a large portion of such accounts. The Bank is currently not limited with respect to the rates that it may offer on deposit products. The Bank believes it is competitive in the types of accounts and interest rates it has offered on its deposit products. The Bank regularly evaluates the internal cost of funds, surveys rates offered by competitors, reviews cash flow requirements for lending and liquidity, and executes rate changes when necessary as part of its asset/liability management, profitability and growth strategies. 

The flow of deposits is influenced significantly by general economic conditions, changes in prevailing interest rates and competition. The Bank&#8217;s deposits are obtained predominantly from the areas in which its retail offices are located. The Bank relies primarily on customer service, long-standing relationships and other banking services, including loans and wealth management services, to attract and retain these deposits. However, market interest rates and rates offered by competing financial institutions affect the Bank&#8217;s ability to attract and retain deposits. The Bank utilizes a combination of traditional media, such as print, television, and radio, as well as digital advertising, such as social media and eBlasts, when advertising its deposit products. 

Derivative Financial Instruments 

The Corporation offers interest rate swaps to commercial loan customers who wish to fix the interest rates on their loans, and the Corporation matches these swaps with offsetting swaps with national bank counterparties. These swaps are considered free standing derivatives and are carried at fair value on the consolidated balance sheet in other assets and other liabilities, with gains and losses recorded through other non-interest income. The swaps are not designated as hedging derivatives. Additionally, the Corporation participates in risk participation agreements with dealer banks on commercial loans in which it participates. The Corporation receives an upfront fee for participating in the credit exposure of the interest rate swap associated with the commercial loan in which it is a participant and the fee received is recognized immediately in other non-interest income. The Corporation is exposed to its share of the credit loss equal to the fair value of the interest rate swap in the event of nonperformance by the counterparty of the interest rate swap. 

The Corporation has a policy for managing its derivative financial instruments, and the policy and program activity are overseen by ALCO. Derivative financial instruments with counterparties, which are not customers, are limited to a national financial institution. Cash and/or certain qualified securities are required to serve as collateral when exposures exceed $100 thousand, with a minimum collateral coverage of $150 thousand. The credit worthiness of the counterparty is reviewed internally by the Bank's credit department. 

Wealth Management Strategy 

With $1.856 billion of assets under management or administration at year-end 2015 , including $304.1 million of assets held under management or administration for the Corporation, WMG is responsible for the largest component of non-interest income. Wealth management services provided by the Bank include services as executor and trustee under wills and agreements, and guardian, custodian, trustee &#160; and &#160; agent for pension, profit-sharing and other employee benefit trusts, as well as various investment, pension, estate planning and employee benefit administrative services. The Corporation&#8217;s growth strategy also includes the acquisition of trust businesses to generate new sources of fee income. 

The Corporation offers an array of financial services including mutual funds, securities and insurance brokerage, tax preparation and other services through CFS, its wholly owned subsidiary 

For additional information, including information concerning the results of operations of the Corporation and its subsidiaries, see Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Part II, Item 7. 

There were no material changes in the manner of doing business by the Corporation or its subsidiaries during the fiscal year ended December 31, 2015 . 

Market Area and Competition 

The Bank operates 34 branch offices located in 11 counties in New York and Bradford County in Pennsylvania. Bank branch offices are located in the following New York counties: Chemung, where the Bank is headquartered, Broome, Cayuga, Cortland, Schuyler, Seneca, Steuben, Tioga and Tompkins. The Bank also operates under the name &#8220;Capital Bank, a division of Chemung Canal Trust Company,&#8221; with branch offices located in Albany and Saratoga counties in New York. 

Albany and Saratoga counties rely heavily on business related to New York State government activities, the nanotechnology industry and colleges located within these counties. Tompkins County is dominated by the presence of Cornell University and Ithaca College. The world headquarters of Corning Incorporated, the region&#8217;s largest employer, is located in Steuben County. The remaining New York counties have a combination of service, small manufacturing and tourism related businesses, with colleges located in Broome, Chemung and Cortland counties. 

Within all these market areas, the Bank encounters intense competition in the lending and deposit gathering aspects of its business from local, regional and national commercial banks and thrift institutions, credit unions and other providers of financial services, such as brokerage firms, investment companies, insurance companies and internet banking entities. The Bank also competes with non-financial institutions, including retail stores and certain utilities that maintain their own credit programs, as well as governmental agencies that make loans to certain borrowers. Many of these competitors are not subject to regulation as extensive as that affecting the Bank and, as a result, may have a competitive advantage over the Bank in certain respects. This is particularly true of credit unions because their pricing structure is not encumbered by the payment of income taxes. 

Similarly, the competition for the Bank's wealth management services is primarily from local offices of national brokerage firms, independent investment advisors, national and regional banks as well as internet based brokerage and advisory firms. The Bank operates full-service wealth management centers in Chemung, Broome and Albany counties in New York. 

Employees 

As of December 31, 2015 , the Corporation and its subsidiaries employed 377 persons on a full-time equivalent basis. &#160; None of the Corporation's employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements, and the Corporation believes that its relationship with its employees is good. 

Available Information 

The SEC maintains a web site at www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding the Corporation. You may also read and copy materials we file with the SEC at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F St., NE, Washington, D.C. 20549. You may obtain information concerning the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling 1-800-SEC-0330. In addition, we maintain a corporate web site at www.chemungcanal.com. The Corporation makes available free of charge through Bank's web site its annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports filed with the SEC pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act. These items are available &#160; as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file or furnish such material with the SEC. These items are also available on the Bank's web site as Interactive Data Files as required pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (&#167;232.405). The contents of the Bank's web site are not a part of this report. These materials are also available free of charge by written request to: Kathleen S. McKillip, Corporate Secretary, Chemung Financial Corporation, One Chemung Canal Plaza, Elmira, NY 14901. 

Supervision and Regulation 

The Corporation and the Bank are subject to comprehensive regulation, supervision and examination by regulatory authorities. Numerous statutes and regulations apply to the Corporation&#8217;s and, to a greater extent, the Bank&#8217;s operations, including required reserves, investments, loans, deposits, issuances of securities, payments of dividends and establishment of branches. Set forth below is a brief description of some of these laws and regulations. The description does not purport to be complete, and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the text of the applicable laws and regulations. 

The Corporation 

Bank Holding Company Act 

The Corporation is a bank holding company registered with, and subject to regulation and examination by, the FRB pursuant to the BHCA, as amended. The FRB regulates and requires the filing of reports describing the activities of bank holding companies, and conducts periodic examinations to test compliance with applicable regulatory requirements. The FRB has enforcement authority over bank holding companies, including, among other things, the ability to assess civil money penalties, to issue cease and desist or removal orders, and to require a bank holding company to divest subsidiaries. 

The Corporation generally may engage in the activities permissible for a bank holding company, which includes banking, managing or controlling banks, performing certain servicing activities for subsidiaries, and engaging in other activities that the FRB has determined to be so closely related to banking as to be a proper incident thereto, as set forth in the FRB's Regulation Y. As the Corporation has elected financial holding company status, it may also engage in a broader range of activities that are determined by the FRB and the Secretary of the Treasury to be financial in nature or incidental to financial activities or, with the prior approval of the FRB, activities that are determined by the FRB to be complementary to a financial activity and that do not pose a substantial risk to the safety and soundness of depository institutions or the financial system generally. 

The BHCA prohibits a bank holding company from acquiring direct or indirect ownership or control of more than 5% of the voting shares of any bank, or increasing such ownership or control of any bank, without the prior approval of the FRB. 

New York Law 

The Corporation is organized under New York law and is subject to the New York Business Corporation Law, which governs the rights and obligations of directors and shareholders and other corporate matters. 

The Corporation is also a bank holding company as defined in the New York Banking Law by virtue of its ownership and control of the Bank. Generally, this means that the NYSDFS must approve the Corporation&#8217;s acquisition of control of other banking institutions and similar transactions. 

Federal Securities Law 

The Corporation is subject to the information, reporting, proxy solicitation, insider trading, and other rules contained in the Exchange Act, the disclosure requirements of the Securities Act and the regulations of the SEC thereunder. In addition, the Corporation must comply with the corporate governance and listing standards of the Nasdaq Stock Market to maintain the listing of its common stock on the exchange. These standards include rules relating to a listed company's board of directors, audit committees and independent director oversight of executive compensation, the director nomination process, a code of conduct and shareholder meetings. 

The SEC has adopted certain proxy disclosure rules regarding executive compensation and corporate governance, with which the Corporation must comply. They include: (i) disclosure of total compensation of key officers of the Corporation, including disclosure of restricted and unrestricted stock awards compensation; (ii) disclosure regarding any potential conflict of interest of any compensation consultants of the Corporation; (iii) disclosure regarding compensation committee independence and experience, qualifications, skills and diversity of its directors and any director nominees; (iv) &#8220;say-on-pay&#8221; disclosure; and (v) information relating to the leadership structure of the Corporation&#8217;s Board of Directors and the Board of Director&#8217;s role in the risk management process. Additionally, these rules require the Corporation to report the voting results of annual meetings in a much more timely manner on Form 8-K, rather than on a quarterly or annual report. 

Sarbanes-Oxley 

The Corporation is also subject to Sarbanes-Oxley. Sarbanes-Oxley established laws affecting public companies&#8217; corporate governance, accounting obligations, and corporate reporting by: (i) creating a federal accounting oversight body; (ii) revamping auditor independence rules; (iii) enacting new corporate responsibility and governance measures; (iv) enhancing disclosures by public companies, their directors, and their executive officers; (v) strengthening the powers and resources of the SEC; and (vi) imposing new criminal and civil penalties for securities fraud and related wrongful conduct. 

The SEC has adopted regulations under Sarbanes-Oxley, including: (i) executive compensation disclosure rules; (ii) standards of independence for directors who serve on the Corporation&#8217;s audit committee; (iii) disclosure requirements as to whether at least one member of the Corporation&#8217;s audit committee qualifies as a &#8220;financial expert&#8221; as defined in the SEC regulations; (iv) whether the Corporation has adopted a code of ethics applicable to its chief executive officer, chief financial officer, or those persons performing similar functions; (v) and disclosure requirements regarding the operations of Board of Director's nominating committees and the means, if any, by which security holders may communicate with directors. 

Support of Subsidiary Banks 

The Dodd-Frank Act, discussed in the section of this document entitled &#8220;Additional Important Legislation and Regulation,&#8221; codifies the FRB&#8217;s long-standing policy of requiring bank holding companies to act as a source of financial and managerial strength to their subsidiary banks. Accordingly, the Corporation is expected to commit resources to support its banking subsidiaries, including at times when it may not be advantageous for the Corporation to do so. 

The Bank 

General 

The Bank is a commercial bank chartered under the laws of New York State and is supervised by the NYSDFS. The Bank also is a member bank of the FRB and, therefore, the FRB serves as its primary federal regulator. The FDIC insures the Bank&#8217;s deposit accounts up to applicable limits. The Bank must file reports with the FFIEC, the FRB and the FDIC concerning its activities and financial condition and must obtain regulatory approval before commencing certain activities or engaging in transactions such as mergers and other business combinations or the establishment, closing, purchase or sale of branch offices. This regulatory structure gives the regulatory authorities extensive discretion in the enforcement of laws and regulations and the supervision of the Bank. 

Loans to One Borrower 

The Bank generally may not make a loan or extend credit to a single or related group of borrowers in excess of 15% of its unimpaired capital and surplus. Up to an additional 10% of unimpaired capital and surplus can be lent if the additional amount is fully secured by readily marketable collateral. At December 31, 2015 , the Bank&#8217;s legal lending limit on loans to one borrower was $21.6 million for loans not fully secured by readily marketable collateral and $23.8 million for loans secured by readily marketable collateral. The Bank&#8217;s internal limit on loans is set at $15.0 million. At December 31, 2015 , the Bank did not have any loans or agreements to extend credit to a single or related group of borrowers in excess of its legal lending limit. 

Branching 

Subject to the approval of the NYSDFS, New York chartered commercial banks may establish branch offices anywhere within New York State, except in communities having populations of less than 50,000 inhabitants in which another New York chartered commercial bank or a national bank has its principal office. Additionally, under the Dodd-Frank Act, state chartered banks may generally branch into other states to the same extent as commercial banks chartered under the laws of that state may branch. 

Payment of Dividends 

The Bank is subject to substantial regulatory restrictions affecting its ability to pay dividends to the Corporation. Under FRB and NYSDFS regulations, the Bank may not pay a dividend without prior approval of the FRB and the NYSDFS if the total amount of all dividends declared during such calendar year, including the proposed dividend, exceeds the sum of its retained net income to date during the calendar year and its retained net income over the preceding two calendar years. As of December 31, 2015 , approximately $14.2 million &#32;was available for the payment of dividends by the Bank to the Corporation without prior approval. The Bank's ability to pay dividends also is subject to the Bank being in compliance with regulatory capital requirements. The Bank is currently in compliance with these requirements. 

Federal Reserve System 

FRB member banks must maintain, with a Federal Reserve bank, reserves against their transaction accounts (primarily checking, NOW, and Super NOW accounts) and non-personal time accounts. As of December 31, 2015 , the Bank was in compliance with applicable reserve requirements. In all years preceding 2008, these reserves were maintained as vault cash or noninterest-bearing accounts, thereby reducing the Bank&#8217;s earnings potential. In the fourth quarter of 2008, the FRB announced that they would begin to pay interest on member banks&#8217; required reserve balances, as well as excess reserve balances. 

Standards for Safety and Soundness 

The FRB has adopted guidelines prescribing safety and soundness standards. These guidelines establish general standards relating to capital adequacy, asset quality, management, earnings performance, liquidity and sensitivity to market risk. In evaluating these safety and soundness standards, the FRB considers internal controls and information systems, internal audit systems, loan documentation, credit underwriting, exposure to changes in interest rates, asset growth, compensation, fees, and benefits. In general, the guidelines require appropriate systems and practices to identify and manage the risks and exposures specified in the guidelines. The FRB may order an institution that has been given notice that it is not satisfying these safety and soundness standards to submit a compliance plan, and if an institution fails to do so, the FRB must issue an order directing action to correct the deficiency and may issue an order directing other action. If an institution fails to comply with such an order, the FRB may seek to enforce such order in judicial proceedings and to impose civil money penalties. 

Real Estate Lending Standards 

The FRB has adopted guidelines that generally require each FRB state member bank to establish and maintain written internal real estate lending standards that are consistent with safe and sound banking practices and appropriate to the size of the bank and the nature and scope of its real estate lending activities. The standards also must be consistent with accompanying FRB guidelines, which include loan-to-value ratios for the different types of real estate loans. 

Transactions with Related Parties 

The Federal Reserve Act governs transactions between the Bank and its affiliates, specifically the Corporation and CFS. In general, an affiliate of the Bank is any company that controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with the Bank. Generally, the Federal Reserve Act limits the extent to which the Bank or its subsidiaries may engage in &#8220;covered transactions&#8221; with any one affiliate to 10% of the Bank&#8217;s capital stock and surplus, and contains an aggregate limit of 20% of capital stock and surplus for covered transactions with all affiliates. Covered transactions include loans, asset purchases, the issuance of guarantees, and similar transactions. The Bank's loans to insiders must be made on terms that are substantially the same as, and follow credit underwriting procedures that are not less stringent than, those prevailing for comparable transactions with unaffiliated persons and that do not involve more than the normal risk of repayment or present other unfavorable features. The loans are also subject to maximum dollar limits and must generally be approved by the Board of Directors. 

Deposit Insurance 

The FDIC insures the deposits of the Bank up to regulatory limits and the deposits are subject to the deposit insurance premium assessments of the DIF. The FDIC currently maintains a risk-based assessment system under which assessment rates vary based on the level of risk posed by the institution to the DIF. Therefore, the assessment rate may change if any of these measurements change. 

The FDIC has adopted a final rule making certain changes to the deposit insurance assessment system. Among other things, the rule revised the assessment rate schedule effective April 1, 2011, and adopted additional rate schedules that will go into effect when the DIF reserve ratio reaches various milestones. The rule changed the deposit insurance assessment system from one that was based on domestic deposits to one that is based on average consolidated total assets minus average tangible equity. In addition, the rule provides that FDIC dividend payments will be suspended if the DIF reserve ratio exceeds 1.5 percent but that assessment rates will decrease when the DIF reserve ratio reaches certain thresholds. 

All institutions with deposits insured by the FDIC are required to pay assessments to fund interest payments on bonds issued by FICO, an agency of the federal government established to recapitalize the former Savings Association Insurance Fund. These assessments will continue until the FICO bonds mature in 2017. The FDIC's FICO assessment authority is separate from its authority to assess risk-based premiums for deposit insurance. The FICO assessment rate is adjusted quarterly to reflect changes in the assessment bases of the fund and is not risk-based by institution. The FICO assessment rate for the first quarter of 2016 , due December 31, 2015 , was 0 . 0000145% &#160; of the bank's assessment base, or average total assets less average tangible equity and allowable deductions. 

Regulatory Capital Requirements 

Current FRB regulations require state member banks to meet four minimum capital ratios, which are as follows: 

&#8226; 

4.5% Common equity Tier 1 to risk-weighted assets; 

&#8226; 

6.0% Tier 1 capital (that is, common equity Tier 1 plus additional Tier 1 capital) to risk-weighted assets; 

&#8226; 

8.0% Total capital (that is, Tier 1 capital plus Tier 2 capital) to risk-weighted assets; and 

&#8226; 

4.0% Tier 1 capital to total average assets 

On October 11, 2013, the FRB approved a final rule that amended the regulatory capital rules for state member banks effective January 1, 2015. The FRB approved the new capital rules in coordination with substantially identical final rules approved by the FDIC and the OCC for other types of banking organizations. The revisions make the capital rules consistent with agreements that were reached by the Basel III and certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act. In general, the new capital rules revise regulatory capital definitions and minimum ratios; redefine Tier 1 Capital as two components (common equity Tier 1 capital and additional Tier 1 capital); create a new &#8220;common equity Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio&#8221;; implement a capital conservation buffer; revise prompt corrective action thresholds; and change risk weights for certain assets and off-balance sheet exposures. 

The new capital rules implement a revised definition of regulatory capital, a new common equity Tier 1 minimum capital requirement of 4.5%, and a higher minimum Tier 1 capital requirement of 6.0% (which is an increase from 4.0%). Under the new rules, the total capital ratio remains at 8.0%, and the minimum leverage ratio (Tier 1 capital to total assets) for all banking organizations, regardless of supervisory rating, is 4.0%. Additionally, under the new capital rules, in order to avoid limitations on capital distributions, including dividend payments and certain discretionary bonus payments to executive officers, a banking organization must hold a capital conservation buffer composed of common equity Tier 1 capital above its minimum risk-based capital requirements. The buffer is measured relative to risk-weighted assets. The final rules also enhance risk sensitivity and address weaknesses identified by the regulators over recent years with the measure of risk-weighted assets, including through new measures of creditworthiness to replace references to credit ratings, consistent with the requirements of the Dodd-Frank Act. 

The new capital requirements also include changes in the risk-weights of assets to better reflect credit risk and other risk exposures. These include a 150% risk weight (up from 100%) for certain high volatility commercial real estate acquisition, development and construction loans and the unsecured portion of non-residential mortgage loans that are 90 days past due or otherwise on nonaccrual status; a 20% (up from 0%) credit conversion factor for the unused portion of a commitment with an original maturity of one year or less that is not unconditionally cancellable; a 250% risk weight (up from 100%) for mortgage servicing rights and deferred tax assets that are not deducted from capital; and increased risk weights (from 0% to up to 600%) for equity exposures. 

The new minimum capital requirements became effective for all banking organizations (except for the largest internationally active banking organizations) on January 1, 2015, whereas the capital conservation buffer and the deductions from common equity Tier 1 capital phase in over time, beginning on January 1, 2016. 

The Corporation is subject to FRB capital requirements applicable to bank holding companies, which are similar to those applicable to the Bank. 

In assessing a state member bank&#8217;s capital adequacy, the FRB takes into consideration not only these numeric factors but also qualitative factors, and has the authority to establish higher capital requirements for individual banks where necessary. The Bank, in accordance with its internal prudent standards, targets as its goal the maintenance of capital ratios which exceed these minimum requirements and that are consistent with its risk profile. As of December 31, 2015 , the Bank exceeded all regulatory capital ratios necessary to be considered well capitalized. 

Prompt Corrective Action 

The FDIA requires the federal banking agencies to resolve the problems of insured banks at the least possible loss to the DIF. The FRB has adopted prompt corrective action regulations to carry out this statutory mandate. The FRB&#8217;s regulations authorize, and in some situations, require, the FRB to take certain supervisory actions against undercapitalized state member banks, including the imposition of restrictions on asset growth and other forms of expansion. The prompt corrective action regulations place state member banks in one of the following five categories based on the bank&#8217;s capital: 

&#8226; 

well capitalized 

&#8226; 

&#160; adequately capitalized 

&#8226; 

undercapitalized 

&#8226; 

significantly undercapitalized 

&#8226; 

critically undercapitalized 

The capital rules described above under &#8220;Regulatory Capital Requirements&#8221; maintained the existing general structure of the current prompt corrective action framework and increased some of the thresholds for the prompt corrective action capital categories. For example, an adequately capitalized bank is required to maintain a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 6.0% (increased from the current level of 4.0%). The rule also introduced the common equity Tier 1 capital ratio as a new prompt corrective action capital category threshold. 

&#160; 

As an institution&#8217;s capital decreases within the three undercapitalized categories listed above, the severity of the action that is authorized or required to be taken by the FRB for state member banks under the prompt corrective action regulations increases. All banks are prohibited from paying dividends or other capital distributions or paying management fees to any controlling person if, following such distribution, the bank would be undercapitalized. The FRB is required to monitor closely the condition of an undercapitalized institution and to restrict the growth of its assets. 

An undercapitalized state member bank is required to file a capital restoration plan with the FRB within 45 days (or other timeframe prescribed by the FRB) of the date the bank receives notice that it is within any of the three undercapitalized categories, and the plan must be guaranteed by its parent holding company, subject to a cap on the guarantee that is the lesser of: (i) an amount equal to 5.0% of the bank&#8217;s total assets at the time it was notified that it became undercapitalized; and (ii) the amount that is necessary to restore the bank&#8217;s capital ratios to the levels required to be classified as &#8220;adequately classified,&#8221; as those ratios and levels are defined as of the time the bank failed to comply with the plan. If the bank fails to submit an acceptable plan, it is treated as if it were &#8220;significantly undercapitalized.&#8221; Banks that are significantly or critically undercapitalized are subject to a wider range of regulatory requirements and restrictions. 

&#160; 

Federal Home Loan Bank 

The Bank is also a member of the FHLBNY, which provides a central credit facility primarily for member institutions for home mortgage and neighborhood lending. The Bank is subject to the rules and requirements of the FHLBNY, including the requirement to acquire and hold shares of capital stock in the FHLBNY. The Bank was in compliance with the rules and requirements of the FHLBNY at December 31, 2015 . 

Community Reinvestment Act 

Under the federal CRA, the Bank, consistent with its safe and sound operation, must help meet the credit needs of its entire community, including low and moderate income neighborhoods. The FRB periodically assesses the Bank's compliance with CRA requirements. The Bank received a &#8220;satisfactory&#8221; rating for CRA on its last performance evaluation conducted by the FRB as of May 19, 2014. 

Fair Lending and Consumer Protection Laws 

The Bank must also comply with the federal Equal Credit Opportunity Act and the New York Executive Law, which prohibit creditors from discrimination in their lending practices on bases specified in these statutes. In addition, the Bank is subject to a number of federal statutes and regulations implementing them, which are designed to protect the general public, borrowers, depositors, and other customers of depository institutions. These include the Bank Secrecy Act, the Truth in Lending Act, the Home Ownership and Equity Protection Act, the Truth in Savings Act, the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act, the Fair Housing Act, the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act, the Electronic Funds Transfers Act, the FCRA, the Right to Financial Privacy Act, the Expedited Funds Availability Act, the Flood Disaster Protection Act, the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act, Helping Families Save Their Homes Act, and the Consumer Protection for Depository Institutions Sales of Insurance regulation. The FRB and, in some instances, other regulators, including the U.S. Department of Justice, the FTC, the CFPB and state Attorneys General, may take enforcement action against institutions that fail to comply with these laws. 

Prohibitions against Tying Arrangements 

Subject to some exceptions, regulations under the BHCA and the Federal Reserve Act prohibit banks from extending credit to or offering any other service, or fixing or varying the consideration for such extension of credit or service, on the condition that the customer obtain some additional service from the bank or its affiliates or not obtain services of a competitor of the bank. 

Privacy Regulations 

Regulations under the Federal Reserve Act generally require the Bank to disclose its privacy policy. The policy must identify with whom the Bank shares its customers&#8217; &#8220;nonpublic personal information&#8221;, at the time of establishing the customer relationship and annually thereafter. In addition, the Bank must provide its customers with the ability to &#8220;opt out&#8221; of having their personal information shared with unaffiliated third parties and not to disclose account numbers or access codes to non-affiliated third parties for marketing purposes. The Bank&#8217;s privacy policy complies with Federal Reserve Act regulations. 

The USA PATRIOT Act 

The Bank is subject to the USA PATRIOT Act, which gives the federal government powers to address terrorist threats through enhanced domestic security measures, expanded surveillance powers, increased information sharing, and broadened anti-money laundering requirements. The USA PATRIOT Act imposes affirmative obligations on financial institutions, including the Bank, to establish anti-money laundering programs which require: (i) the establishment of internal policies, procedures, and controls; (ii) the designation of an anti-money laundering compliance officer; (iii) ongoing employee training programs; and (iv) an independent audit function to test the anti-money laundering program. The FRB must consider the Bank&#8217;s effectiveness in combating money laundering when ruling on merger and other applications. 

CFS 

CFS is subject to supervision by other regulatory authorities as determined by the activities in which it is engaged. Insurance activities are supervised by the NYSDFS, and brokerage activities are subject to supervision by the SEC and FINRA. 

Additional Important Legislation and Regulation 

The Dodd-Frank Act 

The Dodd-Frank Act, enacted on July 21, 2010, significantly changed the bank regulatory landscape and has impacted and will continue to impact the lending, deposit, investment, trading and operating activities of financial institutions and their holding companies. The Dodd-Frank Act requires various federal agencies to adopt a broad range of new rules and regulations, and to prepare various studies and reports for Congress. We have summarized below significant rules adopted by the federal agencies pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act. 

Consumer Financial Protection Bureau Rules 

The Dodd-Frank Act created the CFPB, with wide-ranging powers to supervise and enforce consumer protection laws. The CFPB has broad rule-making authority for a wide range of consumer protection laws that apply to all banks and savings institutions, including the authority to prohibit "unfair, deceptive or abusive" acts and practices. The CFPB has examination and enforcement authority over all banks and savings institutions with more than $10 billion in assets. The Dodd-Frank Act also weakened the federal preemption rules that had been applicable to national banks and federal savings associations, especially with respect to the applicability of state consumer protection laws, and gives state attorneys general certain powers to enforce federal consumer protection regulations. 

The CFPB has issued several new rules pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act concerning the regulation of mortgage markets in the U.S. The rules amend several existing regulations, including Regulation Z, which implements the Truth in Lending Act, Regulation X, which implements the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act and Regulation B, which implements the Equal Credit Opportunity Act. The CFPB has also issued amendments to Regulation P, which governs information privacy and Regulation E, which implements the Electronic Funds Transfers Act. The CFPB may from time to time issue additional amendments or new rules that will affect the Corporation's business practices. 

In December 2013, the FRB and the SEC released final rules to implement certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act, commonly known as the &#8220;Volcker Rule.&#8221; The Volcker Rule, among other things, prohibits banking entities from engaging in proprietary trading and from sponsoring, having an ownership interest in or having certain relationships with a hedge fund or private equity fund, subject to certain exemptions. At December 31, 2015 , the Corporation was not engaged in any activities and it did not have any ownership interests in any funds that are not permitted under the Volcker Rule. 

In 2013, the CFPB issued a final rule amending Regulation Z (which implements TILA) and Regulation X (which implements RESPA). In 2015, the CFPB issued a final rule, effective October 3, 2015, specifying mandatory new procedures for the making of these disclosures. The purpose of the new rule, known as the TRID Rule, is to integrate certain disclosures for closed-end credit extended against real property, the appraisal notice required under the ECOA, and the servicing notice required under RESPA in two new forms: a Loan Estimate that must be provided to a consumer within a specified time after receiving his or her application, and a Closing Disclosure that must be provided at least three days before the loan is closed. The TRID Rule general applies to all lenders, including the Bank, that extended credit to consumers 25 or more times in the preceding or current year. 

Securities and Exchange Commission Rules 

As discussed above under &#8220;Federal Securities Law,&#8221; pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, the SEC issued regulations that provide the shareholders of public companies with an advisory vote on: i) executive compensation ("say-on-pay"); ii) the desired frequency of say-on-pay; and iii) compensation arrangements and understandings in connection with merger transactions, known as "golden parachute" arrangements. Additionally, the SEC has issued regulations effective January 1, 2017 requiring companies subject to the reporting rules of the SEC to disclose to shareholders the ratio of compensation of the chief executive officer to the median compensation of employees. The SEC has also adopted corporate governance regulations that provide to shareholders of companies subject to the SEC&#8217;s proxy rules: i) the opportunity to nominate directors at a shareholder meeting and to have their nominees included in the company proxy materials sent to all shareholders; and ii) the ability to use the shareholder proposal process to establish procedures for the inclusion of shareholder director nominations in company proxy materials. 

Banking Agency Rules 

As discussed above under &#8220;Regulatory Capital Requirements,&#8221; pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, the FRB and the other federal banking agencies have established minimum leverage and risk-based capital requirements for insured depository institutions and bank holding companies. 

The Dodd-Frank Act directs the federal banking regulators to promulgate rules requiring the reporting of incentive-based compensation and prohibiting excessive incentive-based compensation paid to executives of depository institutions and their holding companies with total assets in excess of $1.0 billion that encourages excessive risk-taking that could lead to a material financial loss. In April 2011, the FRB, along with other federal banking supervisors, issued a joint notice of proposed rulemaking implementing those requirements . 

Many other provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act still require extensive rulemaking, guidance and interpretation by regulatory agencies. Accordingly, in many respects, the ultimate impact of the legislation and its effects on the Corporation and the Bank remain uncertain. The Corporation continues to closely monitor and evaluate regulatory developments. Such developments could adversely affect its financial condition and results of operations through significant increases in its regulatory compliance costs. 

Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act 

Under the privacy and data security provisions of the Financial Modernization Act of 1999, also known as the GLB Act, and rules promulgated thereunder, all financial institutions, including the Corporation, the Bank and CFS are required to establish policies and procedures to restrict the sharing of nonpublic customer data with nonaffiliated parties at the customer's request and to protect customer data from unauthorized access. In addition, the FCRA, as amended by the FACT Act, includes many provisions affecting the Corporation, Bank, and/or CFS including provisions concerning obtaining consumer reports, furnishing information to consumer reporting agencies, maintaining a program to prevent identity theft, sharing of certain information among affiliated companies, and other provisions. For instance, the FCRA requires persons subject to the FCRA to notify their customers if they report negative information about them to a credit bureau or if they are granted credit on terms less favorable than those generally available. The FRB and the FTC have extensive rulemaking authority under the FACT Act, and the Corporation and the Bank are subject to the rules that have been promulgated by the FRB and FTC thereunder, including recent rules regarding limitations on affiliate marketing and implementation of programs to identify, detect and mitigate the risk of identity theft through red flags. The Corporation has developed policies and procedures for itself and its subsidiaries to maintain compliance and believes it is in compliance with all privacy, information sharing and notification provisions of the GLB Act and the FCRA. 

The GLB Act and the FCRA also impose requirements regarding data security and the safeguarding of customer information. The Bank is subject to the Security Guidelines, which implement section 501(b) of the GLB Act and section 216 of the FACT Act. The Security Guidelines establish standards relating to administrative, technical, and physical safeguards to ensure the security, confidentiality, integrity and the proper disposal of customer information. The Bank believes it is in compliance with all such standards. 

