ITEM 1. BUSINESS

PASSUR Aerospace, Inc. ("PASSUR(R)" or the "Company") is a leading business
intelligence company, providing predictive analytics and decision support
technology for the aviation industry primarily to improve the operational
performance and cash flow of airlines and the airports where they operate. The
Company is recognized as a leader in airline and airport operational efficiency
and business aviation marketing and operational solutions, and is a pioneer in
the successful use of big data, with an aviation intelligence platform and suite
of web-based solutions that address the aviation industry's most intractable and
costly challenges, including under utilization of airspace and airport capacity,
delays, cancellations, and diversions, among others. Several studies have
estimated the annual direct costs of such inefficiencies at over $30 billion.
The Company's technology platform is supported by its Aviation Intelligence
Center of Excellence ("COE"),a team of subject matter experts with extensive
experience in airline, airport, and business aviation operations, finance, air
traffic management, systems automation, and data visualization,with specific
expertise in the operational and business needs, requirements, objectives, and
constraints of the aviation industry.

PASSUR's information solutions are used by the largest five North American
airlines, over 60 airport customers, including 22 of the top 30 North American
airports, more than 200 corporate aviation customers, as well as the U.S.
government.

PASSUR's mission is to improve global air traffic efficiencies by connecting the
world's aviation professionals onto a single aviation intelligence platform.
PASSUR offers companies products that are commercially proven, commercially
accepted, and with a demonstrated return on investment ("ROI") for airlines,
airports, governments, and business aviation companies.

PASSUR provides data aggregation and consolidation, information, decision
support, predictive analytics, collaborative solutions, and professional
services to airlines,airports, governments, and business aviation companies. To
enable this unique offering, PASSUR owns and operates the largest commercial
passive radar network in the world that updates flight tracks every 1 to 4.6
seconds, powering a proprietary database that is accessible in real-time and
delivers timely, accurate information and solutions via PASSUR's
industry-leading algorithms and business logic included in its products.

Solutions offered by PASSUR help to ensure flight completion,covering the entire
flight life cycle, from gate to gate, and result in reductions in overall costs
and emissions, while maximizing revenue opportunities, as well as improving
operational efficiency and enhancing the passenger experience.

                                                                    Page 2 of 59

<PAGE>



PASSUR gives operators the ability to optimize performance in today's air
traffic management system, while bridging the needs of operators and government
aviation agencies through collaborative information exchange, shared procedures,
and common operating metrics. Many of PASSUR's core capabilities developed for
the commercial sector help achieve Next Generation Air Transportation
System("NextGen") objectives. We believe these commercial solutions have allowed
operators to extract maximum value and capacity from today's infrastructure
while creating business and operational case studies for several core NextGen
programs.

Commercial aviation operators using the airspace depend on information from the
government Air Navigation Services Provider ("ANSP")for flight, airspace, and
airport information outside their own fleets. PASSUR augments and integrates
government information with data from its independent network (the largest
passive commercial radar network in the world), with over 180 radar locations
covering North America from coast to coast, and other installations in Europe
and Asia. PASSUR provides faster aircraft position updates (from 1 to 4.6
seconds), and more complete information on aircraft. PASSUR's sensors receive
aircraft and drone signals in Mode A, C, S, and Automatic Dependent
Surveillance-Broadcast ("ADS-B"), providing position, altitude, beacon code, and
tail number, among other information.

PASSUR receives signals from aircraft that, when combined with our historical
database of aircraft and airport behavior, including information recorded by our
network over the last 10 years, allows the Company to know more about what has
happened historically, and what is happening in real-time. In addition, the
historical data base allows the Company to predict how aircraft, the airspace,
and airports are going to perform, and more importantly, how the aircraft, the
airspace, and airport should perform.

                         PASSUR'S STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES

     1.   Increase airline cash flow and operational performance while growing
          PASSUR's revenue in core commercial markets.

     2.   Introduce those same products developed for the commercial markets to
          the government markets, creating a standard platform between the
          commercial and government customers, thereby providing immediate
          returns from the core commercial market while facilitating larger
          government programs and contracts.

     3.   Develop strategic relationships with major companies to broaden the
          reach of PASSUR products in the world-wide commercial and government
          markets.

     4.   Further build PASSUR's market share domestically and internationally.

     5.   Further expand the reach of PASSUR's innovative collaborative
          information sharing platform, which brings together local, regional,
          national, and international aviation stakeholders in real time to
          manage complex, expensive, and disruptive events.

                            PASSUR CORE CAPABILITIES

INTEGRATED SURVEILLANCE NETWORK AND INTEGRATED AVIATION DATABASE

The Company operates what it believes to be the largest and most extensive
private commercial aircraft and airspace passive surveillance networks in the
world. The PASSUR Network integrates additional key surveillance sources, to
include ADS-B, ASDE-X, Mode S, En Route Radar, Airline OOOI data, ACARS, fleet
databases, as well as other sources.

The PASSUR Network creates a direct data feed of critical flight and airspace
behavior and conditions, an essential precursor resource for predictive
analytics, real-time decision support, and performance analysis tools.

All the surveillance data acquired by the PASSUR Network is integrated and
correlated into specialized databases to support predictive, real-time, and post
operational requirements. PASSUR databases consolidate multiple overlapping data
sets to ensure completeness, accuracy, fulfillment of specific operational
requirements, and the normalization of data for a single-source authoritative
record of operational performance. The data processed in these master data
repositories supports the key capabilities and attributes of the PASSUR
software.

                                                                    Page 3 of 59

<PAGE>



PREDICTIVE ANALYTICS

PASSUR decision support solutions are supported by predictive analytics
algorithms, which use extensive historical data mining and pattern recognition
to predict specific and detailed operating conditions, as well as dynamic
predictions based on the extrapolations of real-time surveillance data. PASSUR
predictive analytics are built on several core capabilities:

     o    Real-time surveillance from the PASSUR Network gives the necessary
          breadth and granularity of data to support detailed scenario building
          and pattern recognition. This includes "fast-time simulation" of the
          airport surface and terminal area operation, applying the necessary
          decisions and constraints that controllers will have to apply in
          managing the traffic, as well as addressing the highly nonlinear and
          non-stationary nature of the airport operating environment.

     o    Detailed, granular data acquired by the PASSUR Network, supplemented
          by many other data sources collected within the integrated aviation
          database is stored and correlated, providing the large sample sizes
          required to accurately model future performance based on past
          performance under similar or identical conditions.

     o    PASSUR is recognized by airlines as having the best flight predicted
          arrival time(Estimated Time of Arrival ("ETA") in the industry. More
          than seven independent airline studies have demonstrated the PASSUR
          predicted arrival time to be more accurate than any other source,
          including the airlines' own internally-generated ETAs. The Company
          believes that this greater accuracy translates directly into
          significant operational and financial benefits in areas such as
          completing connections (passengers and bags), reduced fuel
          consumption, more efficient staffing plans, and greater on-time
          schedule completion.

PASSUR INTEGRATED TRAFFIC MANAGEMENT

PASSUR Integrated Traffic Management ("PITM") is, in the Company's opinion, the
industry's first, fully integrated air traffic optimization suite. PITM is a
metrics-focused, Key Performance Indicator ("KPI") driven solution suite
allowing the customer to first view the most critical information for its
operation, and then, as necessary, enabling the user to drill down for better
visualization and analysis.

PITM focuses on helping airlines complete their mission, on time, by focusing on
the major operational constraints such as diversions, airspace and surface
optimization, and hub optimization. The platform connects multiple organizations
onto one platform, providing a collaborative experience. It allows for problem
resolution between organizations in areas such as departure metering or airspace
and hub optimization. PITM is also a platform enabling PASSUR's partner
companies to provide their solutions to PASSUR's customers. PITM is fully
web-delivered, allowing easy access from any web-accessed location.

DECISION SUPPORT DASHBOARDS, KPIS, AND MANAGEMENT BY EXCEPTION

Many PASSUR solutions are delivered in metrics-driven, dashboard format,
simplifying and condensing extensive amounts of information into the most
relevant operational and business metrics, thereby presenting them in a manner
that supports immediate performance assessment and actionable decisions. PASSUR
solutions are designed so that users are alerted in real-time to specific
conditions and recommended actions, only when operations reach certain
user-defined thresholds, thereby preventing information overload.

COLLABORATIVE CAPABILITIES AND INDUSTRIAL NETWORKS

Many PASSUR solutions include a collaborative layer which allows for instant
information sharing, coordination of effort, and working with a common operating
picture across a wide range of users in the aviation community. These include
industrial networking capabilities, which leverage new technologies for business
uses in the aviation sector, such as PASSUR's Airport Information Network(TM), a
single North American-wide site for real time airport conditions, diversion
management, and delay mitigation used by hundreds of aviation professionals.


                                                                    Page 4 of 59
<PAGE>

AVIATION INTELLIGENCE CENTER OF EXCELLENCE TO SUPPORT BIG DATA

The Company's Aviation Intelligence COE is a team of subject matter experts with
extensive experience in airline, airport, and business aviation operations,
finance, air traffic management, systems automation, and data visualization,with
specific expertise in the operational and business needs, requirements,
objectives, and constraints of the aviation industry.

These experts from the PASSUR COE understand the National Airspace System
("NAS") and are able to translate these internal requirements and external
conditions into information solutions that target specific, measurable problems
with defined operational and financial performance metrics. These subject matter
experts are complemented by a technical team of software engineers, data
analysts, radar engineers, database architects, physicists, and statisticians
who have years of expertise in managing complex surveillance networks (hardware
and software), as well as interpreting and converting complex, live aviation
data feeds into robust decision support software solutions.




                                                                    Page 5 of 59

<PAGE>

PRODUCTS AND SERVICES

The Company offers targeted solutions to help airlines complete missions on
time:

<TABLE>
<S>              <C>                                    <C>
CATEGORY        PASSUR SOLUTIONS DESCRIPTION                    KEY GROWTH DRIVERS

                [] Web dashboard product that gives             [] Enhances airspace throughput and
                   airlines the ability to analyze                 capacity.
                   and act on airspace conditions               [] Reduces impact of Traffic
                   predictively and in real-time.                  Management Initiatives ("TMI"),
                [] Allows airlines to ensure the                   such as eliminating the need for
                   optimal flow of traffic into an                 ground delays or ground stops.
                   airport in order to preserve                 [] TMI costs can exceed $160 million
                   schedule completion and reduce                  annually for just one airline at
                   costs.                                          larger airports.
                [] Provides predictive analytics,               [] One airline saved an estimated $12
                   alerts, and instant analysis and                million per year at just three
TRAFFIC FLOW       performance summaries to balance                airports through enhanced traffic
 MANAGEMENT        demand and capacity.                            flow management with PASSUR solutions.
                [] Drone Air Traffic Integration is a           [] Assist drone operators seamlessly
                   new service designed to help                    integrate into the NAS.
                   commercial drone operators become
                   more informed, effective, and
                   collaborative members of the NAS by
                   integrating them into PASSUR's aviation
                   intelligence platform, currently used
                   by the main NAS stakeholders (airlines,
                   airports, business aviation, and the
                   Federal Aviation Administration ("FAA")).
                [] Primary customer: airlines, airports,
                   government, and potentially large drone
                   operators.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                [] Predictive analytics algorithms leverage     [] Reduces the number and costs of
                   extensive historical data mining and pattern    unnecessary diversions.
                   recognition to predict a range of operating  [] Ensures aircraft divert to airports
                   conditions in advance, allowing airlines to     that can enable a faster return to
                   choose the least costly plane to divert,        original destination airport.
DIVERSION          cancel/consolidate flights, predict accurate [] Diversions cost U.S. domestic
MANAGEMENT         hold times, or divert preemptively.             airlines more than $400 million
                [] Allows airlines to decrease the number of       annually in 2013-2014, disrupting
                   diversions they experience and optimize ones    more than 1.6 million passengers.
                   that are unavoidable, improving their        [] PASSUR reduced one carrier's diversions
                   profitability, passenger scores, and            by 11% that same year, which translates
                   environmental footprint.                        into $46 million in savings across the
                [] Primary customer: airlines, airports, and       industry, or 170,000 fewer disrupted
                   government.                                     passengers.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                    Page 6 of 59

<PAGE>
                [] An accurate ETA data feed optimizes all      [] Benefits include completing connections
                   existing airline and airport processes and     (passengers, bags, and crew), reduced fuel
                   technology that depend on knowing when an       consumption, more efficient staffing
    FLIGHT         airplane is going to arrive, without            plans, greater on-time schedule
 PREDICTABILITY    requiring expensive or disruptive internal      completion, reduced gate holds,
 (ETAS AND ETDS)   changes. Predictive flight arrival and          and helping airlines meet stricter
                   departure times built on multiple sources,      "crew rest" regulations.
                   including PASSUR's live and historical       [] Enables better overall planning
                   surveillance of the airspace.                   and scheduling to maximize revenue
                [] Provides accurate gate-to-gate ETA and          opportunities.
                   Estimated Time of Departure ("ETD").         [] Missed connections alone at one
                [] Primary customer: airlines and airports.        airport can cost an airline in
                                                                   excess of $3 million per year.
                                                                [] One airline has reported a $15
                                                                   million per year cost recovery
                                                                   since implementing the PASSUR ETA.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                [] PASSUR Surface Management helps to reduce    [] Improves the efficiency of arrivals and
                   extended tarmac delays and taxi-in/taxi-out     departures, preserves schedule integrity,
                   times, prioritize high-value flights, and       prioritizes high value flights, and reduces
                   facilitate an efficient turn management         surface delays and fuel burn.
                   process (transition of an aircraft from      [] Reduces the possibility of tarmac delay fines,
                   arrival to departure).                          which can exceed $3 million for airlines.
                [] A suite of capabilities that combine air     [] At one airport using PASSUR Surface
                   and ground surveillance data, visual            Management, over just one year, airlines
                   tracking of aircraft in the airspace and        reduced fuel costs by $10-$15 million,
                   on the airport surface, decision-support        logged 48,000 fewer aircraft taxi hours,
                   software, and key performance indicator         departures, preserves schedule integrity,
 SURFACE           extended tarmac delays and taxi-in/taxi-out     and released 48,000 fewer metric tons of
MANAGEMENT         dashboards.                                     carbon emissions into the atmosphere.
                [] PASSUR's  new surface surveillance sensors
                   allow airlines and airports to visualize
                   parts of the airport otherwise not tracked
                   and monitored.
                [] Primary customer: airlines, airports, and
                   government.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                [] Optimizes the transition of an aircraft
                   from arrival to departure to ensure an       [] Minimizes the frequency, duration,
                   on-time departure, schedule  completion,  and   downstream effects of delays.
                   maximum and asset utilization.               [] Ensures on-time schedule completion.
                [] Minimizes the time required for a plane to   [] Excess staffing costs related to
                   unload from one flight and reload for the       inefficient turn times are estimated at
    TURN TIME      next flight by monitoring and proactively       close to $1 million per airport per year
    MANAGEMENT     alerting to bottlenecks at each phase of the    for large networked airlines.
                   aircraft's cycle through arrival to departure,
                   allowing flight and passenger handling
                   resources to be adjusted to ensure an on-time
                   process.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                    Page 7 of 59

<PAGE>
                [] Allows airports to communicate and           [] Reduced tarmac delay fines and
                   coordinate with airlines and other key          incidents.
                   stakeholders to ensure that operations are   [] Operational metrics directly affected
CONNECTIVITY AND   optimized with airport-critical information     by the lack of timely updates, including
  COLLABORATION    that is otherwise unavailable.                  secondary/repeat deicing, delays,
                [] Addresses  one  of  the key missing pieces      cancellations, and diversions.
                   in connectivity and collaboration: the       [] A large hub airport reduced costs
                   two-way  flow of accurate, timely, and          by $12 million using PASSUR Connectivity
                   complete information  between  airport          and Collaboration capabilities.
                   operators and airlines.
                [] Primary customer: airports (with airlines as
                   key influencer).
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                [] Reduces airlines' operating costs at the     [] For airports, the program provides
                   airport, and ensures all airlines pay the       faster revenue capture, fiduciary
                   correct amount.                                 accountability, revenue predictability,
AVIATION FEES   [] Provides unique  data independence, accuracy,   and more efficient and fair service to
 AND CHARGES       and reliability - combined with  proven         airline stakeholders.
                   reporting, audit, and billing services - to  [] For airlines, the program ensures that they
                   give airports and airlines the assurance that   pay only their fair share. In addition,
                   all billable weight  is  being captured, that   their fees could go down after the airport
                   the cost of the airfield is being distributed   begins collecting all fees owed, and the
                   fairly and equitably, and that the process is   time and effort required to manage their
                   transparent, automated, and standardized.       fees is reduced.
                [] Primary customer: airports (with airlines as [] PASSUR Landing Fee Management solution manages
                   key influencer).                                $1.2 billion in aviation fees annually.

</TABLE>

The Company believes its products, solutions, and services help its aviation
customers generate significant returns by:

     (1)  Improving financial performance and cutting costs;
     (2)  Improving operational efficiency and effectiveness;
     (3)  Increasing safety and security; and
     (4)  Improving the passenger experience.

The Company currently owns twenty-three issued patents and has an additional
eleven patent applications which are pending with the United States Patent
Office. The issued patents expire in various years through 2031.

The Company also owns a federal trademark registration in the mark PASSUR for
use with both the PASSUR hardware system installation, and the software products
which use the data derived from the PASSUR Network and other sources; and
allowed federal trademark applications for the marks NextGen2 and NextGen3, for
use with PASSUR Integrated Traffic Management modules and capabilities.

                                                                    Page 8 of 59

The Company believes its business opportunities come from the following industry
conditions and demand drivers:

     AIRLINE INDUSTRY DYNAMICS

     o    INCREASING AIRLINE PROFITABILITY, DRIVING INVESTMENT IN TECHNOLOGY. We
          expect airlines will take advantage of their increased profitability
          to invest in technology that can lower costs, increase revenue, and
          improve customer satisfaction.
     o    CONSOLIDATION IN THE AIRLINE INDUSTRY CREATING DEMAND FOR A COMMON
          OPERATING SYSTEM. Airlines are consolidating into much larger networks
          of greater complexity. There is increasing demand for a common
          operating platform that can service their entire system.
     o    CURRENT RATE OF PROJECTED TRAFFIC GROWTH OUTPACING AVIATION
          INFRASTRUCTURE CAPACITY. There is a dynamic and fast-growing market
          environment where the projected increase in airline flights over the
          next 10 years is expected to outpace the current infrastructure's
          ability to meet the needs of the airline operators. PASSUR's solutions
          help the aviation industry maximize the capacity of the existing
          infrastructure. PASSUR has a business model and platform that can be
          easily scaled to handle new opportunities and is continually
          identifying new ways to capitalize on and scale these existing
          capabilities.

     GOVERNMENT POLICY

     o    NEW LARGE GOVERNMENT CONTRACTS COMBINING BOTH SAFETY AND EFFICIENCY
          CAPABILITIES. Today, there is a demand for a combination of
          safety-based Air Traffic Management ("ATM") and efficiency-based ATM.
          Many of the requested efficiency capabilities are derived from airline
          and airport customers' needs.
     o    FUNDING SHIFT FROM GOVERNMENT TO COMMERCIAL CREATING A NEED FOR A
          PORTAL TO THE CIVIL/COMMERCIAL BUSINESS FOR GOVERNMENT CONTRACTORS.
          Many companies regard PASSUR's substantial commercial market share as
          a means to increase the probability of winning NextGen and government
          contracts through the combination of PASSUR's commercial ATM
          (efficiency) with a partner's government ATM (safety) capabilities.
          PASSUR has been recognized as the commercial leader in aviation
          efficiency solutions.
     o    LOWER TOLERANCE FOR SEVERE DISRUPTIONS. Public policy in the form of
          expensive fines levied on airlines reflects this change of attitude.
          Consumers want better information relating to aviation, and fewer
          delays.
     o    LIMITING CARBON EMISSIONS BECOMING A GREATER FOCUS. Airlines are
          increasingly sensitive to the industry's carbon footprint. Several of
          the PASSUR solutions impact both fuel savings as well as reductions in
          carbon emissions.

    THE CONNECTED AIRPLANE AND INTERNET OF THINGS ("IOT")

     o    THE CONNECTED AIRPLANE AND THE IOT ARE EXPECTED TO GROW IN THE COMING
          YEARS. PASSUR's existing aviation intelligence platform and solutions
          can integrate the vast array of data being generated from satellites
          and sensors on airplanes. This platform can extract the most important
          data and integrate that data into a user-friendly solutions package
          for the user's critical real-time decisions.

      COLLABORATIVE DECISION MAKING

     o    AIRLINES ARE REQUESTING A COLLABORATIVE DECISION MAKING PLATFORM.
          Large airlines need collaborative decision tools including common
          operating platforms, enabling instant coordination between system
          operations departments, hubs, and regional operators, and between
          airlines and airports, to solve complex operational procedures. Common
          use systems will incorporate airport-centric as well as
          airline-centric solutions. Airports are increasingly being tasked with
          providing more multi-airline operational services, previously provided
          by each airline. When airports provide collective services, redundancy
          and costs can be reduced. PASSUR has been asked by airlines and
          airports to help fulfill this need.

                                                                    Page 9 of 59

<PAGE>


     AUTOMATION AND DATA STANDARDS

     o    SIGNIFICANT SHIFT FROM MANUAL PROCESSES TO AUTOMATION CREATING LARGE
          OPPORTUNITIES FOR COST SAVINGS AND EFFICIENCIES. Many complex and
          expensive operational processes at airlines and airports are still
          manual, opening a large opportunity for automation enabling the
          realization of cost savings and efficiencies. These opportunities are
          especially prevalent in the areas of irregular operations, airspace
          and surface management, and operations where there is a heavy
          requirement for collaboration among airlines and airports.
     o    PASSUR'S ENTIRE NETWORK HAS BEEN ADS-B READY FOR SOME TIME AND PASSUR
          IS LOOKING FORWARD TO CAPITALIZING ON THE INCREASING AVAILABILITY OF
          ADS-B DATA. ADS-B will eventually become a ubiquitous form of aircraft
          surveillance.

HOW PASSUR AEROSPACE, INC. GENERATES REVENUE

The Company's revenues are generated by selling: (1) subscription-based,
real-time decision and solution information and (2) professional services. Under
the subscription model, the customer signs,at a minimum, a one-year contract for
access to the information services. The agreement also provides that the
information from the PASSUR Network cannot be resold, used by others, or used
for unauthorized purposes.

DISTRIBUTION METHOD

The Company's direct sales force sells its products, as do authorized
distributors who sell PASSUR's products as part of their total solution, e.g.
for environmental management.

COMPETITION

PASSUR has developed a full suite of capabilities to reduce inefficiencies and
improve performance across the markets it serves. There is no other company, to
PASSUR's knowledge, which offers these capabilities. There are, however, other
forms of flight tracking, surveillance, and aviation business intelligence
products. Depending on the end use of the Company's products, primary
competitors include Sabre, Airbus, Saab, The Weather Company/IBM, and Harris
Corporation. The Company also sells certain data solutions through systems
integrators, including Bruel & Kjaer, some of which may also sell products that
are competitive with those offered by the Company. Most of these companies have
larger sales forces and greater financial resources than the Company.

SOURCE OF MATERIALS

The Company obtains its components from distributors and manufacturers
throughout the United States. The Company has multiple sources from which to
obtain a majority of its components.

DEPENDENCE ON CERTAIN CUSTOMERS

Three customers accounted for 41%,or $5,094,000, of total revenues in fiscal
year 2015. One customer accounted for 14% or $1,740,000, a second customer
accounted for 13% or $1,692,000, and a third customer accounted for 13% or
$1,662,000 of total revenues in fiscal year 2015. Two customers accounted for
24%, or $2,707,000, of total revenues in fiscal year 2014. One customer
accounted for 14% or $1,613,000, and a second customer accounted for 10% or
$1,094,000 of total revenues in fiscal year 2014. There were no significant past
due accounts receivable balances for any customers as of the fiscal year ended
October 31, 2015.

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT

The Company's research and development efforts include activities associated
with the enhancement, maintenance, and improvement of the Company's existing
hardware, software, and information products. These expenses amounted to
$725,000 and $673,000 in fiscal years 2015 and 2014, respectively.

ENVIRONMENTAL COSTS

The Company is not aware of any environmental issues which would have a material
adverse effect on future capital expenditures or current and future business
operations.

                                                                   Page 10 or 59

<PAGE>



EMPLOYEES

The Company employed forty-four employees, of which thirty-nine were full-time,
including eleven officers, as of October 31, 2015. None of its employees is
subject to any collective bargaining agreements.

AVAILABLE INFORMATION

Stockholders may obtain copies of our filings with the SEC, free of charge from
the website maintained by the SEC at www.sec.gov or from our website at
www.passur.com. Further, a copy of this Annual Report on Form 10-K is located at
the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street NE, Washington, D.C. 20549.
Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room can be obtained by
calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. Our filings will be available on our website
as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such materials
with the SEC. However, the information from our website is not incorporated by
reference into this report.

