 Item 1. Business 

Overview

Powell Industries, Inc. was incorporated in the state of Delaware in 2004 as a successor to a Nevada company incorporated in 1968. The Nevada corporation was the successor to a company founded by William E. Powell in 1947, which merged into the Company in 1977. We are headquartered in Houston, Texas, and our major subsidiaries, all of which are wholly owned, include: Powell Electrical Systems, Inc.; Powell (UK) Limited; Powell Canada Inc. and Powell Industries International, B.V. 

Our website is powellind.com . We make available, free of charge on or through our website, copies of our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as soon as is reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Additionally, all of our reports filed with the SEC are available via their website at http:// www.sec.gov , or may be read and copied at the SEC Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549.

We develop design, manufacture and service custom-engineered equipment and systems for the distribution, control and monitoring of electrical energy designed to (1) distribute, control and monitor the flow of electrical energy and (2) provide protection to motors, transformers and other electrically powered equipment. Our principal products include integrated power control room substations (PCRs&#174;), custom-engineered modules, electrical houses (E-Houses), traditional and arc-resistant distribution switchgear and control gear, medium-voltage circuit breakers, monitoring and control communications systems, motor control centers and bus duct systems. These products are designed for application voltages ranging from 480 volts to 38,000 volts and are used in oil and gas refining, offshore oil and gas production, petrochemical, pipeline, terminal, mining and metals, light rail traction power, electric utility, pulp and paper and other heavy industrial markets. Our product scope includes designs tested to meet both U.S. standards (ANSI) and international standards (IEC). We assist customers by providing value-added services such as spare parts, field service inspection, installation, commissioning, modification and repair, retrofit and retrofill components for existing systems and replacement circuit breakers for switchgear that is obsolete or that is no longer produced by the original manufacturer. We seek to establish long-term relationships with the end users of our systems as well as the design and construction engineering firms contracted by those end users.

References to Fiscal 2016, Fiscal 2015 and Fiscal 2014 used throughout this Annual Report relate to our fiscal years ended September 30, 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively.

Revenues from customers located in the United States of America (U.S.) accounted for approximately 72%, 72% and 56% of our consolidated revenues for Fiscal 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively. Revenues from customers located in Canada accounted for approximately 14%, 15% and 21% of consolidated revenues for Fiscal 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively. Approximately 61% of our long-lived assets were located in the U.S. at September 30, 2016, with 36% of long-lived assets located in Canada and 3% of long-lived assets located in the United Kingdom (U.K.). Detailed geographic information is included in Note L of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report. 

In January 2014, we sold our wholly owned subsidiary Transdyn Inc. (Transdyn). We have presented the results of these operations as income from discontinued operations, net of tax, in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations. Additionally, all current and historical financial information presented in this Annual Report excludes the financial information for Transdyn or presents it as discontinued operations where applicable. For more information about this disposition, see Note N of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report. 

Customers and Markets

Our principal customers are sophisticated users of large amounts of electrical energy that typically require a complex combination of electrical components and systems. These customers and their industries include oil and gas refining, offshore oil and gas production, petrochemical, pipeline, terminal, mining and metals, light rail traction power, electric utility, pulp and paper and other industrial markets.

Products and services are principally sold directly to the end user or to an engineering, procurement and construction (EPC) firm on behalf of the end user. Each project is specifically engineered and manufactured to meet the exact specifications and requirements of the individual customer. Powell&#8217;s expertise is in the design and engineering, manufacturing, project management and integration of the various systems into a single custom-engineered deliverable. We market and sell our products and services, which are typically awarded in competitive bid situations, to a wide variety of customers, governmental agencies, markets and geographic regions. Contracts often represent large-scale and complex projects with an individual customer. By their nature, these projects are typically 

&#160;

nonrecurring. Thus, multiple and/or continuous projects of similar magnitude with the same customer may vary. As such, the timing of large project awards may cause material fluctuations in r evenues and gross margins . 

Due to the nature and timing of large projects, a significant percentage of revenues in a given period may result from one specific contract or customer. Although we could be adversely impacted by a significant reduction in business volume from a particular industry, we do not believe the loss of any specific customer would have a material adverse effect on our business. However, from time to time, an individual manufacturing facility may have significant volume from one particular customer which would be material to that facility. No customer accounted for more than 10% of our revenues in Fiscal 2016, Fiscal 2015 or Fiscal 2014. 

Competition 

We strive to be the supplier of choice for custom-engineered system solutions and services to a variety of customers and markets. Our activities are predominantly in the oil and gas and the electric utility industries, but also include other markets where customers need to manage, monitor and control large amounts of electrical energy. The majority of our business is in support of capital investment projects that are highly complex and competitively bid. Our customized systems are designed to meet the specifications of our customers. Each system is designed, engineered and manufactured to the specific requirements of the particular application. We consider our engineering, project management, systems integration and technical support capabilities vital to the success of our business. 

We believe our products and services, integration capabilities, technical and project management strengths, application engineering expertise and specialty contracting experience, together with our responsiveness and flexibility to the needs of our customers and financial strength, give us a sustainable competitive advantage in our markets. We compete with a small number of multinational competitors that sell to a broad industrial and geographic market and with smaller, regional competitors that typically have limited capabilities and scope of supply. Our principal competitors include ABB, Eaton, General Electric Company, Schneider and Siemens. The competitive factors used during bid evaluation by our customers vary from project to project and may include technical support and application expertise, engineering and manufacturing capabilities, equipment rating, delivered value, scheduling and price. While projects are typically non-recurring, a significant portion of our business is from repeat customers and many times involves third-party EPC firms hired by the end user and with which we also have long and established relationships. Ultimately, our competitive position is dependent upon our ability to provide quality custom-engineered products, services and systems on a timely basis at a competitive price.

Backlog

Backlog represents the dollar amount of revenue that we expect to realize from work to be performed on uncompleted contracts, including new contractual agreements on which work has not begun. Our methodology for determining backlog may not be comparable to the methodology used by other companies. Orders included in our backlog are represented by customer purchase orders and contracts, which we believe to be firm. Our backlog at September 30, 2016 totaled $291.4 million compared to $441.4 million at September 30, 2015. We anticipate that approximately $228 million of Fiscal 2016 ending backlog will be fulfilled during our fiscal year ending September 30, 2017. Backlog may not be indicative of future operating results as orders in our backlog may be cancelled or modified by our customers.

Raw Materials and Suppliers

The principal raw materials used in our operations include steel, copper and aluminum and various electrical components. Material costs represented 47% and 46% of revenues in Fiscal 2016 and Fiscal 2015, respectively. Unanticipated changes in material requirements, disruptions in supplies or price increases could impact production costs and affect our consolidated results of operations.

Our supply base for certain key components and raw materials is limited. Changes in our design to accommodate similar components from other suppliers could be implemented to resolve a supply problem related to a sole-sourced component. In this circumstance, supply problems could result in delays in our ability to meet commitments to our customers. We believe that sources of supply for raw materials and components are generally sufficient, and we do not believe a shortage of materials will cause any significant adverse impact in the future. While we are not dependent on any one supplier for the majority of our raw materials, we are highly dependent on our suppliers in order to meet commitments to our customers. We have not experienced significant or unusual issues in the purchase of key raw materials or components in the past three fiscal years. 

Our business is subject to the effects of changing material prices. During the last three fiscal years, we have not experienced significant price volatility for raw materials or component parts used in the production of our products. While the cost outlook for commodities used in the production of our products is not certain, we believe we can manage this volatility through contract pricing 

&#160;

adjustments, with material-cost predictive estimating and by actively pursuing internal cost reduction efforts. We did not enter into any derivative contracts to hedge our exposure to commodity price changes in Fiscal 2016, 2015 or 2014. 

Employees

At September 30, 2016, we had 2,323 full-time employees located primarily in the United States, Canada and the U.K. Our employees are not represented by unions, and we believe that our relationship with our employees is good.

Intellectual Property

While we are the holder of various patents, trademarks, servicemarks, copyrights and licenses, we do not consider any individual intellectual property to be material to our consolidated business operations.

&#160;

