 ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

Company Overview 

Escalon Medical Corp. (&#8220;Escalon&#8221; or the &#8220;Company&#8221; ) is a Pennsylvania corporation initially incorporated in California in 1987, and reincorporated in Pennsylvania in November 2001. Within this document, the &#8220;Company&#8221; collectively shall mean Escalon and its wholly owned subsidiaries: Sonomed, Inc. (&#8220;Sonomed&#8221;), Trek, Inc. (&#8220;Trek&#8221;), Escalon Medical Europe GmbH (inactive), Escalon Digital Solutions, Inc. (&#8220;EMI&#8221;), Escalon Pharmaceutical, Inc. (&#8220;Pharmaceutical&#8221; inactive), Escalon Holdings, Inc. (&#8220;EHI&#8221;), Escalon IP Holdings, Inc., Sonomed IP Holdings, Inc., Drew Scientific Holdings, Inc. (discontinued), Drew Scientific Inc. (discontinued), and Drew Scientific Group, Plc (&#8220;Drew&#8221;) and its subsidiaries (discontinued). All intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated. 

A-Scans 

The A-Scan provides information about the internal structure of the eye by sending a beam of ultrasound along a fixed axis through the eye and displaying the various echoes reflected from the surfaces intersected by the beam. The principal echoes occur at the cornea, both surfaces of the lens and the retina. The system displays the position and magnitudes of the echoes on an electronic display. The A-Scan also includes software for measuring distances within the eye. This information is primarily used to calculate lens power for implants. 

B-Scans 

The B-Scan is primarily a diagnostic tool that supplies information to physicians where the media within the eye are cloudy or opaque. Whereas physicians normally use light, which cannot pass through such media, the ultrasound beam is capable of passing through the opacity and displaying an image of the internal structures of the eye. Unlike the A-Scan, the B-Scan transducer is not in a fixed position; it swings through a 60 degree sector to provide a two-dimensional image of the eye. 

UBM 

The UBM is a high frequency/high resolution ultrasound device, designed to provide highly detailed information about the anterior segment of the eye. The UBM is used for glaucoma evaluation, tumor evaluation and differentiation, pre- and post-intraocular lens implantation and corneal refractive surgery. The device allows the surgeons to perform precise measurements within the anterior chamber of the eye. 

Pachymeters 

The pachymeter uses the same principles as the A-Scan, but the system is tailored to measure the thickness of the cornea. With the advent of refractive surgery (where the cornea is actually cut and reshaped) this measurement has become critical. Surgeons must know the precise thickness of the cornea so as to set the blade to make a cut of approximately 20% of the thickness of the cornea. 

Color/Fluorescein Angiography (&#8220;CFA&#8221;) Digital Imaging Systems 

The CFA (Color/Fluorescein Angiography) digital imaging system is designed specifically for ophthalmology. This diagnostic tool, ideal for use in detecting retinal problems in diabetic and elderly patients, provides a high-resolution image, far superior to conventional film in image quality, processing and capture. The instant image display provides users with the necessary clinical information that allows treatment to be performed while the patient is still in the physician&#8217;s office. 

Ispan Intraocular Gases 

The Company distributes two intraocular gas products C3F8 and SF6, which are used by vitreoretinal surgeons as a temporary tamponade in detached retina surgery. Under a non-exclusive distribution agreement with Scott Medical Products (&#8220;Scott&#8221;), the Company distributes packages of Scott gases in canisters containing up to 25 grams of gas. Along with the intraocular gases, the Company manufactures and distributes a patented disposable universal gas kit, which delivers the gas from the canister to the patient. 

Viscous Fluid Transfer Systems 

The Company markets viscous fluid transfer systems and related disposable syringe products, which aid surgeons in the process of injecting and extracting silicone oil. Adjustable pressures and vacuums provided by the equipment allow surgeons to manipulate the flow of silicone oil during surgery. 

Fiber Optic Light Sources 

Light source and fiber optic products are widely used by vitreoretinal surgeons during surgery. The Company offers surgeons a complete line of light sources along with a variety of fiber optic probes and illuminated tissue manipulators. 

AXIS Image Management 

The AXIS Image management system easily manages images via the web from any device regardless of modality, manufacturer or location. 

Research and Development 

The development of ultrasound ophthalmic equipment is performed at the Company&#8217;s Lake Success, New York and Stoneham, Massachusetts facilities. Company-sponsored research and development expenditures from continuing operations for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2016 &#32;and 2015 &#32;were approximately $ 1,450,000 &#32;and $ 1,302,000 , respectively. 

Manufacturing and Distribution 

The Company leases 11,250 square feet of space in Wisconsin, for its surgical products.The space was reduced to 8,100 square feet in August 2015. The facility is currently used for product assembly related to Trek. The Company also leases 3,452 square feet in Stoneham, Massachusetts used primarily for product design and development in the EMI business unit. The Company subcontracts component manufacture, assembly and sterilization to various vendors. The Company&#8217;s ophthalmic surgical products are distributed from the Company&#8217;s Wisconsin facility. 

The Company designs, develops and services its ultrasound ophthalmic products at its 12,173 square foot facility in Lake Success, New York. The Company has achieved ISO 13485 certification at its manufacturing facilities for all medical devices the Company produces. ISO 13485 requires an implemented quality system that applies to product design, manufacture, installation and servicing. These certifications can be obtained only after a complete audit of a company&#8217;s quality system by an independent outside auditor. These certifications require that facilities undergo periodic reexamination. The Company has obtained European Community certification (&#8220;CE&#8221;) for many of its in vitro diagnostic devices for hematology, HbA1c, and clinical chemistry, ophthalmic surgical instruments, ophthalmic ultrasound systems, and image management systems. 

The manufacture, testing and marketing of each of the Company&#8217;s products entails risk of product liability. The Company carries product liability insurance to cover primary risk. 

Governmental Regulations 

The Company&#8217;s products are subject to stringent ongoing regulation by the FDA and similar health authorities, and if these governmental approvals or clearances of the Company&#8217;s products are restricted or revoked, the Company could face delays that would impair the Company&#8217;s ability to generate funds from operations. 

The Company has received the necessary FDA and other necessary regulations clearances and approvals for all products that the Company currently markets. The FDA and comparable agencies in state and local jurisdictions and in foreign countries impose substantial requirements upon the manufacturing and marketing of pharmaceutical and medical device equipment and related disposables, including the obligation to adhere to the FDA&#8217;s Good Manufacturing Practice regulations. Compliance with these regulations requires time-consuming detailed validation of manufacturing and quality control practices, FDA periodic inspections and other procedures. If the FDA finds any deficiencies in the validation processes, for example, the FDA may impose restrictions on marketing the specific products until such deficiencies are corrected. 

The FDA and similar health authorities in foreign countries extensively regulate the Company&#8217;s activities. The Company must obtain either 510(K) clearances or pre-market approvals and new drug application approvals prior to marketing a product in the United States. Foreign regulation also requires that the Company obtain other approvals from foreign government agencies prior to the sale of products in those countries. Also, the Company may be required to obtain FDA clearance or approval before exporting a product or device that has not received FDA marketing clearance or approval. 

The Company has received CE approval on several of the Company&#8217;s products that allows the Company to sell the products in the countries comprising the European Community. In addition to the CE mark, some foreign countries require separate individual foreign regulatory clearances. 

Marketing and Sales 

The Sonomed product line is sold through internal sales employees as well as independent sales representatives located in the United States and Europe, to a large network of distributors and directly to medical institutions. 

Trek and EMI sell their ophthalmic devices and instruments directly to end users through internal sales and marketing employees located at the Company&#8217;s Wisconsin and Massachusetts facilities. Sales are primarily made to teaching institutions, key hospitals and eye surgery centers, focusing primarily on physicians and operating room personnel performing vitreoretinal surgery. The EMI product line is sold through internal sales employees and independent sales representatives in the United States. 

Service and Support 

The Company maintains a full-service program for all products sold. The Company provides limited warranties on all products against defects and performance. Product repairs are made at the Wisconsin facility for surgical devices and EMI devices. Sonomed&#8217;s products are serviced at the Company&#8217;s New York facility. 

Patents, Trademarks and Licenses 

The pharmaceutical and medical device communities place considerable importance on obtaining patent and trade secret protection for new technologies, products and processes for the purpose of strengthening the Company&#8217;s position in the market place and protecting the Company&#8217;s economic interests. The Company&#8217;s policy is to protect its technology by aggressively obtaining patent protection for substantially all of its developments and products, both in the United States and in selected countries outside the United States. It is the Company&#8217;s policy to file for patent protection in those foreign countries in which the Company believes such protection is necessary to protect its economic interests. The duration of the Company&#8217;s patents, trademarks and licenses vary through 2020. The Company has 13 United States patents and 19 patents issued abroad that cover the Company&#8217;s surgical products and pharmaceutical technology. 

The Company intends to vigorously defend its patents if the need arises. 

Competition 

There are numerous direct and indirect competitors of the Company in the United States and abroad. These competitors include ophthalmic-oriented companies that market a broad portfolio of products, including: 

&#8226; 

prescription ophthalmic pharmaceuticals, ophthalmic devices, consumer products and other eye care products; 

&#8226; 

large integrated pharmaceutical companies that market a limited number of ophthalmic pharmaceuticals in addition to many other pharmaceuticals; 

&#8226; 

and smaller specialty pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies that are engaged in the development and commercialization of prescription ophthalmic pharmaceuticals and products and, to some extent, drug delivery systems. 

The Company&#8217;s competitors for medical devices and ophthalmic pharmaceuticals include, but are not limited to, Bausch &#38; Lomb, Inc., Alcon Laboratories, Inc., Paradigm Medical, Inc., Quantel, Inc. and Accutome, Inc. 

Several large companies dominate the ophthalmic market, with the balance of the industry being highly fragmented. The Company believes that these large companies capture approximately 85% of the overall ophthalmic market. The balance of the market is comprised of smaller companies ranging from start-up entities to established market players. The ophthalmic market in general is intensely competitive, with each company eager to expand its market share. The Company&#8217;s strategy is to compete primarily on the basis of technological innovation to which it has proprietary rights. The Company believes, therefore, that its business will depend in large part on protecting its intellectual property through patents and other governmental regulations. 

Sonomed&#8217;s principal competitors are Alcon Laboratories, Inc, Quantel, Inc. and Accutome, Inc. Sonomed has had a leading presence in the ophthalmic ultrasound industry for over 30 years. Management believes that this has helped Sonomed build a reputation as a long-standing operation that provides a quality product, which has enabled the Company to establish effective distribution coverage within the United States market. Various competitors offering similar products at a lower price could threaten Sonomed&#8217;s market position. The development of laser technologies for ophthalmic biometrics and imaging may also diminish the Company&#8217;s market position. This equipment can be used instead of ultrasound equipment in most, but not all, patients. Such equipment, however, is more expensive. 

Trek and EMI sell a broad range of ophthalmic surgical and diagnostic products. The more significant products are ISPAN &#174; &#32;gases and delivery systems. Trek and EMI also manufacture various ophthalmic surgical products for major ophthalmic companies to be sold under their names. To remain competitive, the Company needs to maintain a low-cost operation. There are numerous other companies that can provide this manufacturing service. There are a variety of other devices that directly compete with the camera back marketed by EMI. 

Human Resources 

As of June 30, 2016 , the Company employed 50 employees. Of these employees, 20 of the Company&#8217;s employees are employed in manufacturing, 16 are employed in general and administrative positions, 7 are employed in sales and marketing and 7 are employed in research and development. The Company&#8217;s employees are not covered by a collective bargaining agreement, and the Company considers its relationship with its employees to be good. 

