 ITEM 1 BUSINESS 

Our Business 

We are a designer and manufacturer of high-performance scientific instruments and analytical and diagnostic solutions that enable our customers to explore life and materials at microscopic, molecular and cellular levels. Many of our products are used to detect, measure and visualize structural characteristics of chemical, biological and industrial material samples. Our products address the rapidly evolving needs of a diverse array of customers in life science research, pharmaceuticals, biotechnology, applied markets, cell biology, clinical research, microbiology, in-vitro diagnostics, nanotechnology and materials science research. Our technology platforms include magnetic resonance technologies, mass spectrometry technologies, gas and liquid chromatography triple quadrupole mass spectrometry technologies, X-ray technologies, spark-optical emission spectroscopy, atomic force microscopy, stylus and optical metrology technology, fluorescence optical microscopy and infrared and Raman molecular spectroscopy technologies. We manufacture and distribute a broad range of field analytical systems for chemical, biological, radiological, nuclear and explosives, or CBRNE, detection. We also design, manufacture and market high and low temperature superconducting materials and devices based primarily on metallic low temperature superconductors. Our corporate headquarters are located in Billerica, Massachusetts. We maintain major technical and manufacturing centers in Europe and North America, and we have sales offices located throughout the world. 

Business Segments 

We have two reportable segments, Bruker Scientific Instruments (BSI) , which represents approximately 92% of our revenues during the year ended December 31, 2015, and Bruker Energy &#38; Supercon Technologies (BEST) , which represents the remainder of our revenues. Within BSI, we are organized into three operating segments: the Bruker BioSpin Group, the Bruker CALID Group and the Bruker Nano Group. For financial reporting purposes, the Bruker BioSpin, Bruker CALID and Bruker Nano operating segments are aggregated into the BSI reportable segment because each has similar economic characteristics, production processes, service offerings, types and classes of customers, methods of distribution and regulatory environments. 

BSI Segment 

Bruker BioSpin Group 

The Bruker BioSpin Group combines the Bruker Magnetic Resonance and Preclinical Imaging Divisions and designs, manufactures and distributes enabling life science tools based on magnetic resonance technology. Magnetic resonance is a natural phenomenon occurring when a molecule placed in a magnetic field gives off a signature radio frequency. The signature radio frequency is characteristic of the particular molecule and provides a multitude of precise chemical and structural information. Depending on the intended application, we market and sell to our customers a NMR system or an EPR system (each as defined below). 

Bruker BioSpin also manufactures and sells single and multiple modality systems using MRI, PET, SPECT, CT, MPI (each as defined below) and optical imaging technologies to preclinical markets. Bruker BioSpin's products, which have particular application in structural proteomics, drug discovery, research and food and materials science fields, provide customers with the ability to determine the structure, dynamics, and function of specific molecules, such as proteins, and to characterize and determine the composition of mixtures. 

The vast majority of Bruker BioSpin's revenues are generated by academic and government research customers. Other customers include pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies and nonprofit laboratories, as well as chemical, food and beverage, clinical and polymer companies. 

During 2015, we launched a number of new products and technologies, including a new high-performance benchtop electron paramagnetic resonance instrument, a solid state NMR probe with ultra-high spinning frequency and NMR honey and wine profiling systems. We also launched the following next generation preclinical imaging systems: Albira Si, BioSpec 3T and Xtreme II. 

Bruker BioSpin Group's instruments are based on the following technology platforms: 

&#149; NMR &#151;Nuclear magnetic resonance; &#149; EPR &#151;Electron paramagnetic resonance; &#149; MRI &#151;Magnetic resonance imaging; &#149; MPI &#151;Magnetic Particle Imaging; &#149; PET &#151;Positron Emission Tomography; &#149; SPECT &#151;Single Photon Emission Tomography; &#149; CT &#151;Computed Tomography; and &#149; OI &#151;Optical Imaging (fluorescence and bioluminescence). &#160; NMR is a qualitative and quantitative analytical technique that is used to determine the molecular structure and purity of a sample. Molecules are placed in a magnetic field and give off a radio frequency, or rf, signature that is recorded by a sensitive detector. Analysis software helps to determine the molecular structure of the sample. The NMR technique is used in academia, pharmaceutical, biotechnology, food and beverage and clinical companies, and by other industrial users in life science and material science research. 

&#160; EPR is a process of absorption of microwave radiation by paramagnetic ions or molecules with at least one unpaired electron that spins in the presence of a static magnetic field. EPR detects unpaired electrons unambiguously, whereas other techniques can only provide indirect evidence of their presence. In addition, EPR can identify the paramagnetic species that are detected, which present information on the molecular structure near the unpaired electron and give insight into dynamic processes such as molecular motions or fluidity. Our EPR instruments are used for a wide range of applications, including advanced materials research, materials analysis and quality control. 

&#160; MRI is a process of creating an image from the manipulation of hydrogen atoms in a magnetic field. In the presence of an external magnetic field, atoms will align with or against the external magnetic field. Application of a radio frequency causes the atoms to jump between high and low energy states. MRI and magnetic resonance spectroscopy, or MRS, include many methods including diffusion-weighted, perfusion-weighted, molecular imaging and contrast-enhance. MRI offers high resolution morphologic information, as well as functional, metabolic or molecular information. Customers use our MRI systems in pharmaceutical research, including metabolomics, to study a number of diseases, including diabetes, neurology, oncology and cardiovascular disorders. 

&#160; MPI is a process of creating an image from magnetic particles administered to the body of an animal. The magnetic particles are manipulated in a combination of oscillating magnetic fields exhibiting a field free zone. The response of the particles allows a real time 3D data set acquisition of the whole body of an animal, showing the contrast agent distributing in and flowing through the body. This imaging modality is used to detect cardiovascular disorders. 

&#160; PET is a process of creating an image from positrons after administration of a positron emitting radionuclide to the body of an animal. Annihilation of the positron produces two photons which show an angle of 180&#176; between them, distinguishing these photons from photons originating from other sources. The PET tracer enriches in certain regions of interest within the body and gains molecular information from the animal in vivo . This has widespread applications, most importantly for oncology, inflammation, neurology and cardiovascular disorders, as well as metabolic disease, drug discovery and bone disease. 

&#160; SPECT uses a contrast agent containing radionuclides which directly emit single photons. The contrast agent enriches in certain parts of the body of an animal and generates images of the radionuclide distribution in the body. SPECT has widespread application in animal investigations in vivo , most importantly in oncology, neurology and cardiovascular disorders. 

&#160; CT is a technology based on X-rays which are used to generate a complete 3D data set. The most important applications are tissue sample analysis or non-invasive in vivo animal imaging. CT offers the highest spatial resolution of all preclinical imaging modalities and is especially useful to generate morphological information about the object or animal under investigation. CT is being used in all fields of preclinical investigations such as bone-orthopedics, cardiovascular, pulmonary, oncology, metabolism and others. 

&#160; OI is a process of creating an image from light emitted from within the body of an animal in vivo . This is achieved by administration of a fluorescent imaging agent and corresponding activation of fluorescence via an external light source, or fluorescence imaging. Alternatively, it is possible to manipulate the animal under investigation such that it contains molecules which emit light without external irradiation, or bioluminescence imaging. Optical imaging is a very sensitive imaging technology used for generating molecular information in an investigation. The main fields of application are oncology, neurology, inflammation, stem cell research and bone and infectious diseases. 

Bruker CALID Group 

The Bruker CALID Group combines the Bruker Daltonics, which is a combination of the former Life Sciences and Clinical (LSC) and Chemical and Applied Markets (CAM) Divisions, Bruker Detection and Bruker Optics Divisions. The Bruker Daltonics Division primarily designs, manufactures and distributes life science mass spectrometry, or MS, instruments that can be integrated and used along with other sample preparation or chromatography instruments. These products are used in both research and clinical diagnostic settings. Mass spectrometers are sophisticated devices that measure the mass or weight of a molecule and can provide accurate information on the identity, quantity and primary structure of molecules. Mass spectrometry based solutions often combine advanced mass spectrometry instrumentation, automated sampling and sample preparation robots, reagent kits and other disposable products used in conducting tests, or assays, and bioinformatics software. We offer mass spectrometry systems and integrated solutions for applications in multiple existing and emerging life science markets and chemical and applied markets, including expression proteomics, clinical proteomics, metabolic and peptide biomarker profiling, drug discovery and development, molecular diagnostics research and molecular and systems biology, as well as basic molecular medicine research and clinical microbiology (for IVD use only in certain countries and certain configurations). 

Our Detection Division supplies various systems based on mass spectrometry, ion mobility spectrometry, infrared spectroscopy and radiological/nuclear detectors for Chemical, Biological, Radiological, Nuclear and Explosive (CBRNE) detection in emergency response, homeland security and defense applications. 

The Bruker Optics Division manufactures and distributes research, analytical and process analysis instruments and solutions based on infrared and Raman molecular spectroscopy technologies. These products are utilized in industry, government and academia for a wide range of applications and 

solutions for life science, pharmaceutical, food and agricultural analysis, quality control and process analysis applications. Infrared and Raman spectroscopy are widely used in both research and industry as simple, rapid, nondestructive and reliable techniques for applications ranging from basic sample identification and quality control to advanced research. The Bruker Optics Division also utilizes Fourier transform and dispersive Raman measurement techniques on an extensive range of laboratory and process spectrometers. The Bruker Optics Division's products are complemented by a wide range of sampling accessories and techniques, which include microanalysis, high-throughput screening, and many others, to help users find suitable solutions to analyze their samples effectively. 

Customers of our Bruker CALID Group include pharmaceutical, biotechnology and diagnostics companies, contract research organizations, academic institutions, medical schools, nonprofit or for-profit forensics, agriculture, food and beverage safety, environmental and clinical microbiology laboratories, hospitals and government departments and agencies. 

During 2015, we launched a number of new mass spectrometry based product solutions, including the MALDI Tissue Typer, which is a system solution that allows for new measurement strategies to assist the analysis of the spatial distribution of biomarkers in tissue sections. We also introduced the MALDI rapifleX TOF/TOF (time of flight) with a 10kHz laser for TOF/TOF performance and robustness for primary structure and post-translational modifications determination in proteomics and biopharma applications. We also introduced the MALDI Pharma Pulse high throughput screening solution, which was designed to meet the requirements of the pharmaceutical industry. Major software releases accompanied our instrument solutions launches in 2015 for the life science segment, such as the Molecular Drug Image for pre-clinical drug and metabolite imaging. We also released the MetaboScape 1.0 Software, which allows our customers to link experimental metabolomics data to biology by pathway mapping, and the ProteinScape 4.0 as a central bioinformatics platform for extended storage and processing of MS and MS/MS proteomics and glycomics data. 

In the MALDI Biotyper product family for microbial identification we launched the high-end MALDI Biotyper smart system with a faster, proprietary life-time laser for laboratories, which want to extend the system's capabilities in terms of throughput, turnaround time and range of applications. Additionally, we CE-marked the IVD MALDI Sepsityper kit according to the European In Vitro Diagnostic Directive 98/79/EC. The IVD MALDI Sepsityper kit is used for the rapid microbial identification from positive blood cultures derived from patients with potentially life threatening diseases like sepsis. Furthermore, in 2015 we received clearance for a second FDA claim for our MALDI Biotyper-CA system in the United States, which significantly enhances the species coverage for the microbiology routine laboratory. 

We also expanded the Raman product line with the introduction of the handheld Raman spectrometer BRAVO. The BRAVO is the first handheld Raman spectrometer with patented fluorescence mitigation that enables measurement of a much wider range of raw materials compared to previously available systems. 

The Bruker CALID Group's instruments are based on the following technology platforms: 

&#149; MALDI-TOF &#151;Matrix-assisted laser desorption ionization time-of-flight mass spectrometry, including tandem time-of-flight systems (MALDI-TOF/TOF); &#149; ESI-TOF &#151;Electrospray ionization time-of-flight spectrometry, including tandem mass spectrometry systems based on ESI-quadrupole-TOF mass spectrometry (ESI-Q-q-TOF); &#149; FTMS &#151;Fourier transform mass spectrometry, including hybrid systems with a quadrupole front end (Q-q-FTMS); &#149; ITMS &#151;Ion trap mass spectrometry; &#149; GC-MS &#151;Gas chromatography-mass spectrometry systems utilizing triple-quadrupole time-of-flight mass spectrometry; 6 

&#149; LC-MS &#151;Liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry systems utilizing triple-quadrupole time-of flight mass spectrometry; &#149; FT-IR &#151;Fourier transform-infrared spectroscopy; &#149; NIR &#151;Near-infrared spectroscopy; and &#149; Raman &#151;Raman spectroscopy. &#160; MALDI-TOF mass spectrometers utilize an ionization process to analyze solid samples using a laser that combines high sample throughput with high mass range and sensitivity. Our MALDI-TOF mass spectrometers are particularly useful for applications in clinical diagnostics, environmental and taxonomical research and food processing and quality control. Specific applications include: oligonucleotide and synthetic polymer analysis; protein identification and quantification; peptide de novo sequencing; determination of post-translational modifications of proteins; interaction proteomics and protein function analysis; drug discovery and development; and fast body fluid and tissue peptide or protein biomarker detection. MALDI mass spectrometry allows users to classify and identify microorganisms quickly and reliably with minimal sample preparation efforts and life cycle costs. Our MALDI Biotyper solution, which serves the clinical microbiology market, enables identification, taxonomical classification or dereplication of microorganisms like bacteria, yeasts and fungi. 

&#160; ESI-TOF mass spectrometers utilize an electrospray ionization process to analyze liquid samples. This ionization process, which does not dissociate the molecules, allows for rapid data acquisition and analysis of large biological molecules. ESI-TOF mass spectrometers are particularly useful for: identification, protein analysis and functional complex analysis in proteomics and protein function; molecular identification in metabolomics, natural product and drug metabolite analysis; combinatorial chemistry high throughput screening; and fast liquid chromatography mass spectrometry, or liquid chromatography mass spectrometry (LC-MS), in drug discovery and development. 

&#160; FTMS systems utilize high-field superconducting magnets to offer the highest resolution, selectivity, and mass accuracy currently achievable in mass spectrometry. Our systems based on this technology often eliminate the need for time-consuming separation techniques in complex mixture analyses. In addition, our systems can fragment molecular ions to perform exact mass analysis on all fragments to determine molecular structure. FTMS systems are particularly useful for: the study of structure and function of biomolecules, including proteins, DNA and natural products; complex mixture analysis including body fluids or combinatorial libraries; high-throughput proteomics and metabolomics; and top-down proteomics of intact proteins without the need for enzymatic digestion of the proteins prior to analysis. We offer next-generation hybrid FTMS systems that combine a traditional external quadrupole mass selector and hexapole collision cell with a high-performance FTMS for further ion dissociation, top-down proteomics tools and ultra-high resolution detection. 

&#160; ITMS systems collect all ions simultaneously, which improves sensitivity relative to previous quadrupole mass spectrometers. Ion trap mass spectrometers are particularly useful for sequencing and identification based on peptide structural analysis, quantitative liquid chromatography mass spectrometry, identification of combinatorial libraries and generally enhancing the speed and efficiency of the drug discovery and development process. 

&#160; GC-MS systems combine the features of gas chromatography and mass spectrometry to identify different substances within a test sample. The two components, used together, allow for a finer degree of substance identification than either system when used separately. The result is a quantitative analysis of the components and the mass spectrum of each component. Our GC-MS systems are available in triple quadrupole configurations and can be configured with a variety of options to suit a range of applications. Our GC-MS systems have applications in food and product safety, forensics and clinical and toxicology testing and environmental, pharmaceutical and chemical analysis. 

&#160; LC-MS systems combine the separation features of liquid chromatography with the molecular identification features of mass spectrometry to separate, identify and quantify different substances within a test sample. As a complementary technique to GC-MS, which analyzes volatile compounds, LC-MS can be used to analyze a wide range of non-volatile compounds in complex samples. Our LC-MS systems are available in a wide range of configurations to suit a user's specific needs. Although primarily used for life science applications, our LC-MS systems also have applications in food and product safety, forensics and clinical and toxicology testing, as well as environmental, pharmaceutical and chemical analysis. 

&#160; FT-IR spectrometers utilize the mid- and far-infrared regions of the electromagnetic spectrum. Our FT-IR systems are commonly used for various quality control and materials research applications. 

&#160; NIR spectrometers utilize the near-infrared region of the electromagnetic spectrum. Our NIR instruments are primarily used for quality and process control applications in the pharmaceutical, food and agriculture and chemical industries. The pharmaceutical industry is the leading user of NIR instruments, and applications include quality control, research and development and process analytical technology. The food and agricultural industry is the second largest user of NIR instrumentation, with an increasing demand for food, forage and beverage quality control. 

&#160; Raman spectroscopy provides information on molecular structure. The mechanism of Raman scattering is different from that of infrared absorption, in that Raman and IR spectra provide complementary information. Raman is useful for the identification of both organic and inorganic compounds and functional groups. It is a nondestructive technique, and can be used for the analysis of both liquids and solids. Raman is well suited for use in the polymer and pharmaceutical industries, and has applications in the metals, electronics and semiconductors industries. The technique also has applications in life sciences, forensics and artwork authentication. 

Additionally, our Detection Division offers a wide range of portable analytical and bioanalytical detection systems and related products for CBRNE detection. Our customers use these devices for nuclear, biological agent and chemical agent defense applications, anti-terrorism, law enforcement and process and facilities monitoring. Our CBRNE detection products use many of the same technology platforms as our life science products, as well as additional technologies, including infrared stand-off detection and ion mobility spectrometry, for handheld chemical detectors. We also provide integrated, comprehensive detection suites that include our multiple detection systems, consumables, training and simulators. 

Bruker Nano Group 

The Bruker Nano Group combines the Bruker AXS, Bruker Nano Surfaces, Bruker Nano Analytics and Bruker Elemental Divisions. The Bruker AXS Division designs, manufactures and distributes advanced X-ray instruments that use electromagnetic radiation with extremely short wavelengths to determine the characteristics of matter and the three-dimensional structure of molecules, including a product portfolio that comprises instruments based on X-ray fluorescence spectroscopy (XRF), X-ray diffraction (XRD) and X-ray micro computed tomography (&#181;CT). 

Bruker Nano Surfaces Division's products include atomic force microscopy instrumentation (AFM). Such instruments provide atomic or near atomic resolution of surface topography and mechanical, electrical and chemical information using nano scale probes. In addition, the Bruker Nano Surfaces Division provides advanced fluorescence optical microscopy instruments for multi-photon, multipoint scanning confocal, high-speed 3D super-resolution studies in life science. The Bruker Nano Surfaces Division also provides non-contact nanometer resolution topography through white light interferometry and stylus profilometry. 

The Bruker Nano Analytics Division manufactures and markets analytical tools for electron microscopes, including energy-dispersive X-ray spectrometers (EDS), electron backscatter diffraction 

systems (EBSD) and &#181;CT accessories, as well as mobile and bench-top micro X-ray fluorescence (&#181;XRF) and total reflection X-ray fluorescence spectrometers (TXRF). 

The Bruker Elemental Division manufactures and distributes handheld, portable and mobile X-ray fluorescence (HMP-XRF) spectrometry instruments and spark optical emission spectroscopy systems (spark-OES) used to analyze the concentration of elements in metallic samples. The Bruker Elemental Division product portfolio also includes carbon, sulfur, oxygen, nitrogen and hydrogen, or CS/ONH, analyzers based on combustion or heat extraction with infrared and thermal conductivity technology. Using modular platforms, we often combine our technology applications with sample preparation tools, automation, consumables and data analysis software. These products provide customers with the ability to determine the three-dimensional structure of specific molecules, such as proteins, and to characterize and determine the composition of materials down to the dimensions used in nanotechnology. 

Customers of our Bruker Nano Group include biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies, academic institutions, governmental customers, nanotechnology companies, semiconductor companies, raw material manufacturers, industrial companies and other businesses involved in materials analysis. 

During 2015, we introduced a handheld laser induced breakdown spectrometer, which is designed for high-speed analysis of Grade ID and chemistry in light element alloys. We also released next generation models of several products, including the Contour Elite 3D Optical Microscope, the Opterra II Scanning Confocal Microscope, the Second Generation Inspire Nanochemical Imaging System, the SkyScan 1275 Automated Micro-CT system and the D8 Gen 2 platform for crystallography. In the fourth quarter of 2015, we acquired Jordan Valley Semiconductors Ltd, a provider of X-ray metrology and defect-detection equipment for semiconductor process control. 

The Bruker Nano Group's systems are based on the following technology platforms: 

&#149; XRD &#151;Polycrystalline X-ray diffraction, often referred to as X-ray diffraction; &#149; XRF &#151;X-ray fluorescence, also called X-ray spectrometry, including handheld XRF systems; &#149; SC-XRD &#151;Single crystal X-ray diffraction, often referred to as X-ray crystallography; &#149; &#181; CT &#151;X-ray micro computed tomography; &#149; EDS &#151;Energy dispersive X-ray spectroscopy on electron microscopes; &#149; EBSD &#151;Electron backscatter diffraction on electron microscopes; &#149; S-OES &#151;Spark optical emission spectroscopy; &#149; CS/ONH &#151;Combustion analysis for carbon, sulfur, oxygen, nitrogen, and hydrogen in solids; &#149; AFM &#151;Atomic force microscopy; &#149; FM &#151;Fluorescence optical microscopy; &#149; SOM &#151;Stylus and optical metrology; and &#149; TMT &#151;Tribology and mechanical test systems for analysis of friction and wear. &#160; XRD systems investigate polycrystalline samples or thin films with single wavelength X-rays. The atoms in the polycrystalline sample scatter the X-rays to create a unique diffraction pattern recorded by a detector. Computer software processes the pattern and produces a variety of information, including stress, texture, qualitative and quantitative phase composition, crystallite size, percent crystallinity and layer thickness, composition, defects and density of thin films and semiconductor material. Our XRD systems contribute to a reduction in the development cycles for new products in the catalyst, polymer, electronic, optical material and semiconductor industries. Customers for XRD systems include academic and government research facilities, as well as a variety of other fields, including forensics, art and archaeology. 

&#160; XRF systems determine the elemental composition of a material and provide a full qualitative and quantitative analysis. Our XRF systems direct X-rays at a sample, and the atoms in the sample absorb the X-ray energy. The elements in the sample then emit X-rays that are characteristic for each element. The system collects the X-rays, and the software analyzes the resulting data to determine the elements that are present. Our XRF products provide automated solutions on a turn-key basis for industrial users that require automated, controlled production processes that reduce product and process cost, increase output and improve product quality. Our XRF products cover substantially all of the periodic table and can analyze solid, powder or liquid samples. 

&#160; SC-XRD systems determine the three-dimensional structures of molecules in a chemical, mineral, or biological substance being analyzed. SC-XRD systems have the capability to determine structure in both small chemical molecules and larger biomolecules. SC-XRD systems direct an X-ray beam at a solid, single crystal sample. The atoms in the crystal sample scatter the X-rays to create a precise diffraction pattern recorded by an electronic detector. Software then reconstructs a model of the structure and provides the unique arrangement of the atoms in the sample. This information on the exact arrangement of atoms in the sample is a critical part of molecular analysis and can provide insight into a variety of areas, including how a protein functions or interacts with a second molecule. Our SC-XRD systems are designed for use in the life sciences industry, academic research and a variety of other applications. 

&#160; &#181;CT is X-ray imaging in 3D, by the same method used in hospital CT scans, but on a small scale with massively increased resolution. 3D microscopy allows users to image the internal structure of objects non-destructively on a very fine scale. Bruker &#181;CT is available in a range of easy-to-use desktop instruments, which generate 3D images of the sample's morphology and internal microstructure with resolution down to the sub-micron level. Our &#181;CT systems are used for numerous applications in materials research and in the life sciences industry. 

&#160; EDS systems analyze the chemical composition of materials under investigation in electron microscopes by utilizing the fact that atoms of different chemical elements, when exposed to the high energy electron beam generated by the microscope, irradiate X-rays of different, characteristic energy. The evaluation of the energy spectrum collected by our spectrometer allows the determination of the qualitative and quantitative chemical sample composition at the current beam position. EDS systems allow for simultaneous analysis of all elements in the periodic table, beginning with atomic number 4 (beryllium). Our EDS systems are used for a range of applications, including nanotechnology and advanced materials research, as well as materials analysis and quality control. Customers for EDS systems include industrial customers, academia and government research facilities. 

&#160; EBSD systems are used to perform quantitative microstructure analysis of crystalline samples in electron microscopes. The microscope's electron beam strikes the tilted sample and diffracted electrons form a pattern on a fluorescent screen. This pattern is characteristic of the crystal structure and orientation of the sample region from which it was generated. It provides the absolute crystal orientation with sub-micron resolution. EBSD can be used to characterize materials with regard to crystal orientation, texture, stress, strain and grain size. EBSD also allows the identification of crystalline phases and their distribution, and is applied to many industries such as metals processing, aerospace, automotive, microelectronics and earth sciences. 

&#160; S-OES instruments are used for analyzing metals. S-OES covers a broad range of applications for metals analysis from pure metals trace analysis to high alloyed grades, and allow for analysis of a complete range of relevant elements simultaneously. S-OES instruments pass an electric spark onto a sample, which burns the surface of the sample and causes atoms to jump to a higher orbit. Our detectors quantify the light emitted by these atoms and help our customers to determine the elemental composition of the material. This technique is widely used in production control laboratories of foundries and steel mills. 

&#160; CS/ONH carrier gas systems incorporate a furnace and infrared or thermal conductivity detection to analyze inorganic materials for the determination of carbon, sulfur, nitrogen, oxygen and hydrogen. Combustion and inert gas fusion analyzers are used for applications in metal production and processing, chemicals, ceramics and cement, coal processing and oil refining and semiconductors. 

&#160; AFM systems provide atomic or near-atomic resolution of material surface topography using a nano-scale probe that is brought into light contact with the sample being investigated. In addition to presenting a surface image, AFM can also provide quantitative nano-scale measurements of feature sizes, material properties, electrical information, chemical properties and other sample characteristics. Our AFM systems are used for applications in academic and governmental materials and biological research; semiconductor, data storage hard drive, LED, battery, solar cells, polymers, and pharmaceutical product development and manufacturing. 

&#160; FM products use fluorescence microscopy to determine the structure and composition of life science samples. Our products include two-photon microscopes, multipoint scanning confocal microscopes, laser illumination sources, photoactivation, photostimulation and photoablation accessories and synchronization and analysis software. Two-photon microscopes allow imaging deep into tissues and cells and are used widely in neuroscience. Multipoint scanning confocal systems allow live cell imaging with rapid acquisition of images for structural and composition analysis. We also offer super-resolution and single-molecule localization microscopy products which can break the optical diffraction limit by an order of magnitude. 

&#160; SOM systems provide atomic or near-atomic two dimensional and three dimensional surface resolution using white light interferometry, confocal optical and stylus profilometry methods. SOM profilers range from low-cost manual tools for single measurements to advanced, highly automated systems for production line quality assurance and quality control applications where the combination of throughput, repeatability and reproducibility is essential. SOM profilers support a range of applications in research, product development, tribology, quality control and failure analysis related to materials and machining in the automotive, orthopedic, ophthalmic, high brightness LED, semiconductor, data storage, optics and other markets. 

&#160; TMT systems provide a platform for all types of common mechanical, friction, durability, scratch and indentation tests for a wide spectrum of materials. Tribology systems are utilized for both academic research of the fundamental material properties and industrial applications in the semiconductor, aerospace, petroleum, automotive and other industries. 

BEST Segment 

BEST designs, manufactures and distributes superconducting materials, primarily metallic low temperature superconductors, for use in magnetic resonance imaging, nuclear magnetic resonance, fusion energy research and other applications. BEST also develops, manufactures and markets ceramic, second generation high temperature superconductors for energy technology and magnet research applications. Additionally, BEST develops, manufactures and markets sophisticated devices and complex tools based primarily on metallic low temperature superconductors that have applications in "big science" research, including radio frequency accelerator cavities and modules, power couplers and linear accelerators. BEST also manufactures and sells non-superconducting high technology tools, such as synchrotron and beamline instrumentation, principally to customers engaged in materials research and "big science" research projects. 

Sales and Marketing 

We maintain direct sales forces throughout North America, Europe, China, Japan, Asia Pacific and Australia. We also utilize indirect sales channels to reach customers. We have various international distributors, independent sales representatives, and various other representatives in parts of Asia, Latin 

America, Africa, the Middle East and Eastern Europe. These entities augment our direct sales force and provide coverage in areas where we do not have direct sales personnel. In addition, we have adopted a distribution business model in which we engage in strategic distribution alliances with other companies to address certain market segments. The sales cycle for our products is dependent on the size and complexity of the system and budgeting cycles of our customers. Our sales cycle is typically three to twenty four months for academic and high-end research products and two weeks to six months for industrial products. The sales cycle of our low temperature superconducting materials is typically four to twelve months, with cycles of certain high-end materials exceeding one year. Sales of our high-end NMR and superconducting devices typically take more than one year and certain large, complex contracts can take more than two years to complete. 

We have well-equipped applications and demonstration facilities and qualified application personnel who assist customers and provide product demonstrations in specific application areas. We maintain our primary demonstration facilities at our production facilities, as well as in other key market locations. 

Seasonal Nature of Business 

Historically we have higher levels of revenue in the fourth quarter and lower levels of revenues in the first quarter of the year, which we believe is due to our customers' budgeting cycles. 

Major Customers 

We do not depend on any single customer and no single customer accounted for more than 10% of revenue in any of the last three fiscal years. 

Competition 

Our existing products and solutions and any products and solutions that we develop in the future may compete in multiple, highly competitive markets. In addition, there has been a trend towards consolidation in our industry and many of our competitors have substantially greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. Our competitors may succeed in developing and offering products that could render our products or those of our strategic partners obsolete or noncompetitive. Our competitors may also have cost and price advantages based upon the value of their currencies compared with the U.S. dollar or Euro. In addition, many of these competitors have significantly more experience in the life sciences, chemical and materials markets. Our ability to compete successfully will depend on our ability to develop proprietary products that reach our target markets in a timely manner and are technologically superior to and/or less expensive, or more cost effective, than products marketed by our competitors. Current competitors or other companies may possess or develop technologies and products that are more effective than ours. Our technologies and products may be rendered obsolete or uneconomical by technological advances or by entirely different approaches developed by one or more of our competitors. 

We also compete with companies that provide analytical or automation tools based on other technologies. These technologies may prove to be more successful in meeting demands in the markets that our products and solutions serve. In addition, other companies may choose to enter our fields in the future. We believe that the principal competitive factors in our markets are technology-based applications expertise, product specifications, functionality, reliability, marketing expertise, distribution capability, proprietary patent portfolios, cost and cost effectiveness. 

BSI Segment 

Bruker BioSpin competes with companies that offer magnetic resonance spectrometers, mainly JEOL and Oxford Instruments. In the field of preclinical imaging, Bruker BioSpin competes with 

Perkin Elmer, Mediso, Trifoil, MR Solutions, RS2D, Visualsonics (Fuji Film) and others. Bruker CALID competes with a variety of companies that offer mass spectrometry based systems. Bruker CALID's competitors in the life science markets and chemical and applied markets include Danaher, Agilent, GE-Healthcare, Waters, Thermo Fisher Scientific, Shimadzu, Hitachi and JEOL. In the microbiology market, we compete with Biomerieux. Bruker CALID's CBRNE detection customers are highly fragmented, and we compete with a number of companies in this area, of which the most significant competitor is Smiths Detection. Bruker CALID also competes with a variety of companies that offer molecular spectrometry based systems, including Thermo Fisher Scientific, PerkinElmer, Agilent, Foss, ABB Bomem, Renishaw, Buchi, Shimadzu and Jasco. In addition, there are several smaller companies, specializing in various markets, with which we compete frequently. Bruker Nano competes with companies that offer analytical X-ray solutions, OES systems, AFM and SOM systems and optical fluorescence systems, primarily Rigaku, Oxford Instruments, Agilent, Thermo Fisher Scientific, Ametek's Spectro and Edax divisions, PANalytical, Olympus, Nikon, Zeiss and Danaher's Leica business. 

BEST Segment 

BEST competes with Oxford Instruments and Luvata in low temperature superconducting materials. In addition, BEST competes with Fujikura, AMSC, SuperPower (a Furukawa company), Superconductor Technologies Inc. and SuNam Co., Ltd. in the market for second generation high temperature superconducting materials. BEST further competes with Zanon, Mitsubishi Electric and AES in the development and supply of accelerator cavities, with Thales, Toshiba and CPI International in the development and supply of radio frequency couplers, with Mitsubishi Heavy Industries in the development and supply of superconducting accelerator modules and with AES and Thales for electron linear accelerators. 

Manufacturing and Supplies 

Several of our manufacturing facilities are certified under ISO 9001:2008 and ISO 13485, an international quality standard. We manufacture and test our magnetic resonance products at our facilities in Faellanden, Switzerland; Wissembourg, France; and Karlsruhe, Germany. We manufacture and test our preclinical imaging products at our facilities in Ettlingen, Germany; Wissembourg, France; Kontich, Belgium; and Faellanden, Switzerland. We manufacture and test our mass spectrometry products, including CBRNE detection products, at our facilities in Bremen, Germany; Leipzig, Germany; and Billerica, Massachusetts, U.S.A. We manufacture and test our molecular spectroscopy products at our facilities in Ettlingen, Germany. We manufacture and test our X-ray, OES and AFM products at our facilities in Karlsruhe, Germany; Berlin, Germany; Kalkar, Germany; Madison, Wisconsin, U.S.A.; Santa Barbara, California, U.S.A.; Kennewick, Washington, U.S.A; Migdal Ha'Emek, Israel; Durham, UK.; and Yokohama, Japan. We manufacture and test the majority of our energy and superconducting products at our facilities in Hanau, Germany; Bergisch Gladbach, Germany; and Perth, Scotland. Manufacturing processes at our facilities in Europe and California, U.S.A. include all phases of manufacturing, such as machining, fabrication, subassembly, system assembly, and final testing. Our other facilities primarily perform high-level assembly, system integration, and final testing. We typically manufacture critical components in-house to ensure key competence. Over the last three years, we have been in the process of outsourcing the manufacturing of various non-critical components such as circuit boards and certain electronics to third party contract manufacturers as part of our cost saving initiatives. 

We purchase materials and components from various suppliers that are either standard products or built to our specifications. We obtain some of the components included in our products from a limited group of suppliers or from a single-source supplier for items such as charge coupled device area detectors, X-ray tubes, robotics and infrared optics. Bruker AXS has an ongoing collaboration and joint 

development project with the Siemens Medical Solutions Vacuum Technology Division in Germany for the development of X-ray tubes. Some Bruker AXS subsidiaries, Bruker Nano GmbH, Bruker Elemental GmbH, and Bruker AXS Handheld Inc. presently procure key X-ray detector chips and certain OES optical detectors and miniaturized X-ray sources from single-source suppliers. In addition, BEST sources niobium titanium and other niobium products from a single supplier. 

Research and Development 

We commit substantial capital and resources to internal and collaborative research and development projects in order to provide innovative products and solutions to our customers. We conduct research primarily to enhance system performance and improve the reliability of existing products, and to develop revolutionary new products and solutions. We expensed $145.7 million, $174.2 million and $190.5 million in 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively, for research and development purposes. Our research and development efforts are conducted for the relevant products within each of the operating segments, as well as in collaboration with others on areas such as microfluidics, automation and workflow management software. We have been the recipient of government grants from Germany and the U.S. for various projects related to early-stage research and development. We have generally retained, at a minimum, non-exclusive rights to any items or enhancements we develop under these grants. The German government requires that we use and market technology developed under grants in order to retain our rights to the technology. We have also accepted some sponsored research contracts from private sources. 

BSI Segment 

The research and development performed in the BSI Segment is primarily conducted at our facilities in Bremen, Ettlingen, Karlsruhe and Leipzig, Germany; Faellanden, Switzerland; Wissembourg, France; Billerica, Massachusetts, U.S.A.; Madison, Wisconsin, U.S.A.; and Santa Barbara, California, U.S.A. 

The Bruker BioSpin Group maintains technical competencies in core magnetic resonance technologies and single- and multimodal imaging technologies and capabilities, including NMR, EPR, MRI, MPI, PET, CT and OI. Recent projects include the development of solid state dynamic nuclear polarization technologies, an ongoing development that enables gains in sensitivity for NMR, high field EPR instrumentation with dedicated cryogen free magnets, high field magnet technology for preclinical MRI, basic NMR research and quadrupole tuned cryoprobes for biological research, as well as MPI imaging for preclinical application. 

The Bruker CALID Group maintains technical competencies in core mass spectrometry technologies and capabilities, including: MALDI, ESI, EI/CI ion sources; TOF, TOF/TOF, ion traps, FTMS, quadrupole and IMS analyzers; and bioinformatics and related software. Recent projects include the rapifleX MALDI Tissuetyper, Bruker Daltonics' all-new high-throughput MALDI imaging solution that provides enhanced high-resolution molecular information and distribution in tissues. The Bruker CALID Group also maintains technical competencies in core vibrational spectroscopy technologies and capabilities, including FT-IR, NIR, and Raman. Recent projects include the BRAVO handheld Raman spectrometer for identification of raw materials, which is Bruker Optics' first handheld solution with patented fluorescence mitigation technology and an intuitive graphical user interface. 

The Bruker Nano Group maintains technical competencies in core X-ray technologies and capabilities, including detectors used to sense X-ray and X-ray diffraction patterns, X-ray sources and optics that generate and focus the X-rays, robotics and sample handling equipment that holds and manipulates the experimental material, and software that generates the structural data. Recent projects include refining next-generation high brilliancy optics and microsources, developing new high-power X-ray sources for X-ray diffraction and protein crystallography applications, developing a TXRF system 

for trace element analysis in semiconductor metrology, developing a new large solid angle, high-resolution, high-throughput energy dispersive X-ray detector for microanalysis, creating a high sensitivity area detector system and developing other solution-based technologies and software applications, including a product for X-ray scattering investigations of protein crystals. The Bruker Nano Group also has competencies in atomic force microscopy (AFM) technology, which involve sub-angstrom level position and motion control as well as sub-pico newton force control. Recent innovations include faster scanning and higher resolution imaging with new more force sensitive modes and nano-scale electrical and nano-mechanical characterization. The Bruker Nano Group technologies also include 3D optical inference based microscopy, stylus profilometry, tribology testing, nano-indentation, optical fluorescence two-photon microscopy, multipoint scanning microscopy and high-speed, 3D super-resolution florescence microscopy. 

BEST Segment 

The research and development performed in the BEST Segment is primarily conducted at our facilities in Hanau, Bergisch Gladbach and Alzenau, Germany. BEST maintains technical competencies in the production and development of low and high temperature superconducting materials and devices. 

Intellectual Property 

Our intellectual property consists of patents, copyrights, trade secrets, know-how, and trademarks. Protection of our intellectual property is a strategic priority for our businesses because of the length of time and expense associated with bringing new products through the development process and to the marketplace. We have a substantial patent portfolio, and we intend to file additional patent applications as appropriate. We believe our owned and licensed patent portfolio provides us with a competitive advantage. This portfolio permits us to maintain access to a number of key technologies. We license our owned patent rights where appropriate. We intend to enforce our patent rights against infringers, if necessary. The patent positions of life sciences tools companies involve complex legal and factual questions. As a result, we cannot predict the enforceability of our patents with certainty. In addition, we are aware of the existence from time to time of patents in certain countries, which, if valid, could impair our ability to manufacture and sell products in these countries. 

We also rely upon trade secrets, know-how, trademarks, copyright protection, and licensing to develop and maintain our competitive position. We generally require the execution of confidentiality agreements by our employees, consultants, and other scientific advisors. These agreements provide that all confidential information made known during the course of a relationship with us will be held in confidence and used only for our benefit. In addition, these agreements provide that we own all inventions generated during the course of the relationship. 

Government Contracts 

We are a party to various government contracts. Under some of these government contracts, the government may receive license or similar rights to intellectual property developed under the contract. However, under government contracts we enter we generally receive at least non-exclusive rights to any items or technologies we develop. Although we transact business with various government agencies, we believe that no government contract is of such magnitude that a renegotiation of profits or termination of the contract or subcontracts at the election of the government would have a material adverse effect on our financial results. 

Government Regulation 

We are required to comply with federal, state, and local environmental protection regulations. We do not expect this compliance to have a significant impact on our capital spending, earnings or competitive position. 

Prior to introducing a product in the U.S., our Bruker AXS subsidiary provides notice to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, in the form of a Radiation Safety Initial Product Abbreviated Report, which provides identification information and operating characteristics of the product. If the FDA finds that the report is complete, it provides approval in the form of what is known as an accession number. Bruker AXS may not market a product until it has received an accession number. In addition, Bruker AXS submits an annual report to the FDA that includes the radiation safety history of all products it sells in the U.S. Bruker AXS is required to report to the FDA incidents of accidental exposure to radiation arising from the manufacture, testing, or use of any of its products. Bruker AXS also reports installations of its products to state government regulatory agencies responsible for the regulation of radiation emitting devices. For sales in Germany, Bruker AXS registers each system with the local authorities. In some countries where Bruker AXS sells systems, Bruker AXS uses the license we obtained from the federal authorities in Germany to assist it in obtaining a license from the country in which the sale occurs. In addition, as indicated above, we are subject to various other foreign and domestic environmental, health and safety laws and regulations in connection with our operations. Apart from these areas, we are subject to the laws and regulations generally applicable to businesses in the jurisdictions in which we operate. 

Our Bruker AXS subsidiary possesses low-level radiation materials licenses from the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission in agreement with the State of Wisconsin for its facility in Madison, Wisconsin; from the local radiation safety authority, Gewerbeaufsichtsamt Karlsruhe, for its facility in Karlsruhe, Germany; and from the local radiation safety authority, Kanagawa Prefecture, for its facility in Yokohama, Japan, as well as from various other countries in which it sells its products. Our Bruker Daltonics subsidiary possesses low-level radiation licenses for facilities in Billerica, Massachusetts and Leipzig, Germany. The U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission also has regulations concerning the exposure of our employees to radiation. 

Certain of our clinical products, specifically our MALDI Biotyper CA System, are subject to regulation by the FDA. As such, we continually invest in our manufacturing operations and quality systems infrastructure necessary to maintain our FDA clearance. Our facilities in Billerica, Massachusetts have established quality management systems and manufacturing operations which are designed and configured to comply with the standards and requirements for in vitro diagnostic medical devices stipulated by FDA 21 CFR Part 820 and by ISO 13485:2003. The Billerica, Massachusetts manufacturing facility is registered with the FDA as a medical device manufacturing facility, which is the same location where the MALDI Biotyper System is manufactured and distributed. 

Working Capital Requirements 

There were no credit terms extended to customers that would have a material adverse effect on our working capital. 

We typically recognize revenue from system sales upon customer acceptance. To effectively operate our businesses, we are required to hold a significant number of systems that have been shipped to customers, but not yet accepted by the customer, as finished goods in-transit. As a result, a significant percentage of our inventory represents finished goods in-transit. Finished goods in-transit were $44.7 million and $58.6 million at December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. We also have well-equipped applications and demonstration facilities and qualified application personnel who assist customers and provide product demonstrations in specific application areas. In total, we held 

$38.8 million and $38.5 million of demonstration inventory at December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. 

Backlog 

Our backlog consists of firm orders under non-cancellable purchase orders received from customers. Total system backlog at December 31, 2015 and 2014 was approximately $856 million and $877 million, respectively. We anticipate that approximately 82% of the backlog as of December 31, 2015 will be filled in 2016. We experience variable and fluctuating revenues in the first three quarters of the year, while our fourth quarter revenues have historically been stronger than the rest of the year. As a result, backlog on any particular date can be indicative of our short-term revenue performance, but is not necessarily a reliable indicator of long-term revenue performance. 

Employees 

As of December 31, 2015 and 2014, we had approximately 6,000 and 6,100 full-time employees worldwide, respectively. Of these employees, approximately 980 and 1,060 were located in the U.S. as of December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. Our employees in the U.S. are not unionized or affiliated with any labor organizations. Employees based outside the U.S. are primarily located in Europe. Several of our international subsidiaries are parties to contracts with labor unions and workers' councils. We believe that we have good relationships with our employees and the workers' councils. 

As of December 31, 2015, we had approximately 2,880 employees in production and distribution, 1,490 employees in selling and marketing and 950 employees in research and development with general and administrative employees representing the remainder. As of December 31, 2014, we had approximately 2,980 employees in production and distribution, 1,470 employees in selling and marketing and 960 employees in research and development with general and administrative employees representing the remainder. 

Financial Information about Geographic Areas and Segments 

Financial information about our geographic areas and segments may be found in Note 19 to our Consolidated Financial Statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, included as part of Item 8 to this report, which includes information about our revenues from external customers, measure of profit and total assets by reportable segment. 

Available Information 

We are subject to the informational requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 ("Exchange Act"). Therefore, we file periodic reports, proxy statements and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). Such reports, proxy statements and other information may be read and copied by visiting the Public Reference Room of the SEC at 100 F Street N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. You may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. In addition, the SEC maintains an Internet site (http://www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically. 

Our website is located at www.bruker.com . We make available free of charge through this website our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed with or furnished to the SEC pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. 

