 ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

Overview 

Iteris, Inc. (referred to collectively with its subsidiary in this report as "Iteris," the "Company," "we," "our" and "us") is a provider of intelligent information solutions for both the traffic management and global agribusiness markets. We are focused on the development and application of advanced technologies and software-based information systems that reduce traffic congestion, provide measurement, management and predictive traffic and weather analytics, and improve the safety of surface transportation systems infrastructure. By combining our unique intellectual property, products, decades of experience in traffic management, weather forecasting solutions and information technologies, we offer a broad range of Intelligent Transportation Systems ("ITS") solutions to customers throughout the U.S. and internationally. We believe our products, services and solutions, in conjunction with sound traffic management, minimize the environmental impact of traffic congestion. 

In the agribusiness markets, we have combined our unique intellectual property with enhanced soil, land surface and agronomy modeling techniques to create a set of ClearAg solutions. These solutions provide analytical support to large enterprises in the agriculture market and field-specific advisories to individual producers. We continue to make significant investments to leverage our existing technologies and further expand our software-based information systems to offer solutions to the precision agriculture technology markets. 

Iteris was incorporated in Delaware in 1987. Our principal executive offices are located at 1700 Carnegie Avenue, Santa Ana, California 92705, and our telephone number at that location is (949) 270-9400. Our Internet website address is www.iteris.com. The inclusion of our website address in this report does not include or incorporate by reference into this report any information on, or accessible through, our website. Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K, together with amendments to these reports, are available on the "Investors" section of our website, free of charge, as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). 

Products and Services 

We currently operate in three reportable segments: Roadway Sensors, Transportation Systems and Performance Analytics. The Roadway Sensors segment provides various vehicle detection and information systems and products for traffic intersection control, incident detection and roadway traffic data collection applications. The Transportation Systems segment includes transportation engineering and consulting services, and the development of transportation management and traveler information systems for the ITS industry. The Performance Analytics segment includes iPeMS, our specialized transportation performance measurement and traffic analytics solutions, as well as ClearPath Weather, our road-maintenance applications, and ClearAg, our precision agriculture solutions. See Note 13 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, included in Part IV, Item 15 of this report, for further details on our reportable segments. 

Roadway Sensors 

Our Roadway Sensors segment product line uses advanced image processing technology and other techniques to capture and analyze sensor data through sophisticated algorithms, enabling vehicle detection and transmission of both video images and data using various communication technologies. Our Roadway Sensors products include, among other products, our Vantage, VantageNext, VersiCam, Vantage Vector, SmartCycle, SmartSpan, Pegasus, Velocity, P10, P100 and Abacus products. 

&#149; Our Vantage detection systems detect vehicle presence at intersections, as well as vehicle count, speed and other traffic data used in traffic management systems. Vantage detection systems typically include up to four of our advanced cameras or radars. Our Vantage systems give traffic managers the ability to mitigate roadway congestion by modifying traffic signal timing or detecting incidents quickly. Our various software complement our Vantage detection systems by providing integrated platforms to manage and view detection assets remotely over a network connection. &#149; Our Vantage Vector video/radar hybrid product is an all-in-one vehicle detection sensor with a wide range of capabilities, including stop bar detection, advanced-zone detection and sensing, which enable advanced safety and adaptive control applications. It includes all the proven benefits of Iteris video detection, including high accuracy, high availability remote viewing of video images, bicycle detection capability and high precision for dilemma zone detection, by integrating the video field-of-view with radar sensing. Enhanced information, including vehicle counts, speed and distance in user configurable zones that is available for use in special applications. &#149; Our Vantage systems equipped with SmartCycle capability can effectively differentiate between bicycles and other vehicles with a single video detection camera, enabling more efficient signalized intersections and improved traffic throughput. Agencies using bicycle timing can now benefit from bicycle-specific virtual detection zones that can be placed anywhere within the approaching traffic lanes, eliminating the need for separate bicycle-only detection systems. &#149; VersiCam, our integrated camera and processor video detection system, is a cost-efficient video detection system for smaller intersections that require only a few detection points. We believe that future growth domestically and internationally, particularly in developing countries, will be dependent in part on the continued adoption of above-ground video detection technologies, instead of traditional in-pavement loop technology, to manage traffic. 

We have historically experienced seasonality, particularly with respect to our Roadway Sensors revenues in our third and fourth fiscal quarters, due to reductions in road construction and repairs during the winter months related to inclement weather conditions. 

Transportation Systems 

Our Transportation Systems segment includes transportation engineering and consulting services focused on the planning, design, development and implementation of software-based systems that integrate sensors, video surveillance, computers and advanced communications equipment to enable public agencies to monitor, control and direct traffic flow, assist in the quick dispatch of emergency crews and distribute real-time information about traffic conditions. Our services include planning, design and implementation of surface transportation infrastructure systems. We perform analysis and study goods movement, commercial vehicle operations, provide travel demand forecasting and systems engineering, and identify mitigation measures to reduce traffic congestion. 

Our Transportation Systems segment is largely dependent upon governmental funding and is affected by state and local budgetary issues. On December 4, 2015, the Fixing America's Surface Transportation ("FAST") Act was signed into law, providing approximately $305 billion over five years for surface transportation projects and programs. In addition, various other funding mechanisms exist to support transportation infrastructure and related projects as regulatory deadlines approach, which require these technologies. These include bonds, dedicated sales and gas tax measures and other alternative funding sources. We believe the overall expansion of our Transportation Systems segment in the future will continue to be dependent at least in part on the federal government's use of funds under the federal highway bill. Delays in the allocation of funds may prolong uncertainty regarding the 

allotment of transportation funds in federal, state and local budgets. We believe that prolonged uncertainty regarding such matters has adversely impacted in the past, and may continue to adversely impact in the future, our Transportation Systems revenues and our overall financial performance in future periods. 

Performance Analytics 

Our Performance Analytics segment, formed during the first quarter of our fiscal year ended March 31, 2013 ("Fiscal 2013"), includes our performance measurement and information management solutions, including all of the operations of our former subsidiary, Berkeley Transportation Systems, Inc. ("BTS"), which we acquired in November 2011. BTS specialized in transportation performance measurement systems that leverage its real-time data collection, diagnostic, fusion and warehousing platform to aggregate and compute performance measurements. iPeMS is a state-of-the-art information management software suite that provides big data and software analytics solutions that help determine current and future traffic patterns, permitting the effective performance analysis and management of traffic infrastructure resources. iPeMS utilizes a wide range of data resources and analytical techniques to determine current and future traffic patterns, permitting the effective performance analysis and management of traffic infrastructure resources. This information can then be analyzed by traffic professionals to measure how a transportation network is performing and to identify potential areas of improvement. iPeMS is also capable of providing users with predictive traffic analytics and easy-to-use visualization and animation features based on historical traffic conditions. 

The Performance Analytics segment also includes the operations of our former subsidiary, Meridian Environmental Technology, Inc. ("MET"), which we acquired in January 2011. MET specializes in 511/Advanced Traveler Information Systems, and includes our ClearPath Weather management tools that allow users to create solutions to meet roadway maintenance decision needs. Our ClearPath Weather tools provide winter road maintenance recommendations for state agencies, municipalities and for commercial companies. 

With the addition of MET, we have experienced seasonality particularly related to certain ClearPath Weather services in our first and second fiscal quarters, mainly because ClearPath Weather services are generally not required in the summer months when weather conditions are typically less severe. Our Performance Analytics is a market leader in performance management solutions for federal and state organizations. We intend to use our strong brand and deep experience in the traffic management market, as well as our market-specific intellectual property, to expand our leadership in data aggregation and analytics. 

Beginning in late 2013, we undertook a focused development activity to supplement our intellectual property, technology base and product suites to provide products and services for the emerging precision agriculture ("PA") market. This activity included market research into the needs of the PA market, scientific modeling and forecasting development, computing infrastructure development to support both the required big data acquisition and processing and the distributed delivery vehicles required to service the commercial PA market, as well as the development of several products specifically intended for the PA market. We refer to our products for the PA market generically as ClearAg solutions. Our ClearAg platform provides access to a comprehensive database of weather, soil and agronomic information essential to making informed agricultural decisions. Our ClearAg application programming interfaces ("APIs") include historical, real-time and forecast weather content, soil and plant health information, as well as real-time weather and other useful crop growing information, to provide solutions in the precision agriculture technology markets. We commenced commercial sales of our ClearAg platform and related APIs in the first quarter of our fiscal year ended March 31, 2015 ("Fiscal 2015") and introduced our first ClearAg Application ("App") in the first quarter of our fiscal year ended March 31, 2016 ("Fiscal 2016"). We expect positive market acceptance of our ClearAg solutions to continue in upcoming quarters. We plan to continue to fund the 

investments in our ClearAg solutions through internally generated cash flow from our Roadway Sensors and Transportation Systems operations, as well as revenues from our Performance Analytics segment and our available cash on hand, if necessary. 

Sales and Marketing 

We currently sell our Roadway Sensors products through both direct and indirect sales channels. In the territories where we sell direct, we use a combination of our own sales personnel and outside sales organizations to sell, oversee installations and set-up issues and support our products. Our indirect sales channel is comprised of a network of independent distributors in the U.S. and select international locations, who sell integrated systems and related products to the traffic management market. Our independent distributors are trained in, and primarily responsible for, sales, installation, set-up and support of our products, maintain an inventory of demonstration traffic products from various manufacturers and sell directly to government agencies and installation contractors. These distributors often have long-term arrangements with local government agencies in their respective territories for the supply of various products for the construction and renovation of traffic intersections, and are generally well-known suppliers of various high-quality ITS products to the traffic management market. We periodically hold technical training classes for our distributors and end users and maintain a full-time staff of customer support technicians throughout the U.S. to provide technical assistance when needed. When appropriate, we have the ability to modify or make changes to our distributor network to accommodate the needs of the market and our customer base. 

We market and sell our Transportation Systems services and solutions and Performance Analytics solutions primarily directly to government agencies pursuant to negotiated contracts that involve competitive bidding and specific qualification requirements. Most of our contracts are with federal, state and municipal customers and generally provide for cancellation or renegotiation at the option of the customer upon reasonable notice and fees paid for modification. We generally use selected members of our engineering, science and information technology teams on a regional basis to serve in sales and business development functions. Our Transportation Systems contracts generally involve long lead times and require extensive specification development, evaluation and price negotiations. 

We currently market and sell our ClearAg products to commercial entities in the PA market. We currently have two primary product sets which we are marketing for our PA segment; our ClearAg API integration and modeling services and our ClearAg Apps. Our ClearAg APIs are intended for large enterprises in the agriculture market that can benefit from the value of a tight integration of their processes with the ClearAg modeling and forecasting engine; our ClearAg App was introduced in May 2015 and is intended for individual agriculture producers that can benefit from advisories based upon the ClearAg platform that are tailored for their specific locations of interest. We generally deal directly to customers interested in the ClearAg API products, whereas we typically sell through selling partners for our ClearAg App products. 

Manufacturing and Materials 

We use contract manufacturers to build subassemblies that are used in our Roadway Sensors products. Additionally, we procure certain components from qualified suppliers, both locally and globally, and generally use multi-sourcing strategies when technically and economically feasible to mitigate supply risk. These subassemblies and components are typically delivered to our Santa Ana, California facility where they go through final assembly and testing prior to shipment to our customers. Our key suppliers include Veris Manufacturing, Sony Electronics, Inc. and LG Electronics, Inc. Our manufacturing activities are conducted in approximately 9,000 square feet of space at our Santa Ana, California facility. Production volume at our subcontractors is based upon quarterly forecasts that we generally adjust on a monthly basis to control inventory levels. We typically do not manufacture any of 

the hardware used in the transportation management and traveler information systems that we design and implement. Our production facility is currently ISO 9001 certified. 

Customer Support and Services 

We provide warranty service and support for our products, as well as follow-up service and support for which we charge separately. Such service revenue was not a material portion of our total revenues for each Fiscal 2016, Fiscal 2015 and our fiscal year ended March 31, 2014 ("Fiscal 2014"). We believe customer support is a key competitive factor. 

Our ClearAg products are primarily sold as annual subscription services with recurring monthly revenue. As an element of these services, we provide full-time support and customer service for our ClearAg products. 

Backlog 

Our total backlog of unfulfilled firm orders was approximately $63.3 million as of March 31, 2016, which included $53.3 million related to Transportation Systems. In the past three fiscal years, we have recognized approximately 70% of our Transportation Systems backlog as of the end of a fiscal year in the subsequent fiscal year, and currently expect that trend to continue for the near future for both Transportation Systems and Performance Analytics. Substantially the entire backlog for Roadway Sensors as of March 31, 2016 is expected to be recognized as revenue in the fiscal year ending March 31, 2017. At March 31, 2015, we had backlog of approximately $39.2 million, which included $29.6 million related to Transportation Systems. 

The timing and realization of our backlog is subject to the inherent uncertainties of doing business with federal, state and local governments, particularly in view of budgetary constraints, cut-backs and other delays or reallocations of funding that these entities typically face. In addition, pursuant to the customary terms of our agreements with government contractors and other customers, our customers can generally cancel or reschedule orders with little or no penalties. Lead times for the release of purchase orders often depend upon the scheduling and forecasting practices of our individual customers, which also can affect the timing of the conversion of our backlog into revenues. For these reasons, among others, our backlog at a particular date may not be indicative of our future revenues, in particular for our Roadway Sensors segment. 

Product Development 

Our product development activities are conducted at our Performance Analytics facilities in Grand Forks, North Dakota and Berkeley, California, as well as at our principal facility in Santa Ana, California. Our research and development costs and expenses were approximately $6.9 million for Fiscal 2016, $5.4 million for Fiscal 2015 and $4.0 million for Fiscal 2014. We expect to continue to pursue various product development programs and incur research and development expenditures, primarily in our Performance Analytics and Roadway Sensors segments, in future periods. 

We believe our engineering and product development capabilities are a competitive strength. We strive to continue to develop new products to meet the needs of our ever-changing markets, as well as to enhance and refine our existing product lines. We plan to focus our development efforts in the near future in our Performance Analytics segment on our ClearAg products for the PA market; however, since 2014, our Roadway Sensors segment has introduced our VantageNext, Vantage Vector, SmartCycle, SmartSpan, Pegasus, Velocity, P10 and P100 products. Additionally, during Fiscal 2015 and Fiscal 2016, we engaged in development activities of our ClearAg precision agriculture solutions. We believe that developing new offerings across our segments and enhancing, refining and marketing our existing products are key components for strong organic growth and profitability. 

Competition 

We generally face significant competition in each of our target markets. Increased competition may result in price reductions, reduced gross margins and loss of market share, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 

The markets in which our Performance Analytics segment operates vary from the commercial sector customers for ClearAg solutions to public sector customers for iPeMS and ClearPath Weather products. Our competitors vary in number, scope and breadth of the products and services they offer. In the public sector, we compete with some of the same transportation engineering, planning and design firms that also compete with our Transportation Systems segment. In the commercial sector, we compete with a variety of entities that currently provide weather-related data to that market such as Climate Corp (now a division of Monsanto) and John Deere as well as new entrants such as Granular and Conservis. 

In the market for our Roadway Sensors vehicle detection products, we compete with manufacturers and distributors of other above ground video camera detection systems and manufacturers and distributors and other non-intrusive detection devices, including microwave, infrared, radar, ultrasonic and magnetic detectors, as well as manufacturers and installers of in-pavement inductive loop products, which have historically been, and currently continue to be, the predominant vehicle detection system in this market. 

The markets in which our Transportation Systems segment operate are highly fragmented and subject to evolving national and regional quality, operations and safety standards. Our competitors vary in number, scope and breadth of the products and services they offer. Our competitors in advanced Transportation Systems include large, national corporations that generally offer expertise in traveler information, integration and transportation management. Our competitors in transportation engineering, planning and design include major regional ITS engineering firms, as well as many smaller local engineering firms. 

In general, the markets for the products and services we offer are highly competitive and are characterized by rapidly changing technology and evolving standards. Many of our current and prospective competitors have longer operating histories, greater name recognition, access to larger customer bases and significantly greater financial, technical, manufacturing, distribution and marketing resources than us. As a result, they may be able to adapt more quickly to new or emerging standards or technologies or to devote greater resources to the promotion and sale of their products. It is also possible that new competitors or alliances among competitors could emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share. We believe that our ability to compete effectively in our target markets will depend on a number of factors, including the success and timing of our new product development, the compatibility of our products with a broad range of computing systems, product quality and performance, reliability, functionality, price and service and technical support. Our failure to provide services and develop and market products that compete successfully with those of other suppliers and consultants in our target markets would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 

Intellectual Property and Proprietary Rights 

Our ability to compete effectively depends in part on our ability to develop and maintain the proprietary aspects of our technology. Our policy is to obtain appropriate proprietary rights protection for any potentially significant new technology acquired or developed by us. We have (i) two U.S. non-provisional patent applications relating to our Roadway Sensors technologies, (ii) twelve issued U.S. patents, two U.S. non-provisional patent applications that were allowed and issued in 2007 and twelve U.S. non-provisional patents, relating to our Performance Analytics technologies, and (iii) four issued U.S. patents and one U.S. non-provisional patent relating specifically to our Transportation Systems technologies. The twelve issued patents relating to our Performance Analytics technologies expire between 2033 and 2035, and our four issued U.S. patents relating to our Transportation Systems technologies expire between 2033 and 2035. 

In addition to patent laws, we rely on copyright and trade secret laws to protect our proprietary rights. We attempt to protect our trade secrets and other proprietary information through agreements with customers and suppliers, proprietary information agreements with our employees and consultants, and other similar measures. We do not have any material licenses or trademarks other than those relating to product names. We cannot be certain that we will be successful in protecting our proprietary rights. While we believe our patents, patent applications, software and other proprietary know-how have value, rapidly evolving technology makes our future success dependent largely upon our ability to successfully achieve continuing innovation. 

Litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our proprietary rights, to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others, or to defend us against claims of infringement or invalidity by others. An adverse outcome in such litigation or similar proceedings could subject us to significant liabilities to third parties, require disputed rights to be licensed from others or require us to cease marketing or using certain products, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the cost of addressing any intellectual property litigation claim, both in legal fees and expenses, as well as from the diversion of management's resources, regardless of whether the claim is valid, could be significant and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 

Employees 

We refer to our employees as associates. As of March 31, 2016, we employed 366 full-time associates and 34 part-time associates, for a total of 400 associates. None of our associates are represented by a labor union, and we have never experienced a work stoppage. We believe our relations with our associates are good. 

Government Regulation 

Our manufacturing operations are subject to various federal, state and local laws and regulations, including those restricting the discharge of materials into the environment. We are not involved in any pending or, to our knowledge, threatened governmental proceedings, which would require curtailment of our operations because of such laws and regulations. We continue to expend funds in connection with our compliance with applicable environmental regulations. These expenditures have not, however, been significant in the past, and we do not expect any significant expenditure in the near future. Currently, compliance with foreign laws has not had a material impact on our business; however, as we expand internationally, foreign laws and regulations could have a material impact on our business in the future. 

