 Item 1. Business. 

Overview 

Wayfair is one of the world's largest online destinations for the home. Through our e-commerce business model, we offer visually inspired browsing, compelling merchandising, easy product discovery and attractive prices for over seven million &#32;products from over 7,000 &#32;suppliers across five distinct brands: Wayfair.com, Joss &#38; Main, AllModern, DwellStudio and Birch Lane. 

The typical Wayfair customer is a 35 to 65 year old woman with an annual household income of $50,000 to $250,000, who we consider to be a mass market consumer and who we believe is underserved by traditional brick and mortar and other online retailers of home goods. Because each of our customers has a different taste, style, purchasing goal and budget when shopping for her home, we have built one of the largest online selections of furniture, d&#233;cor, decorative accents, housewares, seasonal decor and other home goods. We are able to offer this vast selection of products while holding minimal inventory because we typically ship products directly from our suppliers to our customers. This supplier direct fulfillment network is a key component of our custom-built technology and operational platform, which also includes extensive supplier integrations, a proprietary transportation delivery network and superior customer service. 

We founded our company in May 2002 and have since delivered over 26 million orders. From 2002 through 2011, the Company was bootstrapped by our co-founders and operated as hundreds of niche websites, such as bedroomfurniture.com and allbarstools.com. In 2006, we launched AllModern. In late 2011, we made the strategic decision to close and permanently redirect over 240 of our niche websites into Wayfair.com to create a one-stop shop for furniture, d&#233;cor and home goods and to build brand awareness, drive customer loyalty and increase repeat purchasing. 

Our co-founders are lifetime tech innovators who have worked together in the commercial internet sector since 1995 and have created a company culture deeply rooted in technology. Our technology and data focus facilitates critical e-commerce capabilities such as tailored shopping experiences across our five brands, consumer targeting and personalization, and &#8220;anytime, anywhere&#8221; shopping across our websites, mobile-optimized websites and mobile applications, which we collectively refer to as our sites. 

Our Industry 

The home goods market is large and characterized by specific consumer trends, structural challenges and market dynamics that are shaping the future of our industry. 

Addressable Market Size and Growth 

The home goods market is large, global and growing. We believe the mass market for home goods represents the largest addressable opportunity within the home goods sector and that the mass market consumer is underserved due to structural limitations of brick and mortar and other online retailers. In 2015 , women represented 75% of our customers. According to data released by the United States ("U.S.") Census Bureau, there are approximately 160 million women in the U.S., of which approximately 60 million are between the ages of 35 and 65. We believe these women control an outsized share of spending, particularly spending related to furniture, d&#233;cor, decorative accents, housewares, seasonal decor and other home goods. In addition, we believe there are approximately 70 million millennials (which we define as individuals currently between the ages of 20 to 33) in the United States, many of whom are accustomed to purchasing goods online. As millennials age, start new families and move into new homes, we expect online sales of home goods to increase. In addition, we believe the online home goods market will further grow as older generations of consumers become increasingly comfortable purchasing online. Additionally, mobile commerce is growing rapidly and is just beginning in home goods. The proliferation of smartphones and tablets has made mobile commerce one of the fastest growing online channels. Since consumers have access to their mobile devices virtually anytime and anywhere, they have the opportunity to browse, discover and shop throughout the day. 

Why Home is Different 

Home is Shopped Differently than Other Retail Verticals: Homes are personal expressions of self and identity, which is why many consumers seek uniqueness, crave originality and enjoy the feeling created by home design, furniture and d&#233;cor. Consumers shopping for home goods often cannot articulate what they are looking for other than to describe a feeling or visual image that they want to capture in their home. In addition, while consumers typically know the names of big box and specialty 

retailers that offer various home products, we believe they rarely know the names of the product brands or suppliers. We believe traditional search-based sites that rely on directed product search (e.g., "running sneakers") or brand name search (e.g., "Samsung 32-inch LCD television") have difficulty serving customers shopping for home products in this more emotional, visual and inspirational manner. 

Home Shoppers Desire Uniqueness, which Requires Vast Selection: In the mass market for home goods, consumers with different tastes, styles, purchasing goals and budgets require a broad selection of products and choices. This need for selection applies across many home categories, including furniture, d&#233;cor, lighting, kitchen, bed &#38; bath, outdoor, home improvement and baby &#38; kids, each of which has dozens of sub-categories with hundreds to tens of thousands of products. Brick and mortar home goods retailers must balance a consumer's desire for uniqueness, which requires massive selection, with the challenges of high inventory carrying costs and limited showroom and storage space. 

Time Consuming and Inconvenient for Consumers to Shop across Brick and Mortar Home Retailers: To browse a vast selection of products across highly-fragmented brick and mortar retailers, consumers must shop multiple stores. For example, if a nearby furniture retailer has 20 bedroom sets on its showroom floor, a consumer may feel she must visit multiple stores to see a wide enough selection to make an informed purchase decision that satisfies her style and budget needs. We believe the lack of an easy-to-browse, one-stop shopping experience with massive selection has led to dissatisfaction with brick and mortar home goods shopping. In contrast, Wayfair.com offers over 1,500 bedroom sets across many styles and prices, which mitigates the need for a consumer to visit multiple stores to find the perfect item at a price she can afford. 

Difficult to Browse, Value Shop and Price Compare: Mass market home goods shoppers frequently seek a wide variety of information from disparate online and offline sources to research home goods products. Because this information is not easily comparable, it is difficult for consumers to make informed home d&#233;cor and design-related decisions. In addition, consumers may struggle to mix and match different home goods items they are considering buying from multiple traditional brick and mortar retailers. 

Challenging Logistics for Consumers and Retailers: Logistics, fulfillment and customer service for home goods products are challenging given the various categories, shapes, sizes, weights and price points in the home market. Given the personal nature and high touch physical characteristics of home goods products, many consumers seek first-rate customer service so they are not burdened with managing delivery, shipping and return logistics on their own. However, we believe big box retailers that serve the mass market for home goods are often unable or unwilling to provide this level of service. In addition, many regional retailers do not ship nationally, which we believe is because they lack the required scalable technology, operations and distribution infrastructure. 

Our Solution 

Key Benefits for Our Customers 

We offer our consumers vast selection, easy access and value, inspirational content, personalized and mobile shopping experiences and superior customer service to help them find the perfect item at a price they can afford. 

Broad Selection and Choice: We offer one of the largest online selections of furniture, d&#233;cor, decorative accents, housewares, seasonal d&#233;cor and other home goods with over seven million products from over 7,000 &#32;suppliers. 

Easy Access and Value: We offer consumers a one-stop shop with home goods pricing designed to be on par with big box retailers and a merchandising experience designed to be on par with specialty retailers. 

Inspirational Photography and Editorial Content: To inspire customers, we produce beautiful imagery and highly-tailored editorial content both in house and through third parties. 

Personalized and Mobile Shopping Experiences: We use personalization, based on past browsing, shopping patterns and personal preferences, to create a more engaging consumer experience. Our investment in mobile allows us to deliver value, convenience and inspiration to consumers anytime and anywhere. 

Superior Customer Service: Our customer service organization has over 1,000 representatives who help consumers navigate our sites, answer questions and help complete orders. This team helps us build trust with consumers, build our brand awareness, enhance our reputation and drive sales. 

Key Benefits for Our Suppliers 

Through our technology platform, we offer our suppliers a cost-effective channel, the ability to leverage our technological expertise, a real-time view of our demand and proven logistics capabilities to help sell their products. 

Cost-Effective Access to Our Large Customer Base: We sell products from over 7,000 &#32;suppliers, many of which are small, family-run operations without well-known product brands and without easy retail access to a large customer base. We provide our suppliers with access to our customer base of 5.4 million active customers, enabling them to increase their sales and access the growing e-commerce market. 

Ability to Leverage Our Technological Expertise to Drive Sales: Our technology platform is designed to allow suppliers to easily provide us with their full product selection. Through our technology platform, we believe many of our suppliers have increased their sales, which has strengthened their loyalty to us. 

Real-Time View of Demand and Inventory Needs via Data and Analytics: We offer our suppliers a real-time view of our demand and inventory needs via powerful data and analytics. 

Proven Logistics Capabilities: Our logistics infrastructure allows us to ship directly from our suppliers to our customers. This supplier direct fulfillment network is a key component of our custom-built and seamlessly integrated technology and operational platform. 

Our Strengths 

We believe we have achieved our market leading position through the following key strengths: 

&#8226; 

our large scale drives powerful network effects; 

&#8226; 

superior logistics infrastructure and supplier direct fulfillment network require minimal inventory and capital expenditures; 

&#8226; 

trusted brand with rapidly growing awareness; 

&#8226; 

personalized shopping experiences and differentiated use of data, analytics and technology drive high customer repeat rates; 

&#8226; 

powerful and custom-built technology platform; 

&#8226; 

well-positioned to benefit from platform shift to mobile; and 

&#8226; 

proven and operationally disciplined management team. 

Our Growth Strategy 

Our goal is to further improve our leadership in the home goods market by pursuing the following key strategies: 

&#8226; 

continue building our leading retail home brands; 

&#8226; 

acquire more customers; 

&#8226; 

continue to invest in the consumer experience; 

&#8226; 

increase repeat purchasing through merchandising, data, analytics and technology; 

&#8226; 

add new suppliers and deepen relationships with our existing suppliers; 

&#8226; 

continue to invest in our technology and operational platform, including our mobile platform; 

&#8226; 

expand internationally; and 

&#8226; 

opportunistically pursue strategic acquisitions. 

Brands 

Each of our customers has a different taste, style, purchasing goal and budget when shopping for her home. To help her find the right products for her home, we offer five distinct brands: Wayfair.com, Joss &#38; Main, AllModern, DwellStudio and Birch Lane. Each brand has a unique identity that offers a tailored shopping experience and rich product selection to a different target audience. 

Wayfair.com: &#32;an online destination for all things home 

Joss &#38; Main: &#32;where beautiful furniture and finds meet irresistible savings 

AllModern: &#32;a go-to online source for modern design 

DwellStudio: &#32;a design house for fashion-forward modern furnishings 

Birch Lane: &#32;a collection of classic furnishings and timeless home d&#233;cor 

In addition to our five brands, we also generate net revenue through two other sources: 

Retail Partners: A portion of our net revenue is generated online by retail partners. These relationships allow consumers to purchase Wayfair products through the retail partners' sites. 

Wayfair Media Solutions: Wayfair helps selected manufacturers, retailers and other advertisers market to our large consumer audience. 

Technology 

We have custom-built our proprietary technology and operational platform to deliver the best experience for both our customers and suppliers. Our success has been built on a culture of data-driven decision-making, operational discipline and an unwavering focus on the customer. We employ over 450 engineers and data scientists and believe we are able to attract and retain some of the best technological minds. Our engineering department is organized into four operating groups that have built a full set of technology solutions specific for the home goods market: 

Storefront: A large set of tools and systems with which our customers directly interact. Our storefront team develops an experience specifically tuned for shopping the home goods category. 

Operations: A majority of the software we have written is designed to deliver the reliable and consistent experience consumers desire, but is not consumer facing. 

Infrastructure: We have developed a variety of tools and systems that enable us to move quickly and efficiently as we scale our organization. Our infrastructure group supports a variety of proprietary, purchased as well as open source systems. Our infrastructure group is primarily focused on the tools, processes, systems and platforms that provide the technical infrastructure that drives our business. 

Corporate IT: In addition to developing a large amount of software that is specific to our business, we run systems common across multiple industries. 

Competition 

The market for online home goods and furniture is highly competitive, fragmented and rapidly changing. While we are primarily focused on the mass market, we compete across all segments of the home goods market. Our competition includes furniture stores, big box retailers, department stores, specialty retailers and online retailers and marketplaces: 

&#8226; 

Furniture Stores: Ashley Furniture, Bob's Discount Furniture, Havertys, Raymour &#38; Flanigan and Rooms To Go; 

&#8226; 

Big Box Retailers: Bed Bath &#38; Beyond, Home Depot, IKEA, Lowe's, Target and Walmart; 

&#8226; 

Department Stores: JCPenney and Macy's; 

&#8226; 

Specialty Retailers: Crate and Barrel, Ethan Allen, HomeGoods, Pottery Barn and Restoration Hardware; and 

&#8226; 

Online Retailers and Marketplaces: Amazon and eBay. 

We believe that the primary competitive factors in the mass market are vast selection, visually inspiring browsing, compelling merchandising, ease of product discovery, price, convenience, reliability, speed of fulfillment and customer service. We believe our technological and operational expertise allows us to provide our customers with a vast selection of goods, attractive price points, reliable and timely fulfillment, plus superior customer service, and that the combination of these capabilities is what provides us with a sustainable competitive advantage. 

Sales and Marketing 

Our sales and marketing efforts bring new and repeat customers to our sites and help us acquire their email addresses through various paid and non-paid advertising methods. Our paid advertising efforts include search engine marketing, display advertising, paid social media, catalog and television advertisements. Our non-paid advertising efforts include search engine optimization, non-paid social media, mobile "push" notifications and email. Upon acquiring a customer or a potential customer's email address, we seek to increase their engagement with our sites and drive repeat purchases. This effort to increase engagement and repeat purchasing is primarily accomplished via unpaid mobile "push" notifications and email marketing efforts. We 

rigorously manage our paid marketing efforts, to ensure that each new spending initiative is cost-effective with a measurable return on investment within a short period of time. 

Employees 

As of December 31, 2015 , we had 3,809 &#32;full-time equivalent employees. Additionally, we rely on independent contractors and temporary personnel to supplement our workforce, primarily in our fulfillment centers. None of our employees is represented by a labor union or covered by a collective bargaining agreement. We consider our relationship with our employees to be good. 

Intellectual Property 

Our intellectual property, including any trademarks, copyrights, domain names, patents, trade dress, trade secrets and proprietary technologies, is an important part of our business. To protect our intellectual property, we rely on a combination of laws and regulations, as well as contractual restrictions. We pursue the registration of our trademarks, including "Wayfair" and certain variations thereon, copyrights and domain names in the United States and certain foreign locations. We also rely on the protection of laws regarding unregistered copyrights for our proprietary software and certain other content we create. We will continue to evaluate the merits applying for copyright registrations in the future. We have an issued patent regarding our proprietary technology and we are evaluating additional patent applications. We expect to consider filing patent applications for future technology inventions. We also rely on trade secret laws to protect our proprietary technology and other intellectual property. To further protect our intellectual property, we enter into confidentiality and assignment of invention assignment agreements with employees and certain contractors and confidentiality agreements with other third parties, such as suppliers. 

Segments 

See Note 11 to our Consolidated Financial Statements, Segment and Geographic Information , included in Part II, Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data , of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Company Information 

We began operating as Smart Tech Toys, Inc., a Massachusetts corporation, in May 2002 and changed our name to CSN Stores, Inc. in February 2003. In March 2008, we formed, and contributed all of the assets and liabilities of CSN Stores, Inc. to, a subsidiary, CSN Stores LLC, and we continued operating our business through this Delaware limited liability company. In late 2011, we changed the name of CSN Stores, Inc. to SK Retail, Inc. and changed our name from CSN Stores LLC to Wayfair LLC. In connection with our initial public offering, we completed a corporate reorganization, as a result of which Wayfair Inc. was formed to be a holding company with no material assets other than 100% of the equity interests in Wayfair LLC and SK Retail, Inc. For additional information regarding our corporate reorganization, see Note 1 to our Consolidated Financial Statements, Basis of Presentation , included in Part II, Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data , of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Our executive offices are located at 4 Copley Place, 7th Floor, Boston, MA 02116, and our telephone number is (617) 532-6100. Our corporate website address is Wayfair.com. The information contained in, or accessible through, our website does not constitute part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Available Information 

We encourage investors to use our investor relations website, investor.wayfair.com, to find information about us. We promptly make available on this website, free of charge, the reports that we file or furnish with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"), and corporate governance information (including our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics). We file annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, proxy and information statements and amendments to reports filed or furnished pursuant to Sections 13(a), 14 and 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the &#8220;Exchange Act&#8221;). All material we file with the SEC is publicly available at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street NE, Washington, DC 20549. You may obtain information on the operation of the SEC's Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. In addition, the SEC maintains a website at www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding Wayfair and other issuers that file electronically with the SEC. Our website and the information contained therein or connected thereto are not a part of, or incorporated into, this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

