 ITEM 1. 

DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS 

(In millions, except per share amounts, unless otherwise stated) 

COMPANY OVERVIEW 

Unless the context otherwise indicates, references herein to "ITT," "the Company," and such words as "we," "us," and "our" include ITT Corporation and its subsidiaries. 

ITT is a diversified manufacturer of highly engineered critical components and customized technology solutions for the energy, transportation and industrial markets. We manufacture components that are integral to the operation of systems and manufacturing processes in these key markets. Our products provide enabling functionality for applications where reliability and performance are critically important to our customers and the users of their products. 

We are a global company with approximately 9,700 &#32;employees in more than 35 &#32;countries and 2015 revenue of $2.5 billion , which we derived from sales in more than 100 &#32;countries. In 2015 , 62% &#32;of our sales were outside the U.S., including 31% &#32;from emerging growth markets. Accordingly, we have located approximately half of our manufacturing facilities outside of the U.S. in order to lower costs, achieve strategic proximity to customers and further increase international sales and market share. 

We have a balanced and diversified portfolio of businesses, which are organized in four segments &#8211; Industrial Process, Motion Technologies, Interconnect Solutions, and Control Technologies. Our businesses share a common, repeatable operating model centered on our engineering aptitude. Each business applies its technology and engineering expertise to solve some of the most pressing challenges of our customers. Our applied engineering provides a special business fit with our customers given the critical nature of their applications. This in turn provides us with unique insight to our customers' requirements and enables us to develop solutions to better assist our customers achieve their business goals. Our technology and customer intimacy together produce opportunities to capture recurring revenue streams, aftermarket opportunities and long-lived platforms from original equipment manufacturers (OEMs). 

We also possess strong leading brands, such as Goulds Pumps, Bornemann, Engineered Valves, Cannon, VEAM, BIW Connector Systems, KONI, Wolverine, Enidine, Hartzell Aerospace, and ITT, in many of our niche markets. These brands are associated with quality, reliability, durability, and engineering excellence. Our brands extend internationally and perform strongly in emerging growth markets including China, Mexico, Brazil, Saudi Arabia, and Russia. 

We are committed to creating long-term sustainable value for all of our stakeholders, supported by our balanced operating strategy designed to achieve long-term profitable growth. The elements of this strategy are disciplined organic growth through global market expansion and new product development, combined with operational improvements that focus on the principles of Lean Six Sigma to reduce costs and cycle times while improving overall productivity, quality, and safety on a continuing basis. We have also moved beyond the factory floor to improve the efficiency of other critical processes of the value chain to become a truly lean enterprise. This initiative encompasses not only core lean, problem solving and continuous improvement principles but also leadership, talent and cultural aspects. 

Given these dynamics and our technology investments, global reach and vibrant brands, we believe we have the opportunity to continue to expand geographically, broaden our product lines, improve our market position, and increase earnings through organic revenue growth and operational efficiencies and through targeted acquisitions. We continue to prioritize deploying capital for organic growth and then acquisitive growth. Our acquisition strategy generally targets firms in similar businesses and end-markets that have unique and differentiated products, services, and technologies. Effective capital deployment, including resource optimization and a disciplined focus on liquidity and cash management is a major part of how we plan to achieve our financial performance goals. 

We aspire to drive long-term average annual organic revenue growth of approximately 5%-7%, with corresponding operating margin expansion of 50-70 basis points, achieve an adjusted free cash flow conversion rate of greater than 105%, deliver adjusted earnings per share growth of 10%-15% per year, and maintain a return on invested capital (ROIC) that is in-line with proxy peers. 

Segment Information 

See Note 3 , Segment Information, to the Consolidated Financial Statements for financial information about each of our segments. 

Industrial Process 

The Industrial Process segment, commonly referred to as IP, is an original equipment manufacturer and service provider offering an extensive portfolio of industrial pumps, valves and plant optimization systems and services. During 2015, this segment aligned around three business units &#8211; Industrial Products, Engineered Systems, and Aftermarket Solutions &#8211; serving an extensive base of customers from large multi-national companies and engineering, procurement and construction (EPC) firms to regional distributors to end-user customers. IP's customers operate in global infrastructure and natural resource markets such as oil and gas, chemical and petrochemical, general industrial, mining, pulp and paper, and power generation. Brands include Goulds Pumps, Bornemann, Engineered Valves, PRO Services, and C'treat. 

Industrial Products Business Unit 

Industrial Products designs and manufactures configured-to-order industrial pumps, valves, and equipment for both original equipment installations and replacement parts and pumps. We serve customers rapidly as products in this business unit typically have shorter lead times. These products include centrifugal process pumps and engineered industrial and sanitary valves. 

Engineered Systems Business Unit 

Engineered Systems provides highly engineered and customized pumping systems typically used in severe service conditions via both original equipment installations and replacement parts and pumps. Products include API (American Petroleum Institute) centrifugal pumps, vertical centrifugal pumps, twin screw pumps and water systems. Our pumping systems are generally part of larger capital projects, which have longer lead times and are generally managed by EPCs. 

Aftermarket Solutions Business Unit 

Aftermarket Solutions provides customers with parts, services, and solutions that reduce total cost of ownership for pumps and rotating equipment. In addition to providing standard repairs and upgrades, the business also develops engineered solutions for specific customer process issues. Examples include innovative technologies like PumpSmart Controllers and i-ALERT2 Equipment Health Monitoring Devices to monitor and control pumps and other rotating equipment in an industrial environment. 

IP goes to market via a global and diversified sales channel structure. End-users are serviced by an extensive network of independent industrial distributors, which account for approximately 30% of revenue, and representatives which complement our customer-focused direct sales and service organization. We also have focused channels dedicated to supporting EPC firms as their needs are often distinct from those of other distributor and end-user customers. 

The pump and valve markets served are highly competitive. For most of our products there are hundreds of regional competitors and a limited number of larger global peers. Primary customer purchase decision drivers include price, delivery terms and on-time performance, brand recognition and reputation, perceived quality, breadth of product and service offerings, commercial terms, technical support and localization. Pricing can be very competitive for large projects because of the engineering complexity and increased potential for aftermarket opportunities for the original equipment provider. 

Motion Technologies 

The Motion Technologies segment, commonly referred to as MT, is a manufacturer of braking pads, shims, shock absorbers, damping, and sealing technologies primarily for the transportation industry, including passenger cars, light- and heavy-duty commercial and military vehicles, buses and rail transportation. MT consists of three business units, Friction Technologies, KONI, and Wolverine. 

Friction Technologies 

Our Friction Technologies business manufactures a range of brake pads installed as OE pads on cars and light and heavy duty commercial vehicles. Demand for MT's products stem from a variety of end customers and automotive platforms around the world. OE pads are sold either directly to OEMs or to Tier-1 and Tier-2 brake manufacturers. Our OE pads are designed to meet customer specifications and environmental regulations, and to satisfy an array of geographic applications. Most automobile OEM platforms (car model) require specific brake pad formulations and have demanding delivery and volume schedules. 

Friction Technologies also manufactures aftermarket brake pads designed for the automotive service and repairs market. This market consists of both OE dealers, also referred to as original equipment spares (OES) networks, and independent aftermarket (AM) networks. Brake pads sold within the OES network generally match the specifications of an original auto platform OE brake pad, while our catalog of AM pads feature technology designed to provide up to a range of braking performance levels. Within the service and repairs market, pads are sold either directly to OE manufacturers or Tier-1 and Tier-2 brake manufacturers (such as Continental or TRW) or indirectly through independent distributor channels. 

Combined sales to Continental and TRW, MT's two largest customers, were approximately 40% of 2015 &#32;MT revenue, however, approximately 50% of the Continental and TRW derived revenue is directly attributable to OES supply agreements signed directly with automakers. In addition, all OE pad contracts are specified by brake manufacturers even in cases where automakers specify the use of our pads in the braking system. 

KONI 

The KONI business organizes its various performance shock absorber products into three main product groups: railway rolling stock; car &#38; racing; and bus, truck &#38; trailer. 

Railway Rolling Stock &#32;provides a wide range of equipment for passenger rail, locomotives, freight cars, high speed trains and light rail. Offerings include hydraulic shock absorbers (primary, lateral and inter-car), yaw dampers as well as visco-elastic and hydraulic buffers. Revenue opportunities for our rail damping systems are balanced between OE and AM customers. Sales are either directly to train manufacturers and train operators carrying out scheduled train maintenance programs or indirectly through distributors. 

Car &#38; Racing &#32;features performance shock absorbers often using our Frequency Selective Damping (FSD) technology. FSD products generally have been used by car and racing enthusiasts who desire to modify their cars for increased handling performance and comfort, but are now also being incorporated into OE platform designs. KONI car shock absorbers are sold all over the world, through a distribution network that markets KONI products into specific geographies or customer groups. 

Bus, Truck &#38; Trailer &#32;manufactures shock absorbers and bus dampers, destined to both OE and AM customers. 

Wolverine 

In October 2015, ITT acquired Wolverine Automotive Holdings Inc., the parent company of Wolverine Advanced Materials LLC (Wolverine). Wolverine is a manufacturer of customized technologies for automotive braking systems and specialized sealing solutions for harsh operating environments across a range of industries. Brake shims are thin metal and rubber adhesive dampeners that fit onto the brake pad and against the brake caliper to prevent excessive noise and vibration. Gaskets are an anti-vibration solution and a sealing solution that prevent fluid spillage with applications to engines, transmissions, exhaust systems, fuel systems and a variety of pneumatic systems. 

MT has a market reputation derived from many years of mutual collaboration with major OEMs and is focused on customer satisfaction, quality and on-time delivery. MT has a global manufacturing footprint, with production facilities in Western Europe, Eastern Europe and China. 

MT competes in markets primarily served by large, well-established national and global companies. Key competitive drivers within the brake pad business include technical expertise, formulation development capabilities, scale production, product performance, high-quality standards, customer intimacy, reputation and the ability to meet demanding delivery and volume schedules in a reduced amount of time. OE and OES customers usually require long-lasting and well-established relationships, based on mutual trust, local proximity and a wide range of cooperative activities, starting from the design to the sampling, prototyping and testing phases of brake pads. Within the independent AM pads market, MT is a leading European provider in a highly fragmented global market. 

Competitive drivers in the rail damping systems business include price, technical expertise and product performance. Rail damping systems are considered critical components because of safety requirements and thus they have to be specifically designed according to many different train applications, and must satisfy strict compliance requirements. MT is a global leader in the rail dampers component of the complete rail damper system. 

Interconnect Solutions 

The Interconnect Solutions segment, commonly referred to as ICS, designs and manufactures a broad range of highly engineered connectors and cable assemblies for critical applications in harsh environments. ICS' product portfolio includes high performance, military-specification, and commercial electrical connectors of the following types: Circular, Rectangular, Radio Frequency, Fiber Optic, D-sub Miniature, Micro-Miniature and cable assemblies. ICS operates through its brands, Cannon, VEAM and BIW Connector Systems, which deliver solutions to enable the transfer of data, signal, and power into three end-user markets: aerospace and defense, transportation and industrial, and oil and gas. ICS has organized its business around these three end-user markets, with each business unit having a dedicated team that specializes in solutions for their specific market, providing focused customer support and expertise. ICS is considered a leading company in the harsh environment niche markets it participates in, because of its technological capabilities, customer relationships, cost performance and global footprint. 

Aerospace and Defense 

ICS Aerospace and Defense products include industry standards-based connectors and customized interconnect solutions for most segments of the commercial aviation and defense industry. These products are designed to withstand the extreme shock, exposure and vibration environments that are typical in aviation and military applications and where reliability and safety are critical factors. 

Transportation and Industrial 

ICS Transportation products include connectors for high-speed, mainline, metro and light passenger rail, heavy-duty vehicles, electric vehicle applications, and medical devices. ICS Industrial products include connectors for industrial production equipment, industrial electronics and instruments, and other industrial and medical applications. Both markets are served through the Cannon brand, which celebrated its 100-year anniversary in 2015, and VEAM brand, which celebrated its 60-year anniversary in 2014. These brands are known for high-performance, high-reliability solutions which withstand high vibrations and are resistant to dirt and fluids. 

Oil and Gas 

Operating through the BIW Connector Systems brand, ICS Oil and Gas products include connectors that provide power for electric submersible pumps (ESP) in oil and gas wells, reservoir monitoring instruments and electrical downhole heaters. Product applications include electrical power penetrations for wellheads, packers and pods that are able to accommodate any size and provide for multiple sealing strategies and ratings. 

ICS has a global production footprint, including major facilities in the United States, Mexico, Germany, and China, which provides geographic proximity and the highest level of customer support to over 2,500 global customers. Products are sold either directly to OEM&#8217;s, contract manufacturers and cable system operators or indirectly through partnerships with leading distribution companies, creating an extensive global distribution channel. We have long-lasting relationships with our distributor partners, as many have been selling ICS products for over 70 years. Sales to distributors represented approximately 33% of 2015 &#32;ICS revenue. 

ICS competes with a large number of competitors in a highly fragmented industry. Our products compete to varying degrees on the basis of quality, price, availability, performance and brand recognition. We also compete on the basis of customer service. Our ability to compete also depends on continually providing innovative new product solutions and worldwide support for our customers. 

Control Technologies 

The Control Technologies segment, commonly referred to as CT, manufactures specialized equipment, including actuation, fuel management, noise and energy absorption, and environmental control system components, for the aerospace and defense, and industrial markets. CT has a broad customer base including end-users, OEM&#8217;s, and distributors, for which no single customer represents more than 15% of the segment's revenue. Channels to market include direct, commissioned representation and buy-resell distributors. CT consists of two business units, CT Aerospace and CT Industrial. 

CT Aerospace 

CT Aerospace designs and manufactures products for commercial aerospace, business aviation, defense, and other markets, which are generally part of long-lived platforms that provide for recurring aftermarket opportunities. Aircraft component products consist of fuel and water pumps, valves, electro-mechanical rotary and linear actuators, and pressure, temperature, limit, and flow switches for various aircraft systems. Aircraft interior products include a variety of engineered elastomer isolators to protect equipment and keep the interior of the aircraft quiet, stowage bin rate controls, rotary hinge dampers and actuators, and seat recline locks and control cables. CT Aerospace also provides electromechanical seat actuation for premium seating products. Defense products generally include energy absorption applications and aerospace components. CT&#8217;s 2015 acquisition of Hartzell Aerospace brings additional product capabilities in environmental control systems including climate control and ice protection heaters, composite conveyance ducting and acoustically engineered inlets and exhausts for Auxiliary Power Units (APU). Most of the products are sold direct to the customer by an in-house sales force. CT Aerospace utilizes a small third-party business for government spare parts distribution. 

Competitors range from large multi-national corporations to small privately held firms. CT Aerospace markets are often fragmented and thus there are several types of competitors. Competition in these markets focuses on application expertise with effective solutions, product delivery and performance, previous installation history, quality, price and customer support. CT Aerospace competes by offering a wide portfolio of reliable products, coupled with advanced application expertise and customer support. We believe application expertise and our reputation for quality and operational performance significantly enhance our market position. CT Aerospace's ability to collaborate with customers to deliver a wide range of product offerings has allowed them to compete effectively, to cultivate and maintain customer relationships, and to expand into new markets. 

CT Industrial 

CT Industrial designs, manufactures, and markets large and small bore shock absorbers, linear and rotary actuators, and process control instrumentation, such as high and low pressure regulators and flow, temperature, and pressure switches. The shock absorbers and actuators serve a wide range of applications in a diverse set of end-markets including automotive production, packaging, and factory automation. The process control products primarily serve the chemical, petrochemical, energy markets. CT Industrial possesses a specialized set of design and application engineering skills and capabilities that enables us to engineer differentiated custom solutions for unique applications. For example, CT Industrial's large bore shock absorbers are custom designed to mitigate the damaging effects of seismic events on critical structures such as buildings and bridges. In addition, CT Industrial has a strong direct and indirect sales channel providing reliable and value added service to our diverse customer base. 

Competitors change depending on the product line and global region and range from large multi-national corporations to small privately held firms. CT Industrial's broad product offerings, technical expertise, quality and lead times enable us to collaborate with our customers to deliver comprehensive solutions enabling CT Industrial to compete effectively in existing markets and expand into new markets. 

Other Company Information 

Materials 

All of our businesses require various OEM products, manufactured components and raw materials, the availability and prices of which may fluctuate. The principal OEM products and manufactured components assembled into our products include motors, castings, mechanical seals, machined castings, metal fabrications and miscellaneous metal, plastic, or electronic components. The primary raw materials used in manufacturing our products include steel, gold, copper, nickel, iron, aluminum, and tin, as well as specialty alloys, including titanium. Materials are purchased in various forms, such as sheet, bar, rod and wire stock, pellets and metal powders. 

Raw materials, supplies and product subassemblies are purchased from third-party suppliers, contract manufacturers, and commodity dealers. For most of our products, we have existing alternate sources of supply, or such materials are readily available. In some instances we depend on a single source of supply, manufacturing or assembly or participate in commodity markets that may be subject to a limited number of suppliers. 

We continually monitor the business conditions of our supply chain to maintain our market position and to avoid potential supply disruptions. There have been no raw materials shortages that have had a material adverse impact on our business as a whole, and we have been able to develop a robust supply chain such that we do not anticipate shortages of such materials in the future. 

Although some cost increases may be recovered through increased prices to customers, our operating results are generally exposed to such fluctuations. When practical, we attempt to control such costs through fixed-priced contracts with suppliers. We typically acquire materials and components through a combination of blanket and scheduled purchase orders to support our materials requirements for an average of four to eight weeks, with the exception of some specialty materials. From time to time, we experience price volatility or supply constraints for raw materials based on market supply and demand dynamics. In limited circumstances, we may have to obtain scarce components for higher prices on the spot market, which may have a negative impact on gross margin and can periodically create a disruption to production and delivery. We also acquire certain inventory in anticipation of supply constraints or enter into longer-term pricing commitments with vendors to improve the priority, price and availability of supply. We evaluate hedging opportunities to mitigate or minimize the risk of operating margin erosion resulting from the volatility of commodity prices. 

Manufacturing Methods 

We utilize two primary methods of fulfilling demand for products: build-to-order and engineer-to-order. Build-to-order consists of assembling a group of products with the same pre-defined specifications, generally for our OEM customers. Engineer-to-order consists of assembling a customized system for a customer&#8217;s individual order specifications. In both cases, we offer design, integration, test and other production value-added services. We employ build-to-order capabilities to maximize manufacturing and logistics efficiencies by producing high volumes of basic product configurations. Engineering products to order permits the configuration of units to meet the customized requirements of our customers. Our inventory management and distribution practices in both build-to-order and engineer-to-order seek to minimize inventory holding periods, and improve customer delivery performance. 

Backlog 

Delivery schedules vary from customer to customer based on their requirements. For example, large complex projects in specialized markets such as oil and gas, chemical, and mining at Industrial Process require longer lead times and production cycles. Delivery delays could arise from supply chain limitations, internal production challenges, changes in the customer&#8217;s requirements, or technical difficulties. Total backlog, representing firm orders that have been received, acknowledged and entered into our production systems, was $860.5 and $1,024.6 &#32;at December 31, 2015 &#32;and 2014 , respectively. Total backlog by segment as of December 31, 2015 &#32;and 2014 was: IP - $410.9 &#32;and $603.4 ; MT - $198.2 &#32;and $199.9 ; ICS - $102.1 &#32;and $108.5 ; and CT - $116.9 &#32;and $94.7 . We expect to satisfy nearly all December 31, 2015 &#32;backlog commitments during 2016 . 

Intellectual Property 

We generally seek patent protection for those inventions and improvements that are likely to be incorporated into our products or where proprietary rights are expected to improve our competitive position. The highly customized application engineering embedded within our products, our proprietary rights and our knowledge capabilities all contribute to enhancing our competitive position. 

While we own and control a significant number of patents, trade secrets, confidential information, trademarks, trade names, copyrights, and other intellectual property rights which, in the aggregate, are of material importance to our business, management believes that our Company, as a whole, as well as each of our core segments, is not materially dependent on any one intellectual property right or related group of such rights. Patents, patent applications, and license agreements will expire or terminate over time by operation of law, in accordance with their terms or otherwise. As the portfolio of our patents, patent applications, and license agreements has evolved over a long period of time, we do not expect the expiration of any specific patent or other intellectual property right to have a material adverse effect on our financial statements. 

Research and Development 

Research and Development (R&#38;D) is a key element of ITT&#8217;s engineering culture and is generally focused on the design and development of products and solutions that anticipate customer needs and emerging trends. Our approach to R&#38;D often begins by working with our customers to address a problem, then engineering a solution to the particular customer need. As a result, our R&#38;D is based on taking technology quickly to the tangible phase, increasing the competitive offering, and increasing the customer service experience through engineered application solutions. During 2015 , 2014 &#32;and 2013 , we recognized R&#38;D expenses of $78.9 , $76.6 , and $67.3 , respectively, which were 3.2% , 2.9% , and 2.7% , of revenues, respectively. 

Cyclicality and Seasonality 

Many of the businesses in which we operate are subject to specific industry and general economic cycles. We consider our connectors business to be an early cycle business, meaning it generally is impacted more in the early portion of an economic cycle, while the automotive and aerospace components businesses tend to be impacted in the middle portion of the cycle and the industrial pump business typically is impacted late in the economic cycle. 

Our businesses experience limited seasonal variations, with demand generally lower during summer months (our third quarter) mainly attributable to manufacturing shutdowns and the planned industrial maintenance activities of our customers. Revenue impacts from the limited seasonal variations are typically mitigated by our backlog of orders that allow us to adjust levels of production across the summer months. 

Environmental Matters 

We are subject to stringent federal, state, local, and foreign environmental laws and regulations concerning air emissions, water discharges and waste disposal. In the U.S., these include, but are not limited to, the Federal Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act, the Resource, Conservation and Recovery Act, and the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act. Environmental requirements are significant factors affecting our operations. We have established an internal program to assess compliance with applicable environmental requirements for our facilities. The program, which includes periodic audits of many of our locations, including our major operating facilities, is designed to identify problems in a timely manner, correct deficiencies and prevent future noncompliance. 

We closely monitor our environmental responsibilities, together with trends in the environmental laws. In addition, we have purchased insurance protection against certain environmental risks arising from our business activities. Environmental laws and regulations are subject to change, however, the nature and timing of such changes, if any, is difficult to predict. As actual costs incurred at identified sites in future periods may vary from our current estimates given the inherent uncertainties in evaluating environmental exposures, management believes it is possible that the outcome of these uncertainties may have a material adverse effect on our financial statements. See "Critical Accounting Estimates" within Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis, as well as Note 18 , Commitments and Contingencies, to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding environmental matters. 

Employees 

As of December 31, 2015 , we had approximately 9,700 &#32;employees, of which approximately 3,800 were located in the U.S. Approximately 12% of our U.S. employees are represented by unions. We also have unionized employees in Italy, Germany, and Brazil. No one unionized facility accounts for more than 16% of ITT total revenues. Although our relations with our employees are strong and we have not experienced any material strikes or work stoppages recently, no assurances can be made that we will not experience these or other types of conflicts with labor unions, works councils, other groups representing employees or our employees generally, or that any future negotiations with our labor unions will not result in significant increases in our cost of labor. 

General Developments of the Business 

ITT Corporation was incorporated as ITT Industries, Inc. on September 5, 1995. On July 1, 2006, ITT Industries, Inc. changed its name to ITT Corporation. 

On October 31, 2011, ITT completed the tax-free spin-off (referred to herein as the 2011 spin-off) of its Defense and Information Solutions business, Exelis Inc. (Exelis), and its water-related businesses, Xylem Inc. (Xylem) by way of a distribution of all of the issued and outstanding shares of Exelis common stock and Xylem common stock, on a pro rata basis, to ITT shareholders of record on October 17, 2011. The 2011 spin-off was made pursuant to a Distribution Agreement, dated October 25, 2011, among ITT, Exelis and Xylem (the Distribution Agreement). Following the 2011 spin-off, ITT did not own any shares of common stock of Exelis or Xylem. On May 29, 2015, Exelis was acquired by Harris Corporation (Harris). 

Acquisitions 

On November 28, 2012, we acquired Joh. Heinr. Bornemann GmbH (Bornemann), a supplier and servicer of multiphase pumping systems in the global oil and gas, industrial, food and pharmaceutical markets. Bornemann is included as part of our Industrial Process segment. 

On March 31, 2015, we completed the acquisition of Hartzell (Hartzell) Aerospace, a designer and manufacturer of products to support aerospace applications. Hartzell is included as part of our Control Technologies segment. 

On October 5, 2015, we completed the acquisition of Wolverine Automotive Holdings Inc., the parent company of Wolverine Advanced Materials LLC (Wolverine). Wolverine is a manufacturer of customized technologies for automotive braking systems and specialized sealing solutions. Wolverine is included as part of our Motion Technologies segment. 

See Note 21, Acquisitions, to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. 

