 ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

General 

West Pharmaceutical Services, Inc. (which may be referred to as West , the Company , we , us &#32;or our ) is a manufacturer of components and systems for the packaging and delivery of injectable drugs as well as components for the pharmaceutical, healthcare and consumer products industries. Our products include stoppers and seals for vials, prefillable syringe components and systems, components for intravenous and blood collection systems, safety and administration systems, advanced injection systems, and contract design and manufacturing services. Our customers include the leading global producers of pharmaceuticals, biologics, medical devices and consumer products. The Company was incorporated under the laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania on July 27, 1923. 

All trademarks and registered trademarks used in this report are the property of West Pharmaceutical Services, Inc., either directly or indirectly through its subsidiaries unless noted otherwise. Daikyo Crystal Zenith &#174; &#32;(&#8220;CZ &#174; &#8221;) is a registered trademark of Daikyo Seiko, Ltd. ("Daikyo"). 

Throughout this report, references to &#8220;Notes&#8221; refer to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K ("Form 10-K"), unless otherwise indicated. 

West Website 

We maintain a website at www.westpharma.com . Our Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are available on our website under the Investors - SEC Filings &#32;caption as soon as reasonably practical after we electronically file the material with, or furnish it to, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (&#8220;SEC&#8221;). These filings are also available to the public over the Internet at the SEC's website at www.sec.gov . You may also read and copy any document we file at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F. Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for further information on the Public Reference Room. 

Throughout this Form 10-K, we incorporate by reference certain information from parts of other documents filed with the SEC and from our Proxy Statement for the 2016 Annual Meeting of Shareholders (&#8220;2016 Proxy Statement&#8221;), which will be filed with the SEC within 120 days following the end of our 2015 fiscal year. Our 2016 Proxy Statement will be available on our website on or about March 31, 2016, under the caption Investors - Annual Report &#38; Proxy . 

Information about our corporate governance, including our Corporate Governance Principles and Code of Business Conduct, as well as information about our Directors, Board Committees, Committee Charters, and instructions on how to contact the Board is available on our website under the Investors - Corporate Governance &#32;caption. We intend to make any required disclosures regarding any amendments of our Code of Business Conduct or waivers granted to any of our directors or executive officers under the heading Code of Business Conduct on our website. Information relating to the West Pharmaceutical Services Dividend Reinvestment Plan is also available on our website under the Investors - Transfer Agent/Dividend Reinvestment &#32;caption. 

We will provide any of the foregoing information without charge upon written request to our Corporate Secretary, West Pharmaceutical Services, Inc., 530 Herman O. West Drive, Exton, PA 19341. 

Business Segments 

In 2015, our business operations consisted of two reportable segments, the Pharmaceutical Packaging Systems segment ("Packaging Systems") and the Pharmaceutical Delivery Systems segment (&#8220;Delivery Systems&#8221;). Beginning in 2016, we are changing our organization and reporting structure for our next phase of growth and development, which will result in a change to Proprietary Products and Contract-Manufactured Products as reportable segments. The Proprietary Products reportable segment, which will combine the existing Packaging Systems segment with the proprietary products portion of the existing Delivery Systems segment, will develop commercial, operational, and innovation strategies across our global network, with specific emphasis on product offerings to biologic, generic, and pharmaceutical customers. The Contract-Manufactured Products reportable segment, which will consist of the contract manufacturing portion of the existing Delivery Systems segment, will serve as a fully integrated business focused on the design, manufacture, and automated assembly of complex assemblies for pharmaceutical and medical device customers. 

The information and discussion included in this Form 10-K reflects the structure in place as of December 31, 2015. 

Packaging Systems Segment 

Our Packaging Systems segment includes primary packaging components and systems for injectable drug delivery, including stoppers and seals for vials, closures and other components used in syringe, intravenous and blood collection systems, and prefillable syringe components. The growth strategy for Packaging Systems includes organic growth through market segmentation, new-product innovation, strategic acquisitions and geographic expansion. We have manufacturing facilities in North and South America, Europe and Asia Pacific, with affiliated companies in Mexico and Japan. See Item 2, Properties , &#32; for additional information on our manufacturing and other sites. 

Packaging Systems consists of three operating segments - Americas, Europe and Asia Pacific - which are aggregated for reporting purposes. 

Packaging Systems' products generally consist of elastomeric components offered in a variety of standard and customer-specific configurations and formulations, which are available with advanced barrier films and coatings to enhance their performance. West FluroTec &#174; &#32;barrier film is applied to reduce the risk of product loss by contamination and protect the shelf life of packaged drugs. We also apply a fluoropolymer laminate to the surface of stoppers and plungers to improve compatibility between the closure and the drug. B2-coating is a coating applied to the surface of stoppers and plungers which eliminates the need for conventional silicone application. It helps manufacturers reduce product rejections due to trace levels of silicone molecules found in non-coated packaged drug compounds. FluroTec and B2-coating technologies are licensed from Daikyo. 

In addition, our Westar &#174; &#32;RS and Westar &#174; &#32;RU post-manufacturing processes are documented and fully validated procedures for washing, siliconizing and sterilizing stoppers and syringe components. The Westar RS process prepares components for introduction into the customer's sterilizer and the Westar RU process provides sterilized components. These processes increase the overall efficiency of injectable drug production by outsourcing component processing, thereby eliminating steps otherwise required in our customers' manufacturing processes, and help to assure compliance with the latest regulatory requirements for component preparation. We also offer Envision&#8482; components that are inspected using automated vision inspection systems, ensuring that components (plungers and stoppers) meet enhanced quality specifications for visible and subvisible particulate contamination. In 2015, we launched Daikyo RUV components, which are manufactured using clean, high-quality elastomer formulations and then washed, camera-inspected and sterilized to help reduce the customer&#8217;s manufacturing footprint, streamline processes, minimize risks around component preparation and eliminate bioburden. 

Our NovaPure &#174; &#32;components, which include serum and lyophilization stoppers and syringe plungers, incorporate quality by design principles and are manufactured utilizing advanced process technologies. The closures provide the highest levels of quality to the market, helping to ensure the safety, efficacy and purity of injectable drug products. 

Our tamper-evident Flip-Off &#174; &#32;seals are sold in a wide range of sizes and colors to meet customers' needs for product identification and differentiation. The seals can be provided using proprietary printing for cautionary statements and embossing technology that can serve as a counterfeiting deterrence. Our newest sterile drug vial seal, the Flip-Off Plus RU seal, provides drug manufacturers around the world with ready-to-use, high-quality seals that consistently achieve reproducible and safe container integrity for drug products while minimizing levels of bioburden and particulates. 

As an adjunct to our Packaging Systems products, we offer contract analytical laboratory services for testing and evaluating primary drug-packaging components and their compatibility with the contained drug formulation. West Analytical Services provides customers with in-depth knowledge and analysis of the interaction and compatibility of drug products with elastomer, glass and plastic packaging components. Our analytical laboratories also provide specialized testing for complete drug delivery systems. 

See Note 17, Segment Information, &#32;for net sales and asset information for Packaging Systems. 

Delivery Systems Segment 

Our Delivery Systems segment includes safety and administration systems, multi-component systems for drug containment and administration and a variety of custom contract-manufacturing solutions targeted to the healthcare and consumer-products industries. Delivery Systems has expertise in product design and development, including in-house mold design and construction, an engineering center for developmental and prototype tooling, process design and validation and high-speed automated assemblies. In addition, Delivery Systems is responsible for the continued development and commercialization of our line of proprietary healthcare, administrative and advanced injection systems, including Daikyo CZ &#174; , SmartDose &#174; &#32;and other systems. Delivery Systems has manufacturing operations in North America and Europe. See Item 2, Properties , for additional information on our manufacturing and other sites. 

Delivery Systems includes a variety of products and services, which are described below: 

The Daikyo CZ 1ml long Insert Needle syringe system is the market's first polymer syringe system without silicone oil lubrication applied to the barrel or plunger that incorporates an insert-molded needle to avoid the need for adhesive. The luer lock version of the Daikyo CZ syringe system was introduced previously, along with several sizes of sterile vials. Additional sizes of vials continue to be introduced. CZ technology is licensed from Daikyo. 

The development of our SmartDose electronic wearable injector continues to gain momentum in the marketplace, with multiple active development programs in place. This system is designed for controlled, subcutaneous delivery of high volume and high viscosity drugs, using prefillable Daikyo CZ cartridges. The system is fully programmable, has a single push-button operation and a hidden needle for safety. 

The ConfiDose &#174; &#32;auto-injector and SelfDose TM &#32;self-injection systems enhance patient compliance and safety. The needle remains automatically shielded at all times. These systems eliminate preparation steps and simplify the injection of drugs, providing patients with a sterile, single-use disposable system that can be readily used at home. 

Our administration systems include sterile devices for the preparation and administration of drug products, including patented products such as the MixJect &#174; &#32;transfer device, the Mix2Vial &#174; &#32;needleless reconstitution system, the Vial2Bag &#174; system, and a variety of vial adapters. 

Examples of our safety systems that are designed to prevent needle sticks are &#233;ris&#8482; and NovaGuard &#174; SA for prefilled syringes and NovaGuard &#174; &#32;LP for luer lock syringes. 

We offer customer contract-manufacturing and assembly solutions, which use such technologies as multi-component molding, in-mold labeling, ultrasonic welding and clean room molding and device assembly used to manufacture customer-owned components and devices used in surgical, diagnostic, ophthalmic, other drug delivery systems, and consumer products. 

See Note 17, Segment Information, &#32;for net sales and asset information for Delivery Systems. 

International 

We have significant operations outside of the United States ("U.S."), which are managed through the same business segments as our U.S. operations &#8211; Packaging Systems and Delivery Systems. Sales outside of the U.S. accounted for 52.0% &#32;of consolidated net sales in 2015 . For a geographic breakdown of sales, see Note 17, Segment Information . 

Although the general business processes are similar to the domestic business, international operations are exposed to additional risks. These risks include currency fluctuations relative to the U.S. Dollar ("USD"), multiple tax jurisdictions and, particularly in South America and Israel, political and social issues that could destabilize local markets and affect the demand for our products. 

See further discussion of our international operations, the risks associated with our international operations, and our attempt to minimize some of these risks in Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors; &#32;Part II, Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations under the caption Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources; Part II, Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk; &#32;Note 1 &#32; under the captions Financial Instruments &#32;and Foreign Currency Translation; and Note 9, Derivative Financial Instruments . 

Raw Materials 

We use three basic raw materials in the manufacture of our products: elastomers, aluminum and plastic. Elastomers include both natural and synthetic materials. We currently have access to adequate supplies of these raw materials to meet our production needs through agreements with suppliers. 

We employ a supply-chain management strategy in our business segments, which involves purchasing from integrated suppliers that control their own sources of supply. Due to regulatory control over our production processes, and the cost and time involved in qualifying suppliers, we rely on single-source suppliers for many critical raw materials. We purchase certain of our raw materials in the open market. This strategy increases the risk that our supply chain may be interrupted in the event of a supplier production problem. These risks are managed, where possible, by selecting suppliers with multiple manufacturing sites, rigorous quality control systems, surplus inventory levels and other methods of maintaining supply in case of an interruption in production. 

Intellectual Property 

Intellectual property, including patents, trade secrets and know-how, is important to our business. We own or license intellectual property rights, including issued patents and pending patent applications in the U.S. and in other countries that relate to various aspects of our products. In particular, key value-added and proprietary products and processes are licensed from Daikyo. Our intellectual property rights have been useful in establishing our market share and in the growth of our business, and are expected to continue to be of value in the future. 

Seasonality 

Although our Packaging Systems business is not inherently seasonal, sales and operating profit in the second half of the year are typically lower than the first half primarily due to scheduled plant shutdowns in conjunction with our customers' production schedules and the year-end impact of holidays on production. 

Our Delivery Systems business is not inherently seasonal. 

Working Capital 

We are required to carry significant amounts of inventory to meet customer requirements. In addition, some of our supply agreements require us to purchase inventory in bulk orders, which increases inventory levels but decreases the risk of supply interruption. Levels of inventory are also influenced by the seasonal patterns addressed above. For a more detailed discussion of working capital, please see the discussion in Part II, Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations under the caption Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resource s. 

Marketing 

Our Packaging Systems customers include most of the major branded pharmaceutical, generic and biopharmaceutical companies in the world. Packaging Systems components and other products are sold to major pharmaceutical, biotechnology and hospital supply/medical device companies, which incorporate them into their products for distribution to the ultimate end-user. 

Our Delivery Systems segment sells to many of the world's largest pharmaceutical, biopharmaceutical and medical device companies and to large customers within the consumer and food-and-beverage industries. Delivery Systems components generally are incorporated into our customers' manufacturing lines for further processing or assembly. 

Our products and services are distributed primarily through our own sales force and distribution network, with limited use of contract sales agents and regional distributors. 

Our ten largest customers accounted for 42.0% &#32;of our consolidated net sales in 2015 , but none of these customers individually accounted for more than 10% of net sales. See Note 17, Segment Information , for information on sales by significant product group. 

Order Backlog 

Order backlog includes firm orders placed by customers for manufacture over a period of time according to their schedule or upon confirmation by the customer. We also have contractual arrangements with a number of our customers. Products covered by these contracts are included in our backlog only as orders are received. Order backlog may be positively or negatively impacted by several factors, including customer ordering patterns and the necessary lead-time to deliver customer orders. Order backlog is one of many measures we use to understand future demand, and should not be considered in isolation to predict future sales growth. 

At December 31, 2015 and 2014, the order backlog for Packaging Systems was $413.2 million and $339.7 million, respectively. The increase in backlog primarily reflects changes in customer ordering patterns and extended lead-times for certain high-value products, partially offset by an unfavorable foreign currency impact. In 2015, we had orders being placed further in advance by certain customers, some as much as a year, while others focused more on short-term stock-building. The entire order backlog for Packaging Systems at December 31, 2015 is expected to be filled during 2016. 

The majority of Delivery Systems' manufacturing activity is governed by contractual volume expectations, with terms between one and three years, subject to periodic revisions based on customer requirements. 

Competition 

We compete with several companies across our Packaging Systems product lines. Because of the special nature of our pharmaceutical packaging components and our long-standing participation in the market, competition is based primarily on product design and performance, although total cost is becoming increasingly important as pharmaceutical companies continue with aggressive cost-control programs across their operations. 

We differentiate ourselves from our competition as an integrated drug packaging and delivery systems global supplier that can provide pre-sale primary packaging support and engineering development, analytical services, 

regulatory expertise and after-sale technical support. Customers also appreciate the global scope of West's manufacturing capability and our ability to produce many products at multiple sites. 

Our Delivery Systems business operates in very competitive markets for both healthcare and consumer products. The competition varies from smaller regional companies to large global molders. Given the extreme cost pressures they face, many of our customers look off-shore to reduce cost. We differentiate ourselves by leveraging our global capability and by employing new technologies such as high-speed automated assembly, insert-molding, multi-shot molding and expertise with multiple-piece closure systems. 

There are a small number of competitors supplying medical devices and medical devices components. We compete for this market on the basis of our reputation for quality and reliability in engineering and project management, diverse contract manufacturing capabilities and knowledge of and experience in complying with U.S. Food and Drug Administration ("FDA") requirements. We also have specialized knowledge of container and closure components, which is integral to developing delivery systems. With our range of proprietary technologies, we compete with new and established companies in the area of drug delivery devices, including suppliers of prefillable syringes, auto-injectors, safety needles and other proprietary systems. 

Research and Development Activities 

We maintain our own research-scale production facilities and laboratories for developing new products, and offer contract engineering design and development services to assist customers with new product development. Our quality control, regulatory and laboratory testing capabilities are used to ensure compliance with applicable manufacturing and regulatory standards for primary and secondary pharmaceutical packaging components. The engineering departments are responsible for product and tooling design and testing, and for the design and construction of processing equipment. We continue to seek new innovative opportunities for acquisition, licensing, partnering or development of products, services and technologies that serve the injectable drug containment and delivery market. Research and development spending will continue to increase as we pursue innovative strategic platforms in prefillable syringes, injectable containers, advanced injection and safety and administration systems. 

Commercial development of our new products and services for medical and pharmaceutical applications commonly requires several years. New products that we develop may require separate approval as medical devices, and products that are intended to be used in the packaging and delivery of pharmaceutical products will be subject to both customer acceptance of our products and regulatory approval of the customer's products following our development period. 

We spent $14.4 million &#32;in 2015 , $16.3 million &#32;in 2014 , and $15.1 million &#32;in 2013 &#32;on research and development for Packaging Systems. Delivery Systems incurred research and development costs of $19.7 million , $21.0 million , and $22.8 million &#32;in the years 2015 , 2014 &#32;and 2013 , respectively. 

Environmental Regulations 

We are subject to various federal, state and local provisions regulating the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment. Our compliance with these laws and regulations has not had a material impact on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. There were no material capital expenditures for environmental control facilities in 2015 &#32;and there are no material expenditures planned for such purposes in 2016. 

Employees 

As of December 31, 2015 , we employed approximately 7,100 &#32;people in our operations throughout the world. 

