 Item 1. &#160; &#160; Business.

Business of the Company

AeroCentury Corp., a Delaware corporation incorporated in 1997 (the "Company"), typically acquires used regional aircraft and aircraft engines for lease to regional carriers worldwide. 

The business of the Company is managed by JetFleet Management Corp. ("JMC"), pursuant to a management agreement (the "Management Agreement") with JMC. JMC is an integrated aircraft management, marketing and financing business and a subsidiary of JetFleet Holding Corp. ("JHC"). Certain officers of the Company are also officers of JHC and JMC and hold significant ownership positions in both JHC and the Company.

&#160;

Since its formation, the Company has been engaged in the business of investing in used regional aircraft equipment leased to foreign and domestic regional air carriers. The Company's principal business objective is to increase stockholder value by acquiring aircraft assets and managing those assets in order to provide a return on investment through lease revenue and, eventually, sale proceeds. The Company strives to achieve its business objective by reinvesting cash flow and using short-term and long-term debt and/or equity financing. 

The Company's success in achieving its objective depends in large part on its success in three areas: asset selection, lessee selection and obtaining financing for acquisition of aircraft and engines. 

The Company typically acquires assets in one of three ways. The Company may purchase an asset already subject to a lease and assume the rights and obligations of the seller, as lessor under the existing lease. Additionally, the Company may purchase an asset from an air carrier and lease it back to the air carrier. Finally, the Company may purchase an asset from a seller and then immediately enter into a new lease for the aircraft with a third party lessee. In this last case, the Company typically does not purchase an asset unless a potential lessee has been identified and has committed to lease the asset. Occasionally, the Company may also acquire an asset for which it does not have a potential lessee. 

The Company generally targets used regional aircraft and engines with purchase prices between $5 million and $20 million, and lease terms of three to ten years. In determining assets for acquisition, the Company evaluates, among other things, the type of asset, its current price and projected future value, its versatility or specialized uses, the current and projected availability of and demand for that asset, and the type and number of future potential lessees. Because JMC has extensive experience in purchasing, leasing and selling used regional aircraft and engines, the Company believes it can purchase these assets at an appropriate price and maintain an acceptable overall on-lease rate for the Company's assets. 

In order to improve the remarketability of an aircraft after expiration of a lease, the Company's leases generally contain provisions that require lessees to either return the aircraft in a condition that allows the Company to expediently re-lease or sell the aircraft, or pay sufficient amounts based on usage under the lease to cover any maintenance or overhaul of the aircraft required to bring the aircraft to such a state.

When considering whether to enter into transactions with a lessee, the Company generally reviews the lessee's creditworthiness, growth prospects, financial status and backing; the experience of its management; and the impact of legal and regulatory matters in the lessee's market, all of which are weighed in determining the lease terms offered to the lessee. In addition, it is the Company's policy to monitor the lessee's business and financial performance closely throughout the term of the lease, and, if requested, provide assistance drawn from the experience of the Company's management in many areas of the air carrier industry. Because of its "hands-on" approach to portfolio management, the Company believes it is able and willing to enter into transactions with a wider range of lessees than would be possible for traditional, large lending institutions and leasing companies.

The Company has funded its asset acquisitions primarily through debt financing supplemented by free cash flow. The Company's primary source of debt financing has been a secured credit facility. The Company's current credit facility ("Credit Facility") is provided by a syndicate of banks, with MUFG Union Bank, N.A. as agent, and expires on May 31, 2019.

Working Capital Needs

The Company's portfolio of assets has historically generated revenues that have exceeded the Company's cash expenses, which consist mainly of management fees, maintenance costs, principal and interest payments on debt, professional fees, and insurance premiums.

The management fees paid by the Company to JMC are based upon the book value of the Company's asset pool. Maintenance costs for off-lease aircraft are recognized as expenses as incurred, while reimbursement of lessee maintenance costs from previously collected maintenance reserves reduce the Company's maintenance reserves liability. Interest expense is dependent on both the balance of the Company's indebtedness and applicable interest rates. Professional fees are paid to third parties for expenses not covered by JMC under the Management Agreement. Insurance expense includes amounts paid for directors and officers insurance, as well as product liability insurance and aircraft hull insurance for periods when an aircraft is off lease. 

So long as the Company succeeds in keeping the majority of its assets on lease and interest rates do not rise significantly and rapidly, the Company's cash flow should continue to be sufficient to cover its expenses and provide excess cash flow. &#160; If the Company incurs unusually large maintenance costs or reimbursements for maintenance in any given period, the Company expects it will have sufficient cash flow or borrowing availability under its credit facility to fund such maintenance.

Competition 

The Company competes with other leasing companies, banks, financial institutions, private equity firms, and aircraft leasing syndicates for customers that generally are regional commercial aircraft operators seeking to lease aircraft under operating leases. Competition has increased as competitors who have traditionally neglected the regional air carrier market have begun to focus on that market. Because competition is largely based on price and lease terms, the entry of new competitors into the market, and/or the entry of traditional large aircraft lessors into the regional aircraft niche, particularly those with greater access to capital markets than the Company, could lead to fewer acquisition opportunities for the Company and/or lease terms less favorable to the Company, as well as fewer renewals of existing leases or new leases of existing aircraft, all of which could lead to lower revenues, profitability and cash flow for the Company. 

The Company, however, believes that it has a competitive advantage due to its experience and operational efficiency in financing the transaction sizes that are desired by many in the regional air carrier market. Management believes that the Company also continues to have a competitive advantage because JMC has developed a presence as a global participant in the regional aircraft leasing market.

Dependence on Significant Customers

For the year ended December 31, 2015, the Company's three largest customers accounted for 17%, 16% and 15% of lease revenue. For the year ended December 31, 2014, the Company's four largest customers accounted for 20%, 18%, 14% and 11% of lease revenue. Concentration of credit risk with respect to lease receivables will diminish in the future only if the Company is able to re-lease assets currently on lease to significant customers to new customers and/or acquire assets for lease to new customers.

Environmental Matters

Neither compliance with federal, state and local provisions regulating discharge of greenhouse gas emissions (including carbon dioxide (CO2)) in the environment and/or aircraft noise regulations, nor remedial agreements or other actions relating to the environment, has had, or is expected to have, a material effect on the Company's capital expenditures, financial condition, results of operations or competitive position.

Employees

Under the Company's Management Agreement with JMC, JMC is responsible for all administration and management of the Company. Consequently, the Company does not have any employees.

Available Information

The headquarters of AeroCentury Corp. is located at 1440 Chapin Avenue, Suite 310, Burlingame, California 94010. The main telephone number is (650) 340-1888. The Company's website is located at: http://www.aerocentury.com.

The Company is subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act (the "Exchange Act"). Therefore, the Company files periodic reports, proxy statements and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"). Copies of these materials, filed by us with the SEC, are available free of charge on the Company's website at www.aerocentury.com through the Investor Relations link (SEC Filings). The public may read and copy any materials the Company files with the SEC at the SEC's Public Reference Room of the SEC at 100 F Street N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. In addition, the SEC maintains an Internet site (http://www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC.

