 Item 1. Business 

Polaris Industries Inc., a Minnesota corporation, was formed in 1994 and is the successor to Polaris Industries Partners LP. The terms &#8220;Polaris,&#8221; the &#8220;Company,&#8221; &#8220;we,&#8221; &#8220;us,&#8221; and &#8220;our&#8221; as used herein refer to the business and operations of Polaris Industries Inc., its subsidiaries and its predecessors, which began doing business in the early 1950&#8217;s. We design, engineer and manufacture Off-Road Vehicles (ORV), including All-Terrain Vehicles (ATV) and side-by-side vehicles for recreational and utility use, Snowmobiles, Motorcycles and Global Adjacent Markets vehicles, together with the related Parts, Garments and Accessories (PG&#38;A). These products are sold through dealers and distributors principally located in the United States, Canada, Western Europe, Australia and Mexico. Sales of our ORV/Snowmobiles, Motorcycles and Global Adjacent Markets reporting segments accounted for the following approximate percentages of our sales for the years ended December 31: 

&#160; 

ORV / Snowmobiles 

&#160; 

Motorcycles 

&#160; 

Global Adjacent Markets 

78% 

&#160; 

15% 

&#160; 

7% 

84% 

&#160; 

9% 

&#160; 

7% 

86% 

&#160; 

7% 

&#160; 

7% 

Industry Background 

Off-Road Vehicles. Our ORVs include Sportsman &#174; &#32;ATVs, Polaris ACE &#174; , RANGER &#174; , RZR &#174; &#32;and Polaris GENERAL &#8482; side-by-side vehicles. ATVs and Polaris ACE are four-wheel vehicles with balloon style tires designed for off-road use and traversing rough terrain, swamps and marshland. Side-by-side vehicles are multi-passenger off-road, all-terrain vehicles that can carry up to six passengers in addition to cargo. ORVs are used for recreation, in such sports as fishing and hunting and for trail and dune riding, and for utility purposes on farms, ranches, and construction sites. 

ATVs were introduced to the North American market in 1971 by Honda Motor Co., Ltd. (&#8220;Honda&#8221;). Other Japanese motorcycle manufacturers, including Yamaha Motor Corporation (&#8220;Yamaha&#8221;), Kawasaki Motors Corp. (&#8220;Kawasaki&#8221;), and Suzuki Motor Corporation (&#8220;Suzuki&#8221;), entered the North American ATV market in the late 1970&#8217;s and early 1980&#8217;s. We entered the ATV market in 1985, Arctic Cat Inc. (&#8220;Arctic Cat&#8221;) entered in 1995 and Bombardier Recreational Products Inc. (&#8220;BRP&#8221;) entered in 1998 with their Can-Am product line. In addition, numerous Chinese and Taiwanese manufacturers of youth and small ATVs exist for which limited industry sales data is available. By 1985, the number of three- and four-wheel ATVs sold in North America had grown to approximately 650,000 units per year, then dropped dramatically to a low of 148,000 in 1989. The ATV industry then grew each year in North America from 1990 until 2005, but declined between 2005 and 2011, primarily due to weak overall economic conditions and a move to side-by-side vehicles, until returning to modest low single digit percentage growth in 2012 through 2014. The North American ATV industry was approximately flat in 2015. Internationally, ATVs are also sold primarily in Western European countries by similar manufacturers as in North America. We estimate that during 2015 world-wide industry sales decreased two percent from 2014 levels with an estimated 412,000 ATVs sold worldwide. 

We estimate that worldwide side-by-side vehicle market sales increased approximately four percent during 2015 over 2014 levels with an estimated 439,000 side-by-side vehicles sold. The side-by-side market has increased consistently over the past several years primarily due to continued innovation by existing and new manufacturers. The main competitors for our RANGER , RZR and Polaris GENERAL side-by-side vehicles are Deere &#38; Company (&#8220;Deere&#8221;), Kawasaki, Yamaha, Arctic Cat, Kubota Tractor Corporation (&#8220;Kubota&#8221;), Honda and BRP's Can-Am product line. 

We estimate that total worldwide off-road vehicle industry sales for 2015, which includes core ATVs and side-by-side vehicles, increased two percent from 2014 levels with an estimated 851,000 units sold. 

Snowmobiles. &#32;In the early 1950&#8217;s, a predecessor to Polaris produced a &#8220;gas powered sled,&#8221; which became the forerunner of the Polaris snowmobile. Snowmobiles have been manufactured under the Polaris name since 1954. Originally conceived as a utility vehicle for northern, rural environments, over time the snowmobile gained popularity as a recreational vehicle. From the mid-1950&#8217;s through the late 1960&#8217;s, over 100 producers entered the snowmobile market and snowmobile sales reached a peak of approximately 495,000 units in 1971. The Polaris product survived the industry decline in which snowmobile sales fell to a low point of approximately 87,000 units in 1983 and the number of snowmobile manufacturers serving the North American market declined to four: Yamaha, BRP's Ski-Doo product line, Arctic Cat and Polaris. These four manufacturers also sell snowmobiles in certain overseas markets where the climate is conducive to snowmobile riding. From 1984 to 1997, the worldwide industry grew to approximately 260,000 units 

before gradually declining through the 2012 season, but grew again in 2013 and 2014. We estimate that during the season ended March 31, 2015, world-wide industry sales of snowmobiles decreased four percent from the previous season levels with an estimated 151,000 units sold worldwide. 

Motorcycles. Polaris&#8217; Motorcycles segment consists of Victory &#174; , Indian Motorcycle &#174; , and the moto-roadster, Slingshot &#174; . Heavyweight and mid-size motorcycles are utilized as a mode of transportation as well as for recreational purposes. The industry is comprised of four segments: cruisers, touring, sport bikes and standard motorcycles. We entered the heavyweight motorcycle market in 1998 with an initial Victory product in the cruiser segment. We entered the touring segment in 2000. In 2011, we purchased the Indian Motorcycle brand to complement our Victory brand of motorcycles. In 2013, we re-launched the Indian brand by releasing the first three Indian Motorcycle models engineered by Polaris. In 2014, we entered the mid-size motorcycle market with the launch of Scout, and also introduced the Company's first moto-roadster motorcycle, Slingshot. The North America heavyweight industry retail cruiser and touring sales more than doubled from 1996 to 2006; however, the motorcycle industry declined in 2007 through 2010 due to weak overall economic conditions. The motorcycle industry has rebounded with growth beginning in 2011 to 2014, but slightly declined in 2015. We estimate that the combined 900cc and above cruiser and touring market segments (including Slingshot) increased low-single digits percent in 2015 compared to 2014 levels with an estimated 243,000 heavyweight cruiser, touring, and mid-size motorcycles sold in the North American market. Other major heavyweight cruiser and touring motorcycle manufacturers include BMW of North America, LLC (&#8220;BMW&#8221;), Triumph Motorcycles Ltd., Harley-Davidson, Inc., Honda, Yamaha, Kawasaki, Suzuki and BRP. We estimate that during 2015, worldwide combined 900cc and above cruiser and touring market segments (including Slingshot) sales were approximately flat with 2014 levels, with an estimated 344,000 units sold worldwide. 

Global Adjacent Markets. We introduced our initial Global Adjacent Markets vehicles with the 2011 acquisitions of Global Electric Motorcars LLC (&#8220;GEM&#8221;) and Goupil Industries S.A. (&#8220;Goupil&#8221;). We expanded our portfolio in 2013 by acquiring A.M. Holding S.A.S., which operates under the name Aixam Mega S.A.S. (&#8220;Aixam&#8221;). Aixam is based in France and manufactures and sells enclosed on-road quadricycles and light duty commercial vehicles. Through these acquisitions, we now offer products in the light-duty hauling, people mover and urban/suburban commuting sub-sectors of the Work and Transportation industry. We estimate the worldwide target market for Work and Transportation vehicles at approximately $4.0 billion in 2015, which includes master planned communities and golf courses, light duty hauling, people movers, urban/suburban commuting and related quadricycles. Other major Work and Transportation manufacturers include Textron Inc.&#8217;s &#8220;E-Z-GO,&#8221; Ingersoll-Rand Plc.&#8217;s &#8220;Club Car,&#8221; Yamaha and DrivePlanet's &#8220;Ligier.&#8221; Our Polaris Defense business provides ultra-light tactical vehicles designed for defense forces around the world. 

Products 

Off-Road Vehicles. We currently produce four-wheel ATVs, which provide more stability for the rider than earlier three-wheel versions. In 2000, we introduced our first youth ATV models. In 1998, we introduced the RANGER, a six-wheeled off-road side-by-side utility vehicle and in 2000, we introduced a four-wheeled version of the RANGER utility vehicle. In 2007, we introduced our first recreational side-by-side vehicle, the RZR , and our first six-passenger side-by-side vehicle, the RANGER Crew &#174; . In 2014, we introduced the single-seat, Polaris ACE &#32; off-road vehicle. Our full line of ORVs (excluding military vehicles) consists of 55 models, including two-, four- and six-wheel drive general purpose, commercial, recreational and side-by-side models, with 2016 model year suggested United States retail prices ranging from approximately $2,100 to $27,500. In 2015, we acquired HH Investment Limited (&#8220;Hammerhead &#8482; &#8221;), which manufactures gasoline powered go-karts, light utility vehicles, and electric utility vehicles under the Hammerhead Off-Road &#174; &#32;brand. 

Most of our ORVs feature the totally automatic Polaris variable transmission, which requires no manual shifting, and several have a MacPherson &#174; &#32;strut front suspension, which enhances control and stability. Our &#8220;on demand&#8221; all-wheel drive provides industry leading traction performance and ride quality due to its patented on demand, easy shift-on-the-fly design. Our ORVs have four-cycle engines and both shaft and concentric chain drive. Over the past 12 years, we have introduced the industry's first electronic fuel injected ATV, the first independent rear suspension on a sport ATV and helped create the recreational side-by-side segment through introduction of our RZR &#32;vehicles. Our lineup of ORVs has continued to expand over the past years through introduction of electric ORVs and commercial focused ORVs. Our family of ORVs includes utility and recreational Sportsman ATVs, sport-styled Scrambler &#174; &#32;ATVs, utility and recreational RANGER &#32;side-by-side vehicles, and recreational RZR &#32;side-by-side vehicles. In many of these segments, we offer youth, value, mid-size, trail and high-performance vehicles, which come in both single passenger and multi-passenger seating arrangements. Our key ORV product introductions in 2015 included the all-new RZR XP 1000 Turbo &#32; &#32;and the all-new Polaris &#32; GENERAL &#32; 1000. The GENERAL is a cross between a RZR &#32;and a RANGER . The GENERAL was designed for 

consumers, to provide a single vehicle for both work and play. We also introduced RANGER &#32;EV Li-Ion Polaris Pursuit Camo, which utilizes Lithium-Ion battery technology. 

We produce or supply a variety of replacement parts and accessories for our ORVs. ORV accessories include winches, bumper/brushguards, plows, racks, mowers, tires, pull-behinds, cabs, cargo box accessories, tracks and oil. We also market a full line of recreational apparel for our ORVs, including helmets, jackets, pants and hats. In 2014, we acquired Kolpin Outdoors, Inc. (&#8220;Kolpin&#8221;), an aftermarket brand delivering purpose-built and universal-fit ORV accessories and lifestyle products. We also acquired certain assets of LSI Products Inc. and Armor Holdings LLC (collectively &#8220;Pro Armor&#8221;), an aftermarket accessories company that specializes in accessories for performance side-by-side vehicles and all-terrain vehicles. These two 2014 acquisitions added industry leading aftermarket accessory brands to our ORV operating segment. 

Snowmobiles. We produce a full line of snowmobiles consisting of approximately 39 models, ranging from youth models to utility and economy models to performance and competition models. The 2016 model year suggested U.S. retail prices range from approximately $2,800 to $15,000. Polaris snowmobiles are sold principally in the U.S., Canada and Europe. We believe our snowmobiles have a long-standing reputation for quality, dependability and performance. We believe that we were the first to develop several features for wide commercial use in snowmobiles, including independent front suspension, long travel rear suspension, hydraulic disc brakes, liquid cooling for brakes and a three cylinder engine. In 2009, we introduced the first true progressive-rate rear suspension snowmobile, the Polaris RUSH &#174; . In 2014, we introduced the all-new AXYS &#8482; &#32;chassis platform for the flatland rider, and in 2015, we introduced the AXYS chassis platform for the mountain rider. In 2015, we acquired Timbersled Products, Inc. (&#8220;Timbersled &#8482; &#8221;), which is based in Idaho and is an innovator and market leader in the burgeoning snow bike industry. 

We produce or supply a variety of replacement parts and accessories for our snowmobiles. Snowmobile accessories include covers, traction products, reverse kits, electric starters, tracks, bags, windshields, oil and lubricants. We also market a full line of recreational apparel for our snowmobiles, including helmets, goggles, jackets, gloves, boots, bibs, pants and hats. In 2012, we acquired Teton Outfitters, LLC (d/b/a Klim), which primarily specializes in premium technical riding gear for the snowmobile industry. In 2015, we acquired certain assets of 509, Inc. (&#8220;509&#8221;), which is an aftermarket leader in snowmobile helmets and goggles. Apparel is designed to our specifications, purchased from independent vendors and sold by us through our dealers and distributors, and online under our brand names. 

Motorcycles. In 1998, we began manufacturing V-twin cruiser motorcycles under the Victory brand name. In 2008, we introduced our first luxury touring model, the Victory Vision &#174; . In 2009, we expanded our touring product line to include the Victory Cross Roads &#174; &#32;and Cross Country &#174; &#32;models. In 2011, we acquired Indian Motorcycle Company, America&#8217;s first motorcycle company, and in 2013 we re-launched the Indian Motorcycle brand by releasing the first three Indian Motorcycle models engineered by Polaris: Indian Chief &#174; &#32;Classic, Indian Chief Vintage and Indian Chieftain &#8482; . In 2014, we added two new Indian models, including the Roadmaster &#174; , a luxury touring motorcycle, and Scout &#8482; , Polaris' first mid-sized motorcycle. In 2015, we introduced the Indian Scout Sixty &#8482; . In 2014, we also added a new bagger to the Victory motorcycle line, the Victory Magnum &#8482; . The all-new three-wheel motorcycle, Slingshot was introduced in 2014, and is the Company's first moto-roadster. In 2015, we acquired the electric motorcycle business of Brammo, Inc., and introduced the Victory Empulse TT, our first electric motorcycle. Our 2016 model year line of motorcycles for Victory, Indian and Slingshot consists of approximately 21 models with suggested U.S. retail prices ranging from approximately $9,000 to $29,500. 

We produce or supply a variety of replacement parts and accessories for our motorcycles. Motorcycle accessories include saddle bags, handlebars, backrests, exhaust, windshields, seats, oil and various chrome accessories. We also market a full line of recreational apparel for our motorcycles, including helmets, jackets, leathers and hats. In 2012, we acquired Teton Outfitters, LLC (d/b/a Klim), which specializes in premium technical riding gear for the motorcycle (and snowmobile) industry. Apparel is designed to our specifications, purchased from independent vendors and sold by us through our dealers and distributors, and online under our brand names. 

Global Adjacent Markets - Work and Transportation. In 2011, we acquired GEM and Goupil to expand and complement our product offerings. In 2013, we further expanded the Global Adjacent Markets segment by acquiring Aixam. GEM addresses the people mover segment of low emission vehicles, Goupil, a French company, addresses the light duty hauling segment and Aixam, also a French company, addresses both the passenger and light duty hauling segments. GEM has seven models, while Goupil has five base platforms that are modular and can be configured to meet numerous custom needs from park and garden maintenance to delivery and other commercial needs. Additionally, Aixam has four base models of passenger-based quadricycles that are sold primarily in Western Europe. Prices for our GEM, Aixam and 

Goupil vehicles range from $8,000 to $22,000, depending on the model and application. Work and Transportation also includes all commercial, BRUTUS &#174; &#32;side-by-side vehicles, and all business-to-business (B2B) applications of ORV, Snowmobiles, and Motorcycles outside of our traditional dealer channels. 

Global Adjacent Markets - Military/Government. In the mid-2000's, we introduced a military version ATV and side-by-side vehicles with features specifically designed for ultra-light tactical military applications. These vehicles provide versatile mobility for up to nine passengers, and include DAGOR &#8482; , Sportsman MV and MRZR &#174; . Our standard line of military and government vehicles for model year 2016 consists of six models at suggested United States retail prices ranging from approximately $7,000 to $163,000. 

Marine Products Division. We entered the personal watercraft market in 1992. In September 2004, we announced our decision to cease manufacturing marine products effective immediately. As technology and the distribution channel evolved, the marine products division&#8217;s lack of commonality with our other product lines created challenges for us and our dealer base. The marine products division continued to experience escalating costs and increasing competitive pressures and was never profitable. 

Manufacturing and Distribution Operations 

Our products are assembled at our facilities in Roseau, Minnesota; Spirit Lake, Iowa, and its surrounding areas; Osceola, Wisconsin; Monterrey, Mexico; Opole, Poland; Shanghai, China and various locations across France. Since our product lines incorporate similar technology, substantially the same equipment and personnel are employed across production in North America. We are vertically integrated in several key components of our manufacturing process, including plastic injection molding, welding, clutch assembly and balancing and painting. Fuel tanks, tracks, tires, seats and instruments, and certain other component parts are purchased from third-party vendors. Raw materials or standard parts are readily available from multiple sources for the components manufactured by us. Our work force is familiar with the use, operation and maintenance of the products since many employees own the products we manufacture. We have manufacturing centers of excellence established at our production facilities in Roseau and Spirit Lake, as well as at our Monterrey production facility, which became operational in 2011, that assembles ORVs and certain engines. This realignment led to the sale of part of our Osceola, Wisconsin manufacturing operations, moving frame tube bending into Roseau and Monterrey, and outsourcing some operations including seat manufacturing and stamping. Several of the engines used in our vehicles continue to be manufactured in Osceola. Our plant in Opole, Poland facility manufactures ORVs to serve the European market. Goupil has its manufacturing operations in Bourran, France, while Aixam has its manufacturing operations in Aix-les-Bains and Chanas, France. Our Roseau facility primarily manufactures ORVs and snowmobiles and our Monterrey facility primarily manufactures ORVs. Our facilities in Spirit Lake, Iowa and its surrounding areas primarily manufacture motorcycles and GEM vehicles. In January 2015, we announced plans to build a new production facility in Huntsville, Alabama to provide additional capacity and flexibility. The 725,000 square-foot facility will focus on ORV and Slingshot production. We broke ground on the facility in the first quarter of 2015 and expect to start production in the second quarter of 2016. 

Pursuant to informal agreements between us and Fuji Heavy Industries Ltd. (&#8220;Fuji&#8221;), Fuji was the sole manufacturer of our two-cycle snowmobile engines from 1968 to 1995. Fuji has manufactured engines for our ATV products since their introduction in 1985. We had entered into an agreement with Fuji to form Robin Manufacturing, U.S.A. (&#8220;Robin&#8221;) in 1995. Under the agreement, we made an investment for a 40 percent ownership position in Robin, which built engines in the United States for recreational and industrial products. The Robin facility was closed in 2011 as the production volume of engines made at the facility had declined significantly. Since 2011, our reliance on and use of Fuji manufactured engines in our products has steadily declined as our internal engine manufacturing capabilities have expanded. After decreasing from 2011 to 2014, our use of Fuji engines in our vehicles stabilized in 2015, and is expected to remain stable in 2016. 

We have been designing and producing our own engines for select models of snowmobiles since 1995, for all Victory motorcycles since 1998, for select ORV models since 2001 and for Indian motorcycles since the re-launch in 2013. During 2015, approximately 85 percent of the total vehicles we produced were powered by engines designed and assembled by us. 

In 2000, we entered into an agreement with a Taiwanese manufacturer to co-design, develop and produce youth ATVs. We have since expanded the agreement with the Taiwanese manufacturer in 2004 to include the design, development and production of value-priced smaller adult ATV models and in 2008 to include a youth side-by-side vehicle, the RZR &#32;170. 

We do not anticipate any significant difficulties in obtaining substitute supply arrangements for other raw materials or components that we generally obtain from limited sources. 

Contract carriers ship our products from our manufacturing and distribution facilities to our customers. We maintain several leased wholegoods distribution centers where final set-up and up-fitting is completed for certain models before shipment to customers. 

&#160; We maintain sales and administration facilities in Medina and Plymouth, Minnesota; Rigby, Idaho; Ponderay, Idaho; Dallas, Texas; Winnipeg, Canada; Derrimut, Australia; Shanghai, China; Rolle, Switzerland; Sao Paulo, Brazil; New Delhi, India; Monterrey, Mexico and in most Western European countries. Our primary wholegoods distribution facilities are in Shakopee, Minnesota; Haviland, Ohio; Altona, Australia; Irving, Texas; and Milford, Iowa. Our primary North American dealer PG&#38;A distribution facilities are in Vermillion, South Dakota; Wilmington, Ohio and Rigby, Idaho. We have various other locations around the world that distribute wholegoods and PG&#38;A to our international dealers and distributors. 

Production Scheduling 

We produce and deliver our products throughout the year based on dealer, distributor and customer orders. Beginning in 2008, we began testing a new dealer ordering process called Maximum Velocity Program (MVP), where ORV orders are placed in approximately two-week intervals for the high volume dealers driven by retail sales trends at the individual dealership. Smaller dealers utilize a similar MVP process, but on a less frequent ordering cycle. Effective in 2010, the MVP process was being utilized by all North American ORV dealers. For MVP dealers, ORV retail sales activity at the dealer level drives orders which are incorporated into each product&#8217;s production scheduling. International distributor ORV orders are taken throughout the year. Orders for each year&#8217;s production of snowmobiles are placed by the dealers and distributors in the spring. Non-refundable deposits made by consumers to dealers in the spring for pre-ordered snowmobiles assist in production planning. In 2012, we began utilizing our Retail Flow Management (RFM) ordering system for Victory motorcycles, and now also use it as the ordering system for Indian motorcycles. In late 2014, we began utilizing RFM for most ATV dealers. The RFM system allows dealers to order daily, create a segment stocking order, and eventually reduce order fulfillment times to what we expect will be less than 18 days. For non-MVP and non-RFM dealers and products, units are built to order each year, subject to fluctuations in market conditions and supplier lead times. We anticipate that we will begin to evolve our side-by-side business to utilize RFM in late 2016 and 2017. 

For snowmobiles, we offer a pre-order SnowCheck program for our customers. This program allows our customers to order a true factory-customized snowmobile by selecting various options, including chassis, track, suspension, colors and accessories. Manufacture of snowmobiles commences in late winter of the previous season and continues through late autumn or early winter of the current season. We manufacture ORVs, motorcycles and Global Adjacent Markets vehicles year round. We have the ability to mix production of the various products on the existing manufacturing lines as demand dictates. 

Sales and Marketing 

Our products are sold through a network of approximately 1,800 independent dealers in North America, and approximately 1,700 independent international dealers through 23 subsidiaries and approximately 75 distributors in over 100 countries outside of North America. With the exception of France, the United Kingdom, Sweden, Norway, Australia, New Zealand, Germany, Spain, China, India, Mexico and Brazil, sales of our non-Global Adjacent Markets vehicles in Europe and other offshore markets are handled through independent distributors. 

ORV/Snowmobiles . We sell our ORVs directly to a network of over 1,500 dealers. Many of our ORV dealers and distributors are also authorized snowmobile dealers, and are located in the snow belt regions of the United States and Canada. At the end of 2015, approximatel y 860 P olaris dealers were located in areas of the United States where snowmobiles are not regularly sold. Unl ike our primary competitors, which market their ORV products principally through their affiliated motorcycle dealers, we also sell our ORVs through lawn and garden and farm implement dealers. In 2012 through 2015, we acquired Klim, Kolpin, Pro Armor, Timbersled, Hammerhead and 509, which each have their own dealer/distributor relationships established. 

Motorcycles . Victory and Indian motorcycles and Slingshot are distributed directly through independently owned dealers and distributors, except in Australia where we have four Company-owned retail stores. We have a high quality dealer network for our other product lines from which many of the approximately 450 current North American Victory dealers were selected. Indian currently has approximately 225 North American dealers signed up, of which approximately 180 are retailing Indian motorcycles as of the end of 2015. We expect the number of Indian retailing dealerships to continue 

to increase over the coming years. Slingshot currently has approximately 450 North American dealers retailing as of the end of 2015. In 2005, we began selling Victory motorcycles in the United Kingdom. Since 2005, we have been gradually expanding our international sales of motorcycles, primarily in Europe and Australia. We expect to further expand our motorcycle dealer network over the next few years in North America and internationally for Victory, Indian and Slingshot motorcycles. 

Global Adjacent Markets . Within Global Adjacent Markets, our Work and Transportation vehicles each have their own distribution networks through which their respective vehicles are distributed. In 2011 through 2013, we acquired GEM, Goupil and Aixam in the Global Adjacent Markets operating segment. GEM has approximately 215 dealers. Goupil and Aixam sell directly to customers in France, through subsidiaries in certain Western European countries and through several dealers and distributors for markets outside such countries. Polaris Defense products are sold based upon contract terms with certain military and governmental agencies. 

In addition, we sell Polaris vehicles directly to military and government agencies and other national accounts and we supply a highly differentiated side-by-side vehicle branded Bobcat to their dealerships in North America. In 2013, we entered into a partnership with Ariens Company (&#8220;Ariens&#8221;), a Brillion, Wisconsin based manufacturer of outdoor power equipment. Through the partnership, we leverage each other's dealer networks, sharing certain technologies, research and development and supplying Ariens with a highly differentiated work vehicle to sell through its dealer network. In 2014, we began shipping vehicles to Ariens under the terms of the partnership. 

Dealer agreements . Dealers and distributors sell our products under contractual arrangements pursuant to which the dealer or distributor is authorized to market specified products and is required to carry certain replacement parts and perform certain warranty and other services. Changes in dealers and distributors take place from time to time. We believe a sufficient number of qualified dealers and distributors exist in all geographic areas to permit an orderly transition whenever necessary. 

Polaris Acceptance. &#32;In 1996, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Polaris entered into a partnership agreement with a subsidiary of Transamerica Distribution Finance (TDF) to form Polaris Acceptance. Polaris Acceptance provides floor plan financing to our dealers in the United States. Under the partnership agreement, we have a 50 percent equity interest in Polaris Acceptance. We do not guarantee the outstanding indebtedness of Polaris Acceptance. In 2004, TDF was merged with a subsidiary of General Electric Company (GE) and, as a result of that merger, TDF&#8217;s name was changed to GE Commercial Distribution Finance Corporation (GECDF). No significant change in the Polaris Acceptance relationship resulted from the change of ownership from TDF. In November 2006, Polaris Acceptance sold a majority of its receivable portfolio to a securitization facility arranged by General Electric Capital Corporation, a GECDF affiliate (&#8220;Securitization Facility&#8221;), and the partnership agreement was amended to provide that Polaris Acceptance would continue to sell portions of its receivable portfolio to the Securitization Facility from time to time on an ongoing basis. In 2015, GECDF announced that it agreed to sell a portfolio of assets, including its ownership interests in Polaris Acceptance to Wells Fargo &#38; Company, with the closing of the transaction expected in the first quarter of 2016. The sale is not expected to impact the operations of the partnership agreement, which is effective through February 2022. See Notes 4 and 8 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of this financial services arrangement. 

We have arrangements with Polaris Acceptance (United States) and GE affiliates (Australia, Canada, France, Germany, the United Kingdom, Ireland, China and New Zealand) to provide floor plan financing for our dealers. A majority of our North American sales of snowmobiles, ORVs, motorcycles, Global Adjacent Markets vehicles and related PG&#38;A are financed under arrangements whereby we are paid within a few days of shipment of our product. We participate in the cost of dealer financing and have agreed to repurchase products from the finance companies under certain circumstances and subject to certain limitations. We have not historically been required to repurchase a significant number of units; however, there can be no assurance that this will continue to be the case. If necessary, we will adjust our sales return allowance at the time of sale should we anticipate material repurchases of units financed through the finance companies. See Note 8 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of these financial services arrangements. 

Customer financing. In August 2005, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Polaris entered into a multi-year contract with HSBC Bank Nevada, National Association (&#8220;HSBC&#8221;), formerly known as Household Bank (SB), N.A., under which HSBC managed our private label credit card program under the StarCard label for the purchase of Polaris products. Since then, HSBC&#8217;s U.S. Credit Card and Retail Services business has been acquired by Capital One. Our current agreement with Capital One expires in February 2016, and is not expected to be renewed. 

In April 2006, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Polaris entered into a multi-year contract with GE Money Bank (&#8220;GE Bank&#8221;) under which GE Bank makes available closed-end installment consumer and commercial credit to customers of 

our dealers for both Polaris and non-Polaris products. In 2014, GE Bank changed its name to Synchrony Bank, as a result of a spin off and is part of the GE Capital Retail Finance business. The current installment credit agreement under which Synchrony Bank provides installment credit lending for Polaris products expires in December 2020. 

In January 2009, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Polaris entered into a multi-year contract with Sheffield Financial (&#8220;Sheffield&#8221;) pursuant to which Sheffield agreed to make available closed-end installment consumer and commercial credit to customers of our dealers for Polaris products. The current installment credit agreement under which Sheffield provides installment credit lending for ORVs, snowmobiles, motorcycles and certain other Polaris products expires in December 2020. 

In November 2014, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Polaris entered into a multi-year contract with FreedomRoad Financial (&#8220;FreedomRoad&#8221;) pursuant to which FreedomRoad agreed to make available closed-end installment consumer and commercial credit to customers of our dealers for Polaris products. The current installment credit agreement under which FreedomRoad provides installment credit lending for motorcycles expires in December 2016. 

In December 2014, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Polaris entered into a multi-year contract with Chrome Capital LLC (&#8220;Chrome&#8221;) pursuant to which Chrome agreed to make available leasing to customers of our dealers for Victory and Indian Motorcycles. The current leasing agreement under which Chrome provides exclusive leasing for motorcycles expires in January 2017. 

Marketing. &#32;We promote our brands among the riding and non-riding public and provide a wide range of products for enthusiasts by licensing the name Polaris. We currently license the production and sale of a range of items, including die cast toys, ride-on toys and numerous other products. 

We sell clothing and accessories through our e-commerce websites polaris.com, indianmotorcycle.com, klim.com, kolpin.com, cyclecountry.com, proarmor.com, timbersled.com, hammerheadoffroad.com and 509films.com. 

Our marketing activities are designed primarily to promote and communicate directly with consumers to assist the selling and marketing efforts of our dealers and distributors. We make available and advertise discount or rebate programs, retail financing or other incentives for our dealers and distributors to remain price competitive in order to accelerate retail sales to consumers and gain market share. We advertise our products directly to consumers using print advertising in the industry press and in user group publications and on the internet, social media, billboards, television and radio. We also provide media advertising and partially underwrite dealer and distributor media advertising to a degree and on terms which vary by product and from year to year. From time to time, we produce promotional films for our products, which are available to dealers for use in the showroom or at special promotions. We also provide product brochures, leaflets, posters, dealer signs, and miscellaneous other promotional items for use by dealers. 

We expended $316.7 million , $314.5 million and $270.3 million &#32;for sales and marketing activities in 2015 , 2014 &#32;and 2013 , respectively. 

Engineering, Research and Development, and New Product Introduction 

We have approximately 750 employees who are engaged in the development and testing of existing products and research and development of new products and improved production techniques, located primarily in our Roseau and Wyoming, Minnesota facilities and in Burgdorf, Switzerland. Our acquisitions of GEM, Goupil and Aixam included research and development resources for their respective product lines. We believe Polaris was the first to develop, for wide commercial use, independent front suspensions for snowmobiles, long travel rear suspensions for snowmobiles, liquid cooled snowmobile brakes, hydraulic brakes for snowmobiles, the three cylinder engine in snowmobiles, the adaptation of the MacPherson &#174; &#32;strut front suspension, &#8220;on demand&#8221; all-wheel drive systems and the Concentric Drive System for use in ORVs, the application of a forced air cooled variable power transmission system in ORVs and the use of electronic fuel injection for ORVs. 

We utilize internal combustion engine testing facilities to design and optimize engine configurations for our products. We utilize specialized facilities for matching engine, exhaust system and clutch performance parameters in our products to achieve desired fuel consumption, power output, noise level and other objectives. Our engineering department is equipped to make small quantities of new product prototypes for testing and for the planning of manufacturing procedures. In addition, we maintain numerous facilities where each of the products is extensively tested under actual use conditions. We utilize our Wyoming, Minnesota facility for engineering, design and development personnel for our line of engines and powertrains, ORVs, Victory, Indian and Slingshot motorcycles, and certain Global Adjacent Market 

vehicles. In 2010, we acquired Swissauto Powersports Ltd., an engineering company that develops high performance and high efficiency engines and innovative vehicles. 

We expended $166.4 million, $148.5 million &#32;and $139.2 million &#32;for research and development activities in 2015 , 2014 &#32;and 2013 , respectively. 

Intellectual Property 

We rely on a combination of patents, trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets, and nondisclosure and non-competition agreements to establish and protect our intellectual property and proprietary technology. We have filed and obtained numerous patents in the United States and abroad, and regularly file patent applications worldwide in our continuing effort to establish and protect our proprietary technology. Additionally, we have numerous registered trademarks, trade names and logos in the United States, Canada and international locations. 

Competition 

The off-road vehicle, snowmobile, motorcycle and people mobility and work utility solutions markets in the United States, Canada and other global markets are highly competitive. Competition in such markets is based upon a number of factors, including price, quality, reliability, styling, product features and warranties. At the dealer level, competition is based on a number of factors, including sales and marketing support programs (such as financing and cooperative advertising). Certain of our competitors are more diversified and have financial and marketing resources that are substantially greater than those of Polaris. 

&#160; We believe that our products are competitively priced and our sales and marketing support programs for dealers are comparable to those provided by our competitors. Our products compete with many other recreational products for the discretionary spending of consumers, and to a lesser extent, with other vehicles designed for utility applications. 

Product Safety and Regulation 

Safety regulation. The federal government and individual states have promulgated or are considering promulgating laws and regulations relating to the use and safety of certain of our products. The federal government is currently the primary regulator of product safety. The Consumer Product Safety Commission (CPSC) has federal oversight over product safety issues related to snowmobiles and off-road vehicles. The National Highway Transportation Safety Administration (NHTSA) has federal oversight over product safety issues related to motorcycles and people mobility vehicles. 

In August 2008, the Consumer Product Safety Improvement Act (&#8220;Act&#8221;) was passed which, among other things, required ATV manufacturers and distributors to comply with previously voluntary American National Standards Institute (ANSI) safety standards developed by the Specialty Vehicle Institute of America (SVIA). We believe that our products comply with the ANSI/SVIA standards, and we have had an action plan on file with the CPSC since 1998 regarding safety related issues. The Act also includes a provision that requires the CPSC to complete an ATV rulemaking process it started in August 2006 regarding the need for safety standards or increased safety standards for ATVs, which has not yet resulted in the issuance of a final rule. 

We are a member of the Recreational Off-Highway Vehicle Association (ROHVA), which was established to promote the safe and responsible use of side-by-side vehicles also known as Recreational Off-Highway Vehicles (ROVs), a category that includes our RANGER, Polaris &#32; GENERAL , &#32; RZR, &#32;and Polaris ACE vehicles. Since early 2008, ROHVA has been engaged in a comprehensive process for developing a voluntary standard for equipment, configuration and performance requirements of ROVs through ANSI. Comments on the draft standard have been actively solicited from the CPSC and other stakeholders as part of the ANSI process. The standard, which addresses stability, occupant retention, and other safety performance criteria, was approved and published by ANSI in March 2010, revised in 2011 and 2014, and additional revisions are anticipated in 2016. 

In October 2009, the CPSC published an advance notice of proposed rulemaking regarding ROV safety under the Consumer Product Safety Act. In December 2014, the CPSC published a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking that includes proposed mandatory safety standards for ROVs in the areas of lateral stability, steering and handling, and occupant retention. Polaris, by itself and through ROHVA, has expressed concerns about the proposed mandatory standards, whether they would actually reduce ROV incident rates, whether the proposed tests are repeatable and appropriate for ROVs, and the unintended safety consequences that could result from them. As a result of those concerns, revisions to the standard were proposed. In 2015, CPSC expressed support for the proposed 2016 revisions to the ANSI standard, which may allow CPSC to terminate its rule-making process. We are unable to predict the outcome of the CPSC rule-making process or the ultimate impact of any resulting rules on our business and operating results. 

We are a member of the International Snowmobile Manufacturers Association (ISMA), a trade association formed to promote safety in the manufacture and use of snowmobiles, among other things. ISMA members include all of the major snowmobile manufacturers. The ISMA members are also members of the Snowmobile Safety and Certification Committee, which promulgated voluntary sound and safety standards for snowmobiles that have been adopted as regulations in some states of the United States and in Canada. These standards require testing and evaluation by an independent testing laboratory. We believe that our snowmobiles have always complied with safety standards relevant to snowmobiles. 

Motorcycle and certain Global Adjacent Markets vehicles are subject to federal vehicle safety standards administered by the NHTSA and are also subject to various state vehicle equipment standards. Our Slingshot vehicle is classified as a motorcycle under U.S. federal law, but may be classified differently in other jurisdictions. We believe our motorcycles (including Slingshot) and people mobility vehicles comply with applicable federal and state safety standards. 

Our products are also subject to international standards related to safety in places where we sell our products outside the United States. We believe that our motorcycles, ORVs, snowmobiles and Global Adjacent Markets vehicles have complied with applicable safety standards in the United States and other international locations. 

Use regulation. Local, state and federal laws and regulations have been promulgated, and at various times, ordinances or legislation is introduced, relating to the use or manner of use of our products. Some states and municipalities have adopted, or are considering the adoption of, legislation and local ordinances that restrict the use of ORVs and snowmobiles to specified hours and locations. The federal government also has legislative and executive authority to restrict the use of ORVs and snowmobiles in some national parks and federal lands. In several instances, this restriction has been a ban on the recreational use of these vehicles. 

Emissions. The federal Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and the California Air Resources Board (CARB) have adopted emissions regulations applicable to our products. 

The EPA's emission standards for off-road recreational engines and vehicles apply to our ORV's and snowmobiles. We have developed engine and emission technologies to meet these requirements, including the chassis-based ORV emission requirements that became effective in model year 2014. Snowmobiles comply using the fleet average provisions of the regulations. In 2008, the EPA announced its intention to issue a future rulemaking on snowmobiles with any new emission standards taking effect after model year 2012. No further EPA rulemaking activity has followed the 2008 announcement. The CARB also has emission regulations for ORVs that we meet. In 2014, CARB finalized additional evaporative emission regulations for ORVs that will take effect beginning in model year 2018. 

Our Victory, Indian and Slingshot motorcycles are subject to EPA and CARB emission standards for on-highway motorcycles. We believe that these vehicles comply with the applicable standards. GEM electric vehicles are subject to CARB emissions certification requirements, which they meet. 

Our products are also subject to international emission laws and regulations in places where we sell our products outside the United States. Canada&#8217;s emission regulations for motorcycles, ORVs and snowmobiles are similar to those in the United States, and Polaris complies with the applicable Canada requirements. Europe currently regulates emissions from our motorcycles and certain of our ATV-based products for which we obtain whole vehicle type approvals, and these products meet the applicable requirements. In 2014, the European Parliament and Council finalized the details of new regulations that will make these European emission requirements more stringent beginning in 2016. We are developing the technology to meet these requirements, and the first motorcycle certifications are expected to occur in 2016. Emissions from certain Polaris off-road products in the EU will be covered in the future by the non-road mobile machinery directive, which is currently being revised. Polaris is reviewing the technology requirements and developing compliance solutions for these future EU regulations. 

We believe that our products comply with applicable emission standards and related regulations in the United States and internationally. We are unable to predict the ultimate impact of the adopted or proposed new regulations on our business. We are currently developing and obtaining engine and emission technologies to meet the requirements of the future emission standards. 

Employees 

Due to the seasonality of our business and certain changes in production cycles, total employment levels vary throughout the year. Despite such variations in employment levels, employee turnover has not been high. During 2015 , on a 

worldwide basis, we employed an average of approximately 8,100 &#32;full-time persons, a 16 percent &#32;increase from 2014 . Approximately 3,400 &#32;of our employees are salaried. We consider our relations with our employees to be excellent. 

&#160; Available Information 

Our Internet website is http://www.polaris.com. We make available free of charge, on or through our website, our annual, quarterly and current reports, and any amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after electronically filing such reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We also make available through our website our corporate governance materials, including our Corporate Governance Guidelines, the charters of the Audit Committee, Compensation Committee, Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee and Technology Committee of our Board of Directors and our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics. Any shareholder or other interested party wishing to receive a copy of these corporate governance materials should write to Polaris Industries Inc., 2100 Highway 55, Medina, Minnesota 55340, Attention: Investor Relations. Information contained on our website is not part of this report. 

Forward-Looking Statements 

This 2015 &#32;Annual Report contains not only historical information, but also &#8220;forward-looking statements&#8221; intended to qualify for the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These &#8220;forward-looking statements&#8221; can generally be identified as such because the context of the statement will include words such as we or our management &#8220;believes,&#8221; &#8220;anticipates,&#8221; &#8220;expects,&#8221; &#8220;estimates&#8221; or words of similar import. Similarly, statements that describe our future plans, objectives or goals are also forward-looking. Forward-looking statements may also be made from time to time in oral presentations, including telephone conferences and/or webcasts open to the public. Shareholders, potential investors and others are cautioned that all forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause results in future periods to differ materially from those anticipated by some of the statements made in this report, including the risks and uncertainties described below under the heading entitled &#8220;Item 1A&#8212;Risk Factors&#8221; and elsewhere in this report. The risks and uncertainties discussed in this report are not exclusive and other factors that we may consider immaterial or do not anticipate may emerge as significant risks and uncertainties. 

Any forward-looking statements made in this report or otherwise speak only as of the date of such statement, and we undertake no obligation to update such statements to reflect actual results or changes in factors or assumptions affecting such forward-looking statements. We advise you, however, to consult any further disclosures made on related subjects in future quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K that are filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission. 

Executive Officers of the Registrant 

Set forth below are the names of our executive officers as of February 19, 2016 , their ages, titles, the year first appointed as an executive officer, and employment for the past five years: Name 

&#160; 

Age 

&#160; 

Title 

Scott W. Wine 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer 

Bennett J. Morgan 

&#160; 

&#160; 

President and Chief Operating Officer 

Kenneth J. Pucel 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Executive Vice President&#8212;Global Operations, Engineering and Lean 

Michael T. Speetzen 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Executive Vice President&#8212;Finance and Chief Financial Officer 

Stacy L. Bogart 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Senior Vice President&#8212;General Counsel and Secretary 

Michael D. Dougherty 

&#160; 

&#160; 

President&#8212;International 

Stephen L. Eastman 

&#160; 

&#160; 

President&#8212;Parts, Garments and Accessories 

Matthew J. Homan 

&#160; 

&#160; 

President&#8212;Off-Road Vehicles 

David C. Longren 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Senior Vice President&#8212;Enterprise Cost 

James P. Williams 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Senior Vice President&#8212;Chief Human Resources Officer 

&#160; Executive officers of the Company are elected at the discretion of the Board of Directors with no fixed terms. There are no family relationships between or among any of the executive officers or directors of the Company. 

Mr. Wine joined Polaris Industries Inc. as Chief Executive Officer on September 1, 2008, and was named Chairman of the Board of Directors in January 2013. Prior to joining Polaris, Mr. Wine was President of Fire Safety Americas, a division of United Technologies, a provider of high technology products and services to the building systems and aerospace industries, from 2007 to August 2008. Prior to that, Mr. Wine held senior leadership positions at Danaher Corp. in the United States and Europe from 2003 to 2007, including President of its Jacob Vehicle Systems and Veeder-Roots subsidiaries, and Vice President and General Manager, Manufacturing Programs in Europe. From 1996 to 2003, Mr. Wine held a number of operations and executive posts, both international and domestic with Allied Signal Corporation's Aerospace Division. 

Mr. Morgan has been President and Chief Operating Officer of the Company since April 2005; prior to that, he was Vice President and General Manager of the ATV division of Polaris. Prior to managing the ATV division, Mr. Morgan was General Manager of PG&#38;A for Polaris from 1997 to 2001. He joined Polaris in 1987 and spent his early career in various product development, marketing and operations management positions of increasing responsibility. 

Mr. Pucel joined Polaris in December 2014 as Executive Vice President&#8212;Global Operations, Engineering and Lean. Prior to joining Polaris, Mr. Pucel was with Boston Scientific Corporation (BSC), a global provider of medical solutions. Most recently, Mr. Pucel held the position of Executive Vice President of Global Operations, Quality and Technology and was a member of BSC&#8217;s Executive Committee from 2004 to 2014. Since 2004, he managed BSC&#8217;s manufacturing facilities, supply chain and numerous distributions centers; in 2010, he added responsibility for enterprise-wide Lean and research and development activities. 

Mr. Speetzen has been Executive Vice President&#8212;Finance and Chief Financial Officer of the Company since August 2015. Prior to joining Polaris, Mr. Speetzen was Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Xylem, Inc., a provider of fluid technology and equipment solutions for water issues, since 2011, when the company was formed from the spinoff of the water businesses of ITT Corporation. He joined ITT, a global manufacturing company, in 2009. Prior to joining ITT, Mr. Speetzen served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer for the StandardAero Company owned by the private equity firm Dubai Aerospace Enterprise. Previously, he held positions of increasing responsibility in the finance functions at Honeywell Inc. and General Electric Company. 

Ms. Bogart has been Senior Vice President&#8212;General Counsel and Secretary of Polaris since September 2015. Prior to her current role, she was Vice President&#8212;General Counsel and Compliance Officer since November 2009 and Corporate Secretary since January 2010. From February 2009 to November 2009, Ms. Bogart was General Counsel of Liberty Diversified International. From October 1999 until February 2009, Ms. Bogart held several positions at The Toro Company, including Assistant General Counsel and Assistant Secretary. Before joining The Toro Company, Ms. Bogart was a Senior Attorney for Honeywell Inc. 

Mr. Dougherty has been President&#8212;International since September 2015. Prior to his current role, he was Vice President&#8212;Asia Pacific and Latin America since August 2011. Mr. Dougherty joined the company in 1998 as International Sales Manager, and has held several positions, including Vice President of Global New Market Development and Vice President and General Manager of the ATV division during his tenure. Prior to Polaris, Mr. Dougherty was employed at Trident Medical International, a trading company. 

Mr. Eastman has been President&#8212;Parts, Garments and Accessories since September 2015. Prior to his current role, he was Vice President&#8212;Parts, Garments and Accessories since February 2012. Prior to joining Polaris, Mr. Eastman was President of Target.com for Target Corporation, a general merchandise retailer, from July 2008 to October 2011. Prior to that, Mr. Eastman held several leadership positions at Target Corporation since 1982 in various areas, including General Merchandising, Consumer Electronics, Inventory Management and Merchandise Planning Operations. 

Mr. Homan was promoted to President&#8212;Off-Road Vehicles in January 2016. Mr. Homan has held several key leadership positions at Polaris. Prior to his current role, most recently he was President&#8212;Global Adjacent Markets since September 2015, Vice President&#8212;Global Adjacent Markets since July 2014, Vice President&#8212;EMEA since August 2011, Vice President&#8212;Off-Road Vehicles since August 2008, and General Manager of Side-by-Sides since December 2005. Mr. Homan joined Polaris in 2002 as Director of Marketing for the ATV division. Prior to working at Polaris, Mr. Homan spent nearly seven years at General Mills, Inc. working in various marketing and brand management positions. 

Mr. Longren was appointed Senior Vice President&#8212;Enterprise Cost in January 2016. Prior to this, Mr. Longren was President&#8212;Off-Road Vehicles and Off-Road Vehicles Engineering since September 2015, and Vice President&#8212;Off-Road Vehicles and Off-Road Vehicles Engineering since August 2011, Chief Technical Officer since May 2006. Mr. Longren joined Polaris in January 2003 as the Director of Engineering for the ATV Division. Prior to joining Polaris, Mr. Longren 

was a Vice President in the Weapons Systems Division of Alliant Techsystems and Vice President, Engineering and Marketing at Blount Sporting Equipment Group. 

Mr. Williams was appointed Senior Vice President&#8212;Chief Human Resources Officer in September 2015. Prior to this Mr. Williams was Vice President&#8212;Human Resources since April 2011. Prior to joining Polaris, Mr. Williams was Vice President of Human Resources for Cooper Industries, a diversified manufacturing Company, since 2006. Between 2005 and 2006, Mr. Williams was Vice President of Human Resources for Danaher Corp. Previous to that, Mr. Williams held various executive positions of increasing responsibility with Honeywell Inc. from 1995 to 2005. Prior to that, Mr. Williams held a number of posts in Human Resources with Monsanto and General Motors Corporation. 

