 ITEM 1. &#160; BUSINESS 

This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements. All statements other than statements of historical facts contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including statements regarding our future results of operations and financial position, business strategy, plans and objectives of management for future operations, and plans for product development and manufacturing are forward-looking statements. These statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. We discuss certain of these risks in greater detail in the &#8220;Risk Factors&#8221; section and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Also, these forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and we have no plans to update our forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances occurring after the date of this Annual Report. We caution readers not to place undue reliance upon any such forward-looking statements. 

iRobot, Roomba, Ava, Scooba, Mint, ViPR, NorthStar, Create, PackBot, FirstLook, iAdapt, Aware, Home Base, Looj, Braava, Kobra, AeroForce, uPoint, AeroVac, Mirra, and Virtual Wall are trademarks of iRobot Corporation. 

Overview 

iRobot Corporation ("iRobot" or the "Company" or "we") designs and builds robots that empower people to do more. For 25 years, we have developed proprietary technology incorporating advanced concepts in navigation, mobility, manipulation and artificial intelligence to build industry-leading robots. Our home robots, which represented 91% of our revenue in 2015, and which we expect will grow to an even larger percentage of our revenue in 2016 and beyond, perform time-consuming domestic chores. Our defense and security robots perform tasks such as battlefield reconnaissance and bomb disposal, and multi-purpose tasks for law enforcement agencies and first responders, as well as certain commercial users. Our remote presence robots expand the reach of medical care by connecting physicians with patients from anywhere in the world and also provide autonomous telepresence capabilities enabling remote workers to more personally collaborate throughout the workplace. We sell our robots through a variety of distribution channels, including chain stores and other national retailers, through our on-line store, through value-added distributors and resellers, and to the U.S. military and other government agencies worldwide. 

Since our founding, we have accumulated expertise in all the disciplines necessary to design and build durable, high-performance and cost-effective robots through the close integration of software, electronics and hardware. Our core technologies serve as reusable building blocks that we adapt and expand to develop next generation and new products, reducing the time, cost and risk of product development. Our significant expertise in robot design and engineering positions us to capitalize on the growth we expect in the market for robot-based products. We believe that the sophisticated technologies in our existing applications are adaptable to a broad array of markets such as commercial cleaning, elder care, home automation, healthcare, video collaboration, landscaping, agriculture, and other vertical markets. 

Over the past thirteen years, we have sold more than 15 million of our home robots. During that time, we also sold approximately 6,000 of our defense and security robots, most of which have been sold to the U.S. military and deployed on missions in Afghanistan and Iraq, and more recently to state, local and international government entities. 

During 2015, we took several steps to become more focused on our well established home robots business to capitalize on the substantial opportunities available to us within consumer markets. First, we entered into an Asset Purchase Agreement on February 2, 2016 with iRobot Defense Holdings, Inc., a recently-formed portfolio company of Arlington Capital Partners, which provides for the sale of our defense and security business unit. The purchase price is up to $45.0 million, of which $30.0 million will be paid at the closing of the transaction, subject to adjustments for working capital and indebtedness as set forth in the purchase agreement, and up to an additional $15.0 million of which may be paid based on 2016 revenue of the defense and security business unit. The transaction is expected to close during the first quarter of 2016. Second, we reallocated research and development resources from a next generation remote presence platform to opportunities in our home robots business. These actions were taken to solidify our position as the leader in diversified home robots and to focus on key technologies, with an emphasis on software, that allow our robots to understand the homes in which they operate. It is our intent to continue investing in these critical technologies and the economic opportunities they unlock. 

In addition to the above, we achieved a number of significant milestones in 2015 that we believe will assist us in continuing to generate profitable growth and enhance value for our shareholders. In particular, we successfully launched Roomba 980, our first connected home robot incorporating Visual Simultaneous Location and Mapping, or vSLAM, which provides the robot with the capability to dynamically create and update a map of its surroundings. This is our first step into the Internet of Things, enabling new functionality such as remote app-control and systematic navigation, as well as paving the way for new products and capabilities in the future. Additionally, we implemented new Roomba marketing programs in the United 

States that resulted in a significant return on our investment and which we plan to leverage as part of our strategy to accelerate growth in international markets. 

In our continuing effort to return capital to our shareholders, we repurchased 1,260,276 shares of our common stock for an aggregate purchase price of $37.4 million during fiscal year 2015. In conjunction with the announcement to divest our defense and security business unit, we also announced a $65 million increase to our current share repurchase initiative, partially funded from the expected proceeds from the divestiture, bringing total repurchases authorized under the 2016 program to more than $100 million. We intend to initiate the incremental program in the first quarter of fiscal 2016 in conjunction with the completion of the defense and security business unit divestiture. This initiative, coupled with the previous return of capital, balances our interest to return cash to shareholders while maintaining sufficient cash to operate and invest in our business. 

Our total revenue for 2015 was $616.8 million, which represents an 11% increase from 2014 revenue of $556.8 million. This increase in revenue was largely attributable to a $52.2 million increase in revenue in our home robots business unit as a direct result of growth in our domestic market. Domestic growth was primarily attributable to increased sales as a result of significant investments in advertising media and national promotions as well as the launch of Roomba 980. International home robots revenue growth slowed compared to fiscal 2014 as a result of negative macroeconomic conditions, specifically in Japan and Russia, offset by a significant growth increase in China. Revenue increased $9.5 million in our defense and security business, primarily attributable to increased sales of our SUGV robot. Our home robots revenue represented 91% of our total revenue for both 2015 and 2014. With the anticipated divestiture of our defense and security business unit, our revenue for the next few years will almost entirely be driven by our rapidly growing home robots business. 

Our financial performance in 2016 will be driven by our home robots business unit. Our strategy is to maintain Roomba&#8217;s market leadership while positioning it as a key component in the connected home. We expect growth to be driven by: 

&#8226; 

Expanded worldwide consumer adoption of Roomba supported by targeted marketing programs similar to the successful programs we introduced in the United States in 2015; 

&#8226; 

Wider geographic distribution of Roomba 980; 

&#8226; 

Building a second material revenue stream, which we expect to do with our wet floor care products; and 

&#8226; 

Regional growth in China, with specific emphasis on further accelerating growth in the e-commerce channel. 

Strategy 

We are a technology company with the goal of designing and marketing innovative robots that empower people to do more. Our deep understanding of the consumer, the consumer's needs and how robots meet those needs ensures that every robot is created with a person in mind. We strive to drive innovation, serve as an industry catalyst and change the world by fueling the era of robots. We intend to increase the penetration of our products in existing markets, expand existing products into new markets, and develop and launch new products into current and adjacent markets. Our strategy is to maintain a leadership position by delivering robotic technology-based automated home maintenance solutions that delight our customers and anticipate their needs, while extending our technical leadership in the areas of autonomous navigation, manipulation and cloud connectivity and services. With increasing levels of autonomy, continued mobility improvements, more sophisticated sensor suites and advanced human interfaces, our robots will expand in effectiveness and efficiency and reduce the requirements for actual physical operator presence and control. In the area of automated home maintenance, we seek to improve the quality of life with robotic solutions requiring as little human physical intervention as possible. 

As part of our 2016 plan, we have made capital allocation choices that will require significant investments in our business during the year in order to drive future revenue diversification for our home robots business unit and further revenue acceleration in 2017, 2018 and beyond. In order to execute this plan we need to continue to strategically invest in a number of areas to: 

&#8226; 

Strengthen our marketing capabilities globally and accelerate worldwide consumer adoption of Roomba to maintain our market-leading position in robotic vacuum cleaners; 

&#8226; 

Better position ourselves in China to capture an even larger share of the rapidly growing market for robotic floor care; 

&#8226; 

Develop our wet floor care business to generate a material, secondary revenue stream; 

&#8226; 

Scale our infrastructure to support future connected products; 

&#8226; 

Explore, develop and grow adjacent non-floor care home robot products that can generate meaningful diversified revenue streams; and 

&#8226; 

Make continued operational improvements that can reduce product and operating costs. 

Key elements of our strategy include: 

Talent: Investing in our people and our culture. To develop and integrate the best technology and to be the most innovative robotics company, we must attract the most talented people across our functional areas. Our success is directly related to the talents and abilities of our workforce, and to a culture, work environment and leadership that supports its development and growth. Our strategy focuses on transforming our company into one of the most attractive workplaces for those seeking to participate in the robotics field. 

Technology: Investing in robotic technology and products to build better robots. &#160; A better robot lives in our world by moving around its environment more intelligently, by cooperating with the people it serves more compellingly, and by physically interacting with its surroundings more effectively. We strive to achieve and sustain world leadership with best-in-class technology in the areas of autonomy, navigation, cloud robotics and manipulation. Our superiority in user experience comes from leveraging the powerful capabilities of the connected world combined with thoughtful, intuitive design. We are committed to developing, maturing and integrating these technologies to support our business and make these a reality in our products. We implement these technologies with strict cost requirements to support our high-margin, profitable business model. 

Tempo: Investing to improve our agility, speed and operational efficiency. We strive to increase our pace of innovation and bring compelling products to market more quickly in a cost-effective and highly reliable form. We are committed to refining our innovation and product development culture and processes to deliver results faster by increasing the pace of development, gaining efficiencies through designing and leveraging modular architecture and reusable hardware and software components across products, and utilizing remote software updates and cloud computing to provide rapid cycles for release of new features in the installed base of our products. 

Brand. We invest in building a company with a vision, that strives to solve difficult problems, and empowers people to do more. We strive to achieve this image by designing high-quality robots with a recognizable look and feel and a streamlined ease of use, by employing impactful marketing, and by continuing to give back to the community. We invest in building and advertising one unified, global brand. 

Technology 

We are focused on behavior-based, artificially-intelligent systems developed to meet customer requirements in multiple market segments. Our systems are designed to move around their environments intelligently, by cooperating with the people they serve and by physically interacting with their surroundings. 

Our robots rely on technology related to navigation, cloud robotics and manipulation to accomplish their missions autonomously. 

Autonomy. Our robots employ intelligent autonomy because, without autonomy, robots require continuous human attention. Autonomy requires, among other things, advanced navigation and dynamically updated mapping. We seek to achieve and sustain a leadership position in navigation and mapping to enable a higher level of autonomy. 

Navigation. Our mobile robots navigate through their environment in a variety of ways. Some do it simply by reacting to encounters with obstacles. Others use more sophisticated means that make use of maps to plan out paths, track their travel, and determine their location in the environment. Intelligent navigation empowers our robots to operate autonomously with purposeful intent. Autonomous navigation is the key enabler for our latest products. 

Cloud Robotics. Connectivity and cloud services are important because they can leverage additional computational resources and capabilities. Cloud robotics refers to cloud-based shared services that solve robotic challenges and enhance robots&#8217; capabilities. By using the power of off-board computing and storage, it is possible to develop algorithms that aid with object recognition, post-process and store large maps, and share data between multiple robots operating in the same environment. Cloud robotics will allow our robots to plan more intelligently, be more productive and keep getting smarter as they are used. 

Manipulation. Manipulation means physically interacting with the world to move or control objects. It is ultimately what sets robots apart from any other technology. 

Combining these four components, we have created proprietary, reusable building blocks of robotics capabilities, including mobility platforms, manipulators, navigation and control algorithms and user interfaces. Our technology building blocks typically allow us to take a known platform and modify it for a new mission instead of starting from scratch for each application. We believe this allows us to design and develop innovative robots quickly and cost-effectively. 

Products 

Historically, we have designed and marketed robots for the consumer and defense and security markets. Upon completion of the divestiture of our defense and security business unit, we will be primarily focusing on the consumer market. With over two decades of leadership in the robot industry, we remain committed to establishing robot and software platforms for invention and discovery and creating robots that improve the standards of living worldwide. 

Consumer Products 

We sell various products that are designed for use in and around the home. Our current consumer products are focused on both indoor and outdoor cleaning applications. We believe our consumer products provide value to our customers by delivering a better way to clean and by freeing people from repetitive home cleaning tasks. In order to ensure the continued acceptance of our robots we will continue to invest in technology necessary to further improve their cleaning capabilities. 

We currently offer multiple Roomba floor vacuuming robots with varying price points ranging from $375 to $899 based upon features and performance characteristics. Our Roomba robot's compact disc shape allows it to clean under kick boards, beds and other furniture, resulting in cleaner floors since the Roomba can access more of the floor than standard upright vacuum cleaners. In addition, Roomba eliminates the need to manually vacuum -- it cleans automatically upon the push of a button or through scheduling. In September 2015, we launched our newest robot, Roomba 980, our first connected robot. Roomba 980 delivers entire level cleaning through smart navigation, recharging as needed and resumes until finished. The iRobot HOME App allows consumers the ability to conveniently schedule cleanings at anytime from anywhere. The Roomba 600 series robots offer a three-stage cleaning system which thoroughly vacuums every section of the floor multiple times, as well as AeroVac technology and improved brush design enabling the robot to better handle fibers like hair, pet fur, lint and carpet fuzz. The Roomba 700 series robots offer improved debris pick up, a larger debris bin that vigorously pulls debris and hair off brushes into the bin, and dual air filters that capture dust particles as fine as 0.3 microns. The Roomba 800 series robots offer our AEROForce technology which incorporates brushless, counter-rotating extractors that amplify suction for superior performance over bristle brushes, while requiring less maintenance than previous Roomba models. 

We currently offer the Braava automatic floor mopping robots designed exclusively for hard surface floors with a price of $299. These robots provide a different cleaning approach than our Roomba products. The Braava automatically dusts and damp mops hard surface floors using popular cleaning cloths or our specially designed reusable microfiber cloths, and includes a special reservoir that dispenses liquid throughout the cleaning cycle to keep the cloth damp. 

Our Scooba 450 floor scrubbing robot has a price point of $599. Unlike a conventional mop that spreads dirty water on the floor, Scooba will apply only fresh water and cleaning solution to the floor from a clean tank. Scooba will clean dirt and grime, is safe for use on all sealed, hard floor surfaces, including wood and tile, and is smart enough to avoid carpet. Our Mirra Pool Cleaning Robot is used to clean residential pools and removes debris as small as two microns from pool floors, walls and stairs. Mirra is brought to market under the iRobot brand through a relationship with Aquatron, Inc., which developed the pool cleaning robots. Our Looj Gutter Cleaning Robot was designed to simplify the difficult and dangerous job of gutter cleaning. The Looj cleans an entire stretch of gutter, reducing the number of times a ladder must be repositioned and climbed during gutter cleaning. 

&#160; 

Defense and Security Products 

As noted above, we expect to complete the divestiture of our defense and security business unit during the first quarter of 2016. In the defense and security product markets, we currently offer several unmanned ground vehicles. Our tactical ground robots include the combat-tested 510 PackBot, the 310 SUGV, the 110 FirstLook small, light, throwable robot, and the 710 Kobra multi-purpose robot capable of carrying heavy payloads. The PackBot, SUGV, FirstLook, and Kobra robots comprise a family of robots using many common platform components and offer our patented flipper technology that enables robots to easily climb stairs, navigate rubble, and penetrate inaccessible areas. These robots, which are beginning &#32;to utilize the uPoint Multi-Robot Control system, a universal control system for our line of defense and security robots, are designed to keep war fighters and public safety officials out of harm's way and are designed for high-performance, durability and ease of use while performing search, reconnaissance, mapping, bomb disposal and other dangerous missions. As of January 2, 2016, we have delivered approximately 6,000 robots to military and civil defense forces and research communities worldwide. The robots are currently priced between approximately $20,000 and $600,000 per unit, depending on model, configuration and quantities ordered. 

We have continued to refine the PackBot product line, focusing on enhanced modularity and providing new capabilities to support a variety of mission scenarios. Our unique Aware 2 software is incorporated into the advanced 510 PackBot chassis and operator control unit. As a result, PackBot can support multiple configurations and payloads with the same chassis and operator control unit, providing customers with a single robot capable of performing a variety of missions. We also utilize Configure-To-Order (CTO) procurement options for our commercial 510 PackBot, allowing customers to tailor the product to 

their specific mission needs. The combined benefits of the Aware 2 software and CTO procurement options establish the 510 PackBot as a truly modular multi-mission robotic platform. 

The 110 FirstLook is an expandable, lightweight robot that performs persistent observation and investigates dangerous and hazardous material while keeping its operator out of harm&#8217;s way. The 310 SUGV is a lightweight, backpackable robot well-suited to dismounted operations. It has a modular design that accommodates a wide range of optional payloads and sensors, including a dexterous manipulator, and can easily climb stairs, roll over obstacles and enter inaccessible and dangerous areas. The 710 Kobra is a powerful, rugged, fast robot that supports or carries multiple and heavy payloads, and can lift up to 330 pounds. 

Remote Presence Products 

We currently have two products based upon our Ava mobile robotics platform. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration approved RP-VITA telemedicine robot expands the reach of medical care by connecting physicians with patients from anywhere in the world. The RP-VITA combines the latest in autonomous navigation and mobility technologies developed by iRobot with the state-of-the-art telemedicine and electronic health record integration developed by InTouch Health. The RP-VITA, which is sold to healthcare customers by InTouch Health, was introduced in 2012 and began shipping in early 2013. Our Ava 500 Video Collaboration robot, which we began selling in 2014, delivers autonomous telepresence to the enterprise market, enabling remote workers to more personally collaborate throughout the workplace. The Ava 500 blends together our autonomous navigation capabilities with Cisco&#8217;s TelePresence to enable people working off-site to participate in meetings, presentations and events where movement and location spontaneity are important. 

Strategic Alliances 

In addition to our internal technology development, we leverage relevant robotic technologies through licensing, acquisitions and/or other partnerships. These strategic alliances are an important part of our product development and distribution strategies. We rely on strategic alliances to provide technology, complementary product offerings and increased and quicker access to markets. We seek to form relationships with organizations that can provide best-in-class technology or market advantages for establishing iRobot technology in new market segments. 

In 2011, we signed a joint development and licensing agreement with InTouch Health, a leading remote presence telemedicine solution provider, which resulted in the introduction in 2012 of the RP-VITA, the first autonomous navigation remote presence robot to receive U.S. Food and Drug Administration clearance for use in hospitals. In 2013, we signed a joint marketing agreement and have worked in close alliance with Cisco to bring our enterprise-grade Ava 500 Video Collaboration robot to market. The Ava 500 blends together our autonomous navigation capabilities with Cisco&#8217;s TelePresence to enable people working off-site to participate in meetings, presentations and events where movement and location spontaneity are important. We continue to explore strategic partnership opportunities for our remote presence technology. 

Our strategy of working closely with third parties extends to the design of our products. By offering extensible platforms designed to carry payloads, we have designed and manufactured our products to leverage the work of those individuals and organizations that offer specialized technological expertise. The PackBot, Kobra and FirstLook robots are designed with open interfaces that allow third-party developers to add payloads to our robots, improving their functionality. 

Sales and Distribution Channels 

We sell our products through distinct sales channels to the consumer, defense and security, telemedicine, and video collaboration markets. For the fiscal years ended January 2, 2016, December 27, 2014 and December 28, 2013, sales to non-U.S. customers accounted for 56.0%, 60.9% and 59.5% of total revenue, respectively. For the fiscal years ended January 2, 2016, December 27, 2014 and December 28, 2013, U.S. federal government orders, contracts and subcontracts accounted for 5.1%, 4.3% and 6.2% of total revenue, respectively. For the years ended January 2, 2016, December 27, 2014 and December 28, 2013, we generated an aggregate of 26.0%, 29.8% and 33.2% of our revenue, respectively, from our home robots distributor in Japan (Sales on Demand Corporation) and a network of affiliated European distributors of our home robots (Robopolis SAS). 

Home Robots 

In the United States and Canada, we sell our consumer products through a network of national retailers. In 2015, this network consisted of more than 60 retailers which often sell either one or some combination of our products. Certain smaller domestic retail operations are supported by distributors to whom we sell our products directly. In support of sales in the United States and Canada, we maintain an in-house sales and product management team. Outside of the United States and Canada, our products have been sold in more than 50 countries, primarily through a network of in-country distributors who resell to retail stores in their respective countries. These distributors are supported by our international sales and product marketing team. 

Our retail and distributor networks are our primary distribution channels for our consumer products. We also offer products direct-to-consumer through our domestic and international on-line stores, representing 6.1%, 6.1% and 5.9% of total home robots business unit revenue for fiscal 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. We have established valuable databases and customer lists that allow us to target directly those consumers most likely to purchase a new robot or upgrade. We believe we maintain a close connection with our customers in each of our markets, which provides an enhanced position from which to improve our distribution and product offerings. 

Defense and Security 

As noted above, we expect to complete the divestiture of our defense and security business unit during the first quarter of 2016. We currently sell our defense and security products directly to end users and indirectly through prime contractors and distributors. While the majority of defense and security products have been sold to date to various operations within the U.S. federal government, we also sell to state and local agencies as well as to international government organizations, research labs, nuclear and industrial companies and universities. Our military products are sold overseas in compliance with the International Traffic in Arms Regulations, or ITAR. We have sold our products to the governments of various countries in the past several years, including the United Kingdom, France, Germany, Sweden, Norway, Italy, Brazil, Pakistan, Israel, Australia, Republic of Korea, Singapore, Bosnia, Lithuania, Qatar, Taiwan, South Africa and Canada. 

Remote Presence 

The RP-VITA telemedicine robot, which was jointly developed with InTouch Health and incorporates our Ava mobile robotics platform, is sold to healthcare customers by InTouch Health. Our Ava 500 Video Collaboration robot, which incorporates our Ava mobile robotics platform and Cisco&#8217;s TelePresence, is available from certified Cisco partners on a limited basis. 

Customer Service and Support 

We also provide ongoing customer service and support. Consumer customer service representatives, the majority of whom are employees of outsourced service organizations or our distribution partners, are extensively trained on the technical intricacies of our consumer products. Defense and security customer representatives are usually former military personnel who are experienced in logistical and technical support requirements for military operations. Customer service for the RP-VITA product is provided by InTouch Health. Customer service for the Ava 500 is provided by iRobot. 

Marketing and Brand 

We market our home robots to end-user customers through our sales and marketing teams as well as through our extensive network of retailers and in-country distributors. We market our defense and security products directly through our team of government sales specialists to end users and indirectly through prime contractors. Our website is also playing an increasing role in supporting brand awareness, addressing customer questions and serving as a showcase for our products. 

Our marketing strategy is to increase our brand awareness and associate the iRobot brand with innovation, reliability, safety and value. Our sales and marketing expenses represented 15.9%, 15.5% and 14.7% of our total revenue in 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. We expect to continue to invest in national advertising, consumer and industry trade shows, direct marketing and public relations to further build brand awareness. 

We believe that we have built a trusted, recognized brand by providing high-quality robots. We believe that customer word-of-mouth has been a significant driver of our brand's success to date, which can work very well for products that inspire a high level of user loyalty because users are likely to share their positive experiences. Our grass-roots marketing efforts focus on feeding this word-of-mouth momentum and we use public relations as well as advertising to promote our products. 

Our innovative robots and public relations campaigns have generated extensive press coverage, and iRobot and our consumer robots have won several awards. Through these efforts, we have been able to build our brand, and we expect that our reputation for innovative products and customer support will continue to play a significant role in our growth and success. 

Manufacturing 

Our core competencies are the design, development and marketing of robots. Our manufacturing strategy is to outsource non-core competencies, such as the production of our robots, to third-party entities skilled in manufacturing. By relying on the outsourced manufacture of our consumer, military and remote presence robots, we can focus our engineering expertise on the design of robots. 

&#160; 

Manufacturing a new product requires a close relationship between our product designers and the manufacturing organizations. Using multiple engineering techniques, our products are introduced to the selected production facility at an early-development stage and the feedback provided by manufacturing is incorporated into the design before tooling is finalized 

and mass production begins. As a result, we believe that we can significantly reduce the time required to move a product from its design phase to mass production deliveries, with improved quality and yields. 

We outsource the manufacturing of our consumer products to four contract manufacturers, each of which manufactures at a single plant in China. We outsource the manufacturing of our defense and security robots to two contract manufacturers, both of which are located in the United States. 

Research and Development 

We believe that our future success depends upon our ability to continue to develop new products and product accessories, and enhancements to and applications for our existing products. For the years ended January 2, 2016, December 27, 2014 and December 28, 2013, our research and development expenses were $76.1 million, $69.4 million and $63.6 million, or 12.3%, 12.5% and 13.1% of revenue, respectively. We intend to continue our investment in research and development to respond to and anticipate customer needs, and to enable us to introduce new products over the next few years that will continue to address our existing and adjacent market sectors. 

Our research and development is conducted by teams dedicated to particular projects. Our research and development efforts are primarily located at our headquarters in Bedford, Massachusetts and our office in Pasadena, California. 

Competition 

The market for robots is highly competitive, rapidly evolving and subject to changing technologies, shifting customer needs and expectations and the likely increased introduction of new products. We believe that a number of established companies have developed or are developing robots that will compete directly with our product offerings, and many of our competitors have significantly more financial and other resources than we possess. 

&#160; 

Our competitors include developers of robot floor cleaning products and developers of small unmanned ground vehicles. 

While we believe many of our customers purchase our Roomba floor vacuuming robots, Braava floor cleaning and Scooba floor washing robots as a supplement to, rather than a replacement for, their traditional vacuum cleaners and wet floor cleaning methods, we do compete in some cases with providers of traditional cleaning products. 

We believe that the principal competitive factors in the market for robots include product features, performance for the intended mission, cost of purchase, total cost of system operation, including maintenance and support, ease of use, integration with existing equipment, quality, reliability, customer support, brand and reputation. 

Our ability to remain competitive will depend to a great extent upon our ongoing performance in the areas of product development and customer support. We cannot provide assurance that our products will continue to compete favorably or that we will be successful in the face of increasing competition from new products and enhancements introduced by existing competitors or new companies entering the markets in which we provide products. 

Intellectual Property 

We believe that our continued success depends in large part on our proprietary technology, the intellectual skills of our employees and the ability of our employees to continue to innovate. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as confidentiality agreements, to establish and protect our proprietary rights. As part of the sale of our defense and security business, we will transfer to the buyer ownership of certain of our intellectual property related to the defense and security business, including patents, patent applications and trademarks. 

As of January 2, 2016, we held 375 U.S. patents, more than 350 foreign patents, additional design registrations, and more than 500 patent applications pending worldwide. Our U.S. patents will begin to expire in 2019. We will continue to file and prosecute patent (or design registration, as applicable) applications when and where appropriate to attempt to protect our rights in our proprietary technologies. We also encourage our employees to continue to invent and develop new technologies so as to maintain our competitiveness in the marketplace. It is possible that our current patents, or patents which we may later acquire, may be successfully challenged or invalidated in whole or in part. It is also possible that we may not obtain issued patents for our pending patent applications or other inventions we seek to protect. In that regard, we sometimes permit certain intellectual property to lapse or go abandoned under appropriate circumstances, and due to uncertainties inherent in prosecuting patent applications, sometimes patent applications are rejected and we subsequently abandon them. It is also possible that we may not develop proprietary products or technologies in the future that are patentable, or that any patent issued to us may not provide us with any competitive advantages, or that the patents of others will harm or altogether preclude our ability to do business. 

Our registered U.S. trademarks include iRobot, Roomba, Ava, Scooba, Mint, ViPR, NorthStar, Create, PackBot, FirstLook, iAdapt, Aware, Home Base, Looj, Braava, Kobra, AeroForce, uPoint, AeroVac, Mirra, and Virtual Wall. Our marks iRobot, Roomba, Virtual Wall, Scooba, and certain other trademarks, have also been registered in selected foreign countries. 

Our means of protecting our proprietary rights may not be adequate, and our competitors may independently develop technology that is similar to ours. Legal protections afford only limited protection for our technology. The laws of many countries do not protect our proprietary rights to as great an extent as do the laws of the United States. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties have in the past attempted, and may in the future attempt, to copy aspects of our products or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. Third parties may also design around our proprietary rights, which may render our protected products less valuable, if the design around is favorably received in the marketplace. In addition, if any of our products or the technology underlying our products is covered by third-party patents or other intellectual property rights, we could be subject to various legal actions. We cannot assure you that our products do not infringe patents held by others or that they will not in the future. We have received in the past communications from third parties relating to technologies used in our various robot products that have alleged infringement of patents or violation of other intellectual property rights. In response to these communications, we have contacted these third parties to convey our good faith belief that we do not infringe the patents in question or otherwise violate those parties' rights. Although there have been no additional actions or communications with respect to these allegations, we cannot assure you that we will not receive further correspondence from these parties, or not be subject to additional allegations of infringement from others. Litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets, to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others, or to defend against claims of infringement or invalidity, misappropriation, or other claims. Any such litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources. Moreover, any settlement of or adverse judgment resulting from such litigation could require us to obtain a license to continue to use the technology that is the subject of the claim, or otherwise restrict or prohibit our use of the technology. Any required licenses may not be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. If we attempt to design around the technology at issue or to find another provider of suitable alternative technology to permit us to continue offering applicable software or product solutions, our continued supply of software or product solutions could be disrupted or our introduction of new or enhanced software or products could be significantly delayed. 

Regulations 

We are subject to various government regulations, including various U.S. federal government regulations as a contractor and subcontractor to the U.S. federal government. Following closing of the sale of our defense and security business unit, we will be subject to certain of these regulations only as they pertain to matters related to our operation of the defense and security business unit prior to the sale. Among the most significant U.S. federal government regulations currently affecting our business are: 

&#8226; 

the Federal Acquisition Regulations and supplemental agency regulations, which comprehensively regulate the formation and administration of, and performance under government contracts; 

&#8226; 

the Truth in Negotiations Act, which requires certification and disclosure of all cost and pricing data in connection with contract negotiations; 

&#8226; 

the Cost Accounting Standards, which impose accounting requirements that govern our right to reimbursement under cost-based government contracts; 

&#8226; 

the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which prohibits U.S. companies from providing anything of value to a foreign official to help obtain, retain or direct business, or obtain any unfair advantages; 

&#8226; 

the False Claims Act and the False Statements Act, which, respectively, impose penalties for payments made on the basis of false facts provided to the government, and impose penalties on the basis of false statements, even if they do not result in a payment; and 

&#8226; 

laws, regulations and executive orders restricting the use and dissemination of information classified for national security purposes and the exportation of certain products and technical data. 

We also need special security clearances to continue working on and advancing certain of our projects with the U.S. federal government. Classified programs generally will require that we comply with various Executive Orders, federal laws and regulations and customer security requirements that may include restrictions on how we develop, store, protect and share information, and may require our employees to obtain government clearances. 

The nature of the work we do for the federal government may also limit the parties who may invest in or acquire us. Export laws may keep us from providing potential foreign acquirers with a review of the technical data they would be acquiring. In addition, there are special requirements for foreign parties who wish to buy or acquire control or influence over companies that control technology or produce goods in the security interests of the United States. Finally, the government may require a prospective foreign owner to establish intermediaries to actually run that part of the company that does classified work, and establishing a subsidiary and its separate operation may make such an acquisition less appealing to such potential acquirers. 

In addition, the export from the United States of many of our products may require the issuance of a license by the U.S. Department of Commerce under the Export Administration Act, as amended, and its implementing Regulations as kept in force by the International Emergency Economic Powers Act of 1977, as amended. Some of our products may require the issuance of a license by the U.S. Department of State under the Arms Export Control Act and its implementing Regulations, which licenses are generally harder to obtain and take longer to obtain than do Export Administration Act licenses. 

Our business may require the compliance with state or local laws designed to limit the uses of personal user information gathered online or require online services to establish privacy policies. 

Defense and Security Product Backlog 

Our defense and security product backlog consists of written purchase orders or contracts received from our defense and security customers. Total backlog of product sales to defense and security customers, which includes federal, state, local and foreign governments, and non-government customers, as of January 2, 2016, December 27, 2014 and December 28, 2013, amounted to approximately $10.5 million, $18.2 million and $8.8 million, respectively. There can be no assurance that any of our backlog will result in revenue. At the closing of the sale of our defense and security business unit, all defense and security product backlog will transfer to the buyer. 

Employees 

As of January 2, 2016, we had 622 full-time employees located in the United States and abroad. We believe that we have a good relationship with our employees. 

Available Information 

We were incorporated in California in August 1990 under the name IS Robotics, Inc. and reincorporated as IS Robotics Corporation in Massachusetts in June 1994. We reincorporated in Delaware as iRobot Corporation in December 2000. We conduct operations and maintain a number of subsidiaries in the United States and abroad, including operations in Hong Kong, the United Kingdom and China. We also maintain iRobot Securities Corporation, a Massachusetts securities corporation, to invest our cash balances on a short-term basis. Our website address is www.irobot.com. Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are available free of charge through the investor relations page of our internet website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. Alternatively, these reports may be accessed at the SEC&#8217;s website at www.sec.gov. 

