 Item 1. Business 

Overview 

Cowen Group, Inc. (the "Company"), a Delaware corporation formed in 2009, is a diversified financial services firm and, together with its consolidated subsidiaries (collectively, "Cowen", "Cowen Group" or the "Company"), provides alternative investment management, investment banking, research, sales and trading and prime brokerage services through its two business segments: alternative investment and broker-dealer. The alternative investment segment includes hedge funds, private equity structures, registered investment companies and listed investment vehicles. The broker-dealer segment offers industry focused investment banking for growth-oriented companies including advisory and global capital markets origination and domain knowledge-driven research and a sales and trading platform for institutional investors, primarily under the Cowen name. For a discussion of certain financial information by segment, please see the notes to the Company's consolidated financial statements. 

&#32;&#32;&#32;&#32;&#32;&#32;&#32;&#32;&#32; Ramius is an alternative investment platform offering innovative products and solutions across the liquidity spectrum to institutional and private clients. The predecessor to this business was founded in 1994 and, through one of its subsidiaries, has been a registered investment adviser under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 since 1997. Ramius offers investors access to strategies to meet their specific needs including long/short equity, activist equity, event driven equity, event driven credit, global macro, customized portfolio solutions, managed futures, health care royalties and private real estate. Ramius focuses on attracting and retaining talented in-house and affiliated investment teams and providing them with institutional infrastructure, robust sales and marketing and industry knowledge. A significant portion of the Company&#8217;s capital is invested alongside Ramius&#8217;s alternative investment clients. &#32;Our alternative investment business had approximately $13.3 billion &#32;of assets under management as of January 1, 2016 . 

Our broker-dealer businesses include research, sales and trading and investment banking services to companies and institutional investor clients &#32;primarily in our target sectors ("Target Sectors"): which include healthcare, technology, media and telecommunications, information and technology services, consumer, aerospace and defense, industrials, &#32; real estate investment trusts ("REITs") , energy and transportation . We provide research and brokerage services to over 1,000 domestic and international clients seeking to trade securities, principally in our target sectors. The broker-dealer segment also offers a full-service suite of introduced prime brokerage services targeting emerging hedge fund managers . Historically, we have focused our investment banking efforts on small to mid-capitalization public companies as well as private companies. 

Principal Business Lines 

Alternative Investment Products and Services 

Hedge Fund Strategies 

The Company's hedge fund strategies are focused on addressing the needs of institutional investors and high net worth individuals to preserve and grow allocated capital. The Company and its affiliates manage a number of single strategy vehicles, including merger arbitrage, activism and global macro. The Company and its affiliates also manage certain multi-strategy hedge funds that are currently in wind-down. The majority of assets remaining in these funds include private investments in public companies, investments in private companies, real estate investments and special situations. 

Alternative Solutions 

&#32;&#32;&#32;&#32;&#32;&#32;&#32;&#32;&#32;&#32;The Company's alternative solutions business offers a range of customized hedge fund investment and advisory solutions, including customized and commingled fund of funds, hedge fund replication, liquid alternative risk premia products, and customized solutions to a global institutional client base. The Company's alternative solutions business also develops and manages customized investment portfolios, which may include a combination of direct hedge fund investments, liquid alternative risk premia products and hedging overlays. 

Ramius Trading Strategies &#160; 

The Company&#8217;s managed futures fund business serves as investment adviser to various commodity pools including the State Street/Ramius Managed Futures Strategy Fund, a mutual fund advised by Ramius Trading Strategies LLC and sub-advised by SSgA Funds Management Inc. (an affiliate of State Street Global Advisors), that offers U.S. investors access to a multi-manager strategy that seeks to capture returns tied to a combination of global macroeconomic trends in the commodity futures and financial futures markets and interest income and capital appreciation. The mutual fund is sub-advised by SSgA 

Table of Contents 

Funds Management Inc. and seeks to offer investors access to returns with low correlation to the public equity and debt markets by allocating capital to various third party commodity trading advisors that pursue a managed futures strategy in a managed account format. 

Real Estate 

The Company's real estate business focuses on generating attractive, risk adjusted returns by using our owner/manager approach to underwriting, structuring, financing and redevelopment of all real estate property types since 1999. This approach emphasizes a focus on real estate fundamentals and potential market inefficiencies. The RCG Longview platform provides senior bridge loans, subordinated mortgages, mezzanine loans, and preferred equity through its debt fund series, and makes equity investments through its equity funds. As of December 31, 2015 , the members of the general partners of the RCG Longview platform and its affiliates, independent of the RCG Longview funds, collectively owned interests in and/or manage over 22,000 apartments and approximately 25 million square feet of commercial space for their own accounts. As of December 31, 2015 , the Ramius Urban American funds owned interests in and managed approximately 3,400 multi-family housing units in the New York metropolitan area. The Company's ownership interests in the various general partners of the RCG Longview funds and Ramius Urban American Funds range from 17% to 55%. 

HealthCare Royalty Partners ("HRP") 

The Company&#8217;s healthcare royalties business invests principally in commercial-stage biopharmaceutical products and companies through the purchase of royalty or synthetic royalty interests and structured debt and equity instruments (through the funds managed by HRP (the "HRP Funds")). The HRP Funds seek these royalty interests in end-user sales of commercial-stage or near commercial-stage medical products such as pharmaceuticals, biotechnology products and medical devices. We share the net management fees from the HRP Funds equally with the founders of the HRP Funds. In addition, we have interests in the general partners of the HRP Funds ranging from 25% to 40.2%. 

Broker-Dealer Business 

Investment Banking 

Our investment banking professionals are focused on providing strategic advisory and capital raising services to U.S. and international public and private companies in our Target Sectors. By focusing on our Target Sectors over a long period of time, we have developed a significant understanding of the unique challenges and demands with respect to public and private capital raising and strategic advice in these sectors. Our advisory and capital raising capabilities begin at the early stages of a private company's accelerated growth phase and continue through its evolution as a public company. Our advisory business focuses on mergers and acquisitions, including providing fairness opinions and providing advice on other strategic transactions. Our capital markets capabilities include equity, including private investments in public equity and registered direct offerings, credit and fixed income, including public and private debt placements, exchange offers, consent solicitations and tender offers, as well as origination and distribution capabilities for convertible securities. We have a unified capital markets group which we believe allows us to be effective in providing cohesive solutions for our clients. Historically, a significant majority of our investment banking revenue has been earned from high-growth small and mid-capitalization companies. The Company, from time to time, may invest in private capital raising transactions of its clients. 

Brokerage 

Our team of brokerage professionals serves institutional investor clients in the United States and internationally. We trade common stocks, listed options and equity-linked securities on behalf of our clients and offer a full-service suite of introduced prime brokerage services targeting emerging hedge fund managers . We also provide our clients with an electronic execution suite. We provide global, multi-asset class algorithmic execution trading models to both buy side and sell side clients and also offer execution capabilities relating to these trading models through ATM Execution LLC ("ATM Execution"). In addition, through January 2015, we engaged in the securities lending business through Cowen Equity Finance LP ("Cowen Equity Finance"). We have relationships with over 1,000 institutional investor clients. Our brokerage team is comprised of experienced professionals dedicated to our Target Sectors, which allows us to develop a level of knowledge and focus that we believe differentiates our brokerage capabilities from those of many of our competitors. We tailor our account coverage to the unique needs of our clients. We believe that our sector traders are able to provide superior execution because of their knowledge of the interests of our institutional investor clients in specific companies in our Target Sectors. 

Our sales professionals also provide our institutional investor clients with access to the management of our investment banking clients outside the context of financing transactions. These meetings are commonly referred to as non-deal road shows. Non-deal road shows allow our investment banking clients to increase their visibility within the institutional investor community while providing our institutional investor clients with the opportunity to further educate themselves on companies and industries through meetings with management. We believe our deep relationships with company management teams and 

Table of Contents 

our sector-focused approach provide us with broad access to management for the benefit of our institutional investor and investment banking clients. 

Research 

As of December 31, 2015 , we had a research team of 54 senior analysts covering approximately 825 companies. Within our coverage universe, approximately 26% are healthcare companies, 19% are TMT (technology, media and telecom) companies, 20% are energy companies, 12% are capital goods and industrial companies, 4% are basic materials companies, 13% are consumer companies, and 6% are REITs. Our differentiated approach to research focuses our analysts' efforts toward delivering specific investment ideas and de-emphasizes maintenance research. We place significant emphasis on analyst collaboration, both within and between sectors. We sponsor a number of conferences every year that are focused on our Target Sectors and sub-sectors. During these conferences we highlight our investment research and provide significant investor access to corporate management teams. 

Information About Geographic Areas 

We are principally engaged in providing alternative investment services to global institutional investors and investment banking sales and trading and research services to corporations and institutional investor clients primarily in the United States. We provide investment banking services to companies and institutional investor clients in Europe through our U.K. broker-dealer, Cowen International Limited ("CIL"). 

Employees 

As of February 26, 2016 , the Company had 769 &#32;employees. 

Competition 

We compete with many other firms in all aspects of our business, including raising funds, seeking investment opportunities and hiring and retaining professionals, and we expect our business will continue to be highly competitive. The alternative investment and broker-dealer industries are currently undergoing contraction and consolidation, reducing the number of industry participants and generally resulting in the larger firms being better positioned to retain and gain market share. We compete in the United States and globally for investment opportunities, investor capital, client relationships, reputation and talent. We face competitors that are larger than we are and have greater financial, technical and marketing resources. Certain of these competitors continue to raise additional amounts of capital to pursue investment strategies that may be similar to ours. Some of these competitors may also have access to liquidity sources that are not available to us, which may pose challenges for us with respect to investment opportunities. In addition, some of these competitors may have higher risk tolerances or make different risk assessments than we do, allowing them to consider a wider variety of investments and establish broader networks of business relationships. Our competitive position depends on our reputation, our investment performance and processes, the breadth of our business platform and our ability to continue to attract and retain qualified employees while managing compensation and other costs. For additional information regarding the competitive risks that we face, see "Item 1A Risk Factors-Risks Related to the Company's Alternative Investment Business" and "Risk Factors-Risks Related to the Company's Broker-Dealer Business." 

Regulation 

Our businesses, as well as the financial services industry generally, are subject to extensive regulation, including periodic examinations by governmental and self-regulatory organizations, in the United States and the jurisdictions in which we operate around the world. As a publicly traded company in the United States, we are subject to the U.S. federal securities laws and regulation by the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). 

Virtually all aspects of our business are subject to various laws and regulations both inside and outside the United States, some of which are summarized below. Regulatory bodies in the United States and the rest of the world are charged with safeguarding the integrity of the securities and other financial markets and with protecting the interests of customers participating in those markets. Governmental authorities in the United States and in the other countries in which we operate have proposed or adopted additional disclosure requirements and regulation of alternative investment funds and alternative asset managers. The rules governing the regulation of the various aspects of our business are very detailed and technical. Accordingly, the discussion below is general in nature, does not purport to be complete and is current only as of the date of this report. 

Investment Advisory Business 

Most of the investment advisers of our alternative investment funds are registered as investment advisers with the SEC. Registered investment advisers are subject to the requirements of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (the "Advisers Act") and the regulations promulgated thereunder. Such requirements relate to, among other things, fiduciary duties to clients, maintaining 

Table of Contents 

an effective compliance program, operational and marketing requirements, disclosure obligations and prohibitions on fraudulent activities. 

Our alternative investment funds&#8217; trading and investment activities are also subject to regulation under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), and various other statutes as well as the rules of various United States and non-United States securities exchanges and self-regulatory organizations, including laws governing trading on inside information, market manipulation and a broad number of technical requirements (e.g., short sale limits, volume limitations, reporting obligations) and market regulation policies in the United States and globally. Congress, regulators, tax authorities and others continue to explore and implement, on their own and in response to demands from the investment community and the public, increased regulation including changes with respect to investor eligibility, certain limitations on trading activities, record-keeping and reporting, the scope of anti-fraud protections, safekeeping of client assets and a variety of other matters. 

Certain of our investment advisers act as a &#8220;fiduciaries&#8221; under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (&#8220;ERISA&#8221;) with respect to benefit plan clients. As such, the advisers, and certain of the alternative investment funds they advise, may be subject to ERISA and to regulations promulgated thereunder. ERISA and applicable provisions of the Internal Revenue Code impose duties on persons who are fiduciaries under ERISA, prohibit specified transactions involving ERISA plan clients and provide monetary penalties for violations of these prohibitions. 

In addition, many of the investment advisers to our alternative investment funds are also registered as commodity pool operators (&#8220;CPOs&#8221;) and therefore subject to regulation by the National Futures Association (the "NFA") and the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission (the "CFTC"). Most of our registered investment advisers have been reporting certain information about a number of their private funds to the SEC and certain information about a number of their commodity pools to the CFTC, pursuant to systemic risk reporting requirements adopted by both agencies. The NFA and CFTC each also administer a comparable regulatory system covering futures contracts and various other financial instruments, including swaps in which certain alternative investment funds may invest. 

In the aftermath of the financial crisis of the late 2000's, significant regulatory reforms have been enacted. On July 21, 2010, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the "Dodd-Frank Act") was signed into law in the United States. The Dodd-Frank Act is expansive in scope and has led to the adoption of extensive regulations by the SEC and other governmental agencies and additional regulations are anticipated in the future. We are continuing to review what impact the Dodd-Frank Act legislation and related rule making will have on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 

The Dodd-Frank Act establishes the Financial Services Oversight Council (the "FSOC") to identify threats to the financial stability of the United States, promote market discipline, and respond to emerging risks to the stability of the United States financial system. The FSOC is empowered to determine whether the material financial distress or failure of a non-bank financial company would threaten the stability of the United States financial system, and such a determination can subject a non-banking finance company to supervision by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve and the imposition of standards and supervision including stress tests, liquidity requirements and enhanced public disclosures. The FSOC has released a proposed rule regarding its authority to require the supervision and regulation of systemically significant non-bank financial companies. We do not believe we are at risk of being considered a systematically significant non-bank financial company. 

The full implementation of regulations under the Dodd-Frank Act relating to regulation of swaps and derivatives could impact the manner by which our alternative investment funds and accounts use and trade swaps and other derivatives, and could significantly increase the costs of derivatives trading conducted on behalf of our clients. Moreover, applicability of CFTC rules and regulations to our alternative investment funds and accounts and requirements to centrally clear certain swap transactions and to execute certain swap transactions only on or through CFTC-registered trading venues will impact our advisory business. We are also preparing for the implementation of trade reporting, documentation, and mandated central clearing of swaps requirements in the EU and other jurisdictions globally. Inconsistencies and potential contradictions in the rules adopted by various global regulators will increase the operational and legal risks associated with trading in derivatives. See "Item 1A Risk Factors" for more information. 

Another example of recent changes in the regulatory landscape that affect our business was the IRS&#8217; implementation of Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act (&#8220;FATCA&#8221;). FATCA was enacted in 2010 and is intended to address tax compliance issues associated with U.S. taxpayers with foreign accounts. FATCA requires foreign financial institutions to report to the IRS information about financial accounts held by United States taxpayers and imposes withholding, documentation and reporting requirements on foreign financial institutions. In many instances, however, the precise nature of what needs to be implemented will be governed by bilateral Intergovernmental Agreements (&#8220;IGAs&#8221;) between the United States and the countries in which we do business. While many of these IGAs have been put into place, others have yet to be concluded. FATCA could result in significant administrative and compliance costs and subject clients to United States tax withholding. 

Table of Contents 

Given our investment activities are carried out around the globe, we are subject to a variety of regulatory regimes that vary country by country. Certain of our investment advisers are subject to the U.K. Financial Conduct Authority ("FCA") in the United Kingdom and the Commission de Surveillance du Secteur Financier in Luxembourg. Also, our captive insurance and reinsurance companies are regulated by the New York State Department of Finance and the Luxembourg Commissariat aux Assurances, respectively. European Union (&#8220;EU&#8221;) financial reforms included a number of initiatives to be reflected in new or updated directives, regulations and recommendations of the pan-European regulatory regime established by the Markets in Financial Instruments Directive (&#8220;MiFID&#8221;), which regulates the provision of investment services and activities throughout the European Economic Area (the &#8220;EEA&#8221;). In addition, the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive (&#8220;AIFMD&#8221;), which became effective on July 21, 2011 and was required to be implemented by EU member states by July 22, 2013, regulates managers of, and service providers to, a broad range of alternative investment funds domiciled within and (depending on the precise circumstances) outside the EU as well as regulate the marketing of all alternative investment funds inside the EEA. The AIFMD is being implemented in stages through 2018. Compliance with the AIFMD impacts our alternative investment fund marketing efforts in the EEA and requires additional compliance and disclosure obligations on any funds we actively market in the EEA and for funds domiciled in the EU, may also necessitate, among other requirements, the use of EU domiciled depositories and custodians. Additionally, certain individual EU Member States, such as France and Italy, have enacted national financial transaction taxes (&#8220;FTTs&#8221;), and a group of Member States also could adopt a FTT under an EU Enhanced Cooperation procedure that would apply in those Member States. 

Our businesses have operated for many years within a legal framework that requires us to be able to monitor and comply with a broad range of legal and regulatory developments that affect our activities both in the United States and abroad. As noted above, certain of our businesses are subject to compliance with laws and regulations of United States federal and state governments, foreign governments, their respective agencies and/or various self-regulatory organizations or exchanges relating to the privacy of client information, and any failure to comply with these regulations could expose us to liability and/or reputational damage. Additional legislation, changes in rules promulgated by the SEC, the CFTC, our other regulators and self-regulatory organizations or changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and rules, either in the United States or elsewhere, may directly affect the mode of our operation and profitability. The United States and non-United States government agencies and self-regulatory organizations, as well as state securities commissions in the United States, are empowered to conduct administrative proceedings that can result in censure, fine, the issuance of cease-and-desist orders or the suspension or expulsion or deregulation of a broker-dealer, an investment advisor or its directors, officers or employees. Occasionally, we have been subject to investigations and proceedings, and sanctions have been imposed for infractions of various regulations relating to our activities. 

Broker-Dealer Business 

Cowen and Company, LLC ("Cowen and Company") is a registered broker-dealer with the SEC and in all 50 states, the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico. Self-regulatory organizations, including the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority ("FINRA"), adopt and enforce rules governing the conduct and activities of its member firms, including Cowen and Company, ATM Execution, Cowen Prime Services LLC ("Cowen Prime") and Cowen Prime Services Trading LLC ("Cowen Prime Trading"). In addition, state securities regulators have regulatory or oversight authority over our broker-dealer entities. Accordingly, Cowen and Company, ATM Execution, Cowen Prime and Cowen Prime Trading are subject to regulation and oversight by the SEC and FINRA and Cowen Prime is also registered with and subject to oversight by the NFA. Cowen and Company is also a member of, and subject to regulation by, the New York Stock Exchange ("NYSE"), the NASDAQ OMX PHLX, the NYSE MKT LLC, the International Stock Exchange and the Nasdaq Stock Market. ATM Execution is a member of, and subject to regulation by, the NYSE and the Nasdaq Stock Market. Additionally, CIL is primarily regulated by the FCA in the United Kingdom. 

Broker-dealers are subject to regulations that cover all aspects of the securities business, including sales methods, trade practices among broker-dealers, use and safekeeping of customers' funds, conflicts of interest, securities and information, capital structure, research/banking interaction, record-keeping, the financing of customers' purchases and the conduct and qualifications of directors, officers and employees. In particular, as registered broker-dealers and members of various self-regulatory organizations, Cowen and Company, ATM Execution, Cowen Prime and Cowen Prime Trading are subject to the SEC's uniform net capital rule. Rule 15c3-1 specifies the minimum level of net capital a broker-dealer must maintain and also requires that a significant part of a broker-dealer's assets be kept in relatively liquid form. The SEC and various self-regulatory organizations impose rules that require notification when net capital falls below certain predefined criteria, limit the ratio of subordinated debt to equity in the regulatory capital composition of a broker-dealer and constrain the ability of a broker-dealer to expand its business under certain circumstances. Additionally, the SEC's uniform net capital rule requires us to give prior notice to the SEC for certain withdrawals of capital. As a result, our ability to withdraw capital from our broker-dealer subsidiaries may be limited. 

The effort to combat money laundering and terrorist financing is a priority in governmental policy with respect to financial institutions. The Bank Secrecy Act ("BSA"), as amended by Title III of the USA PATRIOT Act of 2001 and its 

Table of Contents 

implementing regulations ("Patriot Act"), requires broker-dealers and other financial services companies to maintain an anti-money laundering compliance program that includes written policies and procedures, designated compliance officer(s), appropriate training, independent review of the program, standards for verifying client identity at account opening and obligations to report suspicious activities and certain other financial transactions. Through these and other provisions, the BSA and Patriot Act seek to promote the identification of parties that may be involved in financing terrorism or money laundering. We must also comply with sanctions programs administered by the U.S. Department of Treasury's Office of Foreign Asset Control, which may include prohibitions on transactions with designated individuals and entities and with individuals and entities from certain countries. 

Anti-money laundering laws outside the United States contain certain similar provisions. The obligation of financial institutions, including us, to identify their customers, watch for and report suspicious transactions, respond to requests for information by regulatory authorities and law enforcement agencies, and share information with other financial institutions, has required the implementation and maintenance of internal practices, procedures and controls that have increased, and may continue to increase, our costs. Any failure with respect to our programs in this area could subject us to serious regulatory consequences, including substantial fines, and potentially other liabilities. 

Rigorous legal and compliance analysis of our businesses and investments is important to our culture and risk management. In addition, disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting are documented, tested and assessed for design and operating effectiveness in compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. We strive to maintain a culture of compliance through the use of policies and procedures such as oversight compliance, codes of conduct, compliance systems, communication of compliance guidance and employee education and training. Our corporate risk management function further analyzes our business, investment and other key risks, reinforcing their importance in our environment. We have a compliance group that monitors our compliance with all of the regulatory requirements to which we are subject and manages our compliance policies and procedures. Our General Counsel supervises our compliance group, which is responsible for addressing all regulatory and compliance matters that affect our activities. Our compliance policies and procedures address a variety of regulatory and compliance risks such as the handling of material non-public information, position reporting, personal securities trading, valuation of investments on a fund-specific basis, document retention, potential conflicts of interest and the allocation of investment opportunities. Our compliance group also monitors the information barriers that we maintain between each of our different businesses. We believe that our various businesses' access to the intellectual capital, contacts and relationships that reside throughout our firm benefits all of our businesses. However, in order to maximize that access without compromising our legal and contractual obligations, our compliance group oversees and monitors the communications between or among our firm's different businesses. 

Available Information 

We routinely file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information required by the Exchange Act with the SEC. You may read and copy any document we file with the SEC at the SEC's public reference room located at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549, U.S.A. Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for further information on the public reference room. Our SEC filings also are available to the public from the SEC's internet site at http://www.sec.gov. 

We maintain a public internet site at http://www.cowen.com and make available free of charge through this site our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, Proxy Statements and Forms 3, 4 and 5 filed on behalf of directors and executive officers, as well as any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. We also post on our website the charters for our Board of Directors' Audit Committee, Compensation Committee and Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee, as well as our Corporate Governance Guidelines, our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics governing our directors, officers and employees and other related materials. The information on our website is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report. 

