 ITEM 1. BUSINESS

Business Development and Summary 

We were originally incorporated in the State of Nevada on March 29, 2006, under the name &#147;White Dental Supply, Inc.&#148; We were authorized to issue 100,000,000 shares of its $0.001 par value common stock and 100,000,000 shares of its $0.001 par value preferred stock. On January 7, 2013, our Board of Directors authorized, and a majority of the stockholders ratified, by written consent, resolutions to change our corporate name to PITOOEY!, Inc. and to increase the number of shares we are authorized to issue to 400,000,000 shares of $0.001 par value common stock and 100,000,000 shares of $0.001 par value preferred stock. The name change and increase in authorized capital became effective with the State of Nevada on February 7, 2013. On July 29, 2015, the Company changed their name to Raadr, Inc. The name change was effective with the State of Nevada on July 29, 2015.

On July 25, 2012, we entered into and closed an Intellectual Property Assignment Agreement (&#147;Barr Agreement&#148;) with Mr. Sebastian Barr, an individual (&#147;Barr&#148;). In accordance with the Barr Agreement, we acquired certain patents, prototypes and technical information from Barr (&#147;Barr Assets&#148;), pertaining to child safety devices. In exchange for the Barr Assets, we agreed to pay Barr an aggregate of $42,500.

1. An initial payment of $10,000 paid to Sunbeam Packing Services, LLC upon execution of the Barr Agreement;

2. $24,500 paid to Barr upon execution of the Barr Agreement;

3. The balance of $8,000 was to be paid in two installments: $4,000 upon the first anniversary date of the Barr Agreement and $4,000 upon the second anniversary date of the Barr Agreement. The Company has since decided not to complete the purchase of this intellectual property and has not yet decided to make payments against this Note. The Company does not own this intellectual property and is delinquent on payment of this Note.

On December 24, 2012, we entered into and closed an Intellectual Property Assignment Agreement (&#147;COS Agreement&#148;) with Choice One Solutions, Inc., a Nevada corporation (&#147;COS&#148;). In accordance with the COS Agreement, we acquired research and development expenses related to certain information, ideas, know-how, concepts, techniques, systems, processes, procedures, methods and Internet domain addresses involving or relating to social media marketing. In exchange for the COS Assets, we agreed to pay COS an aggregate of $5,000 in cash.

On December 24, 2012, we entered into and closed an Intellectual Property Assignment Agreement (&#147;MC Agreement&#148;) with Mobile Caviar, LLC, an Arizona limited liability corporation (&#147;MC&#148;). In accordance with the MC Agreement, we acquired research and development expenses related to certain information, ideas, know-how, concepts, techniques, systems, processes, procedures, methods and Internet domain addresses involving or relating to mobile media marketing. In exchange for the MC Assets, we agreed to pay MC an aggregate of $5,000 in cash.

On December 24, 2012, we entered into and closed an Intellectual Property Assignment Agreement (&#147;LCC Agreement&#148;) with Lynn Cole Capital Corp., an Arizona corporation (&#147;LCC&#148;). In accordance with the LCC Agreement, we acquired research and development expenses related to certain rights, title and interest in and to all intellectual property related to the text messaging platform called &#147;PITOOEY! TM &#148; In exchange for the LCC Assets, we agreed to pay LCC an aggregate of $5,000 in cash.

On December 27, 2012, we formed a wholly owned subsidiary, Choice One Mobile, Inc. (&#147;COM&#148;), under the laws of the State of Nevada to execute our mobile and social media marketing and advertising strategies. 

On December 27, 2012, we formed a wholly owned subsidiary, PITOOEY! Mobile, Inc. (&#147;PM&#148;), under the laws of the State of Nevada. PM was formed to hold all intellectual property related to our PITOOEY! TM iPhone &#174; app, including patents, trademarks, software and trade processes. 

On February 6, 2013, we formed a wholly owned subsidiary, Rockstar Digital, Inc. (&#147;Rockstar&#148;), under the laws of the State of Nevada. Rockstar will specialize in internet branding through social media marketing, mobile marketing and iPhone &#174; app development Company. On October 31, 2013, in concert with the Rockstar settlement agreement (see Footnote 13 - Agreements) the Company terminated operations in Rockstar and relinquished ownership to its employees.

Our administrative office is located at 2432 West Peoria Ave , Suite 1346, Phoenix, AZ 85029

Our fiscal year end is December 31.

Business of Issuer 

Principal Services and Principal Markets 

RAADR

As the digital world of the 21st Century continues to evolve, parents, guardians, and children are faced with challenges and threats not just in the real world, but in the omnipresent realm of Social Media as well. Raadr, Inc., makers of the proprietary technology application RAADR&#169; have developed a web based tool that provides families with peace of mind when it comes to knowing that children are safe from bullying and predatory behavior unfortunately so prevalent today.

By customizing their own unique monitoring and alert settings, parents and guardians can be alerted when their children&#146;s Facebook, Twitter, Instagram and other pertinent social media platforms under scrutiny become posted with inappropriate language. By utilizing customized keywords chosen by the user that are added to an already existing database, parents and guardians can carry a sense of assuredness that the youth they love and are responsible for are safe and acting in a fun, yet appropriate manner.

No parent or guardian has the time or resources to be in constant surveillance of all the Social Media platforms in which their children might be active. Nor do most children want intense scrutiny of their updates and postings, despite the best intentions. You want to trust your children, while at the same time knowing that you are protecting them.

RAADR&#169; gives families the ability to protect their image, combat erroneous postings and for individuals safeguard their children from online bullying.

Raadr, Inc. makers of the proprietary technology application RAADR&#169; is a software development and mobile application developer formed in late 2012. The Company&#146;s core competency is focused on building and acquiring apps and other products, services and companies to build a nationwide network of related businesses that are positioned to serve the mobile app development needs of small businesses and individuals.

This summary serves as a basic overview to the functions and features the RAADR platform currently has and will have in the near future. Many of these can be viewed in whole or in part at: www.raadr.com.

- Social Media Monitoring -

First and foremost, RAADR assists parents in the monitoring of what their children are posting online. There are such a large number of social media platforms these days that it is too much for any parent to keep up with and more importantly, spot the potential dangers or issues in what a child is posting online. Also, most parents only hear about certain social networks long after their children have already been using them for a while. Everyone has heard of Facebook, Instagram, Twitter, Snapchat, etc. but few parents know sites like Phhoto, YouNow, and Periscope, exist much less why they might want to be monitoring them. With RAADR, keeping up-to-date with all of these and more is as simple as clicks of a button.

One of the commonly asked questions is, How will I know what my child&#146;s account name is so I can track it? That&#146;s a big part of what we want RAADR to help parents with. Rather than needing to know every account name, we really just need your child&#146;s name to get started. The more information a parent is able to provide, the faster and easier it will be to find new profiles on other social media sites. For example, if a parent adds a child&#146;s name, Instagram username, and zip code, we will have a much easier time looking for whether or not their child also has a Facebook, Twitter, SnapChat, etc. 

- Facial Recognition -

This is where our facial recognition software comes into play as well. Many children are constantly uploading pictures of themselves and their friends. This allows us to start to track where else the children might be posting pictures of themselves. Facial recognition comes into play even more so for scenarios where children might try and create accounts with an alias. Regardless, they still use their own pictures making it easy to track and notify parents when a new account is registered and using their children&#146;s pictures.

There are multiple other applications for facial recognition online but one of the others we focus on is, notifying parents when their child&#146;s picture might appear with malicious or harmful words. Children often post pictures of other peers as a form of online bullying or other unfortunate intent. These can be seen and identified to be brought to the parents attention without parents needing to constantly search various websites, most of which they&#146;ll never even hear of.

- Other Features -

In addition to the social media and facial recognition aspects, parents will be able to see private messages with the use of the extension, view browser history, get real time alerts as RAADR finds potential problems, and much more. These are just the beginning and the system can be modified to fit a number of different verticals.

As of July 1st 2015 the RAADR software is live online at www.raadr.com 

The launch of the RAADR application on IOS and ANDROID is scheduled for late September 2015.

We have discontinued offering services through our wholly owned subsidiaries PITOOEY MOBILE INC. and CHOICE ONE MOBILE INC. 

We compete with companies of all sizes in a variety of geographies that offer solutions that compete with single elements of our platform, such as mobile advertising networks, mobile ad serving and ad routing providers, mobile website and content creators, mobile payment providers, aggregators, providers of mobile publishing and application development, SMS aggregators or providers of mobile analytics. We compete at times with interactive and traditional advertising agencies that perform mobile marketing and advertising as part of their services to their customers.

Significantly all of our current and potential traditional competitors have longer operating histories, larger customer or user bases, greater brand recognition and significantly greater financial, marketing and other resources than we do. Our competitors may be able to secure experienced and talented employees, fulfill customer orders more efficiently and adopt more aggressive pricing policies than we can. Many of these current and potential competitors can devote substantially more resources to advertising, marketing and attracting experienced talent than we can. In addition, larger, more well-established and financed entities may acquire, invest in or form joint ventures with our competitors. 

Effect of Existing or Probable Governmental Regulations 

We are subject to federal, state and foreign laws regarding privacy and the protection of the information that we collect regarding our users. We currently collect certain personally identifiable information regarding our customers, including the unique device identifiers (UDIDs) of our customers&#146; smartphones and tablets, and expect in the future to collect additional personally identifiable information regarding our customers. Any concerns about our practices with regard to the collection, use, disclosure, or security of personal information or other privacy related matters, even if unfounded, could damage our reputation and operating results. We post our privacy policy and our terms of service on our corporate website. In these policies, we describe our practices concerning the use, transmission and disclosure of the information that we collect regarding our users. Any failure by us to comply with our posted privacy policy, terms of service or privacy related laws and regulations could result in proceedings against us by governmental authorities or others, which could harm our business. In addition, the interpretation of data protection laws, and their application to the mobile industry is unclear and in a state of flux. There is a risk that these laws may be interpreted and applied in conflicting ways from state to state, country to country, or region to region, and in a manner that is not consistent with our current data protection practices. Complying with these varying international requirements could cause us to incur additional costs and change our business practices. Further, any failure by us to adequately protect our users&#146; privacy and data could result in a loss of user confidence in our services and ultimately in a loss of users, which could adversely affect our business.

In the area of information security and data protection, many states have passed laws requiring notification to users when there is a security breach for personal data, such as the 2002 amendment to California&#146;s Information Practices Act, or requiring the adoption of minimum information security standards that are often vaguely defined and difficult to implement. The costs of compliance with these laws may increase in the future as a result of changes in interpretation. Furthermore, any failure on our part to comply with these laws may subject us to significant liabilities.

Intellectual property 

Our intellectual property is an essential element of our business. We use a combination of trademark, copyright, trade secret and other intellectual property laws, confidentiality agreements and license agreements to protect our intellectual property. Our employees and independent contractors are required to sign agreements acknowledging that all inventions, trade secrets, works of authorship, developments and other processes generated by them on our behalf are our property, and assigning to us any ownership that they may claim in those works. Despite our precautions, it may be possible for third parties to obtain and use without consent intellectual property that we own or license. Unauthorized use of our intellectual property by third parties, including piracy, and the expenses incurred in protecting our intellectual property rights, may adversely affect our business.

As of the date of this annual report, we submitted seven trademark applications and have been issued one provisional patent by the US Patent and Trademark Office. These applications have been researched, written and filed to protect our core intellectual property and brand identity. Upon issuance, our trademarks and patents will continue to provide barriers to entry and fortify our foundational business construct. In addition, we will continue our forward-looking strategy resulting in additional patent and trademark filings and applications with the U.S.P.T.O. with the goal of protecting our intellectual property and technical processes through the development of our business model. Our U.S.P.T.O strategies provide what we hope will be a level of risk mitigation and a protection of value for our shareholders now and in the future.

From time to time, we may encounter disputes over rights and obligations concerning intellectual property. If we do not prevail in these disputes, we may lose some or all of our intellectual property protection, be enjoined from further sales or distribution of our applications or other services determined to infringe the rights of others, and/or be forced to pay substantial royalties to a third party, any of which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.

Number of total employees and number of full time employees 

As of March 31, 2016, we had one employee. We have never experienced any employment-related work stoppages and consider relations with our employees to be good. We believe that our future success depends in part on our continued ability to hire, assimilate and retain qualified personnel.

Reports to Security Holders 

1.

We will furnish our shareholders with audited annual financial reports certified by our independent accountants.

2.

We are a reporting issuer with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We file periodic reports, which are required in accordance with Section 15(d) of the Securities Act of 1933, with the Securities and Exchange Commission to maintain the fully reporting status.

3.

The public may read and copy any materials Raadr, Inc. files with the SEC at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. Our SEC filings will be available on the SEC Internet site, located at http://www.sec.gov.

