 ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

General 

Our Company 

We are a specialty finance company focused on lending to middle-market companies. Since we began our investment activities in July 2011, through December 31, 2015, we have originated more than $4.3 billion aggregate principal amount of investments and retained approximately $2.9 billion aggregate principal amount of these investments on our balance sheet prior to any subsequent exits and repayments. We seek to generate current income primarily in U.S.-domiciled middle-market companies through direct originations of senior secured loans and, to a lesser extent, originations of mezzanine and unsecured loans and investments in corporate bonds and equity securities. By &#8220;middle-market companies,&#8221; we mean companies that have annual earnings before interest, income taxes, depreciation and amortization, or EBITDA, which we believe is a useful proxy for cash flow, of $10 million to $250 million, although we may invest in larger or smaller companies on occasion. As of December 31, 2015, our core portfolio companies, which exclude certain investments that fall outside of our typical borrower profile and represent 87% of our total investments based on fair value, had weighted average annual revenue of $128 million and weighted average annual EBITDA of $33 million. 

We generate revenues primarily in the form of interest income from the investments we hold. In addition, we generate income from dividends on direct equity investments, capital gains on the sales of loans and debt and equity securities and various loan origination and other fees. 

In conducting our investment activities, we believe that we benefit from the significant scale and resources of our Adviser and its affiliates. We have operated as a business development company, or a BDC, since we began our investment activities in July 2011, and we are currently one of the largest BDCs by total assets.

The companies in which we invest use our capital to support organic growth, acquisitions, market or product expansion and recapitalizations (including restructurings). We invest in first-lien debt, second-lien debt, mezzanine and unsecured debt and equity and other investments. Our first-lien debt may include stand-alone first-lien loans; &#8220;last out&#8221; first-lien loans, which are loans that have a secondary priority behind super-senior &#8220;first out&#8221; first-lien loans; &#8220;unitranche&#8221; loans, which are loans that combine features of first-lien, second-lien and mezzanine debt, generally in a first-lien position; and secured corporate bonds with similar features to these categories of first-lien loans. Our second-lien debt may include secured loans, and, to a lesser extent, secured corporate bonds, with a secondary priority behind first-lien debt. As of December 31, 2015, based on fair value our portfolio consisted of 88.2% first-lien debt investments, 8.1% second-lien debt investments, 1.9% mezzanine and unsecured debt investments, and 1.8% equity and other investments. Approximately 95.3% of our debt investments based on fair value as of December 31, 2015 are floating rate in nature (when including investment specific hedges), with 94.2% of these subject to interest rate floors, which we believe helps act as a portfolio-wide hedge against inflation. As of December 31, 2015 we had investments in 46 portfolio companies. As of December 31, 2015, the average investment size in each of our portfolio companies was approximately $32 million based on fair value. As of December 31, 2015, the largest single investment based on fair value represented 4.9% of our total investment portfolio. 

As of December 31, 2015, our portfolio was invested across 20 different industries. The largest industries in our portfolio as of December 31, 2015 were business services and healthcare, which represented, as a percentage of our portfolio, 21.2%, and 18.0%, respectively, based on fair value. 

We are an externally managed, closed-end, non-diversified management investment company that has elected to be regulated as a BDC under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, or the 1940 Act. In addition, for U.S. income tax purposes, we have elected to be treated as a regulated investment company, or RIC, under Subchapter M of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, which we refer to as the Code. Because we elected to be a BDC and have elected to be treated as a RIC for U.S. tax purposes, our portfolio is and will continue to be subject to diversification and other requirements to maintain such status elections. 

We borrow money from time to time within the levels permitted by the 1940 Act to fund investments and for general corporate purposes. Under the 1940 Act, we can incur borrowings, issue debt securities or issue preferred stock if immediately after the borrowing or issuance the ratio of total assets (less total liabilities other than indebtedness) to total indebtedness plus preferred stock is at least 200%. In determining whether to borrow money, we analyze the maturity, covenant package and rate structure of the proposed borrowings, as well as the risks of those borrowings compared to our investment outlook. The use of borrowed funds or the proceeds 

&#160;

of preferred stock offerings to make investments has its own specific set of benefits and risks, and all of the costs of borrowing funds or issuing preferred s tock are borne by us, and ultimately the holders of our common stock. See &#8220; 