Item 1.  Business

      KT High-Tech Marketing, Inc. (formerly Grant Hill Acquisition
Corporation)(the "Company") was incorporated on December 11, 2015 under
the laws of the State of Delaware to engage in any lawful corporate
undertaking, including, but not limited to, selected mergers and
acquisitions. The Company was formed to provide a method for a foreign
or domestic private company to become a reporting company with a
class of securities registered under the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934.

     The Company registered its common stock on a Form 10
registration statement filed pursuant to the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act") and Rule 12(g) thereof on January
7, 2015 which became automatically effective 60 days thereafter.  The
Company files with the Securities and Exchange Commission periodic
and current reports under Rule 13(a) of the Exchange Act, including
quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and annual reports Form 10-K.

     The Company has entered into an agreement with Tiber Creek Corporation
which will assist it in effecting a combination with a private company and
for its introduction to brokers and market makers.  A private company may
become a public reporting company by effecting a business combination
with an existing public reporting company such as the Company or by a
filing registration pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933 (typically
a Form S-1) or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Form 10).

    A combination will normally take the form of a merger, stock-for-stock
exchange or stock-for-assets exchange.  In most instances the target
company will wish to structure the business combination to be within the
definition of  a tax-free reorganization under Section 351 or Section 368
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.

   Once a change of control of the Company has been effected, if at all,
new management may issue shares of its stock prior to filing a registration
statement for the registration of its shares pursuant to the Securities Act
of 1933 and such shares will be governed by the rules and regulations of
the Securities and Exchange Commission regarding the sale of unregistered
securities.

     As of December 31, 2015, the Company had not generated revenues and
had no income or cash flows from operations since inception.  At December
31, 2015, the Company had sustained net loss of $4,062.

     The Company's independent auditors have issued a report raising
substantial doubt about the Company's ability to continue as a going
concern.  At present, the Company has no operations and the continuation
of the Company as a going concern is dependent upon financial support
from its stockholders, its ability to obtain necessary equity financing
to continue operations and/or to successfully locate and negotiate with
a business entity for the combination of that target company with
the Company.

     Management of the Company will pay all expenses incurred by the
Company until a  change in control of the Company is effected.
Management does not expect any repayment for such paid expenses.

      There is no assurance that the Company will ever be profitable.

Subsequent Event

	Subsequent to the period covered by this Report, on April 17,
2016, the Company effected the following transactions to effect a change
of control:

	The Company redeemed 19,400,000 of the 20,000,000 outstanding
      shares of common stock pro rata from the two shareholders thereof.

	The then current officers and directors of the Company resigned
       and new officers and directors were elected.

	On April 18, 2016, the Company issued 20,000,000 shares of its
common stock pursuant to Section 4(2) of the Securities Act of 1933 at par
representing 97% of the total outstanding 20,600,000 shares of common stock
to Michael Mo, the newly elected sole officer and director.

       With the issuance of the stock and the redemption of 19,400,000 shares
of stock, the Company effected a change in its control and the new majority
shareholder(s) elected new management of the Company.  The Company may develop
its business plan by future acquisitions or mergers but no agreements have
been reached regarding any acquisition or other business combination.  The
Company changed its name as part of the change in control.  If the Company
makes any acquisitions, mergers or other business combination, the Company
will file a Form 8-K but until such time the Company remains a shell
company.

       In connection with the change in control the Company changed its
name to KT High-Tech Marketing, Inc.

