 Item 1. BUSINESS 

Our Business 

We started Square in February 2009 to enable anyone with a mobile device to accept card payments, anywhere, anytime. While we found early success providing easy access to card payments, commerce extends beyond payments. In every transaction, we see opportunity for our sellers: to learn more about which products are selling best, to reinvest in their businesses, or to create and engage loyal buyers. Although we currently generate approximately 94% &#32;of our total net revenue from payment processing services, which include revenue generated from Starbucks Corporation (Starbucks), we have extended our product and service offerings to include additional point-of-sale (POS) services, financial services and marketing services, all to help sellers start, run, and grow their businesses. 

We are driven by economic empowerment and work to democratize commerce&#8212;leveling the playing field for sellers of all sizes. Our focus on technology and design allows us to create products and services that are accessible, intuitive, and easy-to-use. We set attractive and transparent pricing that is easy for our sellers to understand. We provide a free software app with our affordable (often free) hardware to turn mobile devices into powerful POS solutions in minutes. Our insights into our sellers&#8217; businesses have allowed us to develop services that are applicable to businesses of all types and sizes, from Square Analytics to digital receipts. We also continue to add advanced software features that tailor our POS solution to specific types of sellers, such as open tickets for bars and restaurants and inventory management for retailers. 

&#160; 

Because of our approach, we have grown rapidly. Millions of sellers accept payments with Square. They span all types of businesses: from cabs to coffee shops, lawyers to landscapers, retail stores to restaurants. Although substantially all of our revenue is currently generated in the United States, we also serve sellers throughout Canada and Japan. As this international base of sellers grows, so too should our Gross Payment Volume (GPV) and revenue in these regions. We serve sellers of all sizes, ranging from a single vendor at a farmers&#8217; market to multinational businesses. Our products and services are built to scale, so sellers can stay with us over the life of their businesses. In the year ended December 31, 2015 , we processed $35.6 billion &#32;of GPV, which was generated by 712 million &#32;card payments from approximately 190 million &#32;payment cards. GPV measures the total dollar amount of card payment transactions we process for our sellers (net of refunds), excluding card payments processed for Starbucks and our Square Cash peer-to-peer service. Since we generate transaction revenue as a percentage of payment volume, we believe GPV is a key indicator of our ability to generate revenue. 

&#160; 

For the years ended December 31, 2015 &#32;and 2014 , our total net revenue grew to $1,267.1 million &#32;and $850.2 million , an increase of 49% &#32;and 54% &#32;from the prior years, respectively. For the years ended December 31, 2015 &#32;and 2014 , our Adjusted Revenue grew to $452.2 million &#32;and $276.3 million , an increase of 64% &#32;and 73% &#32;from the prior years, respectively. Adjusted Revenue is a non-GAAP financial measure that we define as our total net revenue less transaction costs, adjusted to eliminate the effect of activity under our payment processing agreement with Starbucks. For more information on Adjusted Revenue, see the section titled &#8220;Key Operating Metrics and Non-GAAP Financial Measures.&#8221; 

The size and strength of our payments and POS business have allowed us to develop a deep understanding of our sellers&#8217; business performance and to build a cohesive commerce ecosystem. As such, we are well positioned to provide financial services and marketing services to sellers efficiently and intelligently. For example, one of our financial services, Square Capital, uses our deep understanding of our sellers&#8217; businesses to proactively underwrite and extend cash advances to them. Although Square Capital is still in its early stages, we have already advanced over $400 million &#32;across over 70,000 &#32;advances in the year ended December 31, 2015. Square Capital demonstrates how our services can rapidly reach significant scale through a combination of strong demand and our direct, ongoing interactions with our sellers. 

Our software and data product revenue, including revenue derived from Square Capital, has grown quickly, and we expect these products will contribute a larger portion of our total revenue over time. For the year ended December 31, 2015 , our software and data product revenue accounted for 13% &#32;of Adjusted Revenue, up from 4% &#32;in the year ended December 31, 2014 . 

&#160; 

We intend to continue to make investments that will serve sellers and buyers over the long term even if a return on these investments is not realized in the short term. For the years ended December 31, 2015 , 2014 &#32;and 2013 , we generated a net loss of $179.8 million , $154.1 million &#32;and $104.5 million , respectively. For information regarding geographic areas, see Note 17 of the accompanying notes to our consolidated financial statements. 

Payment Processing Overview 

Processing payment card transactions requires close coordination among a number of industry participants that provide the services and infrastructure required to enable such transactions. These participants consist of payment service providers, acquiring processors, card networks, and issuing banks. Within this landscape, Square serves as a payment service provider, acting as the touch point for the seller to the rest of the payment chain. The definitions and graphic below outline this payment chain and the typical flow of a Square payment transaction, along with the types of fees typically paid and received at each stage. 

Payment Service Provider (PSP) : Provider of the payment services that holds the direct relationship with the seller and facilitates the rest of the payment transaction on behalf of the seller. A PSP is also the merchant of record for the transaction. The merchant of record is liable for the settlement of transactions processed. 

Acquiring Processor : Provider of the back-end technology that facilitates the flow of payment information through the Card Networks to the Issuing Bank. Our agreements with acquiring processors typically have terms of two to four years. 

Card Networks ( e.g. &#32;Visa, MasterCard) : Provider of the infrastructure for card payment information to flow from the Acquiring Bank to the Acquiring Processor. 

Issuing Bank : The financial institution that issues the Buyer&#8217;s payment card. 

Acquiring Bank : The financial institution associated with the Acquiring Processor. 

1. 

Once the Buyer is ready to make a purchase, the Seller inputs the transaction into the Square point-of-sale (POS) and presents the Buyer with the amount owed. 

2. 

The Buyer pays for the transaction by swiping or dipping their payment card, or by tapping their NFC-enabled mobile device on the Square Reader or Square Stand, which captures the Buyer&#8217;s account information. 

3. 

The Square POS sends the payment transaction information to Square, which acts as the Payment Service Provider (PSP). 

4. 

Square passes the payment transaction information to the Acquiring Processor via an internet connection. Square pays a small fixed fee per transaction to the Acquiring Processor. 

5. 

The Acquiring Processor routes the payment transaction to the appropriate Card Network affiliated with the Buyer&#8217;s card such as Visa, Mastercard, Discover, or American Express. Square pays a variety of fees to the Card Network, the most significant of which are assessment fees that are typically less than 0.15% &#32;of the transaction amount. 

6. 

The Acquiring Processor then routes the payment transaction through the Card Network to the Issuing Bank, which authorizes or declines the payment transaction for the Buyer&#8217;s payment card. 

7. 

Upon authorization, the Issuing Bank sends a notification back through the Card Network to the Square POS to inform the Seller that the transaction has been successfully authorized. 

8. 

The Square POS sends a digital receipt for the transaction to the Buyer, enabling a persistent communication channel between the Seller and the Buyer. For example, this is how the Buyer can send feedback to the Seller about the service provided. 

9. 

The Issuing Bank then triggers a disbursement of funds to the Acquiring Bank through the Card Network for the transaction amount. Square will ultimately pay the Issuing Bank an interchange fee as a percentage of the amount of the transaction plus a fixed fee per transaction, which together average between 1.5% &#32;to 2.0% &#32;of the transaction amount. However, this percentage can vary significantly based on the card type, transaction type, and transaction size. 

10. 

Square transfers the funds to the Seller&#8217;s bank account, net of the fee charged by Square (typically 2.75% &#32;of payment volume for card present transactions or 3.5% &#32;of payment volume plus $0.15 &#32;per transaction for card not present transactions). Square provides sellers with fast access to funds, typically settling with them by the next business day after the date of the transaction via Automated Clearing House (ACH) transfers, or the same day via its Instant Deposit service for an additional fee. Square pays a very small fee for each ACH transfer. 

11. 

The funds are settled from the Acquiring Bank to Square, typically in one to two business days after the date of the transaction. 

12. 

At the end of the month, the Issuing Bank sends a statement to the Buyer showing their monthly charges. The statement includes a reference to Square as the merchant of record on the billing statement as a prefix to the Seller name (denoted as SQ). 

Our Products and Services 

We offer products and services for our sellers to start, run, and grow their businesses. From our payments and POS services, we gather unique insights that enable us to extend into differentiated financial services and marketing services. 

Payments and POS Services 

Square Register, our free POS software application for iOS and Android, is available to sellers in most countries worldwide. It integrates seamlessly with our payment processing solutions, but can also be used on a standalone basis. Square Register enables sellers across a wide range of business types to itemize products or services for faster checkout. Items can be grouped, categorized, sorted, and linked to inventory management. Square Register supports a range of tender types including cash, checks, and gift cards, in addition to credit and debit card payments. When completing a purchase, a buyer can opt in to receive a digital receipt via email or text message. Because payments information recorded using Square Register is stored in the cloud, Square Analytics can be accessed anytime, anywhere. Analytics can surface key insights to a seller such as &#8220;Which items have been selling the best over the last month?&#8221; or &#8220;How many of my customers are new versus returning?&#8221; without requiring spreadsheets or other tools. 

We currently offer our payment processing solutions in the United States, Canada, and Japan, with further international expansion planned. It is easy for sellers to get started, taking only a few minutes to sign up and requiring no credit checks to begin taking payments. We provide sellers with a range of options for easily and securely accepting payments in-person or online. Funds are typically deposited into a seller&#8217;s bank account the next business day or the same day with Instant Deposit for an additional 1% charge. Sellers can accept Visa, MasterCard, Discover, and American Express all at the same rate. We cover up to $250 in chargebacks per month for all of our sellers, and we offer custom rates for those who process a large volume of payments. 

For in-person payments, we offer custom-designed hardware that is affordable and often free. Our free Square Reader for magnetic stripe cards plugs into the standard headset jack of a mobile device, enabling swiped transactions. Our newest Square Reader for EMV chip cards and NFC connects wirelessly to mobile devices. It accepts EMV chip cards and payments made via the tap of the buyer&#8217;s mobile device using NFC. This enables acceptance via Apple Pay, Android Pay, and other mobile wallets. 1 &#160; 

Square Stand transforms an iPad into a full POS terminal. It features an integrated magnetic stripe reader, provides power to a connected iPad, and can connect to the Square Reader for EMV chip cards and NFC wirelessly or via a USB connection. It also connects to various peripheral devices that brick-and-mortar businesses need, such as barcode scanners and receipt printers. 

Sellers can also accept payments with Square from buyers who are not in-person. For example, sellers can manually enter card information in Square Register when accepting payments over the phone. Alternatively, sellers can create custom digital invoices and collect payments securely with Square Invoices. Sellers can also create a simple online store with Square Online Store or build more advanced websites through integrations with companies such as Bigcommerce and Weebly. 

Square Cash is a fast, easy way for anyone to send and receive money electronically. Individuals and businesses can sign up for a Square Cash account using just a debit card or credit card and an email address or a phone number. People can quickly pay businesses or send money using the Square Cash app to a recipient&#8217;s phone number, email address, to people nearby using Bluetooth LE, or to a $Cashtag. Square Cash is available for free to individuals sending peer-to-peer payments with a debit card, or for a per transaction fee for all businesses and individuals sending peer-to-peer payments with a credit card. 

________________ 

1 &#32;&#32;&#32; &#32;&#32;&#32;&#32;Europay, MasterCard, and Visa (EMV) technology is a global payments standard that places microprocessor chips into credit and debit cards that store and protect cardholder data. Near Field Communication (NFC) is a technology that allows smartphones and other devices, such as payments readers, to communicate when they are close together, enabling transactions that require no physical contact between the payments device and the payments reader. 

Financial Services 

Square Capital 

Square Capital provides merchant cash advances (MCAs) to pre-qualified sellers. Our sellers are attracted to the service because we reach out to them proactively with an offer of an advance based on their payment processing history. The terms are straightforward for our sellers, they get their funds quickly (often the next business day), and, in return, they agree to make payments to us equal to a percentage of the payment volume we process for them up to a fixed amount. We receive these payments seamlessly through each card transaction we process for them. A seller can quickly access the status of their Square Capital funds through their Square dashboard. We currently fund a majority of these advances from arrangements with third parties who commit to purchase the future receivables related to these MCAs. This funding significantly increases the speed with which we can scale Square Capital and allows us to mitigate our balance sheet risk. 

Sellers receiving MCAs are contractually obligated to use Square as their only card payment processing service until we have received the agreed-upon fixed amounts of receivables. To the extent a seller breaches this obligation, the seller would be liable to us for the balance of the purchased receivables. Consistent with the general nature of MCAs, there is also no fixed period of time in which the seller must deliver the purchased future receivables to us, as delivery of the purchased future receivables is contingent on the generation of such receivables, and we do not otherwise have any economic recourse to the seller in the event that it does not process a sufficient volume of payments with us to pay the agreed-upon fixed amount of receivables. In addition to MCAs, we plan to expand Square Capital further to offer new product types, including merchant loans, in the near future. 

Marketing Services 

Square Customer Engagement 

Square Customer Engagement helps sellers better analyze and understand their businesses, engage their buyers in ongoing conversations, and promote their offerings through email marketing to drive additional sales. Buyers that have opted in to receive a digital receipt via Square Register can contact the seller about their experience directly from the receipt. A seller can reply to a buyer and even offer a credit or refund directly. We automatically build customer lists for those who have opted in and organize them (loyal, casual, lapsed, etc.) to add context to an otherwise anonymous channel. Sellers can also upload their own buyer contact information. Sellers can create promotions, announcements, or event invitations to send to their buyers. Square Customer Engagement then closes the loop for sellers by enabling them to see precisely how marketing drives in-store sales, whether customers come back, and how much they spend when they do. Free customer engagement services are available to all of our sellers and we also offer a set of advanced services for a monthly fee. 

Caviar 

Caviar offers a food delivery service to help restaurants reach new customers and increase sales. By managing the logistics of delivery, Caviar makes it easy for restaurants to expand their reach and grow revenue without additional overhead. Caviar enables buyers to order delivery from their favorite local restaurants, including those that did not previously offer delivery. With Caviar&#8217;s purpose-built courier and order management apps, delivery is fast. Caviar FastBite, which offers curated meals, can provide delivery in as little as 15 minutes. Buyers can easily access Caviar through our iOS and Android mobile apps or through our website. Caviar is currently available in many U.S. markets, including New York, Los Angeles, San Francisco, and Philadelphia, with thousands of partner restaurants available in our marketplace. Caviar charges consumers a fixed fee per delivery plus a service fee. We also charge our partner restaurants a service fee as a percentage of total food order value. 

Our Current Sellers 

Our sellers represent businesses in a diverse set of industries, including retail, services, food, and leisure. We serve sellers of all sizes, ranging from a single vendor at a farmers&#8217; market to multinational businesses. We believe the diversity of our sellers underscores the accessibility of our offerings. For the years ended December 31, 2015 , 2014 , and 2013 , we had no customer other than Starbucks who accounted for greater than 10% of our total net revenue. The chart below shows the percentage mix of our GPV by seller size: 

Product Development and Technology 

We organize our product teams with a full-stack development model, integrating product management, development, and design. We focus on affordability, reliability, and cohesion when developing our hardware and software. Our products and services are mobile-first and platform agnostic. We frequently update our software products and have a regular software release schedule with improvements deployed twice a month, ensuring our sellers get immediate access to the latest features. Our services are built on a scalable technology platform, enabling us to assess risk and capture and analyze over a billion transactions a year. 

While our software and hardware is developed in-house, we utilize contract manufacturers for the production of our hardware products. 

Our product development expenses were $199.6 million , $144.6 million &#32;and $82.9 million &#32;for the years ended December 31, 2015 , 2014 , and 2013 , respectively. 

Sales and Marketing 

We have a strong brand and continue to raise brand awareness among sellers by enhancing our services and fostering rapid adoption through increased brand affinity, public relations, and strategic partnerships. We also leverage our direct sales and account management teams to facilitate the acquisition and support of larger sellers. Direct marketing, online and offline, has also been an effective customer acquisition channel. This includes display advertising, search engine marketing, social media, direct mail campaigns, trade shows and events, radio and television advertising, and print media. Our Square Readers for magnetic stripe cards are available for free directly via our website or mobile apps, and also at over 35,000 retail stores (including Apple, Best Buy, Staples, Target, Verizon, Walgreens, and Walmart). We plan to continue offering our Square Reader for magnetic stripe cards for free. 

Our Competition 

The markets in which we operate are competitive and evolving. Our competitors range from large, well-established vendors to smaller, earlier-stage companies, including third-party acquiring processors or payment processors, POS software and terminal providers, peer-to-peer payment providers, and business software providers such as those that provide ecommerce, inventory management, analytics, and appointment solutions. 

We seek to differentiate ourselves from competitors primarily on the basis of our cohesive commerce ecosystem and focus on accessibility, speed, transparency, and trust. For payments and POS services, we compete primarily with traditional acquiring processors and payment processors who sell more expensive POS systems, often bundled with long-term contracts, through direct sales and Independent Sales Organization (ISO) channels. Our ability to innovate quickly to accept new payment technologies such as NFC through Apple Pay, Android Pay, and other new currencies further differentiates our payments platform from our competition. Many competitors offer payments and POS services that have features tailored to particular business types or seller needs, and many competitors, especially larger ones, have more comprehensive offerings with specific features and integrations that are attractive to larger sellers and sellers in particular industries. 

With respect to our financial services, we compete against established and new alternative lenders as well as other more traditional financial service providers. With respect to our marketing services, we compete with other customer engagement software providers and traditional advertising solutions, as well as with delivery service providers. 

We expect the markets for payments and POS services, financial services, and marketing services to evolve and overlap, which we expect will increase competition in our industry. For additional information, see the section titled &#8220;Risk Factors - Substantial and increasingly intense competition in our industry may harm our business.&#8221; 

Intellectual Property 

We seek to protect our intellectual property rights by relying on a combination of federal, state, and common law rights in the United States and other countries, as well as on contractual measures. It is our practice to enter into confidentiality, non-disclosure, and invention assignment agreements with our employees and contractors, and into confidentiality and non-disclosure agreements with other third parties, in order to limit access to, and disclosure and use of, our confidential information and proprietary technology. In addition to these contractual measures, we also rely on a combination of trademarks, trade dress, copyrights, registered domain names, trade secrets, and patent rights to help protect our brand and our other intellectual property. 

We have developed a patent program and strategy to identify, apply for, and secure patents for innovative aspects of our products, services, and technologies where appropriate. As of December 31, 2015 , we had 133 &#32;issued patents and 493 &#32;filed patent applications in the United States and in foreign jurisdictions relating to a variety of aspects of our technology. Our issued patents will expire between 2022 &#32;and 2034 &#32;(with the exception of a single patent obtained through an acquisition, which will expire in 2016). We intend to file additional patent applications as we continue to innovate through our research and development efforts, and to pursue additional patent protection to the extent we deem it beneficial and cost-effective. 

We actively pursue registration of our trademarks, logos, service marks, trade dress, and domain names in the United States and in other jurisdictions. We are the registered holder of a variety of U.S. and international domain names that include the term &#8220;Square&#8221; and variations thereof. 

From time to time, we also incorporate certain intellectual property licensed from third parties, including under certain open source licenses. Even if any such third-party technology did not continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms, we believe that alternative technologies would be available as needed in every case. 

For additional information about our intellectual property and associated risks, see the section titled &#8220;Risk Factors-Risks Related to Our Business and Our Industry.&#8221; 

Government Regulation 

Foreign and domestic laws and regulations apply to many key aspects of our business. Failure to comply with these requirements may result in, among other things, revocation of required licenses or registrations, loss of approved status, private litigation, administrative enforcement actions, sanctions, civil and criminal liability, and constraints on our ability to continue to operate. 

Payments Regulation 

Various laws and regulations govern the payments industry in the United States and globally. For example, certain jurisdictions in the United States require a license to offer money transmission services, such as our peer-to-peer payments product, Square Cash, and we maintain a license in each of those jurisdictions. We are also registered as a &#8220;Money Services Business&#8221; with the U.S. Department of Treasury&#8217;s Financial Crimes Enforcement Network. These licenses and registrations subject us, among other things, to record-keeping requirements, reporting requirements, bonding requirements, limitations on the investment of customer funds, and inspection by state and federal regulatory agencies. 

Outside the United States, we provide localized versions of some of our services to customers through various foreign subsidiaries. The activities of those non-U.S. entities are, or may be, supervised by regulatory authorities in the jurisdictions in which they operate. In Canada, Square Register is the sole payments service we offer, and we are not required to hold a license to offer it. We remain in close contact with Finance Canada, which has regulatory authority over payments issues, among other areas. Square Register is the sole payments service we offer in Japan and we are not required to hold a license to offer it. We remain in close contact with Japan&#8217;s Ministry of Economy, Trade, and Industry, which has regulatory authority over payments issues, among other areas. 

Our payments services may be or become subject to regulation by other authorities, and the laws and regulations applicable to the payments industry in any given jurisdiction are always subject to interpretation and change. 

Consumer Financial Protection 

The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau and other federal, local, state, and foreign regulatory agencies regulate financial products, including credit, deposit, and payments services, and other similar services. These agencies have broad consumer protection mandates, and they promulgate, interpret, and enforce rules and regulations that affect our business. 

Anti-Money Laundering 

We are subject to anti-money laundering (AML) laws and regulations in the United States and other jurisdictions. We have implemented an AML program designed to prevent our payments network from being used to facilitate money laundering, terrorist financing, and other illicit activity. Our program is also designed to prevent our network from being used to facilitate business in countries, or with persons or entities, included on designated lists promulgated by the U.S. Department of the Treasury&#8217;s Office of Foreign Assets Controls and equivalent foreign authorities. Our AML compliance program includes policies, procedures, reporting protocols, and internal controls, including the designation of an AML compliance officer, and is designed to address these legal and regulatory requirements and to assist in managing risk associated with money laundering and terrorist financing. 

Protection and Use of Information 

We collect and use a wide variety of information to help ensure the integrity of our services and to provide features and functionality to our customers. This aspect of our business, including the collection, use, and protection of the information we acquire from our own services as well as from third-party sources, is subject to laws and regulations in the United States and elsewhere. Accordingly, we publish our privacy policies and terms of service, which describe our practices concerning the use, 

transmission, and disclosure of information. As our business continues to expand in the United States and worldwide, and as laws and regulations continue to be passed and their interpretations continue to evolve, additional laws and regulations may become relevant to us. 

Communications Regulation 

We send texts, emails, and other communications in a variety of contexts, such as when providing digital receipts. Communications laws, including those promulgated by the Federal Communications Commission, apply to certain aspects of this activity in the United States and elsewhere. 

Additional Developments 

Various regulatory agencies in the United States and elsewhere continue to examine a wide variety of issues that could impact our business, including products liability, import and export compliance, accessibility for the disabled, insurance, marketing, privacy, and labor and employment matters. As our business continues to develop and expand, additional rules and regulations may become relevant. For example, as our Square Capital service shifts from offering merchant cash advances to merchant loans, state and federal rules concerning lending could become applicable. Similarly, if we choose to offer Square Payroll in more jurisdictions, additional regulations, including tax rules, will apply. 

For additional information, see the section titled &#8220;Risk Factors-Risk Related to Our Business and Our Industry.&#8221; 

Our Employees 

As of December 31, 2015 , we had 1,449 &#32;full-time employees. We also engage temporary employees and consultants as needed to support our operations. None of our employees are either represented by a labor union or subject to a collective bargaining agreement. We have not experienced any work stoppages, and we consider our relations with our employees to be good. 

Corporate Information 

&#160; 

Square was incorporated in Delaware in June 2009. Our headquarters are located at 1455 Market Street, Suite 600, San Francisco, California 94103. Our telephone number is (415) 375-3176. Our website is located at www.squareup.com, and our investor relations website is located at www.squareup.com/about/investors. The information contained in, or accessible through, our website is not part of, and is not incorporated into, this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

We use various trademarks and trade names in our business, including &#8220;Square&#8221; and Square&#174;, which we have registered in the United States and in various other countries. This Annual Report on Form 10-K also contains trademarks and trade names of other businesses that are the property of their respective holders. We have omitted the &#174; and &#8482; designations, as applicable, for the trademarks we name in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Available Information 

&#160; 

Copies of our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to these reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (Exchange Act), are available, free of charge, on our investor relations website as soon as reasonably practicable after we file such material electronically with or furnish it to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The SEC also maintains a website that contains our SEC filings. The address of the site is www.sec.gov. Further, a copy of this Annual Report on Form 10-K is located at the SEC&#8217;s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room can be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. 

&#160; 

We webcast our earnings calls and certain events we participate in or host with members of the investment community on our investor relations website. Additionally, we provide notifications of news or announcements regarding our financial performance, including SEC filings, investor events, press and earnings releases, and blogs as part of our investor relations website. We have used, and intend to continue to use, our investor relations website, as well as the Twitter account @Square as means of disclosing material non-public information and for complying with our disclosure obligations under Regulation FD. Further corporate governance information, including our board committee charters, code of business conduct and ethics and corporate governance guidelines, is also available on our investor relations website under the heading &#8220;Governance Documents.&#8221; 

The contents of our websites are not intended to be incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K or in any other report or document we file with the SEC, and any references to our websites are intended to be inactive textual references only. 

