 ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

Overview 

Plymouth Industrial REIT, Inc., formerly known as Plymouth Opportunity REIT, Inc., is a Maryland corporation, formed on March 7, 2011. We are a full service, vertically integrated, self-administered and self-managed Maryland corporation focused on the acquisition, ownership and management of single-and multi-tenant Class B industrial properties, including distribution centers, warehouses and light industrial properties, primarily located in secondary and select primary markets across the Eastern half of the U.S. and Texas. We currently own and operate, or have an interest in, 21 industrial properties located in seven states with an aggregate of approximately 4,350,000 rentable square feet. As of December 31, 2015, our current portfolio of owned and operated properties, or those which we have an interest in, was approximately 94.6% leased to 38 separate tenants across 17 industry types.

We previously engaged in a non-listed public offering of our common stock, which was terminated on May 6, 2014. We used the proceeds from the prior offering to acquire the investments in real estate joint ventures.

We elected to be taxed as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes commencing with our taxable year ended December 31, 2012. As a REIT, we generally are not subject to U.S. federal taxes on our income to the extent we annually distribute at least 90% of our REIT taxable income, determined without regard to the deduction for dividends paid, to our stockholders and otherwise maintain our qualification as a REIT. We are structured as an UPREIT and will own substantially all of our assets and conduct substantially all of our business through our operating partnership. We are the sole general partner and own 100% of the interests in our operating partnership.

As of December 31, 2015, we had approximately $165 million outstanding under our senior secured loan agreement, bearing interest at a current pay rate equal to 7% per annum, coupled with accrued payment-in-kind features with respect to the remaining interest at varying rates. Accrued payment&#8211;in-kind interest was $11,800 and $1,504 at December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. The loans are subject to a make-whole premium at the time of repayment. The borrowings under the senior secured loan are secured by first lien mortgages on all of the properties in the Existing Portfolio and pledges of equity interests in our operating partnership and its subsidiaries. Our obligations under the senior secured loan are also guaranteed by our company and each of our operating partnership&#8217;s wholly-owned subsidiaries.

The loans matured on February 29, 2016. As of February 9, 2016 the loan was transferred to a new entity, &#8220;Holder&#8221; and as of February 29, 2016 the Company and Holder entered into a forbearance agreement acknowledging the default under the loan for non-payment in full at maturity and providing for a forbearance of action through April 30, 2016. During this period the Company will seek to restructure the loan, obtain alternative debt, additional equity or other capital. There is no assurance, however, that those forms of capital or restructure will be available to us, or on terms acceptable to us.

We intend to continue to focus on the acquisition of industrial properties in secondary markets with net rentable square footage ranging between approximately 100 million and 300 million square feet, which we refer to as our target markets. We believe industrial properties in such target markets will provide superior and consistent cash flow returns at generally lower acquisition costs relative to industrial properties in primary markets. Further, we believe there is a greater potential for higher rates of appreciation in the value of industrial properties in our target markets relative to industrial properties in primary markets where we believe asset appreciation has already peaked in the years following the 2008-2009 recession.

We believe our target markets provide us with opportunities to acquire both stabilized properties generating favorable cash flows, as well as properties where we can enhance returns through value-add renovations and redevelopment. We focus primarily on the following investments:

&#160; &#8226; single-tenant industrial properties where tenants are paying below-market rents with near-term lease expirations that we believe have a high likelihood of renewal at market rents; and &#160; &#8226; multi-tenant industrial properties that we believe would benefit from our value-add management approach to create attractive leasing options for our tenants, and as a result of the presence of smaller tenants, obtain higher per-square-foot rents. We believe there are a significant number of attractive acquisition opportunities available to us in our target markets and that the fragmented and complex nature of our target markets generally make it difficult for less-experienced or less-focused investors to access comparable opportunities on a consistent basis.

We intend to source our acquisitions primarily through a combination of off-market and lightly marketed transactions, sale lease-backs and related transactions from illiquid owners and short sales and discounted note purchases from financial institutions. We expect to benefit from our management team&#8217;s extensive business and personal relationships and research-driven origination methods to generate investment opportunities, many of which may not be available to our competitors. Additionally, rental rates in our target markets continue to recover from their recessionary lows, and we believe these rates will increase over time.

4&#160;

&#160;

&#160; 

Our Investment Strategy 

Our primary objective is to generate attractive risk-adjusted returns for our stockholders through dividends and capital appreciation primarily through the acquisition of Class B industrial properties, including distribution centers, warehouses and light industrial properties. We generally define Class B industrial properties as industrial properties that are typically more than 15 years old, have clear heights between 18 and 26 feet and square footage between 50,000 and 500,000 square feet, with building systems that have adequate capacities to deliver the services currently needed by existing tenants, but may need upgrades for future tenants. In contrast, we define Class A industrial properties as industrial properties that typically are 15 years old or newer, have clear heights in excess of 26 feet and square footage in excess of 200,000 square feet, with energy efficient design characteristics suitable for current and future tenants.

We target Class B industrial properties, as compared to Class A industrial properties. The distinction between Class A industrial and Class B industrial properties is subjective. However, we consider Class A industrial properties and Class B industrial properties to have the following characteristics:

&#160; &#8226; Class A industrial properties typically possess most of the following characteristics: 15 years old or newer, square footage generally in excess of 200,000 square feet, concrete tilt-up construction, clear height in excess of 26 feet, a ratio of dock doors to floor area that is more than one door per 10,000 square feet and energy efficient design characteristics for current and future tenants. Rents are based on a specified range between the top 20-30% of the industrial rents in the marketplace. &#160; &#8226; Class B industrial properties typically vary from Class A industrial properties in that they have some but not all of the features of the Class A industrial properties. They are typically more than 15 years old, have clear heights between 18 and 26 feet and square footage between 50,000 and 500,000 square feet. Building systems (mechanical, HVAC and utility) have adequate capacities to deliver services currently required by tenants but may need upgrades for future tenants. Rents are typically 30-50% below Class A properties in the marketplace. Our definitions of Class A industrial properties and Class B industrial properties may vary from the definitions of these terms used by investors, analysts or other industrial REITs.

In addition, we primarily target secondary markets, as compared to primary markets. The distinction between primary markets and secondary markets is subjective. However, we consider primary and secondary markets to be as follows:

&#160; &#8226; Primary Markets include gateway cities and the following six target metropolitan areas in the U.S., each generally consisting of more than 300 million square feet of industrial space: Los Angeles, San Francisco, New York, Chicago, Washington, DC and Boston. &#160; &#8226; Secondary Markets for our purposes include non-gateway markets, each generally consisting of between 100 million and 300 million square feet of industrial space, including the following metropolitan areas in the Eastern half of the U.S. and Texas: Atlanta, Austin, Baltimore, Charlotte, Cincinnati, Cleveland, Columbus, Dallas, Detroit, Houston, Indianapolis, Jacksonville, Kansas City, Memphis, Milwaukee, Nashville, Norfolk, Orlando, Philadelphia, Pittsburgh, Raleigh/Durham, San Antonio, South Florida, St. Louis and Tampa. Our definitions of primary and secondary markets may vary from the definitions of these terms used by investors, analysts and other industrial REITs, could include additional metropolitan statistical areas in addition to those named above and may change over time.

We will focus our acquisition activities on our core property types, which include warehouse/distribution facilities and light manufacturing facilities, because we believe they generate higher tenant retention rates and require lower tenant improvement and re-leasing costs. To a lesser extent, we will focus on flex/office facilities (light assembly and research and development).

According to CBRE, secondary industrial market areas have, on average, a high degree of fundamental stability in rents and occupancies.

According to a study published by CBRE, which examines the availability rates of industrial properties, the majority of industrial tenants are satisfied with their Class B industrial properties. While these Class B industrial properties usually have lower clear height, less cross-docked loading, less technology incorporated into building utilities and overall less functionality than Class A industrial properties, such building characteristics also result in lower building costs which result in lower rents when compared to Class A industrial properties. Thus, Class B industrial properties are priced for the industrial functionality they deliver, which tends to result in high tenant retention rates.

5&#160;

&#160;

The CBRE study also revealed that older industrial buildings generally have higher occupancy rates than newer buildings. Specifically by decade of construction, buildings built in the 1980s had higher rates of occupancy than those built in the 1990s, with this trend continuing with buildings built in 2000 and thereafter. These statistics seem to refute the common misperception of diminished functionality and desirability of older Class B industrial properties.

Overall, we believe that the aforementioned factors impacting the supply and demand dynamic create a compelling case for the attractiveness and overall cost effectiveness of Class B industrial properties among a variety of tenants. Class B industrial property owners and operators generally benefit from low tenant rollover because of the properties&#8217; locations and sufficient functionality. Tenants tend to benefit from lower rentals rates, while we believe investors can expect stable and predictable cash flows and lower volatility.

Regulation 

General 

Our properties are subject to various laws, ordinances and regulations, including regulations relating to common areas and fire and safety requirements. We believe that we have the necessary permits and approvals to operate each of our properties.

Americans with Disabilities Act 

Our properties must comply with Title III of the ADA to the extent that such properties are &#8220;public accommodations&#8221; as defined under the ADA. Under the ADA, all public accommodations must meet federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. The ADA may require removal of structural barriers to access by persons with disabilities in certain public areas of our properties where such removal is readily achievable. Although we believe that the properties in the Company Portfolio in the aggregate substantially comply with present requirements of the ADA, and we have not received any notice for correction from any regulatory agency, we have not conducted a comprehensive audit or investigation of all of our properties to determine whether we are in compliance and therefore we may own properties that are not in compliance with the ADA.

ADA compliance is dependent upon the tenant&#8217;s specific use of the property, and as the use of a property changes or improvements to existing spaces are made, we will take steps to ensure compliance. Noncompliance with the ADA could result in additional costs to attain compliance, imposition of fines by the U.S. government or an award of damages or attorney&#8217;s fees to private litigants. The obligation to make readily achievable accommodations is an ongoing one, and we will continue to assess our properties and to make alterations to achieve compliance as necessary.

Environmental Matters 

The Company Portfolio is subject to various federal, state and local environmental laws. Under these laws, courts and government agencies have the authority to require us, as owner of a contaminated property, to clean up the property, even if we did not know of or were not responsible for the contamination. These laws also apply to persons who owned a property at the time it became contaminated, and therefore, it is possible we could incur these costs even after we sell some of the properties we acquire. In addition to the costs of cleanup, environmental contamination can affect the value of a property and, therefore, an owner&#8217;s ability to borrow using the property as collateral or to sell the property. Under applicable environmental laws, courts and government agencies also have the authority to require that a person who sent waste to a waste disposal facility, such as a landfill or an incinerator, pay for the clean-up of that facility if it becomes contaminated and threatens human health or the environment.

Furthermore, various court decisions have established that third parties may recover damages for injury caused by property contamination. For instance, a person exposed to asbestos at one of our properties may seek to recover damages if he or she suffers injury from the asbestos. Lastly, some of these environmental laws restrict the use of a property or place conditions on various activities. An example would be laws that require a business using chemicals to manage them carefully and to notify local officials that the chemicals are being used.

We could be responsible for any of the costs discussed above. The costs to clean up a contaminated property, to defend against a claim, or to comply with environmental laws could be material and could adversely affect the funds available for distribution to our stockholders. We usually require Phase I or similar environmental assessments by independent environmental consultants at the time of acquisition of a property. We generally expect to continue to obtain a Phase I or similar environmental site assessments by independent environmental consultants on each property prior to acquiring it. However, these environmental assessments may not reveal all environmental costs that might have a material adverse effect on our business, assets, results of operations or liquidity and may not identify all potential environmental liabilities.

6&#160;

&#160;

&#160;

We can make no assurances that (1) future laws, ordinances or regulations will not impose material environmental liabilities on us, or (2) the current environmental condition of our properties will not be affected by tenants, the condition of land or operations in the vicinity of our properties (such as releases from underground storage tanks), or by third parties unrelated to us.

Insurance 

We carry commercial general liability, fire, extended coverage and rental loss insurance covering all the properties under a blanket insurance policy. Our property insurance program provides coverage on a special &#8220;all risk&#8221; perils form for certain losses, including, but not limited to, losses caused by floods, earthquakes and certain acts of terrorism as defined by TRIA. We believe the policy specifications and insured limits are appropriate and adequate given the level of risk of loss, the cost of coverage and standard industry practice. However, our insurance coverage may not be sufficient to fully cover all of our losses.

Competition 

In acquiring our properties, we compete with other public industrial property sector REITs, income oriented non-traded REITs, private real estate fund managers and local real estate investors and developers. The last named group, local real estate investors and developers, historically has represented our dominant competition for acquisition opportunities. Many of these entities have greater resources than us or other competitive advantages. We also face significant competition in leasing available properties to prospective tenants and in re-leasing space to existing tenants.

Our Corporate Information 

Our principal executive offices are located at 260 Franklin Street, Suite 1900, Boston, Massachusetts 02110. Our telephone number is (617) 340-3814. Our website is www.plymouthreit.com.We electronically file our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to those reports with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (&#8220;SEC&#8221;). Access to those reports and other filings with the SEC may be obtained, free of charge from our website, www.plymouthreit.com or through the SEC&#8217;s website at www.sec.gov. These reports are available as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed or furnished to the SEC.

