 ITEMS 1 AND 2: BUSINESS AND PROPERTIES 

OVERVIEW OF THE COMPANY 

Magellan Petroleum Corporation (the "Company" or "Magellan" or "MPC" or "we") is an independent oil and gas exploration and production company. Subject to the closing of the announced merger with Tellurian Investments Inc. (&#8220;Tellurian&#8221;), Magellan will become a company focused on the development of liquefied natural gas (&#8220;LNG&#8221;) projects along the United States Gulf Coast. Historically active internationally, Magellan also owns interests in the Horse Hill-1 well and related licenses in the Weald Basin, onshore UK, and an exploration block, NT/P82, in the Bonaparte Basin, offshore Northern Territory, Australia. 

&#32;The Company conducts its operations through two wholly owned subsidiaries corresponding to the geographical areas in which the Company operates: Magellan Petroleum (UK) Limited ("MPUK"), and Magellan Petroleum Australia Pty Ltd ("MPA"). Following the closing of the merger with Tellurian, which is expected in the fourth quarter of calendar year 2016, the combined company will operate its LNG business in the US through its new wholly owned subsidiary, Tellurian. 

On July 10, 2015, the Company completed a one share-for-eight shares reverse stock split with respect to the Company's common stock. All amounts of shares of common stock, per share prices with respect to common stock, amounts of stock options to purchase common stock, respective exercise prices of each such option, and amounts of shares convertible upon conversion of the Series A convertible preferred stock for periods both prior and subsequent to the split have been adjusted in this report to reflect the reverse stock split. 

As of June 30, 2016, our cash balance amounted to $1.7 million &#32;and the Company continues to experience liquidity constraints. We believe there is substantial doubt about the Company's ability to continue as a going concern. Because Tellurian's assets do not currently generate revenues, the combined company is also likely to experience liquidity constraints. However, we believe that upon the closing of the merger with Tellurian, the combined company will be better positioned to raise capital to fund the combined company's operations due to the attributes of Tellurian's business plan and management. Therefore, we believe that Magellan's ability to continue as a going concern in the short-term is subject to the closing of the merger with Tellurian. However, following the closing of the merger with Tellurian, the combined company may not be able to raise sufficient capital in a timely manner to fund the operations of the combined company. Should the merger with Tellurian not close, the Company will need to pursue other alternatives in order to continue as a going concern. 

We were founded in 1957 and incorporated in Delaware in 1967. The Company's common stock has been trading on the NASDAQ since 1972 under the ticker symbol "MPET". 

Our principal offices are located at 1775 Sherman Street, Suite 1950, Denver, Colorado, 80203, and our telephone number is (720) 484-2400. 

STRATEGY 

We believe that Magellan&#8217;s sources of value are embedded in the Company&#8217;s portfolio of assets. Magellan&#8217;s strategy is therefore focused on recovering shareholder value by realizing the value of its existing assets. 

STRATEGIC REPOSITIONING OF THE COMPANY 

Over the past few years, Magellan was focused on the potential development of the Poplar field ("Poplar") in Montana using CO 2 -enhanced oil recovery ("CO 2 -EOR") as a technique to potentially recover significant volumes of hydrocarbons from the field. Over the second and third quarter of calendar year 2015, the Company reached the conclusion that using CO 2 -EOR at Poplar was a technical success but that it would be economically challenging to develop the project in the current commodity price environment, which was increasingly weakening over this period. As a result of these considerations, in June 2015, the Company formed a special committee of independent members of the Board of Directors of the Company (the "Special Committee") with the primary objective of reviewing the strategic alternatives potentially available to the Company. During the twelve month period ended June 30, 2016, and the third quarter of calendar year 2016, the strategic alternatives review process resulted in: (i) the disposal of the Company's Nautilus Poplar segment ("NP"), consisting of interests in Poplar and an option on CO 2 &#32;produced from Farnham Dome, Utah, through the Exchange Agreement signed in March 2016 with One Stone Holdings II 

LP (&#8220;One Stone&#8221;); (ii) the sale of the Mereenie bonus (the "Mereenie Bonus") in May 2016; and (iii) the sale of the Weald Basin assets signed in June 2016. The strategic alternatives review process reached a conclusion with the announced merger transaction with Tellurian in August 2016. 

Although the Company was able to extrapolate from the CO 2 -EOR pilot project that significant hydrocarbons may be recovered from Poplar using the CO 2 -EOR technique, we determined that the economic development of such project would require materially higher oil prices. Therefore, in light of the Company&#8217;s constrained liquidity position and continuing lower commodity price environment, we determined that Magellan was unlikely to have sufficient liquidity to finance this project and its other activities in the medium term until such time that commodity prices would recover to a level that would enable the necessary capital raising for the development of the project. The strategic alternatives review process also considered the possibility of focusing the Company&#8217;s business and strategy on certain of the Company&#8217;s other international assets. We estimated that although the prospects identified through the seismic surveys conducted in 2012 and 2013 over the NT/P82 block in the Bonaparte Basin, offshore Australia, &#32; were promising, these prospects remained at an early stage of the exploration process and required significant capital to be further assessed, which capital may become available through potential farmout or other transactions. Therefore, the Company&#8217;s interests in NT/P82 could not form the core business of the Company at this stage. With respect to the Company&#8217;s interests in the United Kingdom, the Company considered the following factors: i) the term of the main licenses in the central Weald Basin expiring in June 2016, ii) the pending litigation with Celtique Energie Weald Ltd (&#8220;Celtique&#8221;), which hampered our ability to strategically progress the potential play in the Weald, and iii) the challenging political and social environment in the United Kingdom, particularly evidenced by the rejection of the planning application of Cuadrilla Resources Limited&#8217;s proposed wells in Lancashire. Although the Horse Hill-1 well presents interesting prospects, these remained uncertain at the time of the review, and Magellan merely holds a 35% interest and is not the operator of the well, which combined with the prior factors undermined the potential to focus the Company&#8217;s business plan on its UK assets. 

The Company then estimated that, in order to unlock the potential value of its assets and public platform and to preserve and maximize value for the Company's shareholders, the Company needed to (i) dispose of Poplar, which was incurring operating losses and further undermining the Company&#8217;s liquidity position, and (ii) to address its financial obligations primarily related to the term loan with West Texas State Bank (&#8220;WTSB&#8221;) and the Series A convertible preferred stock (the "Series A Preferred Stock") issued to One Stone. The Company engaged Petrie Partners, LLC ("Petrie") to support its strategic alternatives review process and conducted a thorough process which eventually resulted in the signing of the Exchange Agreement with One Stone on March 31, 2016. The Company closed the transactions contemplated by the Exchange Agreement on August 1, 2016, after the Company&#8217;s shareholders approved the transactions on July 13, 2016. Based on the findings of the marketing process of Poplar, the analysis prepared by our financial advisor and the implied valuation at which we disposed our interests in Poplar, which implied valuation was based on the disposal value of the preferred shares and the assumption of the WTSB term loan and Poplar&#8217;s outstanding accounts payables, we believe that the terms of this transaction were attractive to the Company&#8217;s shareholders. As a result of the closing of the One Stone exchange, the Company essentially became debt-free, since the term loan with WTSB was assumed by One Stone as part of the transaction, and the Company redeemed and canceled all the outstanding preferred shares which had been previously issued. 

The Company then executed in May 2016, the sale to Macquarie Bank of certain bonus rights related to the Mereenie field in Australia, which rights were contingent on certain gas sales volumes from the Mereenie field, the proceeds of which sale provided the Company with the necessary funding required to complete its strategic alternatives review process, which concluded with the signing of the merger agreement with Tellurian. Also critical to the ability to attract potential merger candidates was the ability to resolve the pending litigation with Celtique, in order to create a vehicle with some cash, no debt, no litigation, and certain assets. In June 2016, the Company entered into several contemporaneous agreements, resulting in the sale of the combined interests of Celtique and Magellan in the Weald Basin to UK Oil and Gas Investments PLC (&#8220;UKOG&#8221;) in primarily Petroleum Exploration and Development License ("PEDL") 234, where the potential Broadford Bridge well is located, and the settlement of the litigation with Celtique. Following these transactions, the Company continues to own i) its 35% interests in the Horse Hill-1 well and related licenses, which interests are fully carried by Horse Hill Development Limited through the completion of its flow tests, ii) its 100% interest in the NT/P82 permit, the term of which permit was extended until November 2017, and iii) its shares of Central Petroleum Limited (&#8220;Central&#8221;). 

The execution of these various transactions enabled the Company to conduct an efficient marketing process to seek a potential business combination partner, which process was particularly active in the second quarter of calendar year 2016, following the announcement of the Exchange Agreement with One Stone. The Company engaged in discussions with several quality potential partners and eventually agreed to the terms of a merger with Tellurian on August 2, 2016, which merger remains subject to certain customary conditions and the approval of the Company&#8217;s shareholders. Based on the thorough process it conducted, its analysis of the terms of the merger with its financial advisor and other factors, the Company believes i) the ownership by Magellan&#8217;s shareholders of the combined company reflects appropriately the value of the Company&#8217;s remaining assets and of its public vehicle and ii) provides the Company&#8217;s shareholders a unique opportunity to participate in a business model of large scale under the leadership of a seasoned management team, which has a proven track record of 

delivering significant shareholder value. Upon the closing of the merger with Tellurian, which is expected in the fourth quarter of calendar year 2016, Magellan will enter a new chapter of its long history as a public company. 

SIGNIFICANT DEVELOPMENTS IN FISCAL YEAR 2016 

During fiscal year 2016 , the Company was very active in the execution of various transactions related to its strategic alternatives review process. 

Corporate Events 

Going Concern . As of the filing of the Company&#8217;s annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2015, the Company reported that it had continued to experience liquidity constraints and had begun selling certain of its non-core assets to fund its operations, and there was substantial doubt about the Company&#8217;s ability to continue as a going concern. As of the filing of this annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2016, the Company continues to experience liquidity constraints. The Company has completed the sale of certain of its assets to fund its operations, which has resulted in a significant reduction in the Company&#8217;s monthly cash burn rate. However, these liquidity constraints continue and proceeds from these asset sales may not provide sufficient liquidity to fund the Company's operations for the next twelve months. As a result of these conditions and events, there is substantial doubt about the Company's ability to continue as a going concern. Because Tellurian&#8217;s assets do not currently generate revenues, the combined company is also likely to experience liquidity constraints. However, we believe that upon the closing of the merger with Tellurian, the combined company will be better positioned to raise capital to fund the combined company's operations due to the attributes of Tellurian&#8217;s business plan and management. Therefore, we believe that Magellan&#8217;s ability to continue as a going concern in the short-term is subject to the closing of the merger with Tellurian, the primary condition of which closing is the approval by the Company&#8217;s shareholders of the merger agreement that is expected to be sought in the fourth quarter of calendar year 2016. However, following the closing of the merger with Tellurian, the combined company may not be able to raise sufficient capital in a timely manner to fund the operations of the combined company. Should the merger with Tellurian not close, the Company will need to pursue other alternatives in order to continue as a going concern. 

Exchange Agreement . On March 31, 2016, Magellan and One Stone entered into an Exchange Agreement (the &#8220;Exchange Agreement&#8221;). The Exchange Agreement provides, upon the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in the Exchange Agreement, for the transfer by One Stone to the Company of 100% of the outstanding shares of Magellan Series A Preferred Stock in consideration for the assignment to and assumption by One Stone of 100% of the outstanding membership interests in Nautilus Poplar LLC, and 51% of the outstanding common units in Utah CO2 LLC (&#8220;Utah CO2,&#8221; and together with Nautilus Poplar LLC, the "NP segment", and, the "CO2 Business"), as adjusted by the Cash Amount (as defined in the Exchange Agreement and discussed further below) (the &#8220;Exchange&#8221;). The Exchange Agreement was given economic effect as of September 30, 2015 (the &#8220;Effective Date&#8221;). 

Pursuant to the Exchange Agreement, on April 15, 2016, Magellan and One Stone i) entered into a Secured Promissory Note (the &#8220;Note&#8221;), pursuant to which One Stone made a loan to Magellan in the aggregate amount of $625 thousand (the &#8220;Loan Amount&#8221;) and ii) simultaneously entered into a Pledge Agreement, pursuant to which Magellan pledged, assigned, and granted to One Stone a security interest in the Company&#8217;s interests in MPA, as collateral for the loan. The purpose of the Note was primarily to fund the payment of outstanding payables with certain vendors of the CO2 Business to maintain its ongoing operations between signing of the Exchange Agreement and closing of the Exchange. At the closing of the Exchange, the Loan Amount was deemed to be paid in full and no further amounts under the Note are required to be repaid by the Company. 

On August 1, 2016, all the conditions to the closing of the Exchange were met and the Exchange was consummated. The primary conditions to closing included i) the receipt of the approval of the Exchange by the Company&#8217;s shareholders, which was received on July 13, 2016, during the Company&#8217;s annual and special meeting of the shareholders, ii) the consent of WTSB to release a guaranty provided by Magellan, and iii) the payment of the Cash Amount. On August 1, 2016, One Stone paid the Cash Amount to the Company, which was agreed to amount to $900 thousand. The purpose of the Cash Amount was primarily to reimburse the Company for the funding of the operations of the Poplar field during the period between September 30, 2015, and the closing of the Exchange, which operations were expected to result in a loss in the aggregate for the period. In addition, Messrs. Gluzman and Israel, One Stone&#8217;s representatives on the Company&#8217;s Board of Directors, agreed to forgo the amount of director compensation, in cash and stock, owed to them and outstanding as of the closing date, which was estimated at approximately $174 thousand &#32;in the aggregate. Following the closing of the Exchange, the Company canceled all issued and outstanding shares of the Series A Preferred Stock, and Messrs. Gluzman and Israel ceased serving as members of the Board. 

Mereenie Bonus Sale . On May 18, 2016, Magellan entered into and completed a Sale and Purchase Deed with Macquarie to sell to Macquarie all the Company's rights to certain bonus payments, which bonus payments are based upon sales of hydrocarbons from the Mereenie field located in the Amadeus Basin in Australia ranging from 2,500 boepd to 10,000 

boepd and may result in cumulative potential payments ranging from AUD $5.0 million to of AUD $17.5 million the Mereenie Bonus. The consideration for the sale of the Mereenie Bonus paid by Macquarie was AUD $3.5 million . The Mereenie Bonus was not previously &#32; recorded as an asset on the Company's consolidated balance sheet in light of the contingent nature of these payments. 

Considering i) the general uncertainties related to the ability to increase sales of hydrocarbons from the Mereenie field to the required thresholds to trigger the various bonus payments and ii) the pressing liquidity needs facing the Company during the second quarter of calendar year 2016, the Company believed that the monetization of this contingent asset was important to enable the continuation of the strategic alternatives review process. The Company&#8217;s ability to repatriate the proceeds from the sale of the Mereenie Bonus to the US was constrained by the terms of the Pledge Agreement the Company entered into in conjunction with the Note with One Stone. Approximately AUD $2.8 million &#32;was transferred to the US &#32; in May 2016 and the remainder became available for transfer upon closing of the Exchange on August 1, 2016. 

Central Weald Sale . On June 10, 2016, MPUK entered into i) an Asset Transfer Agreement relating to the sale to UKOG of MPUK's 50% interests in PEDLs 231, 234, and 243 (the "Weald ATA"), ii) an Asset Transfer Agreement relating to the sale to UKOG of MPUK's 22.5% interest in the Offshore Petroleum Licence P1916 (the "IoW ATA"), and iii) a Settlement Agreement with Celtique. The consideration payable by UKOG to MPUK for the Weald ATA amounted to GBP 1.8 million &#32;in a combination of cash and shares of UKOG, the number and value of which shares was determined as of the time of execution of the Weald ATA. The consideration for the IoW ATA was the assumption of MPUK's outstanding payables related to its interests in the Offshore Petroleum Licence P1916. Pursuant to the terms of the Settlement Agreement, MPUK was due to pay Celtique GBP 500 thousand &#32;of the gross consideration, in a combination of cash and shares in UKOG pro rata to the consideration payable to MPUK for the Weald ATA. On August 11, 2016, the transactions contemplated by the Weald ATA and IoW ATA closed and the Settlement Agreement became effective, resulting in net cash proceeds to Magellan of GBP 446 thousand &#32;and the net issuance to Magellan of approximately 50.9 million &#32;shares of UKOG, which shares were worth approximately GBP 703 thousand &#32;at the time of closing. The number of shares of UKOG issued to Magellan was determined at the signing of the agreements based on a price per share of GBP 1.58 &#32;pence, and as of September 9, 2016 , the price per share of UKOG was GBP 1.88 &#32;pence. 

Reverse Stock Split . On July 10, 2015, the Company filed an amendment to its certificate of incorporation to effect a one share-for-eight shares reverse stock split of its common stock, effective July 10, 2015. All share and per share amounts relating to the common stock, stock options to purchase common stock, including the respective exercise prices of each such option, and the amounts of shares convertible upon conversion of the Series A convertible preferred stock for periods both prior and subsequent to the split have been adjusted in this report to reflect the reverse stock split. Market conditions tied to stock price targets contained within market-based options were similarly adjusted. The par value and the number of authorized, but unissued, shares remain unchanged following the reverse stock split. No fractional shares were issued following the reverse stock split, and the Company has paid cash in lieu of any fractional shares resulting from the reverse stock split. The purpose of the split was to enable the Company to regain compliance with NASDAQ listing rules. 

NASDAQ Listing Requirements . On November 5, 2015, Magellan received a letter from the Listing Qualifications Department of the NASDAQ Stock Market ("NASDAQ") indicating that, based upon the closing bid price of the Company's common stock for the last 30 consecutive business days, the common stock had not met the minimum bid price of $1.00 per share required for continued listing on the NASDAQ Capital Market pursuant to NASDAQ Marketplace Rule 5550(a)(2). On March 4, 2016, the Company received a letter from NASDAQ notifying the Company that, since the closing bid price of the common stock for the previous 10 consecutive business days was at least $1.00, the Company had regained compliance with NASDAQ Marketplace Rule 5550(a)(2). 

On May 17, 2016, Magellan received a letter from the Listing Qualifications Department of the NASDAQ indicating that the Company&#8217;s stockholders&#8217; equity as reported in the Company&#8217;s quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the period ended March 31, 2016 did not meet the minimum $2.5 million required for continued listing on the NASDAQ Capital Market pursuant to NASDAQ Stock Market Rule 5550(b)(1). On June 30, 2016, the Company submitted materials to NASDAQ describing a number of transactions that it believed would enable it to report stockholders&#8217; equity of approximately $4.1 million &#32;on a pro forma basis, as of March 31, 2016, and that it was engaged in negotiations with a specific party to enter into a potential business combination transaction. On July 29, 2016, Magellan received a letter from the Listing Qualifications Department of NASDAQ indicating that it had determined to grant Magellan an extension until October 14, 2016, to regain compliance with Rule 5550(b). In the letter dated July 29, 2016, the Listing Qualifications Department indicated that any future business combination with a non-NASDAQ entity would likely be considered a &#8220;change of control&#8221; of Magellan, which would require the post-combination company to apply for initial listing on the NASDAQ Capital Market and meet all applicable initial listing criteria. 

Poplar (Montana, USA) 

Shallow Intervals . During the twelve months ended June 30, 2016, Magellan sold 60 &#32;Mboe ( 164 &#32;boepd) of oil attributable to its net revenue interests in Poplar. This production came primarily from production from the Charles formation. 

Deep Intervals . During the twelve months ended June 30, 2016, there was no production from the Deep Intervals at Poplar. 

United Kingdom 

Weald Basin Licenses . In the central Weald Basin, which consists of Magellan's 50% interests in PEDLs 231, 234, and 243, there was no substantial operational activity. These licenses were due to expire on June 30, 2016, and were subject to &#8220;drill or drop&#8221; conditions, which were not met in early 2016, and potential progress was further hampered by the pending litigation with Celtique. The Company monetized its interests in these licenses through the transactions contemplated by the Weald ATA that closed on August 11, 2016. 

Horse Hill . In PEDLs 137 and 246, where the Horse Hill-1 well ("HH-1") was drilled, the Company holds a 35% interest in HH-1 and these licenses following a farmout agreement with Horse Hill Development, Ltd ("HHDL") dated as of December 20, 2013, pursuant to which agreement the Company&#8217;s costs in relation to these licenses are 100% carried by HHDL until production and including costs related to conducting certain flow tests. During the first quarter of calendar year 2016, HHDL conducted a successful flow test of several formations of HH-1 including the Portland sandstone and two Kimmeridge limestone formations. UKOG, one of the principal interest owners of HHDL, then reported that the flow tests measured a stable dry oil rate of 1,688 barrels of oil per day in aggregate from these formations. Although the duration of the flow tests of each formation was relatively short, we were very encouraged by these results. We believe that HHDL is in the process of seeking regulatory permissions to conduct a significant long-term production testing and appraisal program of the productive Kimmeridge limestones and Portland oil-bearing reservoirs. 

Other UK Licenses . During fiscal year ended June 30, 2016, there was no substantial activity in P1916, located offshore southern UK, near the Isle of Wight, and the Company disposed of its 22.5% interest through the execution of the IoW ATA. 

Australia 

NT/P82 . During fiscal year ended June 30, 2016, the Company continued its efforts to try to sell or farmout its 100% interest in the NT/P82 Exploration Permit in the Bonaparte Basin, offshore Northern Territory, Australia, with the support of its financial advisor for this matter, RFC Ambrian. The Company was unsuccessful in sourcing attractive potential transactions, which we believe was due to i) the weak commodity price environment and material reduction in current export LNG prices in Australia, which are believed to have resulted in a significant reduction in exploration budgets of large companies operating in the area and ii) the short remaining term of the license, which was due to expire by May 12, 2016, unless the work requirements of the license had been met. 

During the last two months of calendar year 2012, the Company successfully conducted a 2-D and 3-D seismic survey over portions of its NT/P82 Exploration Permit in the Bonaparte Basin, offshore Northern Territory, Australia. During calendar year 2013, the seismic data underwent complete processing and interpretation and resulted in the identification of three prospects, including a potential conventional reservoir formed by a structural trap against a fault line and two potential stratigraphic plays identified based on amplitude variance versus offset analysis. The potential volume of gas present in these prospects could amount to several Tcf of gas but these prospects are considered to be at the very early stage of the exploration phase and may not result in an actual discovery. 

In April 2016, the Company applied to the National Offshore Petroleum Titles Administrator (&#8220;NOPTA&#8221;) to i) increase the Year 6 minimum work requirement from 600 km 2 &#32;of 3-D seismic survey to 1,000 km 2 of new seismic data acquisition and processing, and geological and geophysical studies, ii) suspend Year 6 conditions of title for 18 months, and iii) extend the permit term by 18 months to allow the varied minimum work condition to be undertaken. On June 29, 2016, NOPTA informed the Company that the Commonwealth-Northern Territory Offshore Petroleum Joint Authority approved these variations and the term of the license is now due to end on November 12, 2017. 

Central Petroleum Shares . As partial consideration for the sale of the Company&#8217;s onshore Australia assets in fiscal year 2014, the Company received approximately 39.5 million shares of Central, a small oil and gas company listed on the Australian Securities Exchange. Between July 2015, and February 2016, the Company sold on the open market shares of Central in order to help finance its activities during the strategic alternatives review process. The Company&#8217;s ownership of shares of Central was reduced from 39.5 million shares in July 2015 to 8.2 million in February 2016, and the volume-weighted average price realized for the sale of these shares, excluding brokerage fees, amounted to approximately AUD $0.11 per share. 

Magellan does not consider its shareholdings in Central to be a core asset and will potentially dispose of part or all of this interest. Following the closing of the Exchange, the Company's ability to sell its shares of Central is not restricted. The timing of the Company&#8217;s decision to dispose of its interests will depend upon i) the actual price per share of Central, which we 

believe could increase in the medium term as Central achieves certain operational milestones and ii) the foreign exchange rate between the AUD and the USD. 

Financial Performance 

As a result of the transactions related to the strategic alternatives review process, the assets and operations of NP, Utah CO2, and the Weald Basin were reclassified to held for sale, and discontinued operations, respectively for all periods presented. Therefore the Company does not report revenues herein, and the results of continuing operations herein exclude the results of these discontinued operations. 

Loss from continuing operations . &#32;For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2016 , loss from continuing operations, including preferred stock dividends and an adjustment to redemption value of the preferred stock totaled $1.0 million &#32;( $0.17 /basic share), compared to $23.3 million &#32;( $4.09 /basic share) in the prior year. The decrease in loss from continuing operations was primarily the result of a decrease in realized losses on securities available-for-sale related to the Company's investment in Central, and a decrease in general and administrative expenses. The Company recorded other-than-temporary impairment of its investment in Central of $14.9 million &#32;in the prior fiscal year. The Company also recognized a gain in the current fiscal year of $2.5 million &#32;related to the sale of the Mereenie Bonus, a reduction in general and administrative costs of $2.4 million , and a downward adjustment to the redemption value of the preferred stock of $4.2 million . These reductions in loss from continuing operations were partially offset by a fair value reduction of contingent consideration payable of $1.9 million &#32;recorded in the prior fiscal year. 

Cash. &#32;As of June 30, 2016 , Magellan had $1.7 million &#32;in cash and cash equivalents, compared to $0.8 million &#32;at the end of the prior fiscal year. The increase &#32;of $0.9 million &#32;was the result of net cash used in &#32;operating activities of $2.2 million , net cash provided by &#32;investing activities of $5.1 million , net cash provided by &#32;financing activities of $0.4 million , net cash used in &#32;discontinued operations of $2.3 million &#32;and a decrease &#32;in cash from the effect of changes in exchange rates of $0.1 million , and represents the net effect of monetization of certain of the Company's assets over its operating expenses during the year, which operating expenses from continuing operations were primarily general and administrative expense. The net cash used in &#32;operating activities of $2.2 million &#32;was primarily due to general and administrative expenses, net of stock-based compensation expenses and foreign transaction losses of $4.3 million &#32;and an increase in accounts payable of $1.7 million . The $5.1 million &#32;of net cash provided by investing activities was primarily the result of proceeds from the sale of the Mereenie Bonus of $2.5 million &#32;and $2.6 million &#32;related to proceeds from the sale of shares of Central stock. 

Securities available-for-sale. &#32;As of June 30, 2016 , Magellan had $0.6 million &#32;in securities available for sale, consisting of the Company's investment in shares of Central stock. 

Pro forma financial information. &#32;Due to the significance of certain transactions that have closed during the third quarter of calendar year 2016, including the transactions contemplated by the Exchange Agreement, the Weald ATA, the IoW ATA and the Settlement Agreement, we have presented in Note 21 - Pro Forma Financial Information (Unaudited) &#32;of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this report pro forma financial information showing the effects of these transactions on our consolidated balance sheet as of June 30, 2016, and on our consolidated statements of operations for the years ended June 30, 2016, and June 30, 2015, as if they had been completed on June 30, 2016 , with respect to balance sheet data, and as if they had become effective on July 1, 2014, with respect to statement of operations data for the years ended June 30, 2016 &#32;and 2015 . 

On a pro forma basis considering the effects of these transactions, as of June 30, 2016 our pro forma consolidated cash was $2.7 million , our pro forma consolidated total assets were $7.3 million , our pro forma consolidated total equity was $3.7 million , and for the year ended June 30, 2016, our pro forma consolidated loss from continuing operations was $3.2 million , compared to a pro forma consolidated net loss from continuing operations of $21.4 million &#32;for the year ended June 30, 2015. Please refer to Note 21 - Pro Forma Financial Information (Unaudited) &#32;of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this report for more information. 

Commodity prices . During the twelve months ended June 30, 2016, the Company's results continued to be impacted by the steep decline in global oil prices that began in late 2014. Oil and gas prices are believed to have stabilized at levels lower than those in the summer of 2014, when oil prices averaged around approximately $100/bbl compared to the current prices of approximately $40/bbl. The decline has had the effect of negatively impacting the perceived present value of the Company's prospects in Australia and the UK, compared to prior estimates. While commodity futures markets suggest that the price of oil will increase gradually, there is no certainty that such an increase will occur. 

OUTLOOK FOR FISCAL YEAR 2017 

Following the rationalization of the Company&#8217;s portfolio of assets during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2016 , and assuming the closing of the merger with Tellurian during the fourth quarter of calendar year 2016, Magellan will become a 

company primarily focused on the development of LNG projects in the US Gulf Coast. The HH-1 well and related licenses in the UK and the Company&#8217;s interests in NT/P82 will provide additional option value to the shareholders. NT/P82 may provide a more strategic fit with the combined company&#8217;s business considering the connection between NT/P82's large gas prospect and other LNG infrastructure in Northern Territory, Australia. 

Corporate Events 

Merger with Tellurian . On August 2, 2016, Magellan, Tellurian, and River Merger Sub, Inc., a Delaware corporation and a direct wholly owned subsidiary of Magellan (&#8220;Merger Sub&#8221;), entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the &#8220;Merger Agreement&#8221;). Pursuant to the Merger Agreement, each outstanding share of common stock, par value $0.001 per share, of Tellurian will be exchanged for 1.300 shares of common stock, par value $0.01 per share, of Magellan, and Merger Sub will merge with and into Tellurian (the &#8220;Merger&#8221;), with Tellurian continuing as the surviving corporation and a direct wholly owned subsidiary of Magellan. 

The Merger Agreement and the Merger have been approved by the board of directors of each of Magellan and Tellurian. Stockholders of Magellan will be asked to vote on the approval of the transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement at a special meeting that is expected to be held during the fourth quarter of calendar year 2016. In addition to the approval of the foregoing matters by the stockholders, the closing of the Merger is subject to customary closing conditions, including i) the receipt of Magellan and Tellurian stockholder approval; ii) all directors and officers of Magellan shall have resigned, except for any person(s) that might be designated by Tellurian; iii) a registration statement on Form S-4 to register the Magellan shares to be issued in the Merger shall have been declared effective by the US Securities and Exchange Commission (the &#8220;SEC&#8221;); and iv) shares of Magellan common stock to be issued in the Merger shall have been approved for listing on the NASDAQ. The Merger Agreement also contains a non-solicitation provision pursuant to which Magellan may not, directly or indirectly, take certain actions to negotiate or otherwise facilitate an &#8220;Alternative Proposal,&#8221; a term generally defined as an inquiry, proposal or offer relating to a business combination with or acquisition of the assets of Magellan by a person or entity other than Tellurian. Magellan&#8217;s non-solicitation obligations are qualified by &#8220;fiduciary out&#8221; provisions which provide that Magellan may take certain otherwise prohibited actions with respect to an unsolicited Alternative Proposal if the Board of Directors determines that the failure to take such action would be reasonably likely to be inconsistent with its fiduciary duties and certain other requirements are satisfied. The Merger Agreement may be terminated under certain circumstances, including in specified circumstances in connection with receipt of a "Superior Proposal," as such term is defined in the Merger Agreement. In connection with the termination of the Merger Agreement in the event of a Superior Proposal, a breach by Magellan of the non-solicitation provision noted above, or following a change by the Board of Directors of its recommendation to stockholders, Magellan will be required to pay to Tellurian a termination fee for any and all third-party transaction fees and expenses incurred by Tellurian with the drafting, negotiation, execution and delivery of the Merger Agreement and related documents (including fees and expenses for attorneys, accountants and other advisors), subject to a maximum of $1 million &#32;in the aggregate. A termination fee may also be payable in some circumstances in which an Alternative Proposal is made, the transaction fails to close and Magellan subsequently agrees to an Alternative Proposal. If the Merger Agreement is terminated by either party as a result of the failure to obtain the requisite approval by Tellurian stockholders, or by Magellan because Tellurian does not use commercially reasonable efforts to secure the approval for listing the Magellan shares of common stock to be issued in the Merger, then Tellurian will be required to pay to Magellan a reverse termination fee of $1 million . 

Upon the closing of the Merger with Tellurian, Magellan will become a Houston-based energy company focusing on the development of LNG export projects. Tellurian&#8217;s management team is led by Charif Souki and Martin Houston, who have led and/or founded several industry-leading companies, specifically in the LNG sector. Mr. Souki is the former founder, Chairman, and CEO of Cheniere Energy, Inc., which is expected to operate in excess of 30 million tonne per annum (&#8220;mtpa&#8221;) of LNG export facilities. Mr. Houston retired in November 2013, as chief operating officer of BG Group plc (&#8220;BG&#8221;), after 30 years of service, during which he pioneered the development and optimization of BG&#8217;s global LNG portfolio. Tellurian was formed in February 2016 to develop low-cost, mid-scale LNG projects on the US Gulf Coast. Bechtel Corporation, General Electric and Chart Industries, Inc. are Tellurian&#8217;s commercial partners to deliver LNG facilities with best-in-class development costs on a global basis. Tellurian is currently focused on the development of the Driftwood LNG project, a 26-mtpa LNG export facility in Calcasieu Parish, LA, where Tellurian owns or leases a site of approximately 800 acres with marine access for LNG tankers. As a result of the Merger, Tellurian will gain greater access to the capital markets to finance the development of the Driftwood LNG project. 

Special Committee . On June 5, 2015, the Company&#8217;s Board of Directors formed the Special Committee to consider various strategic alternatives potentially available to the Company and engaged Petrie as financial advisor. Following the closing of the Exchange with One Stone and the subsequent announced Merger with Tellurian, we believe that the task of the Special Committee has substantially been completed. The Special Committee will continue until the closing of the Merger with Tellurian has been consummated. 

Management Changes .With the execution of various transactions and the Merger Agreement with Tellurian, various changes to the management team of the Company are expected during fiscal year ending June 30, 2017. On and effective August 5, 2016, Mr. Wilson, the Company&#8217;s director, President, and Chief Executive Officer, tendered his resignation as a director and officer, and Mr. Lafargue assumed the additional officer responsibilities until the closing of the Merger. At the closing of the Merger, Tellurian&#8217;s management team is expected to assume most of the managerial positions of the Company, with Mr. Lafargue expected to continue as Chief Financial Officer of the combined company. 

United Kingdom 

Horse Hill . We believe that HHDL is in the process of seeking regulatory permissions to conduct a significant long-term production testing and appraisal program of the productive Kimmeridge Limestones and Portland oil-bearing reservoirs. Since the results of the HH-1 well have been very encouraging to date and the Company&#8217;s costs in relation to these licenses are 100% carried by HHDL, we are planning to await the results of the next flow test and appraisal program before making a decision about our long-term participation in these licenses. However, the Company will continue to consider potential transactions on an opportunistic basis in light of the Company&#8217;s overall strategy and business plan. 

Australia 

NT/P82, Offshore Australia . Over the upcoming several months, the Company intends to establish a plan and schedule for executing its seismic survey work commitment for NT/P82. Considering the current stabilization of commodity prices and the greater certainty provided by the revised terms of the license received on June 29, 2016, including the 18-month extension of the term of the license to November 12, 2017, we believe that a farmout agreement also remains possible for this asset. In addition, given the large potential gas prospects contained within this license and the development of several fields in the Bonaparte Basin through LNG facilities, we believe that the potential strategic fit of this asset with the combined company&#8217;s overall strategy and business activities upon the closing of the Merger with Tellurian has improved. 

Palm Valley Bonus Rights . Under the terms of the Share Sale and Purchase Deed dated February 17, 2014, between Magellan Petroleum (N.T.) Pty Ltd , a wholly owned subsidiary of Magellan, and Central, the Company is entitled to receive 25% of the revenues generated at the Palm Valley gas field from gas sales when the volume-weighted gas price realized at Palm Valley exceeds AUD $5.00/Gigajoule and AUD $6.00/Gigajoule for the first 10 years following the closing date and for the following five years, respectively, with such prices to be escalated in accordance with the Australian consumer price index (the &#8220;Palm Valley Bonus&#8221;). For further information related to the Palm Valley Bonus, please refer to Note 5 - Sale of Amadeus Basin Assets . The value of the rights to these bonus payments is not reflected on the Company&#8217;s financial statements and the Company believes there is significant risk to the potential realization of these rights. During fiscal year 2017, the Company may seek to monetize these rights, as it did with respect to the Mereenie Bonus during fiscal year 2016. We believe that our ability to enter into a transaction with respect to the Palm Valley Bonus will depend on certain operational and commercial development in the Amadeus Basin, particularly the ability of Central to enter into new gas sales contract with potential new customers. 

OPERATIONS 

Magellan operates in the single industry segment of oil and gas exploration and production. As of June 30, 2016 , we have two reportable geographic segments, MPUK and MPA, corresponding to our operations in the UK and Australia, respectively, and maintain a corporate office in the United States which provides oversight for these segments and is treated as a cost center. MPUK's oil and gas assets consist of various exploration licenses in or adjacent to the Weald Basin located onshore and offshore southern England. MPA's oil and gas assets consist of NT/P82, an exploration block in the Bonaparte Basin, offshore Australia, and a 1.9% &#32;ownership interest in Central as of September 9, 2016 . 

As of March 31, 2016, NP, which formerly included the Company's operations in the United States, primarily in the Williston Basin, has been reclassified to discontinued operations and the carrying value of its assets have been included in assets held for sale for all periods presented. As of June 30, 2016 , the Company's operations related to the central Weald licenses and the peripheral Weald license have also been reclassified to discontinued operations and the carrying value of the related assets have been included in assets held for sale for all periods presented. Following the closing of the One Stone Exchange on August 1, 2016 and the Weald ATA and IoW ATA and related transactions on August 11, 2016, which resulted in the sale of the Company's interests in the Poplar field in the US and of PEDLs 231, 234, 243, and P1916 in the UK, respectively, the Company does not conduct any operations in the US and its operations in the UK are limited to the Horse Hill-1 well and related licenses, which consist of PEDLs 137 and 246. The locations of the Company's key oil and gas properties are presented in the map below. For certain additional information about the Company's reportable segments, see Note 15 - Segment Information &#32;to the consolidated financial statements included in Part II , Item 8: Financial Statements and Supplementary Data &#32;of this report. 

Magellan's Areas of Operations 

United States - Poplar 

In the US, as of June 30, 2016, Magellan owned Poplar, an oil field located in Roosevelt County, Montana. Our acreage position covered substantially all of Poplar Dome, the largest geologic structure in the western Williston Basin with multiple stacked formations with hydrocarbon resource potential. However, following the closing of the Exchange on August 1, 2016, the Company has disposed of all of its interests in Poplar. 

The field was discovered in the 1950s by Murphy Oil, which actively explored and developed the Charles formation for two decades. By the time Magellan acquired Poplar in 2009, technological advances in oil and gas exploration allowed us to reevaluate Poplar's known formations and to discover new ones. The Charles formation at Poplar is highly prospective for development using the tertiary technique of CO 2 -EOR. The Company's primary focus at Poplar was the evaluation of the effectiveness of this technique through a CO 2 -EOR pilot. 

Poplar, as the Company defines it, is composed of a 100% working interest in the oil and gas leases within the East Poplar Unit ("EPU"), a federal exploratory unit in Roosevelt County, Montana, totaling approximately 18,000 acres, and the working interests in various oil and gas leases that are adjacent to or near EPU ("Northwest Poplar" or "NWP") totaling approximately 4,000 acres. 

Our interests within EPU (also referred to herein as "Poplar") included a 100% operated working interest in the interval from the surface to the top of the Bakken/Three Forks formation (the "Shallow Intervals") and an operated working interest below those intervals ranging from 50% to 65%, which include the Bakken/Three Forks, Nisku, and Red River formations (the "Deep Intervals"). VAALCO Energy (USA), Inc. ("VAALCO") owns the remaining working interest in the Deep Intervals. Our interests within NWP are all operated and are the same as within EPU, except in certain leases in which the Company and VAALCO collectively own less than 100% of the working interest. 

United Kingdom 

As of June 30, 2016, Magellan's UK position consisted of interests in six exploration permits located in or adjacent to the Weald Basin, which is geographically situated southwest of London and which contains multiple conventional and potential unconventional oil and gas prospects. In the central Weald Basin, Magellan co-owned equally with Celtique three licenses (PEDLs 231, 234, and 243), representing 124 thousand net acres, that are prospective for unconventional oil and gas development from the Kimmeridge Clay and Liassic formations and may be prospective for conventional development in other formations. Celtique operated these licenses. On the periphery of the Weald Basin, Magellan maintained non-operated interests in three additional exploration licenses, representing an additional 15 thousand net acres, that may be prospective for conventional oil and gas targets. However, following the closing of the Weald ATA and the IoW ATA, the Company has disposed of its interests in PEDLs 231, 234, 243, and P1916. 

Australia 

NT/P82 . &#32;In the Timor Sea, offshore Northern Territory, Australia, Magellan holds a 100% interest in the exploration permit NT/P82, which covers 2,500 square miles of the Bonaparte Basin in water ranging in depth from 30 to 500 feet. The Company conducted 3-D and 2-D seismic surveys over portions of the license area in December 2012 and, following processing and interpretation during fiscal years 2013 and 2014, is currently developing plans to meet its revised seismic work requirements, which may include obtaining a suitable farmout partner to meet the revised work requirements in exchange for a portion of the Company's working interest in the permit. Based on the results of the 3-D and 2-D seismic surveys, the Company identified three potential prospects, including a potential reservoir in a structural trap against a fault line and a large amplitude-variation-with-offset anomaly. The Company is conducting a process to obtain a partner to evaluate these prospects further and engaged a financial advisor, RFC Ambrian to assist its efforts. 

Central . &#32;Magellan is the owner of approximately 8.2 million &#32;shares of stock in Central, representing an approximate 1.9% &#32; ownership interest as of September 9, 2016 . Central is a Brisbane-based junior exploration and production company that operates one of the largest holdings of prospective onshore acreage in Australia. Magellan received its shares in Central on March 31, 2014, as part of the consideration paid by Central to acquire Magellan's interests in the Palm Valley and Dingo gas fields. Following the closing of the Exchange with One Stone on August 1, 2016, the Company's ownership of these shares is not subject to any trading restrictions imposed by Central. In the future, Magellan may decide to dispose of all or part of its position in Central stock to fund some of the Company's activities. Although the Company does not intend to hold its position in Central's stock in the long term, the Company believes that there could be certain commercial or operational developments related to Central&#8217;s assets, which could positively impact the price per share of Central in the medium term. Therefore, the Company intends to monitor the stock price performance of Central to determine the appropriate time to dispose of its position. Further information about Central can be found on Central's website at www.centralpetroleum.com.au , which is not incorporated by reference into this report and should not be considered part of this document. 

RESERVES 

All reserves are related to the proved oil and gas properties of Poplar, which pursuant to the Exchange Agreement entered into on March 31, 2016, are included in assets held for sale at June 30, 2016. As a result of the closing of the Exchange on August 1, 2016, all reserves reported below were disposed of as of that date. 

Estimates of reserves are inherently imprecise and continually subject to revision based on production history, results of additional exploration and development, price changes, the availability of financing and other factors. The following table presents a summary of our proved reserves as of June 30, 2016 . 

&#160; 

Oil 

(Mbbls) 

United States Reserves: 

&#160; 

Proved developed producing ("PDP") 

Proved developed not producing ("PDNP") 

Proved undeveloped ("PUD") 

&#8212; 

Total reserves 

&#160; 

PDP% 

% 

PDNP% 

% 

PUD% 

&#8212; 

% 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Proved Undeveloped Reserves 

The Company has not included PUD reserves in its total proved reserve estimates at June 30, 2016 or June 30, 2015 due to the uncertainty regarding its ability to continue as a going concern, the availability of capital that would be required to develop the PUD reserves, and its strategic plans to dispose and subsequent disposal of its interests in Poplar. 

Probable Reserves 

Consistent with our position regarding PUD reserves, due to the uncertainty of the Company's ability to continue as a going concern, the constrained availability of financing to develop the probable reserves, and its strategic plans to dispose and subsequent disposal of its interests in Poplar, the Company is not reporting probable reserves. 

Internal Controls Over Reserve Estimates 

Our internal controls over the recording of proved and probable reserves are structured to objectively and accurately estimate our reserve quantities and values in compliance with regulations established by the SEC. Historically, the Company relied upon a combination of internal technical staff and third party consulting arrangements for reserve estimation and review. Considering the disposal of the assets which contained the Company's proved reserves, the Company elected to solely rely on its internal resources to estimate its reserves as of June 30, 2016. 

Reserve estimates as of June 30, 2016 were prepared by Guot Anyak, who was employed by the Company as a Petroleum Engineer from August 2012 until August 1, 2016. Mr. Anyak is a graduate of the Colorado School of Mines and holds a Bachelor of Science degree in Petroleum Engineering. Mr. Anyak has been instrumental in the analysis of the economics of certain well workovers at Poplar, and has supported the preparation of the Company&#8217;s reserve estimates over the past several years. Reserve estimates as of June 30, 2015, were prepared by Hector Wills of Mi3 Petroleum Engineering ("Mi3"), a Golden, Colorado-based petroleum engineering firm that regularly performs petroleum engineering services for the Company with respect to Poplar. Mr. Wills has nearly 20 years of operation and technical engineering experience in the oil and gas industry. Prior to his time with Mi3, he served as a reservoir engineer at Stim-Lab, Inc., and prior to that as a drilling engineer at PDVSA Petroleos de Venezuela S.A. Mr. Wills holds a PhD in Petroleum Engineering from the Colorado School of Mines. The reserve estimates as of June 30, 2015 were audited by the Company's independent petroleum engineering firm, Allen &#38; Crouch Petroleum Engineers ("A&#38;C"). See "Third Party Reserve Audit" below. In addition, the preparation of the reserve estimates for both periods was subject to the oversight of our management and a summary review by the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors. 

Third Party Reserve Audit 

In light of the pending disposal at June 30, 2016 of the Company's interests in the assets that contain all of the Company's estimated reserves, and their subsequent disposal on August 1, 2016 upon closing of the One Stone Exchange, the Company did not engage an independent petroleum engineering firm to audit its estimates of reserves at June 30, 2016. 

&#32;Detailed information regarding reserves, costs of oil and gas activities, capitalized costs, discounted future net cash flows, and results of operations is disclosed in the supplemental information (see Note 22 - Supplemental Oil and Gas Information (Unaudited) ) to the consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 to this Form 10-K. 

VOLUMES AND REALIZED PRICES 

The following table summarizes volumes and prices realized from the sale of oil from properties in which we owned an interest during the periods presented. The table also summarizes operational costs per barrel of oil equivalent for the fiscal years ended: 

&#160; 

June 30, 

&#160; 

&#160; 

United States: 

&#160; 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Volumes (Mbbls) 

&#160; 

Average realized prices ($/bbl) 

$33.17 

&#160; 

$56.44 

Lease operating expenses ($/bbl) 

$42.67 

&#160; 

$64.42 

Sales volume for the year ended June 30, 2016 , totaled 60 &#32;Mbbls ( 164 &#32;bopd), compared to 79 &#32;Mbbls ( 217 &#32;bopd) sold in the prior year, a decrease of 24% . The decrease was primarily the result of certain cost reduction measures at Poplar including shutting-in wells with high operating costs, the suspension of workovers, and the natural production decline of the field. The average realized price at the Poplar field decreased to $33.17 /bbl from $56.44 /bbl in the prior year. The decrease was primarily the result of a decline in the benchmark crude oil price, West Texas Intermediate (WTI). The average WTI price declined 39% from the prior fiscal year, which was partially offset by a 29% improvement in the differential from the previous fiscal year. The Company does not currently engage in any oil and gas hedging activities. Lease operating expenses decreased to $42.67 /bbl from $64.42 /bbl in the prior year. The decrease is primarily related to lower production taxes, which are due to lower revenues as a result of lower commodity prices and reduced workover activity and maintenance on wells. 

PRODUCTIVE WELLS 

Productive wells include producing wells and wells mechanically capable of production. The following table presents a summary of our productive wells, all of which were located in the United States at the Poplar field as of June 30, 2016 : 

&#160; 

Productive Wells 

United States: 

&#160; 

Gross oil wells (1) 

24.0 

Net oil wells (2) 

21.0 

(1) &#32;A gross well is a well in which the Company owns a working interest. Wells with one or more completions in the same bore hole are considered to be one well. 

(2) &#32;The number of net wells is the sum of the fractional working interests owned in gross wells. 

DRILLING ACTIVITY 

The following table summarizes the results of our development and exploratory drilling during the fiscal years ended: 

&#160; 

June 30, 

&#160; 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Productive (2) 

&#160; 

Dry (3) 

&#160; 

Productive (2) 

&#160; 

Dry (3) 

United States: 

&#160; 

&#160; 

&#160; 

&#160; 

&#160; 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Development wells, net (1) 

&#8212; 

&#160; 

&#8212; 

&#160; 

&#8212; 

&#160; 

&#8212; 

Exploratory wells, net (1) 

&#8212; 

&#160; 

&#8212; 

&#160; 

&#8212; 

&#160; 

&#8212; 

Total net wells 

&#8212; 

&#160; 

&#8212; 

&#160; 

&#8212; 

&#160; 

&#8212; 

(1) &#32;The number of net wells is the sum of the fractional working interests owned in gross wells. The number of wells drilled refers to the number of wells completed at any time during the fiscal year, regardless of when drilling was initiated. 

(2) &#32;A productive well is an exploratory, development, or extension well that is not a dry well. 

(3) &#32;A dry well is an exploratory, development, or extension well that proves to be incapable of producing either oil or gas in sufficient quantities to justify completion as an oil or gas well. Completion refers to installation of permanent equipment for production of oil or gas, or, in the case of a dry well, to reporting to the appropriate authority that the well has been plugged and abandoned. 

As of August 1, 2016 , two gross wells (1) &#32;(two net wells (2) ) related to the CO 2 -EOR pilot that were included in wells-in-process as of June 30, 2016 &#32;were still in the process of being evaluated. These wells were subsequently disposed through the closing of the Exchange on August 1, 2016. 

(1) &#32;A gross well is a well in which the Company owns a working interest. Wells with one or more completions in the same bore hole are considered to be one well. 

(2) &#32;The number of net wells is the sum of the fractional working interests owned in gross wells. 

ACREAGE 

The following table summarizes gross and net developed and undeveloped acreage by geographic area at June 30, 2016 , which has not been adjusted for the impact of the Exchange and the Weald ATA and IoW ATA. 

&#160; 

Developed (1) 

&#160; 

Undeveloped (4) 

&#160; 

Total 

&#160; 

Gross (2) 

&#160; 

Net (3) 

&#160; 

Gross (2) 

&#160; 

Net (3) 

&#160; 

Gross (2) 

&#160; 

Net (3) 

United States (Poplar) 

22,913 

&#160; 

22,669 

&#160; 

&#8212; 

&#160; 

&#8212; 

&#160; 

22,913 

&#160; 

22,669 

United Kingdom 

&#160; 

&#160; 

293,749 

&#160; 

138,420 

&#160; 

293,829 

&#160; 

138,448 

Australia (NT/P82) 

&#8212; 

&#160; 

&#8212; 

&#160; 

1,566,647 

&#160; 

1,566,647 

&#160; 

1,566,647 

&#160; 

1,566,647 

Total 

22,993 

&#160; 

22,697 

&#160; 

1,860,396 

&#160; 

1,705,067 

&#160; 

1,883,389 

&#160; 

1,727,764 

(1) &#32;Developed acreage encompasses those leased acres assignable to productive wells. Our developed acreage that includes multiple formations may be considered undeveloped for certain formations but have been included as developed acreage in the presentation above. 

(2) &#32;A gross acre is an acre in which the registrant owns a working interest. 

(3) &#32;The number of net acres is the sum of the fractional working interests owned in gross acres. 

(4) &#32;Undeveloped acreage encompasses those leased acres on which wells have not been drilled or completed to a point that would permit the production of economic quantities of oil or gas, regardless of whether such acreage contains proved reserves. 

Of our 22,913 &#32;gross acres at Poplar, approximately 18,000 &#32;acres ( 79% ) form a federal exploratory unit which is held by economic production from any one well within the unit. As of June 30, 2016 , Poplar contained 24 &#32;producing wells. 

TITLES TO PROPERTY, PERMITS AND LICENSES 

Magellan maintains interests in its oil and gas properties through various contractual arrangements customary to the oil and gas industry and relevant to the local jurisdictions of its assets. 

United States 

In the US, Magellan maintains its working interests in oil and gas properties pursuant to leases from third parties. We have either commissioned title opinions or conducted title reviews on substantially all of our properties and believe we have title to them. Magellan obtains title opinions to a drill site prior to commencing initial drilling operations. In accordance with industry practice, we perform only minimal title review work at the time of acquiring undeveloped properties. Upon the closing of the One Stone Exchange on August 1, 2016, Magellan has no further working interests in the US. 

United Kingdom 

In the UK, the petroleum licensing regime is administered by the UK Department of Energy and Climate Change ("DECC") and the Oil and Gas Authority ("OGA"), and PEDLs and Seaward Production Licenses (denoted by a "P") issued by the DECC are subject to the UK &#32; Petroleum Act of 1998 . A licensee has the exclusive right to produce, explore, and develop petroleum from the land, subject to the payment of rental to the DECC. The maximum term of the license is 31 years. Licenses expire after the initial exploration term of six years if a well is not drilled and after a second exploration term of five years if a well is drilled but no development program is approved by the DECC. If a development program is approved by the DECC, a PEDL will convert into a production license with a term of approximately 20 years. The licensing regime also requires that 50% of the acreage of a PEDL be relinquished at the end of the initial exploration period. This 50% relinquishment is expected to be applicable to Magellan's licenses upon their respective initial expiration dates. 

Following the signing of the Weald ATA, which closed on August 11, 2016, the Company and Celtique engaged in discussions with the OGA and UKOG to enable certain amendments to the terms of PEDLs 231, 234, and 243, while the closing of this transaction was pending. As a result of these discussions, Magellan and Celtique relinquished their interests in PEDLs 231 and 243 as of June 30, 2016, and received an extension of the term of PEDL 234, subject to certain work commitments, which became the responsibility of UKOG upon the closing of the Weald ATA on August 11, 2016. Refer to 

Note 3 - Sale of Weald Basin Assets &#32;of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this report for further information. 

With respect to PEDLs 137 and 246, the Company and its partners negotiated with the OGA amendments to the terms of the licenses, which resulted in the extension of i) the second exploration term of PEDL 137 to September 30, 2016, and ii) the initial exploration term and the second exploration term of PEDL 246 to June 30, 2016, and June 30, 2019, respectively. Following the successful results of the flow test of HH-1, the OGA and the Secretary of State approved the creation of retention areas covering the entire geographic are of these licenses, new work plans for each of these licenses, and extended the terms of PEDL 137 and 246 to June 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively. 

Pursuant to the Weald ATA, the Company disposed of its interests in PEDLs 231, 234, and 243, and pursuant to the IoW ATA, the Company disposed of its interests in P1916. Refer to Note 3 - Sale of Weald Basin Assets &#32;of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this report for further information. 

The following table summarizes the permits we maintain in the UK as of June 30, 2016 . 

License 

&#160; 

Geologic basin 

&#160; 

Expiration date 

&#160; 

Operator 

&#160; 

Ownership interest 

&#160; 

Gross 

acres (1) 

&#160; 

Net 

acres (2) 

Central Weald licenses (3) : 

PEDL 231 

&#160; 

Weald 

&#160; 

6/30/2016 

&#160; 

Celtique &#160;(4) 

&#160; 

50% 

&#160; 

98,800 

&#160; 

49,400 

PEDL 234 

&#160; 

Weald 

&#160; 

6/30/2017 

&#160; 

Celtique &#160;(4) 

&#160; 

50% 

&#160; 

74,100 

&#160; 

37,050 

PEDL 243 

&#160; 

Weald 

&#160; 

6/30/2016 

&#160; 

Celtique &#160;(4) 

&#160; 

50% 

&#160; 

74,100 

&#160; 

37,050 

Subtotal 

&#160; 

&#160; 

&#160; 

&#160; 

&#160; 

&#160; 

&#160; 

&#160; 

&#160; 

247,000 

&#160; 

123,500 

&#160; 

&#160; 

&#160; 

&#160; 

&#160; 

&#160; 

&#160; 

&#160; 

&#160; 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Licenses containing Horse Hill-1: 

PEDL 137 

&#160; 

Weald 

&#160; 

6/30/2018 

&#160; 

HHDL 

&#160; 

35% 

&#160; 

24,525 

&#160; 

8,584 

PEDL 246 

&#160; 

Weald 

&#160; 

6/30/2017 

&#160; 

HHDL 

&#160; 

35% 

&#160; 

10,769 

&#160; 

3,769 

Subtotal 

&#160; 

&#160; 

&#160; 

&#160; 

&#160; 

&#160; 

&#160; 

&#160; 

&#160; 

35,294 

&#160; 

12,353 

&#160; 

&#160; 

&#160; 

&#160; 

&#160; 

&#160; 

&#160; 

&#160; 

&#160; 

&#160; 

&#160; 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Other licenses on periphery of Weald Basin &#160;(5) : 

P1916 

&#160; 

Wessex 

&#160; 

1/31/2017 

&#160; 

UKOG 

&#160; 

22.5% 

&#160; 

11,535 

&#160; 

2,595 

&#160; 

&#160; 

&#160; 

&#160; 

&#160; 

&#160; 

&#160; 

&#160; 

&#160; 

&#160; 

&#160; 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Total 

&#160; 

&#160; 

&#160; 

&#160; 

&#160; 

&#160; 

&#160; 

&#160; 

&#160; 

293,829 

&#160; 

138,448 

(1) &#32;A gross acre is an acre in which the registrant owns a working interest. 

(2) &#32;The number of net acres is the sum of the fractional working interests owned by the registrant in gross acres. 

(3) The Company's interests in the Central Weald licenses have been classified as held for sale as of June 30, 2016, and for all prior periods presented, and the results of its operations have been classified as discontinued operations for the year ended June 30, 2016, and for all prior periods presented. On June 10, 2016, the Company entered into the Weald ATA to transfer its interests in these licenses to UKOG, with an effective date of March 31, 2016. The transactions contemplated by the Weald ATA closed on August 11, 2016, at which time all conditions to completion had been met. See Note 3 - Sale of Weald Basin Assets &#32; of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this report for further information. 

(4) See Note 16 - Commitments and Contingencies &#32;- Celtique Litigation, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this report for information regarding settlement of the legal proceeding initiated by Celtique with respect to this license. 

(5) The Company's interest in the peripheral Weald license has been classified as held for sale as of June 30, 2016, and for all prior periods presented, and the results of its operations have been classified as discontinued operations for the year ended June 30, 2016, and for all prior periods presented. On June 10, 2016, the Company entered into the IoW ATA to transfer its interests in this license to UKOG, with an effective date of completion, which was on August 11, 2016, at which time all conditions to completion had been met. See Note 3 - Sale of Weald Basin Assets &#32; of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this report for further information. 

Australia 

In Australia, Magellan&#8217;s offshore exploration license, NT/P82, is issued jointly by the Commonwealth and Northern Territory Governments and is subject to the Offshore Petroleum and Greenhouse Gas Storage Act . The licensee has the exclusive right to explore for petroleum in the license area, subject to fulfillment of a pre-agreed work program. The term of a petroleum license is six years, and a license may be renewed for an additional term of five years. On June 29, 2016, the NOPTA informed the Company that the Commonwealth-Northern Territory Offshore Petroleum Joint Authority approved certain variations to the term of the Company's NT/P82 permit, which under the revised terms of the variation is now due to expire on November 12, 2017. 

The following table summarizes the permit we maintain in Australia as of June 30, 2016 . 

License 

&#160; 

Geologic basin 

&#160; 

Expiration date 

&#160; 

Operator 

&#160; 

Ownership interest 

&#160; 

Gross 

acres (1) 

&#160; 

Net 

acres (2) 

NT/P82 

&#160; 

Bonaparte 

&#160; 

11/12/2017 

&#160; 

Magellan 

&#160; 

100% 

&#160; 

1,566,647 

&#160; 

1,566,647 

Total 

&#160; 

&#160; 

&#160; 

&#160; 

&#160; 

&#160; 

&#160; 

&#160; 

&#160; 

1,566,647 

&#160; 

1,566,647 

(1) &#32;A gross acre is an acre in which the registrant owns a working interest. 

(2) &#32;The number of net acres is the sum of the fractional working interests owned by the registrant in gross acres. 

MARKETING ACTIVITIES AND CUSTOMERS 

Customers 

The Company's consolidated oil production revenue, which is included in discontinued operations, is derived from its former NP segment and was generated from two customers for the years ended June 30, 2016 , and 2015 . 

Delivery Commitments 

None of our production sales agreements contain terms and conditions requiring us to deliver a fixed determinable quantity of product. 

CURRENT MARKET CONDITIONS AND COMPETITION 

Seasonality of Business 

Demand and prices for oil and gas can be impacted by seasonal factors. Increased demand for heating oil in the winter and gasoline during the summer driving season can positively impact the price of oil during those times. Increased demand for heating during the winter and air conditioning during the summer months can positively impact the price of natural gas. Unusual weather patterns can increase or dampen normal price levels. Our ability to carry out drilling activities can be adversely affected by weather conditions during winter months. In general, the Company's working capital balances are not materially impacted by seasonal factors. 

Competitive Conditions in the Business 

The oil and gas industry is highly competitive. We face competition from numerous major and independent oil and gas companies, many of which have (i) greater technical, operational, and financial resources, or (ii) vertically integrated operations in areas such as pipelines and refining. Our ability to compete in this industry depends upon such factors as our ability to identify and economically acquire prospective oil and gas properties; the geological, geophysical, and engineering capabilities of management; the financial position and resources of the Company; and our ability to secure drilling rigs and other oil field services in a timely and cost-effective manner. We believe our acreage positions and management's technical and operational expertise allow us to effectively compete in the exploration and development of oil and gas projects. 

The oil and gas industry itself faces competition from alternative fuel sources, which include other fossil fuels, such as coal and renewable energy sources. 

EMPLOYEES AND OFFICE SPACE 

As of June 30, 2016 , the Company had a total of 13 &#32;full-time employees, including 6 employees in the field at Poplar. We maintain approximately 6,000 &#32;square feet of functional office space in Denver, Colorado for our executive and administrative headquarters. 

GOVERNMENT REGULATIONS 

Our business is extensively regulated by numerous foreign, US federal, state, and local laws and governmental regulations. These laws and regulations may be changed from time to time in response to economic or political conditions, or other developments, and our regulatory burden may increase in the future. Laws and regulations have the potential of increasing our cost of doing business and, consequently, could affect our results of operations. However, we do not believe that we are affected to a materially greater or lesser extent than others in our industry. 

The laws and regulations discussed below applied to our business as it was constituted through the fiscal year ended June 30, 2016. As previously disclosed, on August 1, 2016, we completed the sale of Nautilus Poplar LLC and our interest in Utah CO2 LLC (together, the &#8220;CO2 Business&#8221;). 

US Energy Regulations 

States in which we operate have adopted laws and regulations governing the exploration for, and production of, oil and gas, including laws and regulations that (i) require permits for the drilling of wells; (ii) impose bonding requirements in order to drill or operate wells; and (iii) govern the timing of drilling and location of wells, the method of drilling and casing wells, the surface use and restoration of properties upon which wells are drilled, and the plugging and abandonment of wells. Many of our operations are also subject to various state conservation laws and regulations, including regulations governing the size of drilling and spacing units or proration units, the number of wells that may be drilled in an area, the spacing of wells, and the unitization or pooling of oil and gas properties. In addition, state conservation laws sometimes establish maximum rates of production from oil and gas wells, generally prohibit the venting or flaring of gas, and may impose certain requirements regarding the ratability or fair apportionment of production from fields and individual wells. 

Some of our operations are conducted on federal lands pursuant to oil and gas leases administered by the Bureau of Land Management ("BLM") or lands under the jurisdiction of federally recognized Indian tribes pursuant to oil and gas leases administered by such tribes and the Bureau of Indian Affairs ("BIA"). These leases contain relatively standardized terms and require compliance with detailed regulations and orders that are subject to change. In addition to permits required from other regulatory agencies, federal and Indian lease lessees, such as Magellan, must obtain a permit from the BLM before drilling and must comply with regulations governing, among other things, engineering and construction specifications for production facilities, safety procedures, the valuation of production and payment of royalties, the removal of facilities, and the posting of bonds to ensure that lessee obligations are met. Under certain circumstances, the BLM or the BIA may suspend or terminate our operations on federal or Indian leases. 

In May 2010, the BLM adopted changes to its oil and gas leasing program that require, among other things, a more detailed environmental review prior to leasing oil and natural gas resources, increased public engagement in the development of master leasing and development plans prior to leasing areas where intensive new oil and gas development is anticipated, and a comprehensive parcel review process. These changes have increased the amount of time and regulatory costs necessary to obtain oil and gas leases administered by the BLM. In March 2015, the BLM adopted changes to its oil and gas regulations to impose new regulations on the practice of hydraulic fracturing. That rule has been stayed by a federal district court of Wyoming, but is on appeal to the Tenth Circuit Court of Appeals. The rule, if eventually upheld, will increase the costs of production using hydraulic fracturing methods. The BLM has amended, or is considering amending, Onshore Order Nos. 1, 3, 4 and 5 relating to measurement of oil and gas, site security and general oil and gas operations on federal and Indian lands, along with how natural gas production is reported for royalty purposes. In January 2016, the BLM issued a proposed rule which seeks to reduce methane emissions from oil and gas activities on federal lands by limiting venting and flaring of natural gas from wells and other equipment. The proposal also clarifies when operators owe royalties on flared gas, and would provide the agency greater flexibility to set royalty rates at or above 12.5% of the value of production. 

The Environmental Protection Agency (the &#8220;EPA&#8221;) is increasing its regulation of venting, flaring and other emissions from oil and gas exploration and production. Permitting for oil and gas activities on federal lands can take significantly longer than the state permitting process. It is likely that the trend toward more federal regulation will continue, which will continue to raise costs. 

The sale of natural gas in the US is affected by the availability, terms, and cost of gas pipeline transportation. The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission ("FERC") has jurisdiction over the transportation and sale for resale of natural gas in interstate commerce. FERC's current regulatory framework generally provides for a competitive and open access market for sales and transportation of natural gas. However, FERC regulations continue to affect the midstream and transportation segments of the industry, and thus can indirectly affect sales prices for natural gas production. In addition, the less stringent regulatory approach currently pursued by FERC and the US Congress may not continue indefinitely. 

Environmental, Health, and Safety Matters 

General. &#32; The operations of the CO2 Business are subject to stringent and complex federal, state, tribal, and local laws and regulations governing protection of the environment and worker health and safety as well as the discharge of materials into the environment. These laws, rules, and regulations may, among other things: 

&#8226; 

require the acquisition of various permits before drilling commences; 

&#8226; 

restrict the types, quantities, and concentration of various substances that can be released into the environment in connection with oil and natural gas drilling and production and saltwater disposal activities; 

&#8226; 

limit or prohibit drilling activities on certain lands lying within wilderness, wetlands, and other protected areas, including areas containing certain wildlife or threatened and endangered plant and animal species; and 

&#8226; 

require remedial measures to mitigate pollution from former and ongoing operations, such as requirements to close pits 

and plug abandoned wells. 

These laws, rules, and regulations may also restrict the ability to produce oil or gas to a rate of oil and natural gas production that is lower than the rate that is otherwise possible. The regulatory burden on the oil and natural gas industry increases the cost of doing business in the industry and consequently affects profitability. Additionally, environmental laws and regulations are revised frequently, and any changes that result in more stringent and costly permitting, waste handling, disposal, and cleanup requirements for the oil and natural gas industry could have a significant impact on operating costs. 

The following is a summary of some of the existing laws, rules, and regulations to which the CO2 Business is subject: 

Waste handling. &#32; The Resource Conservation and Recovery Act ("RCRA") and comparable state statutes regulate the generation, transportation, treatment, storage, disposal, and cleanup of hazardous and non-hazardous wastes. Under the auspices of the federal EPA, the individual states administer some or all of the provisions of RCRA, sometimes in conjunction with their own, more stringent requirements. Drilling fluids, produced waters, and most of the other wastes associated with the exploration, development, and production of oil or natural gas are currently regulated under RCRA's non-hazardous waste provisions. However, it is possible that certain oil and natural gas exploration and production wastes now classified as non-hazardous could be classified as hazardous wastes in the future. Any such change could result in an increase in costs to manage and dispose of wastes. 

Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act. &#32; The Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act ("CERCLA"), also known as the Superfund law, imposes joint and several liability, without regard to fault or legality of conduct, on classes of persons who are considered to be responsible for the release of a hazardous substance into the environment. These persons include the owner or operator of the site where the release occurred, and anyone who disposed or arranged for the disposal of a hazardous substance released at the site. Under CERCLA, such persons may be subject to joint and several liability for the costs of cleaning up the hazardous substances that have been released into the environment, for damages to natural resources, and for the costs of certain health studies. In addition, it is not uncommon for neighboring landowners and other third parties to file claims for personal injury and property damage allegedly caused by the hazardous substances released into the environment. 

We currently own, lease, or operate numerous properties that have been used for oil and natural gas exploration and production for many years. Although we believe that we have utilized operating and waste disposal practices that were standard in the industry at the time, hazardous substances, wastes, or hydrocarbons may have been released on or under the properties owned or leased by us, or on or under other locations, including off-site locations, where such substances have been taken for disposal. In addition, some of our properties have been operated by third parties or by previous owners or operators whose treatment and disposal of hazardous substances, wastes, or hydrocarbons was not under our control. These properties and the substances disposed or released on them may be subject to CERCLA, RCRA, and analogous state laws. Under such laws, we could be required to remove previously disposed substances and wastes, remediate contaminated property, or perform remedial operations to prevent future contamination. 

Water discharges. &#32; The federal Water Pollution Control Act (the "Clean Water Act") and analogous state laws impose restrictions and strict controls with respect to the discharge of pollutants, including spills and leaks of oil and other substances, into waters of the US and states. The discharge of pollutants into regulated waters is prohibited, except in accordance with the terms of a permit issued by the EPA, US Army Corps of Engineers, or analogous state agencies. Federal and state regulatory agencies can impose administrative, civil, and criminal penalties for non-compliance with discharge permits or other requirements of the Clean Water Act and analogous state laws and regulations. 

The Oil Pollution Act of 1990 ("OPA") addresses prevention, containment and cleanup, and liability associated with oil pollution. The OPA applies to vessels, offshore platforms, and onshore facilities, and subjects owners of such facilities to strict liability for containment and removal costs, natural resource damages, and certain other consequences of oil spills into jurisdictional waters. Any unpermitted release of petroleum or other pollutants from our operations could result in governmental penalties and civil liability. 

Air emissions. &#32; The federal Clean Air Act ("CAA") and comparable state laws regulate emissions of various air pollutants through air emissions permitting programs and the imposition of other requirements. In addition, the EPA has developed, and continues to develop, stringent regulations governing emissions of toxic air pollutants at specified sources. Federal and state regulatory agencies can impose administrative, civil, and criminal penalties for non-compliance with air permits or other requirements of the federal CAA and associated state laws and regulations. 

Climate change. &#32; In December 2009, the EPA determined that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane, and other "greenhouse gases" present an endangerment to public health and the environment because emissions of such gases are contributing to warming of the earth's atmosphere and other climatic changes. Based on this determination, the EPA has been adopting and implementing a comprehensive suite of regulations to restrict emissions of greenhouse gases under existing provisions of the CAA. Legislative and regulatory initiatives related to climate change could have an adverse effect on our 

operations and the demand for oil and gas. See Item 1A, &#32; Risk Factors - Risks Related to Our Business - Legislative and regulatory initiatives related to global warming and climate change could have an adverse effect on our operations and the demand for crude oil and natural gas . In addition to the effects of regulation, the meteorological effects of global climate change could pose additional risks to our operations, including physical damage risks associated with more frequent and more intensive storms and flooding, and could adversely affect the demand for oil and natural gas. 

Endangered species. &#32; The federal Endangered Species Act and analogous state laws regulate activities that could have an adverse effect on threatened or endangered species. Some of our well drilling operations are conducted in areas where protected species are known to exist. In these areas, we may be obligated to develop and implement plans to avoid potential adverse impacts on protected species, and we may be prohibited from conducting drilling operations in certain locations or during certain seasons, such as breeding and nesting seasons, when our operations could have an adverse effect on the species. It is also possible that a federal or state agency could order a complete halt to drilling activities in certain locations if it is determined that such activities may have a serious adverse effect on a protected species. The presence of a protected species in areas where we perform drilling activities could impair our ability to achieve timely well drilling and development and could adversely affect our future production from those areas. 

National Environmental Policy Act. &#32; Oil and natural gas exploration and production activities on federal and Indian lands are subject to the National Environmental Policy Act ("NEPA"). NEPA requires federal agencies, including the Department of Interior, to evaluate major agency actions having the potential to significantly impact the environment. In the course of such evaluations, an agency will prepare an environmental assessment of the potential direct, indirect, and cumulative impacts of a proposed project and, if necessary, will prepare a more detailed environmental impact statement that may be made available for public review and comment. All of our past exploration and production activities on federal and Indian lands require governmental permits that are subject to the requirements of NEPA. 

OSHA and other laws and regulations. &#32; We are subject to the requirements of the federal Occupational Safety and Health Act ("OSHA") and comparable state statutes. The OSHA hazard communication standard, the EPA community right-to-know regulations under Title III of CERCLA, and similar state statutes require that we organize and/or disclose information about hazardous materials used or produced in our operations. Also, pursuant to OSHA, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration has established a variety of standards relating to workplace exposure to hazardous substances and employee health and safety. We believe that we are in substantial compliance with the applicable requirements of OSHA and comparable laws. 

Hydraulic fracturing. &#32;Hydraulic fracturing is an important and common practice that is used to stimulate production of hydrocarbons, particularly natural gas, from tight formations, including shales. While we have not routinely utilized hydraulic fracturing techniques in our drilling and completion programs in the past, we may do so in the future. The hydraulic fracturing process involves the injection of water, sand, and chemicals under pressure into the formation to fracture the surrounding rock and stimulate production. The process is typically regulated by state oil and natural gas commissions, and in the UK an Office of Unconventional Gas and Oil has been established to coordinate the related activities of various regulatory authorities. However, the EPA has asserted federal regulatory authority over hydraulic fracturing involving diesel additives under the Safe Drinking Water Act's Underground Injection Control Program. The federal Safe Drinking Water Act protects the quality of the nation's public drinking water through the adoption of drinking water standards and controlling the injection of waste fluids into below-ground formations that may adversely affect drinking water sources. Recently, the BLM issued changes to its oil and gas regulations to impose new regulations on the practice of hydraulic fracturing. That rule has been stayed by a federal district court in Wyoming, but is on appeal to the Tenth Circuit Court of Appeals. The rule, if eventually upheld, will increase the costs of production using hydraulic fracturing methods. 

Increased regulation and attention given to the hydraulic fracturing process could lead to greater opposition to oil and gas activities using hydraulic fracturing techniques, which could potentially cause a decrease in the completion of new oil and gas wells, increased compliance costs, and delays, all of which could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. For example, the UK government imposed a temporary moratorium on hydraulic fracturing in the UK that was lifted in December 2012. In addition, local planning permission requirements in the UK may have the effect of restricting or delaying hydraulic fracturing activities. The UK Infrastructure Act 2015 seeks to include safeguards around hydraulic fracturing, and draft regulations issued in the UK in July 2015, are intended to define protected areas in which hydraulic fracturing will be prohibited. If new laws, rules, regulations, or other requirements that significantly restrict hydraulic fracturing are adopted, such requirements could make it more difficult or costly for us to perform fracturing to stimulate production from tight formations. In addition, if hydraulic fracturing becomes more strictly regulated at the federal level as a result of federal legislation or regulatory initiatives by the EPA, or becomes subject to regulatory restrictions at the local level, our fracturing activities could become subject to additional permitting requirements, and also to attendant permitting delays and potential increases in costs. Restrictions on hydraulic fracturing could also reduce the amount of oil and natural gas that we are ultimately able to produce from any reserves. 

Other initiatives. &#32;Public and regulatory scrutiny of the energy industry has resulted in increased environmental 

regulation and enforcement initiatives being either proposed or implemented. For example, the EPA's 2014 - 2016 National Enforcement Initiatives include "Assuring Energy Extraction Sector Compliance with Environmental Laws." According to the EPA's website, "some techniques for natural gas extraction pose a significant risk to public health and the environment." To address these concerns, the EPA's goal is to "address incidences of noncompliance from natural gas extraction and production activities that may cause or contribute to significant harm to public health and/or the environment." The EPA has emphasized that this initiative will be focused on those areas of the US where energy extraction activities are concentrated, and the focus and nature of the enforcement activities will vary with the type of activity and the related pollution problem presented. This initiative could involve an investigation of our facilities and processes, and could lead to potential enforcement actions, penalties, or injunctive relief against us. In addition, in August 2015, the EPA released proposed regulations that would set performance standards for emissions of methane and volatile organic compounds from new and modified sources in the upstream and midstream oil and gas sectors. 

We believe that it is reasonably likely that the trend in environmental legislation and regulation will continue toward stricter standards. We believe that we are in substantial compliance with existing environmental laws and regulations applicable to our current operations and that our continued compliance with existing requirements will not have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. However, we cannot give any assurance that we will not be adversely affected in the future. 

Regulations Applicable to Foreign Operations &#32; 

Several of the properties and investments in which we have interests are located outside of the US, and are subject to foreign laws, regulations, and related risks involved in the ownership, development, and operation of foreign property interests. Foreign laws and regulations may result in possible nationalization of assets, expropriation of assets, confiscatory taxation, changes in foreign exchange controls, currency revaluations, price controls or excessive royalties, export sales restrictions, and limitations on the transfer of interests in exploration licenses. Foreign laws and regulations may also limit our ability to transfer funds or proceeds from operations or investments. In addition, foreign laws and regulations providing for conservation, proration, curtailment, cessation, or other limitations or controls on the production of or exploration for hydrocarbons may increase the costs or have other adverse effects on our foreign operations or investments. As a result, an investment in us is subject to foreign legal and regulatory risks in addition to those risks inherent in US domestic oil and gas exploration and production company investments. 

Oil and gas exploration and production operations in the UK are subject to numerous UK and European Union ("EU") laws and regulations relating to environmental matters, health, and safety. Environmental matters are addressed before oil and gas production activities commence and during the exploration and production activities. Before a UK licensing round begins, the DECC will consult with various public bodies that have responsibility for the environment. Applicants for production licenses are required to submit a summary of their management systems and how those systems will be applied to the proposed work program. In addition, the Offshore Petroleum Production and Pipelines (Assessment of Environmental Effects) Regulations 1999 require the Secretary of State to exercise the Secretary's licensing powers under the UK Petroleum Act in such a way as to ensure that an environmental assessment is undertaken and considered before consent is given to certain projects. Further, depending on the scale of operations, production facilities may be subject to compliance obligations under the EU emissions trading system. Compliance with the above regulations may cause us to incur additional costs with respect to UK operations. 

Our Australian investments and prospects are subject to stringent Australian laws and regulations relating to the release or disposal of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to environmental protection. These laws and regulations, which include the Environment Protection and Biodiversity Conservation Act 1999, require approval before seismic acquisition or drilling commences, restrict the types, quantities, and concentration of substances that can be released into the environment in connection with drilling and production activities, limit or prohibit seismic or drilling activities in protected areas, and impose substantial liabilities for pollution resulting from oil and gas operations. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the assessment of administrative, civil, and criminal penalties, incurrence of investigatory or remedial obligations, or the imposition of injunctive relief. Changes in Australian environmental laws and regulations occur frequently, and any changes that result in more stringent or costly waste handling, storage, transport, disposal, or cleanup requirements could require us to make significant expenditures to maintain compliance, and may otherwise have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, competitive position, investment values, or financial condition as well. Under these environmental laws and regulations, we could be held strictly liable for the removal or remediation of previously released materials or property contamination, regardless of whether we were responsible for the release of such materials or if our operations were standard in the industry at the time they were performed. 

AVAILABLE INFORMATION 

Our internet website address is www.magellanpetroleum.com . &#32;We routinely post important information for investors on 

our website, including updates about us and our operations. Within our website's investor relations section, we make available free of charge our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports filed with or furnished to the SEC under applicable securities laws. These materials are made available as soon as reasonably practical after we electronically file such materials with or furnish such materials to the SEC. We also make available within our website's corporate governance section the by-laws, code of conduct, and charters for the Audit Committee and the Compensation, Nominating and Governance Committee of the Board of Directors of Magellan. Information on our website is not incorporated by reference into this report and should not be considered part of this document. 

In addition, investors may read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549, on official business days during the hours of 10:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m. Investors may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information we file electronically with the SEC at www.sec.gov . 

