 Item 1. Business 

Open Text Corporation was incorporated on June 26, 1991. References herein to the &#8220;Company&#8221;, &#8220;OpenText&#8221;, &#8220;we&#8221; or &#8220;us&#8221; refer to Open Text Corporation and, unless context requires otherwise, its subsidiaries. Our principal office is located at 275 Frank Tompa Drive, Waterloo, Ontario, Canada N2L 0A1, and our telephone number at that location is (519) 888-7111. Our internet address is www.opentext.com. Our website is included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K as an inactive textual reference only. Except for the documents specifically incorporated by reference into this Annual Report, information contained on our website is not incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and should not be considered to be a part of this Annual Report. Throughout this Annual Report on Form 10-K: (i) the term "Fiscal 2017" means our fiscal year beginning on July 1, 2016 and ending June 30, 2017; (ii) the term &#8220;Fiscal 2016&#8221; means our fiscal year beginning on July 1, 2015 and ended June 30, 2016; (iii) the term &#8220;Fiscal 2015&#8221; means our fiscal year beginning on July 1, 2014 and ended June 30, 2015; and (iv) the term &#8220;Fiscal 2014&#8221; means our fiscal year beginning on July 1, 2013 and ended June 30, 2014; and (v) the term "Fiscal 2013" means our fiscal year beginning July 1, 2012 and ended June 30, 2013. Our Consolidated Financial Statements are presented in U.S. dollars and, unless otherwise indicated, all amounts included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are expressed in U.S. dollars. 

Business Overview and Strategy 

We operate in the Enterprise Information Management (EIM) market. We are an independent company providing a comprehensive platform and suite of software products and services that assist organizations in finding, utilizing, and sharing business information from any device in ways which are intuitive, efficient and productive. Our technologies and business solutions address one of the biggest problems encountered by enterprises today: the explosive growth of information volume and formats. Our software and services allow organizations to manage the information that flows into, out of, and throughout the enterprise as part of daily operations. Our solutions help to improve customer satisfaction and digital experience, gain analytical insight, improve collaboration with business partners, address the legal and business requirements associated with information governance, and help to ensure that information remains secure and private, as demanded in today's highly regulated climate. 

Enterprise Information Management 

There are two main information management pillars: Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP), which typically contains structured data, and Enterprise Information Management (EIM), which typically contains unstructured data. EIM is the moniker given to the discipline of handling all unstructured data within and between an enterprise and other organizations. Unstructured data typically represents a significant amount of an organization's data. 

Unstructured data encompasses everything from email and business processes to the handling of office and PDF documents, and even communicative, transient data like fax transfers, collaborative communications, and large managed files. This type of data composes the preponderance of information amassed and managed by today's enterprise systems. It holds 

&#160; 3 

huge volumes of unlocked value for organizations poised to capitalize on their enterprise information strategy. It is our belief that companies will place themselves in an untenable situation for the future if they are not able to capture, preserve and make unstructured data usable. 

We envisage a future where unstructured data is easily and seamlessly discovered, captured, managed, governed, secured, leveraged, analyzed and transformed into great value using information based applications. We call this discipline EIM. EIM data is by its nature unstructured and follows the required EIM functional technologies of Enterprise Content Management (ECM), Business Process Management (BPM), Customer Experience Management (CEM), Business Networking (BN), Discovery and Analytics. EIM can be deployed on its own to capture, manage, and store enterprise information and integrates with ERP and other information management systems to provide a "single source of truth" for the enterprise. 

By delivering products and technologies capable of addressing entire information flows, our customers get a better-integrated and more agile solution. To manage and secure the flow of information through an enterprise, we strive to deliver well-integrated products that can be deployed to digitize any business process, managing information through its entire lifecycle. 

Customers may align their EIM journey to the information flows illustrated below within their business. By "completing" each information flow, customers ensure the efficient governance, security and availability of the information that powers their organization. Information may "come online" through a variety of human or machine entry points, then proceed through its lifecycle or "flow" through disposition or destruction. 

While we continue to offer on-premises solutions, we realize that the EIM market is broad and we are agnostic to whether a customer prefers an on-premises solution, cloud solution, or combination of both (hybrid). We believe giving customer choice and flexibility will help us to strive to obtain long-term customer value. We measure long-term value by looking at our recurring revenue, earnings and operating cash flow. We define recurring revenue as the sum of our &#8220;Cloud services and subscriptions revenue&#8221;, &#8220;Customer support revenue&#8221; and &#8220;Professional services revenue&#8221;. In Fiscal 2016 recurring revenue was $1,541 million , which represented 84% &#32;of our total revenues and was relatively stable (down 1.1% ) compared to Fiscal 2015. Our Cloud services and subscriptions revenues was also relatively stable (down 0.7% ) in Fiscal 2016 compared to Fiscal 2015. Our net income for Fiscal 2016 was up 21% &#32;compared to Fiscal 2015 and our operating cash flow was relatively flat, growing 1% &#32;over the same period. We believe customers are looking for choice and flexibility in how they consume technology and we look to continue to provide long-term value to our customers. 

Strategy 

We have historically grown our business and strengthened our service offerings in the EIM market through strategic acquisitions and integration, as well as organic growth. We believe we are a value oriented and disciplined acquirer, having efficiently deployed $3.7 billion on acquisitions over the last 10 years. We see our ability to successfully integrate acquired 

&#160; 4 

companies and assets into our business as a strength and pursuing strategic acquisitions is an important aspect to our growth strategy. We expect to continue to pursue strategic acquisitions in the future to strengthen our service offerings in the EIM market. In Fiscal 2016, we further demonstrated the implementation of this strategy by acquiring Daegis Inc. (Daegis), ANXe Business Corporation (ANX), and certain CEM assets acquired from HP Inc. (CEM Business). For additional details on our acquisitions, please see "Acquisitions During the Last Five Fiscal Years", elsewhere in Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

While continuing to acquire companies is our leading growth driver, our growth strategy also includes organic growth through internal innovation. Over the last three fiscal years, we have invested approximately $567 million &#32;in research and development (R&#38;D) and we typically target to spend approximately 10% to 12% of revenues for R&#38;D. We believe our ability to leverage our global presence is helpful to our ability to grow organically. 

In April, 2016 we introduced "OpenText Release 16" (Release 16), which is an integrated digital information platform that manages and analyzes the entire flow of information, addressing key areas of the user experience, machine-to-machine integration, automation and other aspects of managing unstructured data in a digital first organization. 

This release is the most functionally and integration-complete EIM platform that we have released to date and we believe it is well suited to drive our go-to-market plan for years to come. 

We see an opportunity to help our customers become &#8220;digital businesses&#8221; and, with Release 16 as well as our recent acquisitions, we believe we have a strong platform to integrate personalized analytics and insights onto our OpenText EIM suites of products, which will further our vision to enable &#8220;the digital world&#8221; and strengthen our position among leaders in EIM. 

In Fiscal 2017 we will continue to implement strategies that are designed to: 

Broaden Our Reach into EIM, B2B Integration, Analytics, Discovery, and the Cloud. &#32;As technologies and customers become more sophisticated, we intend to be a leader in expanding the definition of traditional market sectors. We have been a leader in investing in adjacent markets through acquisitions which have provided us with the technology to accelerate our time to market and increase our scale. We have also invested in technologies to address the growing influence of analytics and social, mobile, and cloud platforms on corporate information. 

Deepen Customer Penetration . We intend to leverage our comprehensive solution set to deepen our existing customer relationships. We have significant expertise in a number of industry sectors and aim to increase our customer penetration based on our strong credentials. We are particularly focused on circumstances where the customer is looking to consolidate multiple vendors with solutions from a single source while addressing a broader spectrum of business problems or equally new or existing customers looking to take a more holistic approach to digital transformation. 

Invest in Technology Leadership. &#32;We believe we are well-positioned to develop additional innovative solutions to address the evolving market. We plan to continue investing in technology innovation by funding internal development as well as collaborating with third-parties. 

Deepen Strategic Partnerships. &#32;Our partnerships with companies such as SAP, Microsoft, Oracle, Accenture, Deloitte and others serve as an example of how we are working together with our partners to create next-generation EIM solutions and deliver them to market. We will continue to look for ways to create more customer value from our strategic partnerships. 

Broaden Global Presence . As customers become increasingly multi-national and as international markets continue to adopt EIM, we plan to further grow our brand, presence, and partner networks in these new markets. We are focused on using our direct sales for targeting existing customers and plan to address new geographies jointly with our partners. 

Selectively Pursue Acquisitions. &#32;In light of the continually evolving marketplace in which we operate, on an ongoing basis we regularly evaluate acquisition opportunities within the EIM market and at any time may be in various stages of discussions with respect to such opportunities. We plan to continue to pursue acquisitions that complement our existing business, represent a strong strategic fit and are consistent with our overall growth strategy and disciplined financial management. We may also target future acquisitions to expand or add functionality and capabilities to our existing portfolio of solutions, as well as add new solutions to our portfolio. 

Products and Services Overview 

Our products and services are designed to provide the benefits of maximizing the value of enterprise information while largely minimizing its risks. Our solutions incorporate collaborative and mobile technologies and are delivered for on-premises deployment as well as through cloud, hybrid and managed hosted services models to provide the flexibility and cost efficiencies demanded by the market. In addition, we provide solutions that facilitate the exchange of information and transactions that occur between supply chain participants, such as manufacturers, retailers, distributors and financial institutions, and are central to a company&#8217;s ability to effectively collaborate with its partners. 

&#160; 5 

At its core, EIM is about helping organizations get the most out of information. Our EIM offerings include Enterprise Content Management, Business Process Management, Customer Experience Management, Business Network, Discovery and Analytics, and are designed to deliver to our customers: 

(i) 

Increased compliance and information governance resulting in reduced exposure to risk of regulatory sanctions related to how information is handled and protected; 

(ii) 

Improved operating efficiency through process digitization and automation; 

(iii) 

Better customer engagement through improved and integrated digital experiences and content delivery; 

(iv) 

Lower cost of storage and management of information through improved classification and archiving strategies; 

(v) 

Reduced infrastructure costs due to, among other factors, legacy decommissioning capabilities of EIM and cloud and hosted services deployment models; 

(vi) 

Improved innovation, productivity and time-to-market as a result of letting employees, trading partners and customers work with information and collaborate in ways which are intuitive, automated, and flexible; and 

(vii) 

Increased revenue streams with the enablement of easy expansion across new channels and, ultimately, new markets. 

*For illustrative purposes only and is not an exhaustive list of our product offerings. 

Release 16 helps organizations with their digital transformation by digitizing information, experiences, processes and supply chains, to create a better way to work within their enterprise. Release 16 also has a major focus on analysis and reporting across all product lines and use cases. It offers customers a coordinated platform for digital transformation that is intended to yield the benefits of scale and single-vendor interaction. We have made significant investments to our cloud infrastructure over the past couple of years, and now with Release 16 virtually all of our products are available in the "OpenText Cloud". 

Our portfolio is comprised of capabilities in the following areas: 

Enterprise Content Management 

We facilitate ECM with an integrated set of technologies that manage information throughout its lifecycle and improve business productivity, all while mitigating the risk and controlling the costs of growing volumes of content. Our ECM solutions, which are available on-premises and increasingly in the cloud, include: 

&#8226; 

Content Management &#32;provides a repository for business documents (such as those created with Microsoft Office, AutoCAD and Adobe Acrobat/PDF) and allows for the organizing, displaying, classifying, access control, version control, event auditing, rendition, and search of documents and other content types. 

&#8226; 

Records Management enables control of the complete lifecycle of content management by associating retention and disposition rules to control if and when content can or must be deleted or archived on storage media. 

&#8226; 

Archiving helps reduce storage expenses through optimization of storage use. It manages content storage policies according to business context, optimizes storage use, and provides high-end storage services to reduce future storage demands. 

&#160; 6 

&#8226; 

Email Management Solutions &#32;enable the archiving, control and monitoring of email, regardless of platform, to reduce the size of the email database, improve email server performance, control the lifecycle of email content, and monitor email content to improve compliance. 

&#8226; 

Capture solutions help bridge the gap between structured and unstructured data by providing the ability to capture and image paper content while applying metadata and applicable policies and schedules. By transforming the information contained in these documents, it can then be used effectively to automate or streamline business processes while being governed consistently alongside digital content. 

&#8226; 

Core &#32;is a software as a service (SaaS)-based, multi-tenant cloud solution that provides efficient ways to share documents and collaborate for teams of any size, from small groups to large enterprises. 

Business Process Management 

BPM provides the software capabilities for analyzing, automating, monitoring and optimizing structured business processes that typically fall outside the scope of existing enterprise systems. BPM solutions help empower employees, customers and partners. Our BPM solutions include: 

&#8226; 

Process suite platform puts the business in direct control of its processes and fosters alignment between business and IT, resulting in tangible benefits for both. OpenText Process Suite Platform offers one platform that can be accessed simply through a web browser and is built from the ground up to be truly multi-tenant and to support all of the deployment models required for on-premise, private or public clouds. 

&#8226; 

Capture and recognition systems convert documents from analog sources, such as paper or facsimile (fax), to electronic documents and apply value-added functions, such as optical / intelligent character recognition (OCR/ICR) and barcode scanning, and then releases these documents into repositories where they can be stored, managed, and searched. 

&#8226; 

Process suite solutions are packaged applications built on the Process Suite and address specific business problems. This includes Contract Management, Cloud Brokerage Services, Digital Media Supply Chain, and Enterprise App Store, to name a few. 

Customer Experience Management 

CEM generates improved time-to-market by giving customers, employees, and channel partners personalized and engaging experiences. Our CEM solutions include: 

&#8226; 

Web Content Management provides software for authoring, maintaining, and administering websites designed to offer a &#8220;visitor experience&#8221; that integrates content from internal and external sources. 

&#8226; 

Digital Asset Management provides a set of content management services for browsing, searching, viewing, assembling, and delivering rich media content such as images, audio and video. 

&#8226; 

Customer Communications Management software makes it possible for organizations to process and deliver highly personalized documents in paper or electronic format rather than a &#8220;one message fits all&#8221; approach. 

&#8226; 

Social Software helps companies &#8220;socialize&#8221; their web presence by adding blogs, wikis, ratings and reviews, and build communities for public websites and employee intranets. 

&#8226; 

Portal enables organizations to aggregate, integrate and personalize corporate information and applications and provide a central, contextualized, and personalized view of information for executives, departments, partners, and customers. 

Business Network 

The OpenText Business Network (BN), previously known as Information Exchange (iX), is a set of offerings that facilitate efficient, secure, and compliant exchange of information inside and outside the enterprise. BN solutions include: 

&#8226; 

Business-to-Business (B2B) Integration &#32;services help optimize the reliability, reach, and cost efficiency of an enterprise's electronic supply chain while reducing costs, infrastructure and overhead. 

&#8226; 

Fax Solutions &#32;automate business fax and electronic document distribution to improve the business impact of company information, increase employee productivity and decrease paper-based operational costs. 

&#8226; 

Secure Messaging &#32;helps to share and synchronize files across an organization, across teams and with business partners, while leveraging the latest smartphones and tablets to provide information on the go without sacrificing information governance or security. 

&#160; 7 

Analytics 

Analytics solutions help organizations gain insight from their structured and unstructured information, make predictions, visualize and report on business processes, customer interactions and a myriad of other sources of information. This analytical data can then be used to refine business processes or content utilization, make predictions, identify trends, improve customer service or be applied in a multitude of different scenarios. OpenText Analytics solutions include: 

&#8226; 

Embedded Reporting and Visualization is used to embed reports and visualizations of data in an array of applications, including the OpenText EIM Suites and many third party data sources. 

&#8226; 

Big Data Analysis &#32;is the analysis of large sets of information from databases, files, ERP and Customer Relationship Management (CRM) systems and a variety of other sources. Modeling and predictive algorithms may be applied to this data using OpenText solutions to extract meaningful insight or predictive models to solve customer problems or help with operational insight. &#32; 

Discovery 

Discovery solutions organize and visualize all relevant content and make it possible for business users to quickly locate information and make better informed decisions based on timely, contextualized information. Discovery solutions include: 

&#8226; 

Search addresses information security and productivity requirements by securely indexing all information for fast retrieval and real-time monitoring. 

&#8226; 

Semantic Navigation improves the end-user experience of websites by enabling intuitive visual exploration of site content through contextual navigation. 

&#8226; 

Auto-Classification improves the quality of information governance through intelligent metadata extraction and accurate classification of information. 

&#8226; 

InfoFusion makes it possible for organizations to deal with the issue of so-called &#8220;information silos&#8221; resulting from, for instance, numerous disconnected information sources across the enterprise. Using a framework of adapters, an information access platform allows organizations to consolidate, decommission, archive and migrate content from virtually any system or information repository. &#32; 

OpenText Revenues 

Our business consists of four revenue streams: license, cloud services and subscriptions, customer support, and professional service and other. For information regarding our revenues and assets by geography for Fiscal 2016, Fiscal 2015 and Fiscal 2014, see note 19 &#8220;Segment Information&#8221; in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 to this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

License 

License revenues consist of fees earned from the licensing of software products to our customers. Our license revenues are impacted by the strength of general economic and industry conditions, the competitive strength of our software products, and our acquisitions. The decision by a customer to license our software products often involves a comprehensive implementation process across the customer&#8217;s network or networks and the licensing and implementation of our software products may entail a significant commitment of resources by prospective customers. As revenue from cloud services and subscriptions has increased in recent years, license revenues have decreased as a proportion of our total revenues. 

Cloud services and subscriptions 

Cloud services and subscription revenues consist of (i) software as a service offerings (ii) managed service arrangements and (iii) subscription revenues relating to on premise offerings. These offerings allow customers to transmit a variety of content between various mediums and to securely manage enterprise information without the commitment of investing in related hardware infrastructure. 

In addition, we offer B2B integration solutions, such as messaging services, and managed services. Messaging services allow for the automated and reliable exchange of electronic transaction information, such as purchase orders, invoices, shipment notices and other business documents, among businesses worldwide. Managed services provide an end-to-end fully outsourced B2B integration solution to our customers, including program implementation, operational management, and customer support. These services enable customers to effectively manage the flow of electronic transaction information with their trading partners and reduce the complexity of disparate standards and communication protocols. 

&#160; 8 

Customer Support 

The first year of our customer support offering is usually purchased by customers together with the license of our EIM software products. Customer support is typically renewed on an annual basis and historically customer support revenues have been a significant portion of our total revenue. Through our OpenText customer support programs, customers receive access to software upgrades, a knowledge base, discussions, product information, and an online mechanism to post and review &#8220;trouble tickets&#8221;. Additionally, our customer support teams handle questions on the use, configuration, and functionality of OpenText products and can help identify software issues, develop solutions, and document enhancement requests for consideration in future product releases. 

Professional Service and Other 

We provide consulting and learning services to customers and generally these services relate to the implementation, training and integration of our licensed product offerings into the customer's systems. 

Our consulting services help customers build solutions that enable them to leverage their investments in our technology and in existing enterprise systems. The implementation of these services can range from simple modifications to meet specific departmental needs to enterprise applications that integrate with multiple existing systems. 

Our learning services consultants analyze our customers' education and training needs, focusing on key learning outcomes and timelines, with a view to creating an appropriate education plan for the employees of our customers who work with our products. Education plans are designed to be flexible and can be applied to any phase of implementation: pilot, roll-out, upgrade or refresher. OpenText learning services employ a blended approach by combining mentoring, instructor-led courses, webinars, eLearning and focused workshops. 

Marketing and Sales 

Customers 

Our customer base consists of a number of Global 10,000 organizations as well as mid-market companies and government agencies. Historically, including in Fiscal 2016, no single customer has accounted for 10% or more of our total revenues. 

Global Distribution Channels 

We operate on a global basis and in Fiscal 2016 we generated approximately 58% &#32;of our revenues from our &#8220;Americas&#8221; region, which consists of countries in North, Central, and South America, approximately 33% &#32;from our "EMEA" region, which primarily consists of countries in Europe, Africa, and the Middle East, and approximately 9% &#32;from our "Asia Pacific" region, which primarily consists of Japan, Australia, China, Korea, Philippines, Singapore and New Zealand. We make direct sales of products and services through our global network of subsidiaries. 

Partners and Alliances 

We also market our products and services worldwide through indirect channels. We partner with prominent organizations in the enterprise software and hardware industries in an effort to enhance the value of our solutions and the investments our customers have made in their existing systems. We strive to create mutually beneficial relationships with global systems integrators, consultants, and software and hardware developers that augment and extend our products and services. Through these relationships, we and our partners are better able to fulfill key market objectives, drive new business, establish a competitive advantage, and create demonstrable business value. 

Our strategic partners are: 

OpenText and SAP AG (SAP) 

OpenText and SAP have shared many years of partnership and close collaboration. Our solutions help customers improve the way they manage content from SAP systems in order to assist them to improve efficiency in key processes, manage compliance and reduce costs. Our targeted solutions let customers create, access, manage and securely archive content for SAP systems, including data, multimedia content, and documents. In addition, our solutions for SAP allow customers to address stringent requirements for risk reduction, operational efficiency and information technology consolidation. OpenText products are typically used by SAP customers as part of their key business processes. 

&#160; 9 

OpenText and Microsoft Corporation &#32; (Microsoft) 

Our strategic alliance with Microsoft offers integration between our EIM solutions and Microsoft's desktop, cloud and server products, such as Microsoft SharePoint and Exchange, as well as Office 365 and SharePoint online. Microsoft and OpenText have partnered to drive the creation of comprehensive business and industry-specific EIM solutions leveraging customers' significant investments in the Microsoft platform and productivity applications. We provide support for Microsoft platforms such as Windows and SQL Server and integration with many Microsoft products such as Exchange, Rights Management and Windows Azure. The integration of our solutions with Microsoft Office and SharePoint allows an OpenText customer to work with information from ERP, CRM, EIM and other enterprise applications from within the Microsoft SharePoint or Microsoft Office interface. 

OpenText and Oracle Corporation (Oracle) 

For more than ten years, OpenText has developed innovative solutions for Oracle applications that enhance the experience and productivity of users working with these tools. OpenText is committed to continued development that extends and enhances the Oracle application and technology portfolio. Our partnership extends our enterprise solutions framework with integration between OpenText and Oracle eBusiness Suite, analogous to our integration with SAP. 

Our global systems integrators are: 

Accenture plc (Accenture) 

Accenture, a global management consulting, technology services and outsourcing company, is one of our systems integrator partners. Together we provide strategic EIM solutions. Accenture's extensive experience with enterprise-rollout planning and design, combined with our EIM technology, provides solutions designed to address an organization's EIM requirements. 

Deloitte Consulting LLP (Deloitte) 

Deloitte is also one of our systems integrator partners. Together, we help organizations build value through improved ECM performance. Deloitte's services provide value across human capital, strategy and operations, and technology within multiple industries. 

Other System Integrators 

Other OpenText systems integrator partners include Cap Gemini Inc., CGI Group Inc. (through its acquisition of Logica plc), ATOS SE, EY and others. 

International Markets 

We provide our product offerings worldwide. &#32; Our geographic coverage allows us to draw on business and technical expertise from a geographically diverse workforce, providing greater stability to our operations and revenue streams by diversifying our portfolio to better mitigate against the risks of a single geographically focused business. 

There are inherent risks to conducting operations internationally. For more information about these risks, see &#8220;Risk Factors&#8221; included in Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Competition 

The market for our products and services is highly competitive, subject to rapid technological change and shifting customer needs and economic pressures. We compete with multiple companies, some that have single or narrow solutions and some that have a range of information management solutions, like ourselves. Our competitors include International Business Machines Corporation (IBM), EMC Corporation (EMC), Hewlett Packard Enterprise and Adobe Inc. In certain markets, OpenText competes with Oracle and Microsoft, who are also our partners. In addition there are numerous, other niche software vendors in the Information Management sector, such as j2 Inc. and Pegasystems Inc., that compete with OpenText in certain segments of the EIM market. We also face competition from systems integrators that configure hardware and software into customized systems. Additionally, new competitors or alliances among existing competitors may emerge and could rapidly acquire additional market share. We also expect that competition will increase as a result of ongoing software industry consolidation. 

We believe that the principal competitive factors affecting the market for our software products and services include: (i) vendor and product reputation; (ii) product quality, performance and price; (iii) the availability of software products on multiple platforms; (iv) product scalability; (v) product integration with other enterprise applications; (vi) software functionality and features; (vii) software ease of use; (viii) the quality of professional services, customer support services and training; and (ix) the ability to address specific customer business problems. We believe the relative importance of each of these factors depends upon the concerns and needs of each specific customer. 

&#160; 10 

Research and Development 

The industry in which we compete is subject to rapid technological developments, evolving industry standards, changes in customer requirements and competitive new products and features. As a result, our success, in part, depends on our ability to continue to enhance our existing products in a timely and efficient manner and to develop and introduce new products that meet customer needs while reducing total cost of ownership. To achieve these objectives, we have made and expect to continue to make investments in research and development, through internal and third-party development activities, third-party licensing agreements and potentially through technology acquisitions. Our research and development expenses were $194.1 million &#32;for Fiscal 2016, $196.5 million &#32;for Fiscal 2015, and $176.8 million &#32;for Fiscal 2014. We believe our spending on research and development is an appropriate balance between managing our organic growth and results of operation. We expect to continue to invest in research and development to maintain and improve our products and services offerings. 

Acquisitions During the Last Five Fiscal Years 

Our competitive position in the marketplace requires us to maintain a complex and evolving array of technologies, products, services and capabilities. In light of the continually evolving marketplace in which we operate, we regularly evaluate acquisition opportunities within the EIM market and at any time may be in various stages of discussions with respect to such opportunities. 

Pursuing strategic acquisitions is an important aspect to our current and future growth strategy, which we expect to continue, in order to strengthen our service offerings in the EIM market. In Fiscal 2016 we acquired Daegis, ANX and CEM Business. Daegis was a global software and services company. Its acquisition brings a broad range of information governance expertise and technology to OpenText, which we believe better enables our customers to mitigate the risks and costs associated with "information sprawl" and the permanent retention of information. ANX was a leading provider of cloud-based information exchange services to the U.S. automotive and healthcare industries, which we believe complements our existing B2B integration solutions while strengthening our presence in these industries. Lastly, in Fiscal 2016 we also acquired CEM Business that we believe complement our current offerings in CEM and related cloud offerings, while providing our customers with leading software products in marketing optimization, mobile marketing and in &#8220;voice&#8221; of the customer programs. 

Below is a summary of the more material acquisitions we have made over the last five fiscal years. 

In Fiscal 2016, we completed the following acquisitions: 

&#8226; 

O n May 1, 2016, we acquired ANXe Business Corporation, a leading provider of cloud-based information exchange services to the automotive and healthcare industries, based in Michigan, United States. Total consideration for ANX was approximately $104.6 million . 

&#8226; 

On April 30, 2016, we acquired certain customer experience software and services assets and liabilities from HP Inc. (CEM Business) for approximately $160.0 million . 

&#8226; 

On November 23, 2015, we acquired Daegis Inc., a global information governance, data migration solutions and development company, based in Texas, United States. Total consideration for Daegis was approximately $23.3 million . 

Prior to Fiscal 2016, we completed the following acquisitions: 

&#8226; 

On January 16, 2015, we acquired Actuate Corporation (Actuate), based in San Francisco, California, United States, for $332.0 million, comprised of approximately $322.4 million &#32;in cash and shares we purchased of Actuate in the open market with a fair value of approximately $9.5 million as of the date of acquisition. Actuate was a leader in personalized analytics and insights. 

&#8226; 

On January 2, 2015, we acquired Informative Graphics Corporation (IGC), based in Scottsdale, Arizona, United States, for approximately $40.0 million . IGC was a leading developer of viewing, annotation, redaction and publishing commercial software. 

&#8226; 

On January 16, 2014, we acquired GXS Group Inc. (GXS), a Delaware corporation and leader in cloud-based B2B integration services for $1.2 billion, inclusive of the issuance of 2,595,042 OpenText Common Shares. 

&#8226; 

On August 15, 2013, we acquired Cordys Holding B.V. (Cordys), a leading provider of BPM and case management solutions, offered on one platform with cloud, mobile, and social capabilities, based in Putten, the Netherlands for $33.2 million. 

&#8226; 

On May 23, 2013, we acquired ICCM Professional Services Limited (ICCM), a company based in Malmesbury, United Kingdom, for $18.9 million. ICCM is a provider of IT service management software solutions. 

&#8226; 

On March 5, 2013, we acquired Resonate KT Limited (RKT), a company based in Cardiff, United Kingdom, for $20.0 million. RKT was a leading provider of software that enables organizations to visualize unstructured data, create new user experiences for ECM and xECM for SAP, as well as build industry-based applications that maximize unstructured data residing within Content Server, a key component of the OpenText ECM suite. 

&#160; 11 

&#8226; 

On July 2, 2012, we acquired EasyLink Services International Corporation (EasyLink), a company based in Georgia, United States and a global provider of cloud-based electronic messaging and business integration services for $342.3 million. 

&#8226; 

On July 13, 2011, we acquired Global 360 Holding Corp. (Global 360), a software company based in Dallas, Texas, United States, for $256.6 million. Global 360 offers case management and document-centric BPM solutions. The acquisition continued our expansion into the BPM market and added to our technology, talent, services, partner and geographical strengths. 

We believe our acquisitions support our long-term strategy for growth, strengthen our competitive position, expand our customer base and provide greater scale to accelerate innovation, grow our earnings and provide superior shareholder value. We expect to continue to strategically acquire companies, products, services and technologies to augment our existing business. 

Intellectual Property Rights 

Our success and ability to compete depends on our ability to develop and maintain our intellectual property and proprietary technology and to operate without infringing on the proprietary rights of others. Our software products are generally licensed to our customers on a non-exclusive basis for internal use in a customer's organization. We also grant rights in our intellectual property to third parties that allow them to market certain of our products on a non-exclusive or limited-scope exclusive basis for a particular application of the product(s) or to a particular geographic area. 

We rely on a combination of copyright, patent, trademark and trade secret laws, non-disclosure agreements and other contractual provisions to establish and maintain our proprietary rights. We have obtained or applied for trademark registration for most strategic product names in most major markets. We have a number of U.S. and foreign patents and pending applications, including patents and rights to patent applications acquired through strategic transactions, which relate to various aspects of our products and technology. The duration of our patents is determined by the laws of the country of issuance and for the U.S. is typically 17 years from the date of issuance of the patent or 20 years from the date of filing of the patent application resulting in the patent. While we believe our intellectual property is valuable and our ability to maintain and protect our intellectual property rights is important to our success, we also believe that our business as a whole is not materially dependent on any particular patent, trademark, license, or other intellectual property right. 

For more information on the risks related to our intellectual property rights, see "Risk Factors" included in Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Employees 

As of June 30, 2016, we employed a total of approximately 8,900 &#32;individuals. The approximate composition of our employee base is as follows: (i) 1,400 &#32;employees in sales and marketing, (ii) 2,200 &#32;employees in product development, (iii) 2,300 &#32;employees in cloud services, (iv) 1,100 &#32;employees in professional services, (v) 800 &#32;employees in customer support, and (vi) 1,100 &#32;employees in general and administrative roles. We believe that relations with our employees are strong. None of our employees are represented by a labour union, nor do we have collective bargaining arrangements with any of our employees. However, in certain international jurisdictions in which we operate, a &#8220;Workers' Council&#8221; represents our employees. 

Available Information 

Access to our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to these reports filed with or furnished to the SEC may be obtained free of charge through the Investors section of our website at investors.opentext.com &#32;as soon as is reasonably practical after we electronically file or furnish these reports. Our website is included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K as an inactive textual reference only. Except for the documents specifically incorporated by reference into this Annual Report, information contained on our website is not incorporated by reference in this Annual Report and should not be considered to be a part of this Annual Report. In addition, our filings with the SEC may be accessed through the SEC's website at www.sec.gov . All statements made in any of our securities filings, including all forward-looking statements or information, are made as of the date of the document in which the statement is included, and we do not assume or undertake any obligation to update any of those statements or documents unless we are required to do so by applicable law. 

&#160; 12 

