Item 1.  Business.

Strategic Acquisitions, Inc. (the "Company" or "Strategic") was incorporated
under the laws of the State of Nevada on January 27, 1989. Since inception the
Company had no revenues other than nominal interest income. As of the date
hereof, the Company has no commercial operations, has no full- or part-time
employees, and owns no real estate.

The Company's current business plan is to seek, investigate, and, if warranted,
acquire a business, and to pursue other related activities intended to enhance
shareholder value. The acquisition of a business opportunity may be made by
purchase, merger, exchange of stock, or otherwise, and may encompass assets or a
business entity, such as a corporation, joint venture, or partnership. The
Company has limited capital, and it is unlikely that the Company will be able to
take advantage of more than one such business opportunity. The Company intends
to seek opportunities demonstrating the potential of long-term growth as opposed
to short-term earnings.

At the present time the Company has not identified any business opportunity
that it plans to pursue, nor has the Company reached any agreement or
definitive understanding with any person concerning an acquisition.

No assurance can be given that the Company will be successful in finding or
acquiring a desirable business opportunity, given that limited funds are
available for acquisitions, or that any acquisition that occurs will be on
terms that are favorable to the Company or its stockholders.

The Company's search will be directed toward small and medium-sized enterprises
which have a desire to become public corporations and which are able to satisfy,
or anticipate in the reasonably near future being able to satisfy, the minimum
asset requirements in order to qualify shares for trading on NASDAQ or
another stock exchange.

The  Company  anticipates  that  the  business  opportunities presented to it
will (i) be recently organized with no operating  history,  or a history of
losses attributable to under-capitalization or other factors; (ii) be
experiencing financial or operating  difficulties;  (iii) be in need of funds to
develop a new product or service or to expand into a new market; (iv) be relying
upon an untested product or marketing concept;  or (v) have a combination of the
characteristics  mentioned  in (i) through  (iv) above.  The Company  intends to
concentrate its acquisition efforts on properties or businesses that it believes
to be  undervalued.  Given the above factors,  investors  should expect that any
acquisition candidate may have a history of losses or low profitability.



                                       1
<PAGE>

     The  Company  does not  propose  to  restrict  its  search  for  investment
opportunities  to  any  particular  geographical  area  or  industry,  and  may,
therefore,  engage in  essentially  any  business,  to the extent of its limited
resources.  The Company's discretion in the selection of business  opportunities
is  unrestricted,  subject to the availability of such  opportunities,  economic
conditions, and other factors.

     In connection with such a merger or  acquisition,  it is highly likely that
an amount of stock  constituting  control of the Company  would be issued by the
Company or purchased from the current  principal  shareholders of the Company by
the acquiring  entity or its affiliates.  If stock is purchased from the current
shareholders,  the transaction is very likely to result in substantial  gains to
them relative to their purchase price for such stock. In the Company's judgment,
none of its officers and directors would thereby become an "underwriter"  within
the meaning of the Section 2(11) of the  Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the
"Act").

     It is anticipated  that business  opportunities  will come to the Company's
attention from various sources,  including its officers and directors, its other
stockholders,   professional   advisors  such  as  attorneys  and   accountants,
securities  broker-dealers,   venture  capitalists,  members  of  the  financial
community,  and others who may present unsolicited proposals. The Company has no
plans,  understandings,  agreements, or commitments with any individual for such
person to act as a finder of opportunities for the Company, although its
officers, directors and significant shareholders seek out such opportunities and
respond to unsolicited proposals in their ordinary course of business.

     The  Company  does  not  foresee  that it  would  enter  into a  merger  or
acquisition  transaction  with any business with which its officers or directors
are currently affiliated.  Should the Company determine in the future,  contrary
to foregoing expectations,  that a transaction with an affiliate would be in the
best  interests of the Company and its  stockholders,  the Company is in general
permitted by Nevada law to enter into such a transaction if:

     1. The material facts as to the  relationship  or interest of the affiliate
and as to the contract or transaction are disclosed or are known to the Board of
Directors, and the Board in good faith authorizes the contract or transaction by
the affirmative vote of a majority of the disinterested  directors,  even though
the disinterested directors constitute less than a quorum; or

     2. The material facts as to the  relationship  or interest of the affiliate
and as to the  contract  or  transaction  are  disclosed  or  are  known  to the
stockholders  entitled  to vote  thereon,  and the  contract or  transaction  is
specifically approved in good faith by vote of the stockholders; or

     3. The contract or  transaction is fair as to the Company as of the time it
is  authorized,  approved  or  ratified,  by  the  Board  of  Directors  or  the
stockholders.




                                       2
<PAGE>

Investigation and Selection of Business Opportunities

     To a large  extent,  a  decision  to  participate  in a  specific  business
opportunity may be made upon  management's  analysis of the quality of the other
company's  management  and  personnel,  the  anticipated  acceptability  of  new
products or marketing concepts, the merit of technological changes, and numerous
other factors which are difficult,  if not  impossible,  to analyze  through the
application of any objective criteria. In many instances, it is anticipated that
the historical operations of a specific business opportunity may not necessarily
be indicative  of the  potential for the future  because of the possible need to
shift marketing approaches substantially,  expand significantly,  change product
emphasis, change or substantially augment management, or make other changes. The
Company will be dependent upon the owners of a business  opportunity to identify
any such problems which may exist and to implement,  or be primarily responsible
for the implementation of, required changes. Because the Company may participate
in a business  opportunity  with a newly  organized firm or with a firm which is
entering a new phase of growth,  it should be  emphasized  that the Company will
incur further risks,  because  management in many instances will not have proven
its abilities or effectiveness,  the eventual market for such company's products
or  services  will  likely  not be  established,  and  such  company  may not be
profitable when acquired.

     It is anticipated that the Company will not be able to diversify,  but will
essentially  be limited to only one  venture  because of the  Company's  limited
financing.  This lack of  diversification  will not permit the Company to offset
potential losses from one business opportunity against profits from another, and
should be  considered an adverse  factor  affecting any decision to purchase the
Company's securities.

     It is emphasized  that  management  of the Company may effect  transactions
having a potentially adverse impact upon the Company's  shareholders pursuant to
the   authority  and   discretion  of  the  Company's   management  to  complete
acquisitions  without  submitting  any  proposal to the  stockholders  for their
consideration.  Holders of the Company's  securities  should not anticipate that
the  Company  necessarily  will  furnish  such  holders,  prior to any merger or
acquisition, with financial statements, or any other documentation, concerning a
target  company  or its  business.  In some  instances,  however,  the  proposed
participation in a business opportunity may be submitted to the stockholders for
their  consideration,   either  voluntarily  by  such  directors,  to  seek  the
stockholders' advice and consent, or because state law so requires.

     The analysis of business  opportunities  will be undertaken by or under the
supervision of the Company's officers and directors. Although there are no
current plans to do so, Company management might also hire an outside consultant
to assist in the investigation and selection of business opportunities,and might
pay a finder's fee.  Since  Company  management  has  no  current  plans  to use
any outside consultants or advisors to assist in the investigation and selection
of business opportunities, no policies have been adopted  regarding use of such
consultants  or advisors,  the criteria to be used in selecting such consultants
or advisors, the services to be provided,  the term of service, or regarding the
total amount of fees that may be paid. However, because of the limited resources
of the Company, it is likely that any such fee would be paid in stock and not
in cash.


                                       3
<PAGE>

     In  assessing  a potential  transaction, the Company anticipates that it
will consider, among other things, the following factors:

     1.  Potential for growth and  profitability,  indicated by new  technology,
anticipated market expansion, or new products;

     2. The Company's perception of how any particular business opportunity will
be received by the investment community and by the Company's stockholders;

     3. Whether, following the business combination,  the financial condition of
the business  opportunity would be, or would have a significant  prospect in the
foreseeable  future of  becoming  sufficient  to enable  the  securities  of the
Company to qualify for trading in the over-the-counter markets or listing on a
securities  exchange;

     4. Capital requirements and anticipated  availability of required funds, to
be provided by the Company or from  operations,  through the sale of  additional
securities,  through  joint  ventures  or  similar  arrangements,  or from other
sources;

     5. The extent to which the business opportunity can be advanced;

     6. Competitive  position as compared to other companies of similar size and
experience within the industry;

     7. Strength and diversity of existing  management,  or management prospects
that are scheduled for recruitment; and

     8. The  accessibility  of required  management  expertise,  personnel,  raw
materials, services, professional assistance, and other required items.

     No one of the factors  described above will be controlling in the selection
of a business  opportunity,  and management  will attempt to analyze all factors
appropriate to each  opportunity and make a determination  based upon reasonable
investigative  measures  and  available  data.  Potentially  available  business
opportunities  may occur in many  different  industries and at various stages of
development,  all of which will make the task of comparative  investigation  and
analysis  of  such  business  opportunities  extremely  difficult  and  complex.
Potential  investors  must  recognize  that,  because of the  Company's  limited
capital  available for  investigation  and  management's  limited  experience in
business analysis,  the Company may not discover or adequately  evaluate adverse
facts about the opportunity to be acquired.  It should be noted that the Company
has not completed a transaction in the twenty years of its existence.

     The  Company is unable to  predict  when it may  participate  in a business
opportunity.  It expects,  however, that the analysis of specific proposals,  if
and when any are received,  and the selection of a business opportunity may take
several months or more.

     The Company has no business proposals under consideration as of the date of
this annual report.

                                       4
<PAGE>

     Prior to making a decision to  participate in a business  opportunity,  the
Company  will  generally  request  that it be provided  with  written  materials
regarding the business  opportunity  containing  such items as a description  of
products,   services  and  company  history;   management   resumes;   financial
information; available projections, with related assumptions upon which they are
based; an explanation of proprietary products and services; evidence of existing
patents,  trademarks, or services marks, or rights thereto; present and proposed
forms of compensation to management;  a description of transactions between such
company and its affiliates during relevant periods; a description of present and
required  facilities;  an  analysis  of  risks  and  competitive  conditions;  a
financial  plan  of  operation  and  estimated  capital  requirements;   audited
financial  statements,  or  if  they  are  not  available,  unaudited  financial
statements,   together  with  reasonable   assurances  that  audited   financial
statements  would be able to be produced prior to completion  of a merger
transaction;  and other information deemed relevant.

     As part of the Company's  investigation,  the Company's  executive officers
and directors may meet personally  with management and key personnel,  may visit
and inspect material facilities,  obtain independent analysis or verification of
certain information provided,  check references of management and key personnel,
and take other reasonable investigative measures, to the extent of the Company's
limited financial resources and management expertise.

     Company  management  believes  that various  types of  potential  merger or
acquisition  candidates might find a business combination with the Company to be
attractive.  These include  acquisition  candidates  desiring to create a public
market for their shares in order to enhance liquidity for current  shareholders,
acquisition  candidates  which have long-term  plans for raising capital through
the public sale of securities and believe that the possible prior existence of a
public  market  for  their  securities  would  be  beneficial,  and  acquisition
candidates  which  plan  to  acquire   additional  assets  through  issuance  of
securities rather than for cash, and believe that the possibility of development
of a public market for their  securities  will be of assistance in that process.
Acquisition  candidates which have a need for an immediate cash infusion are not
likely  to find a  potential  business  combination  with the  Company  to be an
attractive alternative.

Form of Acquisition

     It is impossible to predict the manner in which the Company may participate
in a business opportunity.  Specific business  opportunities will be reviewed as
well as the respective needs and desires of the Company and the promoters of the
opportunity  and,  upon the basis of that  review and the  relative  negotiating
strength of the Company and such promoters, the legal structure or method deemed
by management to be suitable will be selected.  Such structure may include,  but
is not limited to leases, purchase and sale agreements, licenses, joint ventures
and other contractual  arrangements.  The Company may act directly or indirectly
through an interest in a partnership, corporation or other form of organization.
Implementing   such   structure  may  require  the  merger,   consolidation   or
reorganization  of the  Company  with other  corporations  or forms of  business
organization,  and  although it is likely,  there can be no  assurance  that the
Company would be the surviving entity. In addition,  the present  management and
stockholders  of the Company  most likely will not have control of a majority of
the voting shares of the Company following a reorganization transaction. As part
of such a  transaction,  the  Company's  existing  directors  may resign and new
directors may be appointed without any vote by stockholders.

                                       5
<PAGE>

     It is likely that the Company will acquire its  participation in a business
opportunity  through the  issuance of common  stock or other  securities  of the
Company.  Although the terms of any such  transaction  cannot be  predicted,  it
should be noted that in  certain  circumstances  the  criteria  for  determining
whether or not an acquisition is a so-called "tax free" reorganization under the
Internal  Revenue Code of 1986 (the "Internal  Revenue Code"),  depends upon the
issuance to the stockholders of the acquired  company of a controlling  interest
(i.e.,  80% or more) of the common  stock of the combined  entities  immediately
following the reorganization. If a transaction were structured to take advantage
of these provisions  rather than other "tax free" provisions  provided under the
Internal Revenue Code, the Company's  current  stockholders  would retain in the
aggregate  20% or less of the total issued and  outstanding  shares.  This could
result  in  substantial  additional  dilution  in the  equity  of those who were
stockholders of the Company prior to such  reorganization.  Any such issuance of
additional shares might also be done  simultaneously  with a sale or transfer of
shares  representing  a  controlling  interest  in the  Company  by the  current
officers, directors and principal shareholders.

     It is  anticipated  that any new  securities  issued in any  reorganization
would  be  issued  in  reliance  upon  exemptions,  if any are  available,  from
registration  under  applicable  federal  and  state  securities  laws.  In some
circumstances,  however, as a negotiated element of the transaction, the Company
may agree to register  such  securities  either at the time the  transaction  is
consummated,  or under certain conditions or at specified times thereafter.  The
issuance of substantial  additional securities and their potential sale into any
trading  market  that  might  develop  in the  Company's  securities  may have a
depressive effect upon such market.

     The  Company  will  participate  in a business  opportunity  only after the
negotiation  and  execution of a written  agreement.  Although the terms of such
agreement  cannot  be  predicted,  generally  such an  agreement  would  require
specific  representations and warranties by all of the parties thereto,  specify
certain events of default,  detail the terms of closing and the conditions which
must be satisfied by each of the parties thereto prior to such closing,  outline
the manner of bearing costs if the transaction is not closed, set forth remedies
upon default, and include miscellaneous other terms.

     As a general matter,  the Company  anticipates that it, and/or its officers
and  principal  shareholders  will  enter  into a  letter  of  intent  with  the
management,  principals or owners of a prospective business opportunity prior to
signing a binding agreement. Such a letter of intent will set forth the terms of
the proposed  acquisition but will not bind any of the parties to consummate the
transaction.  Execution  of a letter of intent  will by no means  indicate  that
consummation  of an acquisition is probable.  Neither the Company nor any of the
other  parties  to the  letter  of  intent  will  be  bound  to  consummate  the
acquisition unless and until a definitive  agreement  concerning the acquisition
as described  in the  preceding  paragraph is executed.  Even after a definitive
agreement  is  executed,  it is  possible  that  the  acquisition  would  not be
consummated  should  any  party  elect to  exercise  any right  provided  in the
agreement to terminate it on specified grounds.

                                       6
<PAGE>

     It is anticipated that the investigation of specific business opportunities
and the negotiation,  drafting and execution of relevant agreements,  disclosure
documents and other  instruments  will require  substantial  management time and
attention and  substantial  costs for  accountants,  attorneys and others.  If a
decision were made not to participate in a specific  business  opportunity,  the
costs  theretofore   incurred  in  the  related   investigation   would  not  be
recoverable.  Moreover,  because many  providers  of goods and services  require
compensation at the time or soon after the goods and services are provided,  the
inability of the Company to pay until an  indeterminate  future time may make it
impossible to procure goods and services.

     An acquisition made by the Company may be in an industry which is regulated
or  licensed  by  federal,  state or local  authorities.  Compliance  with  such
regulations can be expected to be a time-consuming and expensive process.


Competition

     The Company expects to encounter substantial  competition in its efforts to
locate attractive opportunities,  primarily from business development companies,
venture capital  partnerships and  corporations,  venture capital  affiliates of
large  industrial  and financial  companies,  small  investment  companies,  and
wealthy  individuals.  Many of these  entities will have  significantly  greater
experience,  resources  and  managerial  capabilities  than the Company and will
therefore  be in a  better  position  than  the  Company  to  obtain  access  to
attractive  business  opportunities.  The Company also will possibly  experience
competition  from other public "Blank Check"  companies,  some of which may have
more funds available than does the Company.

No Rights of Dissenting Shareholders

     The Company  does not intend to provide its  shareholders  with  disclosure
documentation concerning a possible target company prior to acquisition, because
the Nevada Business Corporation Act vests authority in the board of directors to
decide and approve matters involving  acquisitions within certain  restrictions.
If any  transaction  is structured  as an  acquisition,  not a merger,  with the
Company  being the parent  company and the  acquiree  being merged into a wholly
owned subsidiary, a shareholder will have no right of dissent under Nevada law.

Employees

     The  Company has no  employees.  Management  of the Company  expects to use
consultants,  attorneys and accountants as necessary,  and does not anticipate a
need to engage any full-time  employees so long as it is seeking and  evaluating
business  opportunities.  The need for employees and their  availability will be
addressed  in  connection  with  the  decision  whether  or  not to  acquire  or
participate  in specific  business  opportunities.  The Company has previously
paid its Secretary/Treasurer in 2004 and 2009 for her services in bookkeeping,
recordkeeping, filing tax forms and filing of reports with the SEC.  Although
there is no current plan with  respect to its nature or  amount,  additional
remuneration  may be paid to or accrued for the benefit of, the Company's
officers prior to, or in conjunction with, the completion of a business
acquisition for services actually  rendered.


                                       7
<PAGE>

