 ITEM 1. 

BUSINESS 

Overview 

Identiv is a global security technology company that secures data, physical places and things. Global organizations in the government, education, retail, transportation, healthcare and other markets rely upon our solutions. We empower them to create safe, secure, validated and convenient experiences in schools, government offices, factories, transportation, hospitals and virtually every type of facility and for every type of product.

At the beginning of September 2013, we undertook a strategic review of our business and initiated a series of actions to simplify our business structure and streamline our operations. Following the changes in our organizational structure, we changed our operating segments to focus on the following solutions:

&#160;

&#183; 

Premises solutions securing buildings via an integrated access control system. 

&#160;

&#183; 

Information solutions securing enterprise information including PCs, networks, email encryption, login, and printers via delivery of smart card reader products and identity management via our idOnDemand service. 

&#160;

&#183; 

Everyday items solutions securing connected items, including electronic toys, medical devices, wearables and other internet of things applications 

The foundation of our business are our expertise in RFID and access control, our close customer relationships that allow us to develop customer-relevant products, and our core value of quality.

To deliver these solutions, the Company has organized its operations into four reportable business segments, principally by product families: Premises, Identity, Credentials and All Other. 

Premises

The foundation of our premises business is the Hirsch line of controllers including the advanced MX line, Hirsch's Velocity management software and our ICPAM software, EDGE controller and reader package. Our modular Hirsch MX controllers are designed to be scalable, allowing customers to start with a small system and expand over time. Hirsch MX controllers can operate autonomously, whether as a single controller or as part of a networked system with Velocity software. The Hirsch Velocity software platform enables centralized management of access and security operations across an organization, including control of doors, gates, turnstiles, elevators and other building equipment, monitoring users as they move around a facility, preventing unwanted access, maintaining compliance and providing a robust audit trail. 

uTrust door readers provide unique features to support a number of security environments and standards. For example, uTrust TS readers support the majority of legacy card credentials with a robust next-generation platform that can help companies migrate to more secure credentials and technologies, including smart cards, near field communication (&#8220;NFC&#8221;) and government-issued credentials. uTrust Scramblepad readers employ numerical scrambling on the keypad to protect access codes from being stolen as they are entered. 

Identity

Our Identity products include smart card readers, which includes a broad range of contact, contactless, portable and mobile smart card readers, tokens and terminals that are utilized around the world to enable logical (i.e., PC, network or data) access and security and identification applications, such as national ID, payment, e-Health and e-Government. 

Related to our reader product line, we are a leading provider in the definition and provisioning of access cards and other devices that allow users to conveniently and securely access their facilities and resources, and to empower facilities and security administrators to deploy customized solutions with optimal mix of cost, security and convenience to their user community, whether students, hospital patients, military and government personnel, consumers or users.

Credentials

Our Credentials products include NFC and radio frequency identification (&#8220; RFID&#8221;) products &#8212; including inlays and inlay-based cards &#8212; labels, tags and stickers, as well as other radio frequency (&#8220;RF&#8221;) and IC components. These products are manufactured in our state-of-the-art facility in Singapore and are used in a diverse range of physical applications, including electronic entertainment 

games, loyalty cards, mobile payment systems, transit a nd event ticketing, and brand authenticity from pharmaceuticals to consumer goods, hospital resource management and many others. 

Leveraging our expertise in RFID, physical access and physical authentication, we're developing new solutions to extend our platforms across a wide variety of physical use cases. The next major opportunity in our connected world is the Internet of things, which fundamentally is about physical things. We believe our core strength in physical access and physical instrumentation (RFID) markets, our well-established platforms and our deep knowledge of the relevant technologies, position us well in this growth market. 

All Other 

The All Other segment includes products, such as Chipdrive and Digital Media readers. The products included in the All Other segment do not meet the quantitative thresholds for determining reportable segments and therefore have been combined for reporting purposes.

We primarily conduct sales and marketing activities in each of the markets in which we compete, utilizing our own sales and marketing organization to solicit prospective channel partners and customers, provide technical advice and support with respect to products, systems and services, and manage relationships with customers, distributors and/or original equipment manufacturers (&#8220;OEMs&#8221;). We utilize indirect sales channels that may include OEMs, dealers, systems integrators, value added resellers, resellers or Internet sales, although we also sell directly to end users. In support of our sales efforts, we participate in industry events and conduct sales training courses, targeted marketing programs, and ongoing customer, channel partner and third-party communications programs.

Our corporate headquarters are located in Fremont, California. We maintain research and development facilities in California, and Chennai, India, and local operations and sales facilities in Australia, Germany, Hong Kong, India, Japan, Singapore and the U.S. We were founded in 1990 in Munich, Germany and incorporated in 1996 under the laws of the State of Delaware . 

For a discussion of our net revenue by segment and geographic location, see Note 10, Segment Reporting and Geographic Information in the accompanying notes to our consolidated financial statements. 

Market Strategy

Our corporate priority is to drive revenue growth by leveraging our core expertise from our existing product portfolio and our enduring customer relationships, as well as our significant experience addressing solutions across multiple markets, including government, transportation, healthcare, education, banking, critical infrastructure and others.

In particular, we believe that our more than 20 years&#8217; experience delivering physical security solutions to U.S. Government customers has provided us with significant expertise and a quality reputation. Our products enable compliance with federal directives and standards implemented over the past decade, including Homeland Security Presidential Directive (&#8220;HSPD&#8221;) 12 and Federal Information Processing Standard (&#8220;FIPS&#8221;) 201, which defines a common identification standard known as the Personal Identity Verification (&#8220;PIV&#8221;) credential, used by all U.S. Government employees and contractors. We have supplied millions of smart card readers to the Department of Defense and other federal agencies and are a leading supplier of physical access control solutions to both federal and state government customers, including agencies within the Department of Justice, Department of the Treasury, the FBI, and the U.S. Military.

In our increasingly connected world, governments, enterprises, commercial businesses, organizations of every size, and individuals are continually challenged to protect their physical environments and digital resources, which are vulnerable to increasingly determined attacks. As the Internet of Things results in more convenience but also more physical vulnerability, we believe we're positioned to deliver both the convenience promised by the IoT and the physical security required by it. 

We develop and sell integrated physical access control solutions to government and enterprise customers worldwid e. Our systems integrate access control, video surveillance, intrusion detection, building management and other network-based systems using a wide range of access cards, including PIV cards, smart cards, RFID cards and biometrics in order to successfully secure facilities and resources. 

Our offerings include Hirsch MX controllers, Velocity management software, ICPAM software and EDGE controller systems. These combined with door readers and access cards provide scalable systems, allowing customers to start with a small system and expand it over time. Hirsch and ICPAM EM-100 controllers can operate autonomously, whether as a single controller or as part of a networked system with Velocity or ICPAM software. The Hirsch Velocity software platform enables centralized management of access and security operations across an organization, including control of doors, gates, turnstiles, elevators and other building equipment, monitoring users as they move around a facility, preventing unwanted access, maintaining compliance and providing a 

robust audit trail. Our door readers provide unique features to support a number of security environments and standards. For example, our S cramblepad readers employ numerical scrambling on the keypad to protect access codes from being stolen as they are entered. Our TouchSecure readers support the majority of legacy card credentials with a robust next generation platform that can help compani es expand to encompass other credentials and technologies, including smart cards, and mobile government-issued cards. 

&#160;

Identiv is a leading global supplier of smart card readers. We offer a broad range of contact, contactless and mobile smart card readers, tokens and terminals that are utilized around the world to enable logical (i.e., PC, network, or data) access and security and identification applications, such as national ID, payment and eHealth and eGovernment. To support the growing demand for solutions that provide secure access via mobile devices, sometimes known as &#8220;bring your own device&#8221; (&#8220;BYOD&#8221;), our mobile readers allow users to securely authenticate using iOS&#8482; or Android&#8482; devices, when they present standard credentials issued by the U.S. Government, including the PIV card and its predecessor, the Common Access Card (&#8220;CAC&#8221;), as well as the PIV-I card issued by commercial contractors under a similar security standard. 

&#160;

We design and manufacture a broad range of NFC and RFID products, including inlays and inlay-based cards, labels, tags and stickers, as well as other RF and IC components. Our inlays and converted inlay products are used in a diverse range of identity-based applications, including electronic entertainment, loyalty schemes, mobile payment, transit and event ticketing, and others. 

Leveraging our expertise in RFID and NFC technology, and mobility, we are developing new solutions for a wide range of physical connected items, also known as the &#8220;Internet of Things.&#8221; Market analysts estimate that by 2020 the number of physical things connected to the Internet will grow into the tens of billions. These will include household appliances, vehicles, medicines, home security systems, books, luggage, jewelry, toys and a host of other objects. We believe the growth of the Internet of Things creates significant opportunities to provide physical access and authentication into nearly every industry, worldwide. We plan to leverage our physical access and RFID-based physical device-management expertise to provide leading solutions as our customers embrace the Internet of Things.

Customers 

We sell to customers worldwide in a diverse range of markets, including government, enterprise, consumer, education, healthcare and transportation. Sales to our ten largest customers accounted for 35% of total net revenue in 2015 and 44% of total net revenue in 2014. One customer accounted for 14% of our total net revenue in 2015. One customer accounted for 23% of our total net revenue in 2014. A significant amount of revenue is sourced from sales of products and systems to our OEM partners and an indirect sales network who sell to various entities within the U.S. federal government sector. U.S. federal government sales are primarily delivered through our OEM partners and an indirect sales network or are priced using published General Service Administration schedules. 

Sales and Marketing

We primarily conduct our own sales and marketing activities in each of the markets in which we compete, utilizing our own sales and marketing organization to solicit prospective channel partners and customers, provide technical advice and support with respect to products, systems and services, and manage relationships with customers, distributors and/or OEMs. We sell our smart card readers and RFID/NFC products directly to end users and utilize indirect sales channels that may include OEMs, dealers, systems integrators, value added resellers, resellers or Internet sales. We sell our physical access control solutions and our idOnDemand cloud-based identity and access management services primarily through systems integrators, dealers and value added partners, although we also sell directly to end users. In support of our sales efforts, we participate in trade shows and conduct sales training courses, targeted marketing programs, and ongoing customer, channel partner and third-party communications programs. 

Competition

The market for security solutions is competitive and characterized by rapidly changing technology and evolving standards in the industry as a whole and within specific markets. We believe that competition for security solutions is likely to intensify as a result of an ongoing increase in demand for cloud-based credential provisioning and management services as well as solutions that help converge physical and logical access control systems and RFID and NFC products to enable expansion of the connected world.

We face a range of competition for our products, systems and solutions. Competition for our smart card readers and related products primarily comes from several well-established companies, including Gemalto NV and OMNIKEY/HID Global (a division of ASSA ABLOY AB), as well as from a number of smaller suppliers in Asia. Competition for our RFID inlays and inlay-based products comes from a small number of organizations that understand the specialized processes and have the capital equipment required to serve the RFID/NFC technology market. Competitors in this market include SMARTRAC NV, who in the last few years has acquired former competitors UPM RFID and KSW Microtec, as well as a number of inlay conversion companies in Asia. In the market for 

NF C tags, readers and other solutions, we face competition from traditional smart card reader and RFID technology providers, including Gemalto and ASSA ABLOY for NFC readers, and SMARTRAC and other inlay converters for NFC tags. 

Enterprise-class physical access control solutions are available from multiple suppliers. In this market we primarily compete with AMAG Technology (a division of G4S plc), Lenel Systems International (a division of United Technologies Corp.), Software House (a division of Tyco International Ltd.), Gallagher Group Ltd, and Honeywell International Inc. 

We may in the future face competition from other parties that develop physical security and RFID solutions based upon approaches similar to or different from those employed by us. In addition, these markets for security solutions may ultimately be dominated by approaches other than the approach marketed by us. We believe that the principal competitive factors affecting the market for our products, systems and solutions include: 

&#160;

&#183; 

technical features; 

&#160;

&#183; 

the ability of channel partners to effectively integrate multiple products and systems in order to address customer requirements including full system capabilities, cost of ownership and ease of use; 

&#160;

&#183; 

quality and reliability; 

&#160;

&#183; 

the ability of suppliers to quickly develop new products and integrated solutions to satisfy new customer requirements; 

&#160;

&#183; 

ease of use; 

&#160;

&#183; 

strength of sales and distribution channels; and 

&#160;

&#183; 

price and total cost of system ownership. 

While we believe that we compete favorably within our market environment, our ability to continue to successfully compete is subject to a variety of factors, as further discussed below in &#8220;Item 1A. Risk Factors&#8221; in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Seasonality and Other Factors

In our business overall, we may experience significant variations in demand for our offerings from quarter to quarter, and overall we typically experience a stronger demand cycle in the second half of our fiscal year. Sales of our physical access control solutions to U.S. Government agencies are subject to annual government budget cycles and generally are highest in the third quarter of each year; however the impact of overall budget reductions from actions such as government shutdowns and potential sequester actions on this seasonal trend is uncertain. Sales of our smart card readers and reader chips, many of which are sold to government agencies, are impacted by testing and compliance schedules of government bodies as well as roll-out schedules for application deployments, both of which contribute to variability in demand from quarter to quarter. Further, this business is typically subject to seasonality based on commercial and government budget cycles, with lower sales in the first half, and in particular the first quarter of the year, and the highest sales in the second half of each year. 

In addition to the general seasonality of demand, overall U.S. Government expenditure levels have a significant impact on demand for our products due to the significant portion of end demand for our products that we believe is sourced from U.S. Government agencies. Therefore, any significant reduction in U.S. Government spending could adversely impact our financial results and could cause our operating results to fall below any guidance we provide to the market or below the expectations of investors or security analysts.

Backlog 

We typically do not maintain a significant level of backlog and revenue in any quarter significantly depends on contracts entered into or orders received and shipped in that quarter. The majority of our sales are made primarily pursuant to purchase orders for current delivery or agreements covering purchases over a period of time. While our customer contracts generally do not require fixed long-term purchase commitments, from time to time we do enter into customer contracts where delivery of products, systems or services is ongoing or is scheduled over multiple quarters or years. In view of our order and shipment patterns, and because of the possibility of customer changes in delivery schedules or cancellation of orders, we do not believe that the ongoing arrangements we enter into provide meaningful backlog figures or are necessarily indicative of actual sales for any succeeding period.

Research and Development

We have made and continue to make significant investments in research and the development of trust solutions for customers in the government, enterprise, consumer and commercial markets. We focus the bulk of our research and development activities on the development of products and solutions for new and emerging market opportunities. In addition to developing core technology that can 

be leveraged across a number of products, our engineering team works with product managers, applications engineers, di stribution partners and customers to develop new products, product enhancements, software and systems to meet customer and market requirements. We also strive to develop and maintain close relationships with key suppliers of components and technologies in order to be able to quickly introduce new offerings that incorporate the latest technological advances. New offerings introduced across our businesses resulting in new inventions provide opportunities for new patent applications. 

Our recent research and development activities have included enhancements for our cloud-based credential provisioning and management offerings and the ongoing development of physical access controller platforms, which address new market trends such as secure mobile access and extends our available customer base to include smaller enterprises. On an ongoing basis, we invest in the development of new contactless readers, tokens and modules, new physical access readers to enable converged physical and logical access, and in the extension of our contactless platforms. In addition, we continue to enhance and broaden our RFID and NFC inlay designs and technologies in the areas of security, enablement for NFC applications, card manufacturing and other applications. 

We attempt to balance our investment in new technologies, products and services with careful management of our development resources so that our increased development activities do not result in unexpected or significant changes in our overall spending on research and development. Research and development expenses were $9.2 million in 2015 and $6.9 million in 2014 and we capitalized expense related to development of our cloud-based services of $0.1 million in 2015 and $0.5 million in 2014.

We conduct our research and development activities from several locations around the world. Development of our smart card reader products and technologies primarily takes places in India. Development of our cloud-based credential provisioning and management offering primarily takes place in California. Development of our physical access control solutions primarily takes place in California. Development of our RFID and NFC products and technology primarily takes place in Singapore. 

Proprietary Technology and Intellectual Property 

Our success depends partly upon our proprietary technology. We currently rely on a combination of patent, copyright and trademark laws, trade secrets, confidentiality agreements and contractual provisions to protect our proprietary rights, which afford only limited protection. Although we often seek to protect our proprietary technology through patents, it is possible that no new patents will be issued, that our proprietary products or technologies are not patentable, and that any issued patent will fail to provide us with any competitive advantages. The core of our proprietary technology advantage is the combination of our advanced technical expertise combined with our intimate customer knowledge, enabling us to develop and bring to market products uniquely positioned to deliver benefits to customers. This is an intellectual property advantage more characterized by trade secrets and unique relationships than formal patents.

&#160;

There has been a great deal of litigation in the technology industry regarding intellectual property rights and from time to time we may be required to use litigation to protect our proprietary technology. This may result in our incurring substantial costs and there is no assurance that we would be successful in any such litigation. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products or to use our proprietary information and software without authorization. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect proprietary and intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws in the U.S. Because many of our products are sold and a substantial portion of our business is conducted outside the U.S., our exposure to intellectual property risks may be higher. Our means of protecting our proprietary and intellectual property rights may not be adequate. There is a risk that our competitors will independently develop similar technology, duplicate our products or design around our patents or other intellectual property rights. If we are unsuccessful in protecting our intellectual property or our products or technologies are duplicated by others, our business could be harmed. 

In addition, we have from time to time received claims that we are infringing upon third parties&#8217; intellectual property rights. Future disputes with third parties may arise and these disputes may not be resolved on terms acceptable to us. As the number of products and competitors in our target markets grow, the likelihood of infringement claims also increases. Any claims or litigation may be time-consuming and costly, divert management resources, cause product shipment delays, or require us to redesign our products, accept product returns or to write-off inventory. Any of these events could have a material adverse impact on our business and operating results. 

We have a portfolio of approximately 30 patent families (designs, patents, utility models, patents pending and exclusive licenses) in individual or regional filings, covering products, electrical and mechanical designs, software systems and methods and manufacturing process ideas for our various businesses. We also submitted and have pending U.S. and foreign patent filings in RFID tags, converged access readers and systems, smart card manufacturing methods, authentication and cloud-based systems and NFC offerings. Additionally, we leverage our own ASIC designs for smart card interface in some of our reader devices. However, none of our patents are currently material to our business.

Manufacturing and Sources of Supply 

We utilize a combination of our own manufacturing facilities and the services of contract manufacturers in various countries around the world to manufacture our products and components. Our physical access keypads, controllers and software are manufactured primarily in California, using locally sourced components. The majority of our smart card reader products and components are manufactured in Singapore and China. Our RFID and NFC inlays and inlay-based products such as labels and tags are manufactured and assembled by our own internal manufacturing teams in Singapore primarily using locally sourced components and are certified to the ISO 9001:2000 quality manufacturing standard. 

We have implemented formal quality control programs to satisfy customer requirements for high quality and reliable products. To ensure that products manufactured by third parties are consistent with internal standards, our quality control programs include management of all key aspects of the production process, including establishing product specifications, selecting the components to be used to produce products, selecting the suppliers of these components and negotiating the prices for certain of these components. In addition, we may work with suppliers to improve process control and product design. 

We believe that our success will depend in large part on our ability to provide quality products and services while ensuring the highest level of security for our products during the manufacturing process. In the event any of our contract manufacturers are unable or unwilling to continue to manufacture our products, we may have to rely on other current manufacturing sources or identify and qualify new contract manufacturers. Any significant delay in our ability to obtain adequate supplies of our products from current or alternative sources would harm our business and operating results. 

For the majority of our product manufacturing, we utilize a global sourcing strategy that serves all business solution areas within the company, which allows us to achieve economies of scale and uniform quality standards for our products and support higher gross margins. 

On an ongoing basis, we analyze the need to add alternative sources for both our products and components. For example, we currently utilize the foundry services of external suppliers to produce our ASICs for smart cards readers and inlays, and we use chips and antenna components from third-party suppliers in our RFID and NFC inlays and contactless smart card readers. Wherever possible, we have qualified additional sources of supply for components. However, a risk remains that we may be adversely impacted by an inadequate supply of components, price increases, late deliveries or poor component quality. In addition, some of the basic components used in our reader products, such as semiconductors, may at any time be in great demand. This could result in components not being available to us in a timely manner or at all, particularly if larger companies have ordered significant volumes of these components, or higher prices being charged for components we require. 

Employees

As of December 31, 2015, we had 305 employees, of which 98 were in research and development, 90 were in sales and marketing, 33 were in general and administrative and 84 were in manufacturing and related functions. We are not subject to any collective bargaining agreements and, to our knowledge, none of our employees are currently represented by a labor union. To date, we have experienced no work stoppages and believe that our employee relations are generally good. 

Foreign Operations; Properties 

We operate globally, with corporate headquarters in Fremont, California. We also maintain leased facilities in Australia, Germany, Hong Kong, India, Japan, Singapore and the U.S. We consider these properties adequate for our business needs. 

Special Committee Investigation 

In April 2015 the Company was served with a complaint (the &#8220;Complaint&#8221;) from a former employee alleging, among other things, certain expense reimbursement issues with respect to certain executive officers and certain other employees of the Company. The Board of Directors of the Company formed a special committee (the &#8220;Committee&#8221;) to investigate the allegations contained in the Complaint and related matters with the assistance of independent counsel. As a result of the ongoing investigation, the Company did not timely file its quarterly reports on Form 10-Q for the quarters ended March 31, 2015, June 30, 2015 and September 30, 2015.

On September 9, 2015, after reviewing the findings of the Committee, the Board of Directors appointed Steven Humphreys as the Chief Executive Officer of the Company, replacing Jason Hart, and appointed James Ousley Chairman of the Board. Mr. Hart continued to serve as President and as a director of the Company until February 2, 2016, when Mr. Hart ceased serving as an officer and director of the Company in connection a restructuring plan announced by the Company on February 2, 2016.

Unrelated to the Committee&#8217;s investigation, effective November 18, 2015, the Board of Directors appointed Steven Finney as interim Chief Financial Officer. Mr. Finney continues to serve as the Company&#8217;s principal financial officer and principal accounting officer. 

Legal Proceedings 

On December 7, 2015, we and certain of our present and former officers and directors were named as defendants in a putative class action lawsuit filed in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California, entitled Ruggiero v. Identiv, Inc. , et al., Case No. 15-cv-05583. The complaint in that lawsuit alleged violations of Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 10b-5 promulgated thereunder and Section 20(a) of the Exchange Act of 1934 based on allegations that we made false and/or misleading statements and/or failed to disclose information in certain public filings and disclosures between 2013 and 2015. The complaint sought unspecified monetary damages, reasonable costs and attorneys&#8217; fees, and equitable and injunctive relief. On December 16, 2015, that lawsuit was voluntarily dismissed without prejudice. 

Between December 2015 and February 2016, a number of other shareholder lawsuits were filed. On December 16, 2015, we and certain of our present and former officers and directors were named as defendants in a putative class action lawsuit filed in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California, entitled Rok v. Identiv, Inc., et al. , Case No. 15-cv-05775, alleging violations of Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 10b-5 promulgated thereunder and Section 20(a) of the Exchange Act of 1934. In addition, three shareholder derivative actions were filed between January and February 2016. On January 1, 2016, certain of our present and former officers and directors were named as defendants, and we were named as nominal defendant, in a shareholder derivative lawsuit filed in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California, entitled Oswald v. Humphreys, et al. , Case No. 16-cv-00241-JCS, alleging breach of fiduciary duty and abuse of control claims. On January 25, 2016, certain of our present and former officers and directors were named as defendants, and we were named as nominal defendant, in a shareholder derivative lawsuit filed in the Superior Court of the State of California, County of Alameda, entitled Chopra v. Hart, et al. , Case No. RG16801379, alleging breach of fiduciary duty claims. On February 9, 2016, certain of our present and former officers and directors were named as defendants, and the Company was named as nominal defendant, in a shareholder derivative lawsuit filed in the Superior Court of the State of California, County of Alameda, entitled Wollnik v. Wenzel, et al. , Case No. HG16803342, alleging breach of fiduciary duty, corporate waste, gross mismanagement, and unjust enrichment claims. These lawsuits generally allege that we made false and/or misleading statements and/or failed to disclose information in certain public filings and disclosures between 2013 and 2015. Each of the lawsuits seeks one or more of the following remedies: unspecified compensatory damages, unspecified exemplary or punitive damages, restitution, declaratory relief, equitable and injunctive relief, and reasonable costs and attorneys&#8217; fees. We intend to vigorously defend against these lawsuits. We cannot currently predict the impact or resolution of each of these lawsuits or reasonably estimate a range of possible loss, which could be material, and the resolution of these lawsuits may harm our business and have a material adverse impact on our financial condition.

From time to time, we could become subject to claims arising in the ordinary course of business or could be named a defendant in additional lawsuits. The outcome of such claims or other proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty and may have a material effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 

Availability of SEC Filings 

We make available through our website our Annual Reports on Form 10-K,Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports free of charge as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission (&#8220;SEC&#8221;). Our Internet address is www.identiv.com. The content on our website is not, nor should it be deemed to be, incorporated by reference into this Annual Report. Additionally, documents filed by us with the SEC may be read and copied at the Public Reference Section of the SEC, 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. Our filings with the SEC are also available to the public through the SEC&#8217;s website at www.sec.gov . 

&#160;

