 Item 1. Business 

Overview 

QVC, Inc. and its subsidiaries market and sell a wide variety of consumer products primarily through live merchandise-focused televised shopping programs distributed to approximately 358 million &#32;worldwide households each day (including our joint venture in China as discussed below in further detail) and via our websites, including QVC.com, and other interactive media, such as mobile applications (unless otherwise indicated or required by the context, the terms "we," "our," "us," the "Company," and "QVC" refer to QVC, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries). We believe we are the global leader in television retailing and a leading multimedia retailer, with operations based in the United States (U.S.), Germany, Japan, the United Kingdom (U.K.), Italy and France. Additionally, we have a 49% &#32;interest in a retailing joint venture in China, which operates through a television shopping channel with an associated website. The joint venture is accounted for as an equity method investment. Our name, QVC, stands for "Quality, Value and Convenience," which is what we strive to deliver to our customers. Our operating strategy is to create a premier multimedia lifestyle brand and shopping destination for our customers, further penetrate our core customer base, generate new customers, enhance our programming distribution offerings and expand internationally to drive revenue and profitability. For the year ended December 31, 2015 , approximately 92% &#32;of our worldwide shipped sales were from repeat and reactivated customers (i.e., customers who made a purchase from us during the prior twelve months and customers who previously made a purchase from us but not during the prior twelve months). In the same period, we attracted approximately 3.3 million &#32;new customers. Our global e-commerce operation comprised $3.9 billion , or 44% , of our consolidated net revenue for the year ended December 31, 2015 . 

We market our products in an engaging, entertaining format primarily through merchandise-focused live television programs and interactive features on our websites and other interactive media. In the U.S., we distribute our programming live 24 hours per day, 364 days per year and present on average 773 &#32;products every week. Internationally, we distribute live programming 8 &#32;to 24 hours &#32;per day, depending on the market. We classify our products into six groups: home, beauty, apparel, jewelry, accessories and electronics. It is our product sourcing team's mission to research and locate compelling and differentiated products from manufacturers who have sufficient scale to meet anticipated demand. We offer many QVC-exclusive products, as well as popular brand name and lesser known products available from other retailers. Many of our products are endorsed by celebrities, designers and other well-known personalities who often join our presenters to personally promote their products and provide lead-in publicity on their own television shows. We believe that our ability to demonstrate product features and present &#8220;faces and places&#8221; differentiates and defines the QVC shopping experience. We closely monitor customer demand and our product mix to remain well-positioned and relevant in popular and growing retail segments, which we believe is a significant competitive advantage relative to competitors who operate brick-and-mortar stores. 

Since our inception, we have shipped over 1.85 billion &#32;packages in the U.S. alone. We operate eight &#32;distribution centers and eight &#32;call centers worldwide. In the U.S., we are able to ship approximately 91% &#32;of our orders within two days of the order placement. Globally, we are able to ship approximately 93% &#32;of our orders within two days of the order placement. In 2015 , our work force of approximately 17,600 &#32;employees handled approximately 190 million &#32;customer calls, shipped approximately 179 million &#32;units globally and served approximately 13 million &#32;customers. We believe our long-term relationships with major U.S. television distributors, including cable operators (e.g., Comcast and Cox), satellite television providers (e.g., DISH Network and DIRECTV) and telecommunications companies (e.g., Verizon and AT&#38;T (excluding DIRECTV)), provide us with broad distribution, favorable channel positioning and significant competitive advantages. We believe that our significant market share, brand awareness, outstanding customer service, repeat customer base, international reach and scalable infrastructure distinguish us from our competitors. 

History 

QVC was founded on June 13, 1986 by Joseph Segel. Our first U.S. live broadcast took place at 7:30 PM ET on November 24 of that year, reaching 7.6 million TV homes. Initially broadcast live from 7:30 PM ET until midnight each weekday and all day Saturdays and Sundays, the channel extended its live U.S. programming to 24 hours per day in January 1987. 

In 1995, Comcast purchased a majority shareholding in QVC, taking control of the Company. In 2003, Comcast sold its majority share to Liberty Interactive Corporation ("Liberty," formerly known as Liberty Media Corporation). 

Please see "QVC-U.S." and "QVC-International" below for information on the development of our U.S. and international businesses. 

I-1 

Operating segments 

During the year ended December 31, 2015 , QVC put into action the One Q Reorganization Plan (&#8220;One Q&#8221;) which reorganized the Company's reporting structure. This plan essentially discontinued the historical operational strategy of mirroring the original U.S. business in the different markets where each market was managed as a separate entity. The purpose of the plan is to reorganize the reporting structure for the shared services to support the US and international segments. Beginning in the fourth quarter of 2015, QVC has changed its reportable segments to QVC-U.S. and QVC-International. These segments reflect changes in the way the Company evaluates its business performance and manages its operations. We have presented the financial information for earlier periods covered in this Annual Report on Form 10-K to reflect the change in our reportable segments. For financial information about our operating segments, please refer to note 15 of our audited consolidated financial statements, as well as to Item 7. "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations." 

QVC-U.S. 

Our live televised shopping programs are distributed nationally, 24 hours per day, 364 days per year, to approximately 107 million &#32;television households. We distribute our programs to approximately 98% &#32;of television households subscribing to services offered by television distributors. QVC-U.S. programming is also available on QVC.com, our U.S. website, and mobile applications via streaming video. QVC-U.S., including QVC.com, contributed $6.3 billion , or 71.6% , of consolidated net revenue and $1.5 billion &#32;of Adjusted OIBDA (defined below) for the year ended December 31, 2015 . 

In March 2013, QVC-U.S. launched over-the-air broadcasting in designated U.S. markets that can be accessed by any television household with a digital antenna in such markets, regardless of whether it subscribes to a paid television service. This allows QVC-U.S. to reach new customers who previously did not have access to the program through other television platforms. 

In August 2013, QVC-U.S. launched an additional channel, QVC Plus, which is being distributed through cable and satellite systems. The channel allows viewers to have access to a broader range of QVC programming options as well as more relevant programming for viewers in differing time zones. 

We have established QVC-U.S. as the televised shopping leader after building a track record of outstanding quality and customer service, establishing favorable channel positioning and generating repeat business from our core customer base. We estimate our share of the U.S. televised shopping revenue in 2015, among QVC-U.S. and its two primary televised shopping competitors HSN, Inc. ("HSN") and EVINE Live Inc. ("EVINE Live") to be approximately two-thirds. We believe QVC-U.S. also compares favorably in terms of sales to general, non-television based retailers due to our extensive customer reach and efficient cost structure. 

QVC.com, launched in 1996, complements our televised shopping programs by allowing consumers to purchase a wide assortment of goods offered on our televised programs, as well as other products that are available only on QVC.com. We view e-commerce as a natural extension of our business, allowing us to stream live video and offer on-demand video segments of items recently presented live on our televised programs. QVC.com allows shoppers to browse, research, compare and perform targeted searches for products, control the order-entry process and conveniently access their QVC account. For the year ended December 31, 2015 , approximately 72.5% &#32;of our new U.S. customers made their first purchase through QVC.com. 

The table below illustrates QVC.com's growth since 2013: 

Years ended December 31, 

&#160; 

(in millions) 

2014 

QVC.com net revenue 

$ 

3,059 

$ 

2,740 

$ 

2,501 

Total U.S. net revenue 

6,257 

6,055 

5,844 

QVC.com % of total U.S. net revenue 

48.9 

% 

45.3 

% 

42.8 

% 

I-2 

QVC-International 

Our televised shopping programs reached approximately 137 million &#32;television households outside of the U.S., primarily in Germany, Austria, Japan, the U.K., the Republic of Ireland, Italy and France. In addition, our joint venture in China reached approximately 114 million &#32;homes. The programming created for most of these markets is also available via streaming video on our international websites and mobile applications. Our international business employs product sourcing teams who select products tailored to the interests of each local market. For the year ended December 31, 2015 , our international operations generated $2.5 billion , or 28.4% , of consolidated net revenue and $427.0 million &#32;of Adjusted OIBDA (defined below), and our international websites generated $791 million , or 31.8% , of our total international net revenue. 

QVC-Germany. &#32;QVC-Germany went on air in December 1996 and currently broadcasts 17 hours of live programming each day and reaches approximately 41 million &#32;total households that are located in both Germany and Austria. Beyond the main channel, QVC-Germany also broadcasts pre-recorded shows on two additional channels, QVC Beauty &#38; Style and QVC Plus, which allows viewers to access a broader range of programming options. 

QVC-Japan. &#32;We own 60% &#32;of QVC-Japan through a venture with Mitsui &#38; Co., LTD ("Mitsui"). QVC-Japan launched in April 2001 and currently broadcasts 24 hours of live programming each day and reaches approximately 26 million &#32;total households. In 2014, QVC-Japan launched Q-plus, which consists of infomercial programming distributed by purchasing available airtime on certain channels. 

QVC-U.K. &#32;QVC-U.K. went on air in October 1993 and currently broadcasts 16 hours of live programming each day and reaches approximately 27 million &#32;total households that are located in both the U.K. and the Republic of Ireland. Beyond the main channel, QVC-U.K. also broadcasts pre-recorded shows on four additional channels, QVC Beauty, QVC Extra, QVC Style and QVC +1, which allows viewers to access a broader range of programming options. 

QVC-Italy. &#32;QVC-Italy went on air in October 2010 and is currently in its sixth year of operation. QVC's shopping program in Italy reaches approximately 25 million &#32;households and is broadcast live for 17 hours each day on satellite and digital terrestrial television. QVC-Italy broadcasts an additional seven hours each day of recorded programming on satellite and seven hours each day of general interest programming on digital terrestrial television. 

QVC-France. &#32;In June 2015, QVC expanded its global presence into France, launching its website on June 23, 2015 followed by the launch of television programming on August 1, 2015. QVC-France reaches approximately 18 million &#32;households in France. On weekdays, QVC-France distributes shopping programming live for eight hours per day, and distributes an additional 14 hours per day of recorded programming and two hours per day of general interest programming. On weekends, QVC-France distributes shopping programming live for 12 hours per day, and distributes an additional 10 hours per day of recorded programming and two hours per day of general interest programming. 

China Joint Venture. &#32;On July 4, 2012, we entered into a joint venture with Beijing-based CNR Media Group, formerly known as China Broadcasting Corporation, a limited liability company owned by China National Radio ("CNR"), China's government-owned radio division. The joint venture, CNR Home Shopping Co., Ltd. ("CNRS"), is owned 49% &#32;by QVC and 51% &#32;by CNR through subsidiaries of each company. CNRS operates a retailing business in China through a shopping television channel with an associated website. This joint venture combines CNRS's existing knowledge of the digital shopping market and consumers in China with QVC's global experience and know-how in multimedia retailing. CNRS distributes live programming for 17 &#32;hours each day and recorded programming for seven &#32;hours each day. The CNRS joint venture is accounted for as an equity method investment recorded as equity in losses of investee in the consolidated statements of operations. 

I-3 

Adjusted Operating Income before Depreciation and Amortization (Adjusted OIBDA) 

QVC defines Adjusted OIBDA as net revenue less cost of goods sold, operating expenses and selling, general and administrative expenses (excluding stock-based compensation). QVC's chief operating decision maker and management team use this measure of performance in conjunction with other measures to evaluate the businesses and make decisions about allocating resources among the businesses. QVC believes that this is an important indicator of the operational strength and performance of the businesses, including the ability to service debt and fund capital expenditures. In addition, this measure allows QVC to view operating results, perform analytical comparisons and perform benchmarking among its businesses and identify strategies to improve performance. This measure of performance excludes such costs as depreciation, amortization and stock-based compensation that are included in the measurement of operating income pursuant to generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America ("U.S. GAAP" or "GAAP"). Accordingly, Adjusted OIBDA should be considered in addition to, but not as a substitute for, operating income, net income, cash flow provided by operating activities and other measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. 

The primary material limitations associated with the use of Adjusted OIBDA as compared to GAAP results are (i) it may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies in the industry, and (ii) it excludes financial information that some may consider important in evaluating QVC's performance. QVC compensates for these limitations by providing disclosure of the difference between Adjusted OIBDA and GAAP results, including providing a reconciliation of Adjusted OIBDA to GAAP results, to enable investors to perform their own analysis of QVC's operating results. Refer to note 15 to the consolidated financial statements for a reconciliation of Adjusted OIBDA to income before income taxes. 

Merchandise 

We believe that our ability to combine product and programming helps us create competitive advantages over traditional brick-and-mortar and Internet retailers. We seek to offer our customers an assortment of compelling, high-quality products. In the U.S., we present on average 773 &#32;products every week on our live televised programming, approximately 23% &#32;of which have not been presented previously to our television audience. We offer customers high-quality and brand name products marketed in a creative, informative, entertaining and engaging style. We provide a differentiated shopping experience by offering customers the opportunity to experience not only the product being sold, but also the people and places behind that product, thereby enhancing their overall shopping experience. 

Our global merchandise mix is similar to that of a high-quality department store, featuring the best in: (i) home, (ii) beauty, (iii) apparel, (iv) jewelry, (v) accessories and (vi) electronics, which, in 2015, accounted for 33%, 17%, 17%, 10%, 13% and 10%, respectively, of our consolidated shipped sales. For the year ended December 31, 2014 , such percentages were 32%, 17%, 16%, 12%, 12% and 11%, respectively. For the year ended December 31, 2013 , such percentages were 31%, 17%, 16%, 12%, 12% and 12%, respectively. Many of our brands are exclusive, while others are created by well-known designers. 

A key difference between us and traditional brick-and-mortar retailers is that we are able to quickly adapt what merchandise we present as a direct response to what is selling and what is not. We utilize a test and re-order model to determine initial customer demand. Through constant monitoring, we manage our product offerings to maximize net revenue and fulfill current demand in large growth segments where we can gain a greater share of our customers' purchases. Our merchandising team is dedicated to consistently researching, pursuing and launching new products and brand opportunities. With a management mandate to deliver hard-to-find value, this product search group constantly pursues securing quality goods from manufacturers with enough scale to offer sufficient supply to our existing and future customers. We maintain strong relationships with our vendors, many of which find our marketing distribution channel attractive due to the showcasing and story-telling elements of our programming, the velocity of our sales and our pricing model integrity. This efficient sales/marketing strategy is mirrored on our websites. 

I-4 

We purchase, or obtain on consignment, products from U.S. and foreign manufacturers and wholesalers, often on favorable terms based upon the volume of the transactions. We have attracted some of the world's most respected consumer brands as well as celebrities, entrepreneurs and designers to promote these brands. Brand leaders such as Dell, Dooney &#38; Bourke, Dyson, Judith Ripka and Philosophy reach a broad audience while product representatives share the stories behind these brands. We have agreements with celebrities, entrepreneurs and designers such as Ellen Degeneres, Isaac Mizrahi and Rachael Ray enabling us to provide entertaining and engaging programming that develops a lifestyle bond with our customers. These celebrity personalities and product representatives often provide pre-appearance publicity for their QVC products on other television shows, enhancing demand during their QVC appearances. We cross-promote between our e-commerce and mobile platform and our television programming to promote the use of each platform as a standalone entity. Our e-commerce efforts are focused on creating a community of online shoppers by translating our televised themes, personalities and shopping experience for each platform. 

We do not depend on any single supplier or designer for a significant portion of our inventory purchases. 

Distribution 

We distribute our television programs, via satellite and optical fiber, to cable television and direct-to-home satellite system operators for retransmission to their subscribers in the U.S., Germany, Japan, the U.K., France and neighboring countries. We also transmit our television programs over digital terrestrial broadcast television to viewers throughout Italy, the U.K. and to viewers in certain geographic regions in the U.S and Germany. In the U.S., we uplink our analog and digital programming transmissions using a third party service. Both transmissions are uplinked to protected, non-preemptible transponders on U.S. satellites. "Protected" status means that, in the event of a transponder failure, our signal will be transferred to a spare transponder or, if none is available, to a preemptible transponder located on the same satellite or, in certain cases, to a transponder on another satellite owned by the same service provider if one is available at the time of the failure. "Non-preemptible" status means that, in the event of a transponder failure, our transponders cannot be preempted in favor of a user of a failed transponder, even another user with "protected status." Our international business units each obtain uplinking services from third parties and transmit their programming to non-preemptible transponders on international satellites. Our transponder service agreements for our U.S. transponders expire at the earlier of the end of the lives of the satellites or the service agreements. The service agreements in the U.S. expire between 2019 and 2023. Our transponder service agreements for our international transponders expire between 2019 and 2024. 

We continually seek to expand and enhance our television and e-commerce platforms, as well as to further our international operations and multimedia capabilities. We launched QVCHD in the U.S. in April 2008, and in May 2009, we became the first U.S. multimedia retailer to offer a native HD service. QVCHD is a high-definition simulcast of our U.S. telecast utilizing the full 16x9 screen ratio, while keeping the side panel for additional information. High-definition, or HD, programming allows us to utilize a typically wider television screen with crisper and more colorful images to present a larger &#8220;storefront,&#8221; which we believe captures the attention of channel &#8220;surfers&#8221; and engages our customers. In the U.S., QVCHD reaches approximately 80 million &#32;television households. We continue to develop and launch features to further enrich the television viewing experience. 

Beyond the main live programming, QVC channels, including QVCHD, the U.S., Germany and the U.K also broadcast pre-recorded shows on additional channels that offer viewers access to a broader range of QVC programming options. These channels include QVC Plus in the U.S., QVC Beauty &#38; Style and QVC Plus in Germany and QVC Beauty, QVC Extra, QVC Style and QVC +1 in the U.K. 

Affiliation agreements 

We enter into long-term affiliation agreements with certain of our television distributors who downlink our programming and distribute the programming to their customers. Our affiliation agreements with both U.S. and international distributors have termination dates ranging from 2016 to 2022 . Our ability to continue to sell products to our customers is dependent on our ability to maintain and renew these affiliation agreements in the future. Although we are typically successful in obtaining and renewing these agreements, we do not have distribution agreements with some of the distributors that carry our programming. In total, we are currently providing programming without affiliation agreements to distributors representing approximately 6% &#32;of our U.S. distribution, and short-term, rolling 90 day letters of extension, to distributors who represent approximately 25% &#32;of our U.S. distribution. Some of our international programming may continue to be carried by distributors after the expiration dates on our affiliation agreements with them have passed. 

I-5 

In return for carrying our signals, each programming distributor in the U.S. receives an allocated portion, based upon market share, of up to 5% &#32;of the net sales of merchandise sold via the television programs and from certain Internet sales to customers located in the programming distributor's service areas. Internationally, programming distributors predominately receive an agreed-upon annual fee, a monthly or yearly fee per subscriber regardless of the net sales, a variable percentage of net sales or some combination of the above arrangements. 

In addition to sales-based commissions or per-subscriber fees, we also make payments to distributors primarily in the U.S. for carriage and to secure positioning within a broadcast area or within the general entertainment area on the distributor's channel line-up. We believe that a portion of our sales is attributable to purchases resulting from channel "surfing" and that a channel position near broadcast networks and more popular cable networks increases the likelihood of such purchases. As technology evolves, we will continue to monitor optimal channel placement and attempt to negotiate agreements with our distributors to maximize the viewership of our television programming. 

Demographics of customers 

We enjoy a very loyal customer base, as demonstrated by the fact that for the twelve months ended December 31, 2015 , approximately 86% &#32;of our worldwide shipped sales came from repeat customers (i.e., customers who made a purchase from us during the prior twelve months), who spent an average of $1,272 &#32;each during this period. An additional 6% &#32;of shipped sales in that period came from reactivated customers (i.e., customers who previously made a purchase from us, but not during the prior twelve months). 

We experienced solid customer growth in 2015. On a trailing twelve month basis, total consolidated customers (excluding the joint venture in China) increased 3% to nearly 13 million and in the US, customers grew 4% to more than 8 million. We believe our core customer base represents an attractive demographic target market. Based on internal customer data, approximately 52% &#32;of our 8 million &#32;U.S. customers for the twelve months ended December 31, 2015 &#32;were women between the ages of 35 and 64. 

Order taking and fulfillment 

We strive to be prompt and efficient in order taking and fulfillment. We have three U.S. phone centers located in San Antonio, Texas; Port St. Lucie, Florida (closing in early 2016); and Chesapeake, Virginia that can direct calls from one call center to another as volume mandates. Internationally, we also have one phone center in each of Japan, the U.K. and Italy, and two call centers in Germany. For France, order taking is handled by a third party located in Portugal. Many markets also utilize home agents to handle calls, allowing staffing flexibility for peak hours. In addition, we utilize computerized voice response units, which handle approximately 26% &#32;of all orders taken on a worldwide basis. 

In addition to taking orders from our customers through phone centers and online, we continue to expand our ordering platforms. We are expanding mobile device ordering capabilities and over the past several years have launched iPhone, iPad, Apple Watch, Android, Blackberry and Apple TV applications, a WAP (wireless application protocol) mobile website and a robust SMS (short message services) program. On a global basis, customers placed approximately 22% &#32;of all orders directly through their mobile devices in 2015. 

Through our eight &#32;worldwide distribution centers, we shipped approximately 93% &#32;of our orders within two days of the order placement in 2015. Our U.S. distribution centers are located in Suffolk, Virginia; Lancaster, Pennsylvania; Rocky Mount, North Carolina; and Florence, South Carolina. Additionally, on July 2, 2015, QVC entered into a lease for a 1 million square foot west coast distribution center in Ontario, California. Construction on this distribution center is expected to be completed in mid-2016. Refer to note 9 to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion regarding the new distribution center. Our U.S. distribution centers and dropship partners have shipped nearly 884,000 &#32;units and over 818,000 &#32;packages in a single day. We also have distribution centers in Sakura-shi, Chiba, Japan; H&#252;cklehoven, Germany; Knowsley, U.K. and Castel San Giovanni, Italy. 

I-6 

We have built a scalable operating infrastructure focused on sustaining efficient, flexible and cost-effective sale and distribution of our products. Since our physical store locations are minimal, we require lower inventory levels and capital expenditures compared to traditional brick-and-mortar retailers. In recent years, we have made significant investments in our distribution centers and information technology systems that we believe will accommodate our foreseeable growth needs. Further, since we have no set &#8220;floor plan&#8221; and can closely manage inventory levels at our centralized warehouses, we believe we have the flexibility to analyze and react quickly to changing trends and demand by shifting programming time and product mix. Our cost structure is highly variable, which we believe allows us to consistently achieve attractive margins relative to brick-and-mortar retailers. 

Our web and mobile platforms are fully integrated with our televised programming and product distribution capabilities. Our web and mobile platform features include a live video stream of our television programming, full integration with our order fulfillment and product branding, as well as the thematic offerings and events that have become fundamental to our televised programming. 

Third party carriers transport our packages from our distribution centers to our customers. In each market where we operate, we have negotiated long-term contracts with shipping companies, which in certain circumstances provide for favorable shipping rates. 

Competition 

We operate in a rapidly evolving and highly competitive retail business environment. Based on U.S. net revenue for the twelve months ended December 31, 2015 , we are the leading television retailer in the U.S. and generate substantially more net revenue than our two closest televised shopping competitors, HSN (an entity in which Liberty had a 38% &#32;ownership interest as of December 31, 2015 ) and EVINE Live. Our international operations face similar competition in their respective markets, such as Shop Channel in Japan, HSE 24 in Germany and Italy, Ideal World in the U.K, and M6 Boutique in France. Additionally, we have numerous and varied competitors at the national and local levels, ranging from large department stores to specialty shops, electronic retailers, direct marketing retailers, wholesale clubs, discount retailers, infomercial retailers, Internet retailers, and mail-order and catalog companies. 

We also compete for access to customers and audience share with other providers of televised, online and hard copy entertainment and content. The price and availability of other programming and the conversion to digital programming platforms may unfavorably affect the placement of our programming in the channel line-ups of our distributors, and may affect our ability to obtain distribution agreements with small cable distributors. Competition from other programming also affects the compensation that must be paid to distributors for carriage, which continues to increase. Principal competitive factors for us include (i) value, quality and selection of merchandise; (ii) customer experience, including customer service and reliability of fulfillment and delivery services and (iii) convenience and accessibility of sales channels. 

Employees 

We employed approximately 17,600 &#32;full-time and part-time employees as of December 31, 2015 . Employment levels fluctuate due to seasonal factors affecting our business. Additionally, we utilize independent contractors and temporary personnel to supplement our workforce, particularly on a seasonal basis. We consider our employee relations to be good. 

Government regulation 

The manner in which we sell and promote merchandise and related claims and representations made in connection with these efforts is regulated by federal and state law. Some examples of regulatory agencies and regulations that affect the manner in which we sell and promote merchandise include the following: 

&#8226; 

The Federal Trade Commission ("FTC") and the state attorneys general regulate the advertising of retail products and services offered for sale in the U.S., including the FTC's Guides Concerning the Use of Endorsements and Testimonials in Advertising and Guides for the Use of Environmental Marketing Claims. 

&#8226; 

The Food and Drug Administration which has specific regulations regarding claims that can be made about food products and regulates marketing claims that can be made for cosmetic beauty products, medical devices and over-the-counter drugs. 

I-7 

&#8226; 

The Environmental Protection Agency ("EPA") which requires products that make certain types of claims, such as "anti-bacterial," be registered with the EPA prior to making such claims. 

&#8226; 

Each of the FTC's Telemarketing Sales Rules, the Federal Communication Commission's ("FCC") rules implementing the Telephone Consumer Protection Act and similar state laws, which outline procedures that must be followed when telemarketing or placing particular types of calls to consumers. 

&#8226; 

The Consumer Product Safety Commission which has specific regulations regarding products that present unreasonable risks of injuries to consumers. 

&#8226; 

Import and export laws, including U.S. economic sanction and embargo regulations, U.S. homeland security laws and regulations and other laws such as the U.S. anti-boycott law and U.S. export controls regulations. 

&#8226; 

Comparable regulatory agencies and regulations in countries in which we have our non-U.S. operations. 

In addition, the FCC regulates the cable television systems, direct broadcast satellite distributors and other multichannel video programming distributors ("MVPDs") that distribute the Company&#8217;s services, and has adopted various requirements related to the Company&#8217;s programming, and also licenses radio transmission facilities that the Company uses in connection with its business, such as satellite uplink facilities and internal private radio systems. 

As a result of Liberty&#8217;s interest in various cable operators, the Company may be deemed to be a satellite cable programming vendor in which a cable operator has an attributable interest for purposes of various FCC rules regarding the distribution of video programming to MVPDs. These include, for example, the FCC&#8217;s program access rules, which, in general, prohibit various unfair practices involving the distribution of video programming to MVPDs; and its program carriage rules, which, among other things, prohibit cable operators from favoring affiliated programmers so as to restrain unreasonably the ability of unaffiliated programmers to compete. The FCC program access and program carriage rules also make provision for enforcement of alleged violations through complaint proceedings initiated by aggrieved entities. The Company also may be subject to program access rules as a result of an FCC condition adopted in connection with its 2008 approval of a transaction involving Liberty and News Corp. Previously adopted FCC channel occupancy rules, which limited carriage by a cable operator of national programming services in which that operator holds an attributable interest, were vacated and remanded by the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit in 2001, and FCC notices of proposed rulemaking to consider these rules remain pending. 

In 2000, we became subject to a consent decree issued by the FTC barring us from making certain deceptive claims for dietary supplements and specified products related to the common cold, pneumonia, hay fever and allergies. We also became subject to an expanded consent decree issued by the FTC in 2009 that terminates on the later of March 4, 2029, or 20 years from the most recent date that the U.S. or the FTC files a complaint in federal court alleging any violation thereunder. Pursuant to this expanded consent decree, we are prohibited from making certain claims about specified weight-loss, dietary supplement and anti-cellulite products unless we have competent and reliable scientific evidence to substantiate such claims. To help mitigate against the risk of future regulatory action, we review advertising claims with a particular focus on weight-loss, dietary supplements and skin care products that we offer for sale in the U.S. 

Congress enacted the Commercial Advertisement Loudness Mitigation ("CALM") Act in 2010. The CALM Act directs the FCC to incorporate into its rules and make mandatory a technical standard that is designed to prevent digital television commercial advertisements from being transmitted at louder volumes than the program material they accompany. The FCC's CALM Act implementing regulations became effective on December 13, 2012. Although the FCC's CALM Act regulations place direct compliance responsibility on broadcasters and MVPDs, the FCC adopted a "safe harbor" compliance approach applicable to commercials embedded in programming provided by programmers, such as the Company. Under the FCC's safe harbor approach, broadcasters and MVPDs may meet their CALM Act compliance obligations through reliance on programmer-provided CALM Act compliance certifications that are made "widely available" to broadcasters and MVPDs through a website or other means. The Company has determined that its programming is CALM Act compliant, and in response to requests from its distributors, and in order to allow its distributors to meet the FCC's safe harbor, the Company has posted a CALM Act compliance certification to a website that is available to its distributors. 

I-8 

FCC rules adopted pursuant to the Telecommunications Act of 1996 generally require closed captioning of the Company&#8217;s televised programming distributed on broadcast television stations, cable television systems, direct broadcast satellite ("DBS") and other multichannel video programming distributors, with only limited exemptions. The FCC&#8217;s closed captioning rules applicable to televised programming place closed captioning compliance obligations directly on the Company&#8217;s distributors, and are enforced with respect to the Company&#8217;s programming through its affiliation agreements with its distributors. Beginning in 2012, the FCC adopted regulations pursuant to the Twenty-First Century Communications and Video Accessibility Act of 2010 ("CVAA") that impose captioning requirements on various types of programming distributed via Internet protocol ("IP") that was previously televised with captions. A multi-year implementation period for previously televised IP-delivered programming began in March 2012, with captioning requirements for full-length programs delivered online, followed by captioning requirements for online video clips beginning in January 2016, with particular deadlines tied to various categories of programming (e.g., pre-recorded, live or near-live, clips, etc.). The Company is subject to the new IP-captioning rules as a Video Programming Owner (&#8220;VPO&#8221;) and as a Video Programming Distributor (&#8220;VPD&#8221;) that distributes covered programming on its website and via mobile platforms. In February 2014, the FCC adopted closed captioning quality standards for televised programming distributed by the Company&#8217;s distributors. While compliance obligations for the new captioning quality standards are placed directly on the Company&#8217;s distributors, under the new rules, the Company&#8217;s distributors can demonstrate compliance with the new rules by relying on a certification from programmers, such as the Company, that either its programming satisfies the caption quality standards adopted by the FCC, that the programmer has adopted and follows captioning best practices for video programmers adopted by the FCC, or that its programming is exempt from captioning requirements. These new closed captioning quality requirements took effect in March 2015. As a result of the foregoing changes and new rules involving captioning of IP-delivered programming and captioning quality standards, QVC may incur additional costs and compliance obligations related to closed captioning of its programming. 

We market and provide a broad range of merchandise through television shopping programs and our websites. As a result, we are subject to a wide variety of statutes, rules, regulations, policies and procedures in various jurisdictions that are subject to change at any time, including laws regarding consumer protection, privacy, the regulation of retailers generally, the importation, sale and promotion of merchandise and the operation of retail stores and warehouse facilities, as well as laws and regulations applicable to the Internet and businesses engaged in online commerce, such as those regulating the sending of unsolicited, commercial electronic mail. 

Our business is also dependent upon our continued ability to transmit our programming to television distributors from our third party FCC-licensed satellite uplink facilities, which are subject to FCC compliance in the U.S. and foreign regulatory requirements in our international operations. 

Intellectual property 

We regard our trademarks, service marks, copyrights, domain names, trade dress, trade secrets, proprietary technologies and similar intellectual property as critical to our success. We rely on a combination of trademark and copyright law, trade-secret protection, and confidentiality and/or license agreements with our employees, customers, suppliers, affiliates and others to protect these proprietary rights. We have registered, or applied for the registration of, a number of domain names, trademarks, service marks and copyrights by U.S. and foreign governmental authorities and vigorously protect our proprietary rights against infringement. 

In the U.S., we have registered trademarks and service marks for a variety of items including, but not limited to our brand name, "QVC," "Quality Value Convenience," "Love What You Find, Find What You Love," the "Q QVC Ribbon Logo," "Q" and our proprietary products sold such as "Arte D&#8217;Oro," "Cook&#8217;s Essentials," "Denim &#38; Co.," "Diamonique," "Nature&#8217;s Code," "Northern Nights" and "Ultrafine Silver." Similarly, foreign registrations have been obtained for many trademarks and service marks for our brand name and propriety products including, but not limited to, "QVC," the "Q QVC Ribbon Logo," "Q," "Breezies," "Denim &#38; Co.," "Diamonique" and "Northern Nights." We consider the service mark for the "QVC" name the most significant trademark or service mark held by us because of its impact on market awareness across all of our geographic markets and on customers&#8217; identification with us. As with all U.S. trademarks or service marks, our trademark and service mark registrations in the U.S. are for a ten year period and are renewable every ten years, prior to their respective expirations, as long as the trademarks or service marks are used in the regular course of trade. 

I-9 

Liberty relationship and related party transactions 

We are an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of Liberty which owns interests in a broad range of digital commerce businesses. On October 3, 2014, we declared and paid a dividend in cash to Liberty in the amount of $1 billion &#32;with funds drawn from the Company's credit facility. Additionally, Liberty reattributed from the Interactive Group to the Ventures Group $970 million &#32;in cash and certain of its digital commerce companies, including Backcountry.com, Inc., Bodybuilding.com, LLC, CommerceHub, Provide Commerce, Inc. and Evite, Inc. As a result of these transactions, the Interactive Group is now referred to as the QVC Group, which tracks our Company, zulily (defined below) (as of October 1, 2015) and Liberty's 38% &#32;equity interest in HSN, Inc., one of our two closest televised shopping competitors, along with cash and certain liabilities. The Liberty Interactive tracking stock trading symbol "LINTA" was changed to "QVCA" and the "LINTB" trading symbol was changed to "QVCB," effective October 7, 2014. Effective June 4, 2015, the name of the &#8220;Liberty Interactive common stock&#8221; was changed to the &#8220;QVC Group common stock.&#8221; 

QVC engages with CommerceHub, Inc., an approximately 99% owned subsidiary of Liberty, to handle communications between QVC and the vendors for drop ship sales and returns. Refer to note 13 to the consolidated financial statements for further details. 

On October 1, 2015, Liberty acquired all of the outstanding shares of zulily, inc. ("zulily") (now known as zulily, llc) and QVC declared and paid a dividend to Liberty in the amount of $910 million with funds drawn from the Company&#8217;s credit facility to support Liberty&#8217;s purchase. zulily is an online retailer offering customers a fun and entertaining shopping experience with a fresh selection of new product styles launched each day for a limited time period. zulily is attributed to the QVC Group and we believe that its business is complementary to our Company. zulily is not part of the results of operations or financial position of QVC presented in this Form 10-K. 

Also on October 1, 2015, QVC entered into an agreement with a third party to guarantee the existing letters of credit of zulily. The letters of credit maximum amount for zulily is $10.1 million. As QVC and zulily are entities under common control of Liberty, QVC has not recognized a liability for the guarantee based on accounting guidance in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Refer to note 13 to the consolidated financial statements for further details. 

We are a "close corporation" under Delaware law and, as such, our stockholder, rather than a board of directors, manages our business. Since our stockholder is an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of Liberty, certain aspects of our management, including the approval of significant corporate transactions such as a change of control, are controlled by Liberty, rather than an independent governing body. Our Chief Executive Officer and President, Michael A. George, also became a named executive officer and director of Liberty during 2011. 

Liberty's interests may not coincide with our interests or yours and Liberty may cause us to enter into transactions or agreements with related parties or approve corporate actions that could involve conflicts of interest. For example, Liberty's dependence on our cash flow for servicing its debt and for other purposes is likely to result in our payment of large dividends to Liberty, which may increase our leverage and decrease our liquidity. We paid $1.5 billion &#32;of dividends to Liberty during 2015, $1.8 billion &#32;of dividends to Liberty during 2014 and $1.0 billion &#32;of dividends to Liberty during 2013. See also Item 1A. "Risk Factors." 

* * * * * 

Certain statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including statements regarding our business, product and marketing strategies; new service offerings; revenue growth and subscriber trends; the recoverability of our goodwill and other long-lived assets; our projected sources and uses of cash; and the anticipated impact of certain contingent liabilities related to legal and tax proceedings and other matters arising in the ordinary course of business. In particular, statements under Item 1. "Business," Item 1A. "Risk-Factors," Item 2. "Properties," Item 7. "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," and Item 7A. "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk" contain forward-looking statements. Where, in any forward-looking statement, we express an expectation or belief as to future results or events, such expectation or belief is expressed in good faith and believed to have a reasonable basis, but there can be no assurance that the expectation or belief will result or be achieved or accomplished. The following include some but not all of the factors that could cause actual results or events to differ materially from those anticipated: 

&#8226; 

customer demand for our products and services and our ability to adapt to changes in demand; 

I-10 

&#8226; 

competitor responses to our products and services; 

&#8226; 

increased digital TV penetration and the impact on channel positioning of our programs; 

&#8226; 

the levels of online traffic on our websites and our ability to convert visitors into consumers or contributors; 

&#8226; 

uncertainties inherent in the development and integration of new business lines and business strategies; 

&#8226; 

our future financial performance, including availability, terms and deployment of capital; 

&#8226; 

our ability to successfully integrate and recognize anticipated efficiencies and benefits from the businesses we acquire; 

&#8226; 

the ability of suppliers and vendors to deliver products, equipment, software and services; 

&#8226; 

the outcome of any pending or threatened litigation; 

&#8226; 

availability of qualified personnel; 

&#8226; 

changes in, or failure or inability to comply with, government regulations, including, without limitation, regulations of the Federal Communications Commission, and adverse outcomes from regulatory proceedings; 

&#8226; 

changes in the nature of key strategic relationships with partners, distributors, suppliers and vendors; 

&#8226; 

domestic and international economic and business conditions and industry trends; 

&#8226; 

consumer spending levels, including the availability and amount of individual consumer debt; 

&#8226; 

advertising spending levels; 

&#8226; 

changes in distribution and viewing of television programming, including the expanded deployment of personal video recorders, video on demand and IP television and their impact on home shopping programming; 

&#8226; 

rapid technological changes; 

&#8226; 

failure to protect the security of personal information, subjecting us to potentially costly government enforcement actions and/or private litigation and reputational damage; 

&#8226; 

the regulatory and competitive environment of the industries in which we operate; 

&#8226; 

threatened terrorist attacks, political unrest in international markets and ongoing military action around the world; 

&#8226; 

fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; and 

&#8226; 

Liberty's dependence on our cash flow for servicing its debt and for other purposes. 

These forward-looking statements and such risks, uncertainties and other factors speak only as of the date of this Annual Report, and we expressly disclaim any obligation or undertaking to disseminate any updates or revisions to any forward-looking statement contained herein, to reflect any change in our expectations with regard thereto, or any other change in events, conditions or circumstances on which any such statement is based. When considering such forward-looking statements, one should keep in mind the factors described in Item 1A. "Risk Factors" and other cautionary statements contained in this Annual Report. Such risk factors and statements describe circumstances which could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement. 

I-11 

