 Item 1. Description of Business 

FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

This annual report contains forward-looking statements. These statements relate to future events or our future financial performance. These statements often can be identified by the use of terms such as "may," "will," "expect," "believe," "anticipate," "estimate," "approximate" or "continue," or the negative thereof. We intend that such forward-looking statements be subject to the safe harbors for such statements. We wish to caution readers not to place undue reliance on any such forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date made. Any forward-looking statements represent management's best judgment as to what may occur in the future. However, forward-looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and important factors beyond our control that could cause actual results and events to differ materially from historical results of operations and events and those presently anticipated or projected. We disclaim any obligation subsequently to revise any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of such statement or to reflect the occurrence of anticipated or unanticipated events.

GENERAL 

The objective of this corporation is to provide a credit option services to anyone, for any major bank in Costa Rica, Canada, United-States, South and Central America. To do so, our business model will consist of developing a website that will provide all the necessary information. The website will be updated on a regular basis to keep the information as accurate as possible in concordance with the banks &#146; websites.

Toucan Interactive inc. is incorporated in the State of Nevada on January 24 th , 2014. Our official business address is located in Sabanilla de Montes de Oca, Urbanizacion Carmiol, Casa 254, San Jose, Costa Rica. Our telephone number is 514-448-4530. Also, we have established a fiscal year end of February 28 st . 

To generate income, our business model relies on three different methods.

1) a) Contextual Pay-Per-Click Advertising is a type of advertising that targets the users depending on the subject of interest. Such advertising has proven to be very efficient by the Google AdSence Program. For example, each time a person clicks on an ad advertised on our website, we will collect $5.00 from the advertiser. Google AdSense pays anywhere from $0.30 to $3.00 per click. If we are able to sign a price of $5.00 per click, then we will consider that contract as &#147; above average &#148; . According to AdSense stats, in rare cases, Google AdSense pays up to $10.00 per click. Although the average is between $0.30 to $3.00 per click, a $5.00 per click is possible to obtain.

b) Many financial institutions would like to have advertising on financial sites. We will offer these organizations to publish banners and other style of advertisements on our website: www.NEEDforCREDIT.com 

2) Some website users will need basic information on how credit system functions in their country. We will provide online consultation, for a fee per minute, about credit options, bank systems and other useful information on creating or improving a credit history.

3) We will produce special mobile applications for all the platforms to earn money from mobile advertising.

At first, we will focus on creating a substantial number of users to be able to generate income from Contextual Advertising. Once we reach a considerable amount of users, we believe that it will facilitate our quest of signing financial institutions to place ads on our website, or to buy advertising spaces on our website. To date, we have signed two agreements. The first contract was signed between Toucan Interactive Corp. and the web designer, Mr. Nasser Bouslihim. The second contract was signed between Toucan Interactive Corp. and Mr. Dzabir Mamadov, from Kolobok Distribution Inc., a company interested in placing an ad on our website. Kolobok Distribution Inc. is an advertising network that resembles Google AdSense. They are interested in placing their clients &#146; ads on our website for more visibility. When we start generating profit from these advertisers, we will start creating and developing Mobile Applications.

The site will contain full information on the credit cards offered by banks in specific countries. After selecting the country, the user will be redirected to that country &#146; s main page where he or she will find a list of more interesting offers by this country &#146; s banks. Plus, we will be adding articles about banks, the process for a user to get his credit history and credit scores.

All the information regarding interest rates will be provided from official bank websites. If the banks do not provide information about rates, our website will provide the information about the credit card and we will include a note stating &#147; to find out more about the interest rates, please contact the bank &#148; . The bank &#146; s contact information will be provided.

Our website is created for people who are searching for interesting offers on the market. With our informative website, they will be able to find those special offers from the banks.

Each country &#146; s credit system has specific rules and regulations. For example, in Canada, you will not be able to apply for a credit card without official residency or citizenship. For this reason, the website will be divided by countries. Since many Canadians and Americans are seeking residency in Central America, for example, they will be able to find, on our website, the different credit cards and bank information of the country they are inquiring about.

Finally, with respect to online consultation, we are not planning on hiring certified financial consultants, specialized in every country our website will provide information on. For that reason, online consultants will only be able to provide information about the credit cards and offers and other basic information such as: how to apply for your first credit card in that country, what is a credit card, how to use it, how to make payments, cash withdraws and how to check your credit history. Since consultation will not be part of the business at the start of operation, the website will direct the users to the banks contact information for more details.

The website will be available for our users free of charge. Since we are creating an informative website, we would like our users to visit the website on a regular basis. While the users will be able to compare credit cards options from multiple banks within the same website, instead of surfing between the hundreds of major banks &#146; websites available in North, Central and South America.

The Website 

Until now, we have purchased a domain name: www.NEEDforCREDIT.com. Our website is currently under construction. It will operate as follows: A user will visit our website to gather all the credit options he possesses in all the different major banks of the Americas. The informative content of the website will be taken from the banks &#146; websites and updated regularly.

Once we become internationally recognized, we believe that we will be receiving more advertisement space demands, from financial institutions and other companies. At this moment, we have one advertising 

contract with Mr. Dzabir Mamadov from Kolobok Distribution Inc., and one agreement with Mr. Nasser Bouslihim, a web developer.

Employees 

We are a development stage company and we have no employees as of the date of this prospectus, other than our sole officer and director. If our officer and director should resign or die, we will not have a chief executive officer. This could result in our operations suspending until we find another CEO or our investors might lose their money. Since we do not possess a personal life insurance on our existing CEO and we do not have a contract for his services, the investors will have a great chance of losing their investment in the event of us losing our CEO.

Agreements 

To this date, we have signed two agreements. The first one was signed between Toucan Interactive Corp. and the web designer, Mr. Nasser Bouslihim. The material terms of the agreement are listed below:

-

Cancellation of Work . In the event of cancellation of this assignment, ownership of all copyrights and any original artwork shall be retained by the designer.

By Client : Client may cancel work on the website at any time by submitting notice to The Developer via email. The Developer will halt work upon receipt of letter from Client requesting cancellation. At that time, Client will be responsible for paying for all work completed prior to The Developer &#146; s receipt of cancellation request. Work completed shall be billed at an hourly rate of $75 per hour. If, at the time of request for refund, work has been completed beyond the amount of work paid for by the initial payment, the Client shall pay for work completed.

By The Developer : The Developer reserves the right to refuse service and cancel a website project if necessary, in which case, the balance of the initial payment will be returned to Client after all applicable fees have been deducted for work completed. The Developer may cancel project for any reason he deems necessary, including but not limited to Client not providing necessary information, text and graphics in a timely fashion to The Developer.

-

Copyright . The Client represents that all website content including logos, trademarks, photos, illustrations, audio, video, and written content provided to The Developer are owned by the Client, or the Client has received explicit permission for use, and do not violate United States copyright law.

-

Fees . Fees for website servicing are $75 per hour. Before The Developer will begin work on the website, Client must sign and return this contract with the initial payment of half of the total estimate quoted below. A final bill will be mailed to the Client upon completion of the project.

-

Deadlines . The Developer agrees to have Client &#146; s website completed no later than 30 days from the 30% deposit paid to begin the assignment. This deadline can be reached only if the Client has provided all necessary graphics, text content, and logins to The Developer. The Developer shall not be held responsible for delays to site development arising out of Client &#146; s delays in providing graphics, text, and logins to The Developer.

If website is not completed by the 30 day deadline due to lack of Client assistance, The Developer may:

a) Extend the project deadline or

b) Close the project and bill Client for work completed at $75 per hour, or

c) The Developer will create a website using all content that has been provided, and send a final bill for work completed to meet the project deadline.

The second agreement was signed between Toucan Interactive Corp. and Mr. Dzabir Mamadov, from Kolobok Distribution Inc., a company interested in placing an advertisement on our website. The material terms of the agreement are listed below:

-

COMPENSATION

In consideration of its advertising services, the Customer agrees to pay the advertising fees set forth on the fee schedule as published in the www.NeedForCredit.com Media Guide. The Customer will also pay any sales and other taxes based upon the fees set forth therein. Advertising fees will be paid monthly, in advance, on or before the first day of the monthly billing cycle during the term hereof. Www.NeedForCredit.com will charge interest and service charges on monthly accounts that are delinquent at the maximum rates allowable by law. The Customer will be responsible for all collection costs and attorney fees if it is necessary to pursue collection efforts to collect on an account. Www.NeedForCredit.com reserves the right to suspend advertising services until Customer's account is brought current. Www.NeedForCredit.com has the right to terminate this Agreement if any advertising fee is delinquent.

-

PROPRIETARY RIGHTS

Www.NeedForCredit.com will retain all proprietary rights in and to its respective sites and other proprietary materials such as copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets, patents and confidential information. Www.NeedForCredit.com does not grant the other any rights in and to such proprietary material except that the Customer hereby grants the www.NeedForCredit.com a non-exclusive license to use the advertising material provided, including its trademarks and copyrights, and the right to hyperlink to Customer's site from its site during the term of this Agreement. Upon termination of this Agreement, www.NeedForCredit.com agrees to remove the hyperlink and the advertising materials provided from its site within a reasonable time.

-

INDEMNIFICATION

The Customer will indemnify and hold www.NeedForCredit.com harmless from and against any claims, suits, threats, demands, settlements, actions, causes of action, liabilities, obligations and all other matters, including but not limited to court costs, attorney fees, witness fees, settlement fees, and all other direct and indirect expenses and losses that may occur arising from the breach of any of the representations and warranties that the Customer has made to www.NeedForCredit.com and otherwise arising directly or indirectly from the placement of its advertising materials on the www.NeedForCredit.com Site.

-

TERMINATION

The Customer may terminate this Agreement, with or without cause, by giving 2 days advance notice of its intent to terminate. Www.NeedForCredit.com reserves the right to terminate this Agreement for any reason, with or without cause, upon 2 days written notice to Customer.

Target Market 

Toucan Interactive Corp. will be offering information on mortgages, credit cards and line of credits offered by all the major banks available in the Americas. We would like to be recognized as the main informative website location to get all the required information for our users. Although we are located in 

Central America, our content may be helpful for users all over the world, to help choose a bank in the Americas that will be answering their specific needs.

Our Competition 

We are aware of the existence of some websites that provide comparisons of different credit card offers, such as: credit.com, bankrate.com, creditkarma.com, and cardhub.com. However, to our knowledge, a website that provides the same services as ours does not exist. Our users will be able to choose a bank by visiting our website alone, instead of surfing the major banks website, one after the other. Also, users can always surf the search engines such as google.com that will help them compare credit cards in the U.S., however, our website will differ from the competitors since we will be providing:

1. Information on credit cards in all the Americas

2. Credit cards unique comparison system

3. Special information for people who are applying for their first credit card

4. Special advertising related to credit cards

5. High visibility on search engines by remaining in the top 20.

Marketing 

We will be using all the internet marketing tools to get international recognition. Twitter, Facebook, Google and Yahoo will make a good start. We could link our website to many of these sites in order to make ourselves visible and competitive. However, we will probably need professional marketing firm to make us more attractive, especially if we want the financial institutions to advertise with us.

