ITEM 1. BUSINESS

This annual report contains forward-looking statements. These statements relate
to future events or our future financial performance. In some cases, you can
identify forward-looking statements by terminology such as "may", "should",
"expects", "plans", "anticipates", "believes", "estimates", "predicts",
"potential" or "continue" or the negative of these terms or other comparable
terminology. These statements are only predictions and involve known and unknown
risks, uncertainties and other factors, including the risks in the section
entitled "Risk Factors", that may cause our or our industry's actual results,
levels of activity, performance or achievements to be materially different from
any future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements expressed or
implied by these forward-looking statements.

Although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking
statements are reasonable, we cannot guarantee future results, levels of
activity, performance or achievements. Except as required by applicable law,
including the securities laws of the United States, we do not intend to update
any of the forward-looking statements to conform these statements to actual
results.

Our financial statements are stated in United States Dollars (US$) and are
prepared in accordance with United States Generally Accepted Accounting
Principles.

In this annual report, unless otherwise specified, all dollar amounts are
expressed in United States dollars and all references to "common shares" refer
to the common shares in our capital stock.

As used in this annual report, the terms "we", "us", "our", and "company" mean
First American Silver Corp., unless the context clearly requires or states
otherwise.

CORPORATE OVERVIEW

We are an exploration stage company engaged in the acquisition, exploration and
development of mineral properties.

The address of our principal executive office is located at 1 Nachal Maor, Suite
2, Ramat Bet Shemesh, Israel 99623.

Our common stock is quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board under the symbol "FASV".

CORPORATE HISTORY

We were incorporated in the State of Nevada on April 29, 2008, under the name
"Mayetok, Inc.". As Mayetok, Inc. we were engaged in the development of a
website to market vacation properties in the Ukraine.

On June 8, 2010, we initiated a one (1) old for 35 new forward stock split of
our issued and outstanding common stock. As a result, our authorized capital
increased from 100,000,000 to 3,500,000,000 shares of common stock and the
issued and outstanding increased from 2,200,000 shares of common stock to
77,000,000 shares of common stock, all with a par value of $0.001.

Also on June 8, 2010, we changed our name from "Mayetok, Inc." to "First
American Silver Corp.", by way of a merger with our wholly owned subsidiary
First American Silver Corp., which was formed solely for the change of name. We
changed the name of our company to reflect the new direction of our company in
the business of acquiring, exploring and developing mineral properties. As of
June 2010, we had abandoned our former business plan of seeking to market
vacation properties.

Our name change and forward stock split became effective with the
Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board at the opening of trading on June 16, 2010, on
which date we adopted the new stock symbol "FASV".

                                       3
<PAGE>
OUR CURRENT BUSINESS

In 2014, the Company abandoned its mineral property business and initiated
efforts to enter a new line of business. To-date, although the Company has
engaged in a number of negotiations in respect of new business lines, it has not
yet consummated any transactions or started any new commercial activities.

COMPETITION

We do not have any operations.  As such, we do not yet face any competition.

COMPLIANCE WITH GOVERNMENT REGULATION

We do not have any operations and, therefore, do not have to comply with any
government regulations.

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT

We have not incurred any research and development expenditures over the past
three fiscal years.

PURCHASE OF SIGNIFICANT EQUIPMENT

We do not intend to purchase any significant equipment over the twelve months
ending November 30, 2016.

SUBSIDIARIES

We do not have any subsidiaries.

CORPORATE OFFICES

Our principal office is located at 1 Nachal Maor, Suite 2, Ramat Bet Shemesh,
Israel 99623 and is provided to us at no cost.

EMPLOYEES

We have no employees other than our chief executive officer, Mark Radom, with
whom we entered into a service agreement on December 3, 2014.

INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY

We do not own, either legally or beneficially, any patent or trademark, and have
not registered any rights we may have under copyright.

DESCRIPTION OF SECURITIES

COMMON STOCK

Our authorized capital stock consists of 3,500,000,000 shares of common stock,
par value $0.001 per share, and 20,000,000 shares of preferred stock, par value
$0.001 per share.

The holders of our common stock:

     *    Have equal ratable rights to dividends from funds legally available
          therefore, when, as and if declared by our Board of Directors;
     *    Are entitled to share ratably in all of our assets available for
          distribution to holders of common stock upon liquidation, dissolution
          or winding up of our affairs;
     *    Do not have pre-emptive, subscription or conversion rights and there
          are no redemption or sinking fund provisions or rights; and
     *    Are entitled to one non-cumulative vote per share on all matters on
          which stockholders may vote.

                                       4
<PAGE>
The shares of common stock are not subject to any future call or assessment and
all have equal voting rights. There are no special rights or restrictions of any
nature attached to any of the common shares and they all rank at equal rate or
PARI PASSU, each with the other, as to all benefits, which might accrue to the
holders of the common shares. All registered stockholders are entitled to
receive a notice of any general annual meeting to be convened by our Board of
Directors.

At any general meeting, subject to the restrictions on joint registered owners
of common shares, on a showing of hands every stockholder who is present in
person and entitled to vote has one vote, and on a poll every stockholder has
one vote for each share of common stock of which he is the registered owner and
may exercise such vote either in person or by proxy. To the knowledge of our
management, at the date hereof, our sole officer and director is the only person
to exercise control, directly or indirectly, over more than 10% of our
outstanding common shares. See "Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners
and Management."

We refer you to our Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws, copies of which were
filed with the registration statement of which this prospectus is a part, and to
the applicable statutes of the State of Nevada for a more complete description
of the rights and liabilities of holders of our securities.

                           REPORTS TO SECURITY HOLDERS

We are required to file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements
and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission and our
filings are available to the public over the internet at the Securities and
Exchange Commission's website at http://www.sec.gov. The public may read and
copy any materials filed by us with the Securities and Exchange Commission at
the Securities and Exchange Commission's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street
N.E. Washington D.C. 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation
of the Public Reference Room by calling the Securities and Exchange Commission
at 1-800-732-0330. The SEC also maintains an Internet site that contains
reports, proxy and formation statements, and other information regarding issuers
that file electronically with the SEC, at http://www.sec.gov.

