 Item 1. Business 

Overview of Our Business 

Rand Capital Corporation (&#147;Rand&#148;, &#147;we&#148;, &#147;us&#148; and &#147;our&#148;) was incorporated under the laws of New York in February 1969. Throughout our history, our principal business has been to make venture capital investments in early or expansion stage companies, typically in New York and its surrounding states. We are now seeking investments in a broader geographic area, in accordance with our strategic growth plan. We look for companies with strong leadership that are bringing to market new or unique products, technologies or services and have a high potential for growth. We invest in a mixture of debt and equity instruments, with a focus on equity investments to drive capital appreciation. The debt securities typically have an equity component in the form of warrants or options to acquire stock or the right to convert the debt securities into stock. Our wholly-owned subsidiary, Rand Capital SBIC, Inc. (Rand SBIC) has been our primary investment vehicle since its formation and we expect to continue this practice. 

Our Investment Objectives and Strategy 

Our principal investment objective is to achieve long-term capital appreciation on our equity investments while maintaining a current cash flow from our debenture and pass-through equity instruments to partially offset expenses. Therefore, we invest in a variety of financial instruments to provide a current return on a portion of the investment portfolio. The equity features contained in our investment portfolio are structured to realize capital appreciation over the long-term and typically do not generate current income in the form of dividends or interest. 

Typically, our investment strategy is to partner with other investors and invest in small companies that either have a new product, service or technology they are trying to commercialize or are working to accelerate their rate of growth. We define small companies as businesses that may not yet be generating revenue up to companies with $20 million in revenue. 

We have historically made initial investments of $500,000 to $1,000,000 directly in a company through equity or in debt or loan instruments and frequently provide follow-on investments during our investment tenure. We are now considering larger cumulative investments to drive our growth, within the U.S. Small Business Administration (&#147;SBA&#148;) regulations that limit our total investment in one company to $3.0 million. The debt instruments generally have a maturity of not more than five years and usually are convertible or have detachable equity warrants. Interest is either paid currently or deferred. We fund new investments and operating expenses through existing cash balances, proceeds from investment exits, and interest and principal payments from our portfolio companies. 

Our Investment Process 

Our primary business is making subordinated debt and equity investments in small and medium-sized companies that meet some or all of the following criteria: 

1) a qualified and experienced management team; 

2) a new or unique product or service; and 

3) high potential for growth in revenue and cash flow; 

Our management team identifies investment opportunities through a network of investment referral relationships. Investment proposals may come to us from other sources, including unsolicited proposals from companies and referrals from banks, lawyers, accountants and other members of the financial community. We believe that our reputation in the investment community and our experience provide a competitive advantage in originating qualified new investments. 

In a typical private financing, our management team will review, analyze, and confirm, through due diligence, the business plan and operations of the potential portfolio company. Additionally, we will familiarize 

&#160; 

ourselves with the portfolio company&#146;s industry and competition and may conduct reference checks with its customers and suppliers. 

Following our initial investment, we may make follow-on investments in the portfolio company. Follow-on investments may be made to take advantage of warrants or other preferential rights granted to us to increase or maintain our position in a promising portfolio company, or provide an additional investment to allow a portfolio company to fully implement its business plans, develop a new line of business or recover from unexpected business problems. Follow-on investments in a portfolio company are evaluated individually and may be subject to regulatory restrictions. 

Disposition of Investments 

We may exit investments through the maturation of a debt security or when a liquidity event takes place, such as the sale, recapitalization, or initial public offering of a portfolio company. The method and timing of the disposition of our portfolio investments can be critical to the realization of maximum total return. We generally expect to dispose of our equity securities through private sales of securities to other investors or through an outright sale or merger of the company. We anticipate our debt investments will be repaid with interest and hope to realize further appreciation from the warrants or other equity type instruments we receive in connection with the investment. 

Current Portfolio Companies 

For a description of our current portfolio company investments, see &#147;Item 7. Management&#146;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Conditions and Results of Operations &#151; Composition of the Investment Portfolio.&#148; 

Competition 

We compete for investments with other venture capital firms, individual investors, business development companies, and investment funds (including private equity funds and mezzanine funds), as well as traditional financial services companies such as commercial banks. We believe we are able to compete with these entities primarily on the basis of our referral network, management&#146;s experience, our responsive, quick and efficient investment analysis and decision-making process, the investment terms we offer, and our willingness to make smaller investments. 

For information concerning the competitive risks we face, see &#147;Item 1A. Risk Factors.&#148; 

Employees 

As of December 31, 2015, we had four employees, unchanged from 2014. 

Organization and History 

We completed our initial public offering in 1971 as an internally managed, closed-end, diversified, management investment company. We elected to be treated as a business development company (&#147;BDC&#148;) under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended (the &#147;1940 Act&#148;). As a BDC we are required to comply with certain regulatory requirements. For instance, we generally have to invest at least 70% of our total assets in &#147;qualifying assets&#148; and provide managerial assistance to the portfolio companies in which we invest. See Item 1. Business &#151; Regulation, Regulation as a Business Development Company. 

We make the majority of our venture capital investments through Rand SBIC, which operates as a small business investment company (&#147;SBIC&#148;) and has been licensed by the SBA since 2002. Rand SBIC&#146;s predecessor was organized as a Delaware limited partnership and was converted into a New York corporation in 2008, at which time our operations as a licensed SBIC were continued. Although Rand SBIC was operated as if it were a BDC, it was registered as an investment company under the 1940 Act. In 2012, the SEC granted an Order of Exemption for Rand with respect to the operations of Rand SBIC and Rand SBIC then filed an election to be regulated as a BDC under the 1940 Act. Rand SBIC&#146;s board of directors is comprised of the directors of Rand, a majority of whom are not &#147;interested persons&#148; of Rand or Rand SBIC. 

&#160; 

We operate as an internally managed investment company whereby our officers and employees conduct our business under the general supervision of our Board of Directors. We have not elected to qualify to be taxed as a regulated investment company as defined under Subchapter M of the Internal Revenue Code. 

In this Annual Report on Form 10-K, or Annual Report, unless the context otherwise requires, &#147;we&#148;, the &#147;Corporation&#148;, &#147;us&#148;, and &#147;our&#148; refer to Rand Corporation and Rand Capital SBIC, Inc. 

Our corporate office is located in Buffalo, NY and our website address is www.randcapital.com . We make available free of charge on our website our annual and periodic reports, proxy statements and other information as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (&#147;SEC&#148;). Our shares are traded on the NASDAQ Capital Market under the ticker symbol &#147;RAND&#148;. 

Regulation 

The following discussion is a general summary of the material prohibitions and descriptions governing BDCs and SBA- licensed SBICs. It does not purport to be a complete description of all of the laws and regulations affecting BDCs and SBICs. 

Regulation as a Business Development Company 

We have elected to be regulated as a BDC under the 1940 Act. Although the 1940 Act exempts a BDC from registration under that Act, it contains significant limitations on the operations of BDCs. Among other things, the 1940 Act contains prohibitions and restrictions relating to transactions between a BDC and its affiliates, principal underwriters and affiliates of its affiliates or underwriters. The 1940 Act also prohibits a BDC from changing the nature of its business so as to cease to be, or to withdraw its election as, a BDC unless so authorized by a vote of the holders of a majority of its outstanding voting securities. BDCs are not required to maintain fundamental investment policies relating to diversification and concentration of investments within a single industry. More specifically, in order to qualify as a BDC, a company must: 

(1) be a domestic company; 

(2) have registered a class of its equity securities or have filed a registration statement with the SEC pursuant to Section 12 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the &#147;Exchange Act&#148;); 

(3) operate for the purpose of investing in the securities of certain types of companies, namely immature or emerging companies and businesses suffering or just recovering from financial distress. Generally, a BDC must be primarily engaged in the business of furnishing capital and providing managerial expertise to companies that do not have ready access to capital through conventional financial channels. Such companies are termed &#147;eligible portfolio companies;&#148; 

(4) extend significant managerial assistance to such portfolio companies; and 

(5) have a majority of &#147;disinterested&#148; directors (as defined in the 1940 Act). 

Qualifying Assets 

Under the 1940 Act, a BDC may not acquire any asset other than assets of the type listed in Section 55(a) of the 1940 Act, which are referred to as qualifying assets, unless, at the time the acquisition is made, qualifying assets represent at least 70% of the company&#146;s total assets. The 1940 Act prohibits business development companies from investing in certain types of companies, such as brokerage firms, insurance companies, investment banking firms and investment companies. 

An eligible portfolio company is, generally, a private domestic operating company, or a public domestic operating company whose securities are not listed on a national securities exchange. In addition, any small business investment company that is licensed by the SBA and is a wholly owned subsidiary of a BDC is an eligible portfolio company. 

&#160; 

Qualifying assets include: 

(1) securities of companies that were eligible portfolio companies at the time the BDC acquired their securities; 

(2) securities of bankrupt or insolvent companies that were eligible at the time of the BDC&#146;s initial acquisition of their securities but are no longer eligible, provided that the BDC has maintained a substantial portion of its initial investment in those companies; 

(3) securities received in exchange for or distributed on or with respect to any of the foregoing; and 

(4) cash items, government securities and high-quality short-term debt. 

The 1940 Act also places restrictions on the nature of the transactions in which, and the persons from whom, securities can be purchased in order for the securities to be considered qualifying assets. 

A BDC is permitted to invest in the securities of public companies and other investments that are not qualifying assets, but those kinds of investments may not exceed 30% of the BDC&#146;s total asset value at the time of the investment. At December 31, 2015, we were in compliance with this rule. 

Managerial Assistance to Portfolio Companies 

In order to count portfolio securities as qualifying assets for the purpose of the 70% test discussed above, a BDC must either control the issuer of the securities or must offer to make available significant managerial assistance; except that, where the BDC purchases the securities in conjunction with one or more other persons acting together, one of the other persons in the group may make available such managerial assistance. Making available significant managerial assistance means, among other things, any arrangement whereby the BDC, through its directors, officers or employees, offers to provide and, if accepted, does so provide, significant guidance and counsel concerning the management, operations or business objectives and policies of a portfolio company through monitoring of portfolio company operations, selective participation in board and management meetings, consulting with and advising a portfolio company&#146;s officers or other organizational or financial guidance. 

Small Business Investment Company Regulations 

SBA Lending Restrictions 

SBICs are designed to stimulate the flow of private debt and/or equity capital to small businesses. The types and dollar amounts of the loans and other investments we may make are limited by the 1940 Act, the Small Business Act (the &#147;SBA Act&#148;) and SBA regulations. Rand SBIC uses funds borrowed from the SBA, that can be combined with our own capital, to provide loans to, and make equity investments in, businesses that meet the following criteria: 

(a) have a tangible net worth not in excess of $18 million and average net income after U.S. federal income taxes for the preceding two completed fiscal years not in excess of $6 million, or 

(b) meet size standards set by the SBA that are measured by either annual receipts or number of employees, depending on the industry in which the businesses are primarily engaged. 

In addition, at the end of each fiscal year, an SBIC must have at least 20% (in total dollars) invested in &#147;smaller enterprises.&#148; The SBA defines &#147;smaller enterprises&#148; as businesses that: 

(a) do not have a net worth in excess of $6 million and have average net income after U.S. federal income taxes for the preceding two years no greater than $2 million, or 

(b) meet size standards set by the SBA that are measured by either annual receipts or number of employees, depending on the industry in which the concerns are primarily engaged. 

&#160; 

We have complied with this requirement since the inception of Rand SBIC. 

The Rand SBIC subsidiary is subject to regulation and oversight by the SBA. Receipt of an SBIC license does not assure that Rand SBIC will receive future SBA guaranteed debenture funding, which is dependent upon it continuing to be in compliance with SBA regulations and policies. The SBA, as a creditor, will have a superior claim to Rand SBIC&#146;s assets over our shareholders in the event we liquidate Rand SBIC or the SBA exercises its remedies under the SBA-guaranteed debentures issued by Rand SBIC upon an event of default. 

Rand SBIC may invest directly in the equity of portfolio companies, but may not become a general partner of a non-incorporated entity or otherwise become jointly or severally liable for the general obligations of a non-incorporated entity. Rand SBIC may acquire options or warrants in portfolio companies, and the options or warrants may have redemption provisions, subject to certain restrictions. Pursuant to SBA regulations, the maximum cash which may be invested in any one portfolio company by Rand SBIC is currently $3.0 million. 

SBA Leverage 

The SBA raises capital to enable it to provide funds to SBICs by guaranteeing certificates or bonds that are pooled and sold to purchasers of the government guaranteed securities. The amount of funds that the SBA may lend to SBICs is determined by annual Congressional appropriations. 

SBA debentures are issued with ten year maturities. Interest only is payable semi-annually until maturity. All of our outstanding SBA debentures may be prepaid without penalty. To reserve the approved SBA debenture leverage we paid an upfront 1% commitment fee to the SBA as a partial prepayment of the SBA&#146;s nonrefundable 3% leverage fee. These fees are expensed over the life of the corresponding SBA debenture instruments. 

At December 31, 2015, we had $8,000,000 in outstanding SBA debenture instruments. 

