 ITEM 1. 

BUSINESS 

Where we say "we," "us," or "our," we usually mean Flagstar Bancorp, Inc. However, in some cases, a reference to "we," "us," or "our" will include our wholly-owned subsidiary Flagstar Bank, FSB (the "Bank"). 

General 

We are a Michigan-based savings and loan holding company founded in 1993. Our business is primarily conducted through our principal subsidiary, the Bank, a federally chartered stock savings bank founded in 1987. At December 31, 2015 , based on our assets, we are the largest bank headquartered in Michigan and one of the top 10 &#32;largest savings banks in the United States. Our common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange ("NYSE") under the symbol "FBC." We are considered a controlled company for NYSE purposes, because MP Thrift Investments, L.P. ("MP Thrift") held approximately 63.1 percent &#32;of our common stock as of December 31, 2015 . 

We primarily originate or purchase residential mortgage loans throughout the country and sell them into securitization pools, primarily to Federal National Mortgage Association ("Fannie Mae"), Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation ("Freddie Mac") and the Government National Mortgage Association ("Ginnie Mae") (collectively, the "Agencies") or as whole loans. In addition, we originate or purchase residential first mortgage loans, consumer loans, commercial loans and warehouse loans included in held-for-investment loan portfolios. Our revenues include net interest income, income from banking services we provide customers, and noninterest income from sales of residential first mortgage loans to the Agencies, the servicing of loans for others and the sale of servicing rights related to mortgage loans serviced for others. The combination of our home lending, broker and correspondent channels gives us broad access to customers across diverse geographies to originate, fulfill, sell and service our residential mortgage loan products. 

The majority of our total loan originations during the year ended December 31, 2015 &#32;represented mortgage loans that were collateralized by residential first mortgages on single-family residences and were eligible for sale to the Agencies. At December 31, 2015 , we originated or purchased residential mortgage loans in all 50 states, the U.S. Virgin Islands, and the District of Columbia through relationships with approximately 514 &#32;mortgage brokers and approximately 679 &#32;correspondents. At December 31, 2015 , we also operated 10 &#32;retail centers located in nine &#32;states, which primarily originate one-to-four family residential mortgage loans as part of our Mortgage Originations segment. In addition, we originate other consumer and commercial loans through our Community Banking segment. 

&#160; 

Our business also includes the activities conducted through our Community Banking segment. This segment provides deposits and fee based services to consumer, business, and mortgage lending customers through its Branch Banking, Business, and Commercial Banking, Government Banking, Warehouse Lending and Held-for-Investment Portfolio groups. We maintain a portfolio of commercial and industrial and commercial real estate loans with our commercial customers and we originate or purchase residential mortgage loans through referrals from our branches, consumer direct call center and our website, flagstar.com. At December 31, 2015 , we operated 99 &#32;branches in Michigan. We leverage the customer relationships we have gained throughout our branch network to cross-sell products to existing customers and increase our customer base. 

At December 31, 2015 , we had 2,713 &#32;full-time equivalent employees inclusive of account executives and loan officers. 

Mortgage Originations 

We originate, acquire and sell one-to-four family residential mortgage loans. Substantially all of the residential mortgage loans we sell are delivered into the secondary market on a whole loan basis or securitizing the loans into mortgage-backed securities with the agencies. 

&#160; 

Mortgage Servicing 

We also service and sub-service mortgage loans on a fee basis for others, and we service residential mortgages held-for-investment for our own portfolio. 

Lending Activities 

Our principal lending activities consist of the origination of residential first mortgage, second mortgage, HELOC and commercial loans generally located within our primary market and service areas. 

Residential first mortgage loans. We originate conforming and non-conforming residential first mortgage loans that are generally made to consumers for the purchase or refinance of a residence. These loans are generally financed over a 15-year to 30-year term and, in most cases, are extended to borrowers to finance their primary residence. Applications are underwritten centrally using consistent credit policies and processes. 

Second mortgage loans. The majority of second mortgages we originate are closed in conjunction with the closing of the residential first mortgages originated by us. We generally require the same levels of documentation and ratios as with our residential first mortgages. Second mortgage loans require full documentation and are underwritten and priced to ensure high credit quality and loan profitability. 

Home Equity Line of Credit ("HELOC") loans. &#32;HELOC guidelines and pricing parameters have been established to attract high credit quality loans with long term profitability. HELOCs, which are secured by a first-lien or junior-lien on the borrower&#8217;s residence, allow customers to borrow against the equity in their homes or refinance existing mortgage debt. Applications are underwritten centrally in conjunction with an automated underwriting system. The HELOC underwriting criteria are based on minimum credit scores, debt-to-income ratios, and LTV ratios, with current collateral valuations. 

Commercial loans. &#32;Commercial loans include commercial and industrial, commercial real estate and warehouse loans. Commercial and industrial loans are made to commercial customers involved in a broad range of industries for use in normal business operations to finance working capital needs, equipment purchases and other capital investments. Our commercial and industrial customers are involved in financial, insurance, service, manufacturing, and distribution. Commercial borrowers are made of up primarily of Michigan relationships, as well as national finance companies. Commercial real estate loans consist of loans to developers and support income producing commercial real estate properties. These loans are made to finance properties such as owner-occupied, retail, office, multi-family apartment buildings, industrial buildings, and residential developments. They are repaid through cash flows related to the operation, sale, or refinance of the property. Warehouse loans are lines of credit to other mortgage lenders. In 2016, we launched a national home builder finance program to grow our balance sheet, increase commercial deposits and develop incremental revenue through our retail purchase mortgage channel. 

Deposits 

Deposits include retail, commercial, government and company controlled deposits. Through our branches and commercial relationships, we gather deposits and offer a line of consumer and commercial financial products to individuals and businesses. We continue to focus our efforts towards the growth of our core deposits, which includes checking, savings and money market deposit accounts. We believe core deposits represent a more stable funding source. Government deposits are gathered from local municipalities primarily across the state of Michigan and are comprised mainly of property taxes that are collected. See Note 12 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, herein, for more information regarding deposits. 

Borrowed funds 

The Federal Home Loan Bank provides funding on a fully collateralized basis to us. We are currently authorized through a resolution of our board of directors to apply for advances from the Federal Home Loan Bank using approved loan types as collateral, such as residential first mortgage loans, home equity lines of credit, commercial real estate loans. 

We have arrangements with the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago to borrow as appropriate from its discount window. The discount window is a borrowing facility that is intended to be used only for short-term liquidity needs arising from special or unusual circumstances. The amount we are allowed to borrow is based on the lendable value of the collateral that we agree to provide. To collateralize the line, we pledge commercial and industrial loans that are eligible based on Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago guidelines. 

Non-bank Subsidiaries 

At December 31, 2015 , our corporate legal structure consisted of the Bank, including its wholly-owned subsidiaries and wholly-owned non-bank subsidiaries through which we conduct other non-material business or which are inactive. The Bank comprised of 99.5 percent of our total assets at December 31, 2015 . We also own nine statutory trusts that are not 

consolidated with our operations. For additional information, see Notes 1, 7 and 26 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. 

Regulation and Supervision 

The banking industry is highly regulated. Statutory and regulatory controls are designed primarily for the protection of depositors and the financial system, and not for the purpose of protecting our shareholders. The following discussion is not intended to be a complete list of all the activities regulated by the banking laws or of the impact of such laws and regulations on us and the Bank. Changes in applicable laws or regulations, and in their interpretation and application by regulatory agencies, cannot be predicted and may have a material effect on our business and results. 

The Bank is a savings and loan holding company. We must comply with a wide variety of banking, consumer protection and securities laws, regulations and supervisory expectations and are regulated by multiple regulators, including the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve (the "Federal Reserve"), the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency ("OCC") of the U.S. Department of the Treasury ("U.S. Treasury"), Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (the "CFPB"), the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation ("FDIC") and the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") or collectively "the regulatory agencies." The Bank's deposits are insured by the FDIC through the Deposit Insurance Fund. 

As a general matter, the regulatory agencies are taking a more stringent approach to supervising and regulating financial institutions and financial products and services over which they exercise their respective supervisory authorities. We, the Bank and our products and services all remain subject to greater supervisory scrutiny and enhanced supervisory requirements and expectations. 

Consent Order with OCC 

Effective October 23, 2012, the Bank's board of directors executed a Stipulation and Consent (the "Stipulation"), accepting the issuance of a Consent Order (the "Consent Order") by the OCC. The Consent Order replaces the supervisory agreement entered into between the Bank and the Office of Thrift Supervision (the "OTS") on January 27, 2010, which the OCC terminated simultaneous with issuance of the Consent Order." For further information and a complete description of all of the terms of the Consent Order, please refer to the copy of the Consent Order filed with the SEC as an exhibit to our Current Report on Form 8-K filed on October 24, 2012. 

Supervisory Agreement 

We are also subject to the Supervisory Agreement with the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve (the "Supervisory Agreement"), dated January 27, 2010. A failure to comply with the Supervisory Agreement could result in the initiation of further enforcement action by the Federal Reserve, including the imposition of further operating restrictions, and could result in additional enforcement actions against the Company. The Company has taken actions which it believes are appropriate to comply with and intends to maintain compliance with all of the requirements of the Supervisory Agreement. For further information and a complete description of all of the terms of the Supervisory Agreement, please refer to the copy of the Supervisory Agreement filed with the SEC as an exhibit to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on January 28, 2010. 

Consent Order with CFPB 

On September 29, 2014, the Bank entered into a Consent Order with the CFPB. The Consent Order relates to alleged violations of federal consumer financial laws arising from the Bank&#8217;s residential first mortgage loan loss mitigation practices and default servicing operations dating back to 2011. Under the terms of the Consent Order, the Bank has paid $28 million for borrower remediation and $10 million in civil money penalties. The settlement does not involve any admission of wrongdoing on the part of the Bank or its employees, directors, officers, or agents. 

Holding Company Status, Acquisitions and Activities 

We are a unitary savings and loan holding company, as defined by federal banking law, as is our controlling stockholder, MP Thrift. We may only conduct, or acquire control of companies engaged in, activities permissible for a savings and loan holding company pursuant to the relevant provisions of the Savings and Loan Holding Company Act and relevant regulations. Without prior written approval of the Federal Reserve, neither we, nor MP Thrift may: (i) acquire control of another savings association or holding company thereof, or acquire all or substantially all of the assets thereof; or (ii) acquire or retain, with certain exceptions, more than 5 percent of the voting shares of a non-subsidiary savings association or a non- 

subsidiary savings and loan holding company. We are prohibited from acquiring control of a depository institution that is not federally insured or retaining control of a savings association subsidiary for more than one year after the date that such subsidiary becomes uninsured. Similarly, we may not be acquired by a bank holding company, or any company, unless the Federal Reserve approves such transaction. In all situations, the public must have an opportunity to comment on any such proposed acquisition, and the OCC or the Federal Reserve must complete an application review. In addition, the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (the "GLBA") generally restricts any non-financial entity from acquiring us. 

Source of Strength 

The Dodd-Frank Act codified the Federal Reserve&#8217;s "source of strength" doctrine and extended it to savings and loan holding companies. Under the Dodd-Frank Act, the prudential regulatory agencies are required to promulgate joint rules requiring bank holding companies and savings and loan holding companies to serve as a source of financial strength for any depository institution subsidiary by maintaining the ability to provide financial assistance to such insured depository institution in the event that it suffers financial distress. 

Regulatory Capital Requirements 

The Bank and the holding company are currently subject to the regulatory capital framework and the implementation of the agreement reached by the Basel Committee on Banking and Supervision &#8220;Basel III&#8221; as adopted by the OCC and Federal Reserve. The OCC and Federal Reserve have risk-based capital adequacy guidelines intended to measure capital adequacy with regard to a banking organization&#8217;s balance sheet, including off-balance sheet exposures such as unused portions of loan commitments, letters of credit, and recourse arrangements. The Bank is required to comply with these capital adequacy standards. Beginning in 2015, our holding company was required to comply with the Federal Reserve Bank&#8217;s capital adequacy guidelines. Prior to 2015, these rules did not apply to savings and loan holding companies. Federal law and regulations established five levels of capital compliance: well-capitalized, adequately capitalized, under-capitalized, significantly under-capitalized and critically under-capitalized. 

At December 31, 2015 , the Bank and the holding company were considered "well-capitalized" for regulatory purposes under the Prompt Corrective Action framework. An institution is considered well-capitalized if its ratio of total risk-based capital to risk-weighted assets is 10.0 percent or more, its ratio of Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets is 8.0 percent or more, its ratio of common equity tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets is 6.5 percent or more, and its leverage ratio of Tier 1 capital to total assets is 5.0 percent or more. Any institution that is not well capitalized or adequately capitalized is considered under-capitalized. Any institution with a tangible equity to total assets ratio of 2.0 percent or less is considered critically under-capitalized. See Note 22 - Regulatory Matters - Regulatory Capital, for additional information. 

Effective on January 1, 2015, the capital framework under the Basel III final rule replaced the existing regulatory capital rules for all banks, savings associations, and U.S. bank holding companies with greater than $500 million in total assets, and all savings and loan holding companies. The final rule implements a new common equity Tier 1 minimum capital requirement. In addition, the new regulations subject a banking organization to certain limitations on capital distributions and discretionary bonus payments to executive officers if the organization did not maintain a capital conservation buffer of common equity Tier 1 capital in an amount greater than 2.5 percent of its total risk-weighted assets. The effect of the capital conservation buffer will be to increase the minimum common equity Tier 1 capital ratio to 7.0 percent, the minimum Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio to 8.5 percent and the minimum total risk-based capital ratio to 10.5 percent. The capital conservation buffer becomes effective January 1, 2016 with transition provisions through 2018. 

The new regulations grandfather the regulatory capital treatment of hybrid debt and equity securities, such as trust preferred securities issued prior to May 19, 2010, for banks or holding companies with less than $15.0 billion in total consolidated assets as of December 31, 2009. Although the Company may continue to include our existing trust preferred securities as Tier 1 capital, the prohibition on the use of these securities as Tier 1 capital going forward may limit the Company&#8217;s ability to raise capital in the future. 

Various aspects of Basel III are subject to multi-year transition periods through December 31, 2018. Basel III will materially change our Tier 1, Tier 1 common and total capital calculations. 

Standards for Safety and Soundness 

Federal law requires each U.S. bank regulatory agency to prescribe certain safety and soundness standards for all insured financial institutions. To that end, the U.S. bank regulatory agencies adopted Interagency Guidelines Establishing 

Standards for Safety and Soundness. These are used by the U.S. bank regulatory agencies to identify and address problems at insured financial institutions before capital becomes impaired. These standards relate to, among other things, internal controls, information systems and audit systems, loan documentation, credit underwriting, interest rate risk exposure, asset growth, asset quality, compensation and benefits, earnings, and other operational and managerial standards as the agency deems appropriate. In general, the guidelines require, among other things, appropriate systems and practices to identify and manage the risks and exposures specified in the guidelines. If the appropriate U.S. banking agency determines that an institution fails to meet any standard prescribed by the guidelines, the agency may require the institution to submit to the agency an acceptable plan to achieve compliance with the standard. 

Qualified Thrift Lender 

The Bank is required to meet a Qualified Thrift Lender ("QTL") test to avoid certain restrictions on operations, including restrictions applicable to multiple savings and loan holding companies, restrictions on the ability to branch interstate, and our mandatory registration as a bank holding company under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956. A savings bank satisfies the QTL test if: (i) on a monthly basis, for at least nine months out of each twelve month period, at least 65 percent of a specified asset base of the savings bank consists of loans to small businesses, credit card loans, educational loans, or certain assets related to domestic residential real estate, including residential mortgage loans and mortgage securities, as well as a portion of residential loans originated and sold within 90 days of origination; or (ii) at least 60 percent of the savings bank&#8217;s total assets consist of cash, U.S. government or government agency debt or equity securities, fixed assets, or loans secured by deposits, real property used for residential, educational, church, welfare, or health purposes, or real property in certain urban renewal areas. The Bank is currently, and expects to remain, in compliance with QTL standards. 

FDIC Insurance and Assessment 

The FDIC insures the deposits of the Bank and such insurance is backed by the full faith and credit of the U.S. government through the Deposit Insurance Fund ("DIF"). The Dodd-Frank Act raised the standard maximum deposit insurance amount to $250,000 per depositor, per insured financial institution for each account ownership category. Deposits held in noninterest bearing transaction accounts are now aggregated with any interest bearing deposits the owner may hold in the same ownership category and the combined total is insured up to at least $250,000. 

Pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, the minimum reserve ratio designated by the FDIC each year is 1.35 percent of the assessment base, as opposed to 1.15 percent under prior law. The FDIC is required to meet the minimum reserve ratio by September 30, 2020 and is required to offset the effect of the increased reserve ratio for banks with assets less than $10 billion. The FDIC has established a higher reserve ratio of 2 percent as a long-term goal beyond what is required by statute. The FDIC is operating under a DIF Restoration Plan while the reserve ratio remains below the minimum target. The Restoration Plan allows the FDIC to evaluate whether growth in the DIF under current assessment rates is likely to be sufficient to meet the statutory requirements. In October of 2015, the FDIC proposed to increase the DIF to the statutorily required minimum level of 1.35 percent. The Dodd-Frank Act made banks with $10 billion or more in total assets responsible for the increase from 1.15 percent to 1.35 percent. Under the current rule regular assessment rates for all banks will decline when the reserve ratio reaches 1.15 percent, which the FDIC expects will occur in early 2016. The proposed rule will impose on the Bank a surcharge of 4.5 cents per $100 of our assessment base, after making certain adjustments. The FDIC expects the reserve ratio would likely reach 1.35 percent after approximately two years of payments of the proposed surcharges. The DIF is funded mainly through quarterly assessments on insured banks. 

The FDIC maintains the DIF by assessing each financial institution an insurance premium. The FDIC defined deposit insurance assessment base for an insured depository institution is equal to the average consolidated total assets during the assessment period, minus average tangible equity. 

During 2015, the Bank was classified as a small institution for deposit insurance assessment purposes. As a small institution, the Bank was assigned to one of three Capital Groups based on our capitalization level. The Bank was also assigned to one of three Supervisory Groups based on the supervisory evaluations provided by the Bank&#8217;s primary federal regulator. Our assessment rate, as a small institution, was determined based upon the Risk Category to which we are assigned. Our Risk Category was determined based on a combination of our Supervisory and Capital Group assignments. 

Effective January 1, 2016, as a result of reporting assets of more than $10 billion for four consecutive quarters, the Bank is classified as a large institution for deposit insurance assessment purposes. The assessment rate schedule for large financial institutions (i.e., financial institutions with at least $10 billion in assets) is determined by use of a scorecard that combines a financial institution's Capital, Asset Quality, Management, Earnings, Liquidity and Sensitivity ("CAMELS") ratings with certain forward-looking financial information to measure the risk to the DIF. Pursuant to this scorecard method, two scores 

(a performance score and a loss severity score) are combined and converted to an initial base assessment rate (also referred to as IBAR). The performance score measures a financial institution's financial performance and ability to withstand stress. The loss severity score measures the relative magnitude of potential losses to the FDIC in the event of the financial institution's failure. Total scores are converted pursuant to a predetermined formula into an initial base assessment rate, which is subject to adjustment based upon significant risk factors not captured in the scoreboard. Total assessment rates range from 2.5 basis points to 45 basis points for such large financial institutions. 

&#160; 

All FDIC-insured financial institutions must pay an annual assessment to provide funds for the payment of interest on bonds issued by the Financing Corporation, a federal corporation chartered under the authority of the Federal Housing Finance Board. The bonds, which are referred to as FICO bonds, were issued to capitalize the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation, and the assessments will continue until the bonds mature in 2019. 

Affiliate Transaction Restrictions 

The Bank is subject to the affiliate and insider transaction rules applicable to member banks of the Federal Reserve as well as additional limitations imposed by the OCC. These provisions prohibit or limit the Bank from extending credit to, or entering into certain transactions with certain affiliates, principal stockholders, directors and executive officers of the banking institution and certain of its affiliates. The Dodd-Frank Act imposed further restrictions on transactions with certain affiliates and extension of credit to executive officers, directors and principal stockholders. 

Incentive Compensation 

The U.S. bank regulatory agencies issued comprehensive guidance on incentive compensation policies intended to ensure that the incentive compensation policies of U.S. banks do not undermine the safety and soundness of such banks by encouraging excessive risk-taking. The guidance, which covers all employees that have the ability to materially affect the risk profile of a bank, either individually or as part of a group, is based upon the key principles that a bank&#8217;s incentive compensation arrangements should (i) provide incentives that do not encourage risk-taking beyond the bank&#8217;s ability to effectively identify and manage risks, (ii) be compatible with effective internal controls and risk management, and (iii) be supported by strong corporate governance, including active and effective oversight by the bank&#8217;s board of directors. 

The U.S bank regulatory agencies review, as part of the regular, risk-focused examination process, the incentive compensation arrangements of U.S. banks that are not "large, complex banking organizations." These reviews are tailored to each bank based on the scope and complexity of the bank&#8217;s activities and the prevalence of incentive compensation arrangements. The findings of the supervisory initiatives are included in reports of examination. Deficiencies are incorporated into the bank&#8217;s supervisory ratings, which may affect the bank&#8217;s ability to make acquisitions and take other actions. Enforcement actions will be taken against a bank if its incentive compensation arrangements, or related risk-management control or governance processes, pose a risk to the bank&#8217;s safety and soundness and the organization is not taking prompt and effective measures to correct the deficiencies. See the Supervisory Agreement discussion, in Item 1. Business for further discussion of the executive compensation notice requirements. 

Federal Reserve 

Numerous regulations promulgated by the Federal Reserve affect our business operations as well as those of the Bank. These include regulations relating to electronic fund transfers, collection of checks, availability of funds, and reserve requirements. 

Federal Reserve regulations require federally chartered savings associations to maintain cash reserves against their transaction accounts (primarily NOW and demand deposit accounts). During 2016, a 3 percent reserve is to be maintained against aggregate transaction accounts between $15 million and $110 million (subject to adjustment by the Federal Reserve) plus a reserve of 10 percent (subject to adjustment by the Federal Reserve between 8 percent and 14 percent) against that portion of total transaction accounts in excess of $110 million. For 2015, a 3 percent reserve will be required to be maintained against aggregate transaction accounts between $14.5 million and $103.6 million (subject to adjustment by the Federal Reserve) plus a reserve of 10 percent (subject to adjustment by the Federal Reserve between 8 percent and 14 percent) against that portion of total transaction accounts in excess of $103.6 million. 

Required reserves must be maintained in the form of vault cash, an account at a Federal Reserve Bank or a pass-through account as defined by the Federal Reserve. Pursuant to the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008, the Federal Reserve Banks pay interest on depository institutions&#8217; required and excess reserve balances. These interest rates are determined by the Federal Reserve, and currently both rates are 0.50 percent per annum. 

Bank Secrecy Act ("BSA") 

The BSA requires all financial institutions, including banks, to, among other things, establish a risk-based system of internal controls reasonably designed to prevent money laundering and the financing of terrorism. Under the BSA, an internal controls program should, at a minimum, include independent testing for compliance, designate an individual responsible for coordinating and monitoring day-to-day compliance and provide training for appropriate personnel. The BSA also includes a variety of recordkeeping and reporting requirements (such as cash and suspicious activity reporting), as well as due diligence/know-your-customer documentation requirements. The Bank has established a global anti-money laundering program in order to comply with the BSA requirements and certain requirements under the Consent Order relating to its compliance with the BSA. 

In recent years, regulators have intensified their focus on bank secrecy and anti-money laundering statutes, regulations and compliance requirements, as well as compliance with economic sanctions administered by OFAC, and we have been required to revise policies and procedures and install new systems in order to comply with regulations, guidelines and examination procedures in this area. As a part of the Consent Order, the Bank agreed to review and revise the Bank&#8217;s bank secrecy and anti-money laundering risk assessment and written program of policies and procedures adopted in accordance with the Bank Secrecy Act and update the status of the Bank&#8217;s plan and timeline for the implementation of enhanced bank secrecy and anti-money laundering internal controls. We cannot be certain that the policies, procedures and systems we have in place or may in the future put in place are or will be successful. Therefore, there is no assurance that in every instance we are and will be in full compliance with these requirements or the Consent Order. 

The Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism Act of 2001 (the "PATRIOT Act") 

The PATRIOT Act amended the BSA to include numerous provisions designed to detect and prevent the financing of international money laundering and terrorism. The PATRIOT Act mandates that U.S. financial institutions (and foreign financial institutions with U.S. operations) implement additional policies and procedures that meet certain minimum requirements and take heightened measures designed to address any or all of the following: customer identification programs, money laundering, terrorist financing, identifying and reporting suspicious activities and currency transactions, currency crimes and cooperation between financial institutions and law enforcement authorities. Other required actions include terminating correspondent accounts for foreign "shell banks," obtaining information about the owners of foreign bank clients, and providing the name and address of the foreign bank&#8217;s agent for service of process in the United States. &#32; Significant penalties and fines, as well as other supervisory orders may be imposed on a financial institution for non-compliance with these requirements. In addition, the U.S. bank regulatory agencies must consider the effectiveness of financial institutions engaging in a merger transaction in combating money laundering activities. The Bank has established policies and procedures intended to comply with the PATRIOT Act&#8217;s provisions, the BSA, as well as other aspects of anti-money laundering legislation. 

Office of Foreign Assets Control Regulation 

The United States has imposed economic sanctions that affect transactions with designated foreign countries, nationals, individuals, entities and others. These are typically known as the "OFAC" rules based on their administration by the U.S. Treasury&#8217;s Office of Foreign Assets Control ("OFAC"). The OFAC-administered sanctions targeting certain persons and countries take many different forms. Generally, however, they contain one or more of the following elements: (i) restrictions on trade with or investment in a sanctioned country or with a sanctioned person, including prohibitions against direct or indirect imports from and exports to a sanctioned country or person and prohibitions on "U.S. persons" engaging in financial transactions relating to making investments in, or providing investment-related advice or assistance to, a sanctioned country or person; and (ii) a blocking of assets in which the sanctioned country or person have an interest, by prohibiting transfers of property subject to U.S. jurisdiction (including property in the possession or control of U.S. persons). Blocked assets (e.g., property and bank deposits) cannot be paid out, withdrawn, set off or transferred in any manner without a license from OFAC. Failure to comply with these sanctions could have serious legal and reputational consequences. 

Consumer Protection Laws and Regulations 

The Bank is subject to many federal consumer protection statutes and regulations, the examination and enforcement of which has become more pronounced since the passage of the Dodd-Frank Act and the creation of the CFPB. The CFPB has assumed the responsibility for the development and enforcement of the federal consumer protection statutes and regulations, such as the Electronic Fund Transfer Act, the Fair Credit Reporting Act, the Homeowners Protection Act, the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act, the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act, the Home Ownership and Equity Protection Act, the Secure and 

Fair Enforcement for Mortgage Licensing Act, the Truth in Lending Act, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act, the Servicemembers&#8217; Civil Relief Act and the Truth in Saving Act. The Dodd-Frank Act gave the CFPB: (i) broad rule-making, supervisory, examination and enforcement authority in this area over financial institutions that have assets of more than $10 billion, (ii) expanded data collecting powers for fair lending purposes for both small business and mortgage loans and (iii) authority to prevent unfair, deceptive and abusive practices. The consumer complaint function of the OCC also has been transferred to the CFPB. The Dodd-Frank Act also narrows the scope of federal preemption of state laws related to federally chartered financial institutions, including savings banks such as the Bank, which gives broader rights to state attorney generals to enforce certain consumer protection loans. 

During 2015, the Bank was not subject to the CFPB&#8217;s supervisory, examination and enforcement authority with respect to consumer protection laws and regulations because the Bank had reported assets of less than $10 billion for four consecutive quarters. Instead, it was subject to the OCC&#8217;s supervisory, examination and enforcement authority in this area. As of December 31, 2015, the total assets of the Bank have exceeded $10 billion for four consecutive quarters, and as such, the Bank is again subject to the CFPB&#8217;s supervisory, examination and enforcement authority with respect to consumer protection laws and regulations starting in January 2016. 

In 2016 and future years, the Company anticipates that it will continue to be financially impacted by several meaningful regulatory changes. The most significant changes of which include: 

Amendments to the 2014 Regulations Related to Mortgage Origination and Servicing. &#32; In January 2013, the CFPB issued a series of final rules related to mortgage loan origination and mortgage loan servicing. While these final rules amended existing regulations applicable to Flagstar, adjustments in our business operations necessary to comply with these rules have increased our overall regulatory compliance costs. In addition, the CFPB continues to modify and refine the new substantive requirements. In 2014, the CFPB issued final and proposed rules and guidance to amend and supplement its mortgage loan servicing rules. On July 8, 2014, the CFPB issued a final rule to clarify that the name of a deceased borrower&#8217;s heir generally may be added to a mortgage without triggering the ability-to-repay rule. On August 19, 2014, the CFPB issued guidance that outlines what CFPB examiners will look for when mortgage servicing rights are transferred to ensure that mortgage servicers are fulfilling their obligations under the mortgage servicing rules and highlights regulatory requirements that may be implicated by a transfer of mortgage servicing rights. On October 22, 2014, the CFPB issued a final rule that provides a limited, post-consummation cure mechanism for loans that exceed the points and fees limit for Qualified Mortgages, but that meet the other requirements for being a Qualified Mortgage at consummation. In addition, on November 20, 2014, the CFPB proposed several amendments to certain mortgage servicing rules, including amendments that would require servicers to provide certain borrowers with foreclosure protections more than once over the life of the loan, clarify when a consumer is considered &#8220;delinquent,&#8221; expand protections provided to certain borrowers during a servicing transfer and prevent wrongful disclosures. The CFPB is expected to continue to revise its rules related to mortgage loan origination and mortgage loan servicing, and additional rulemaking affecting the residential mortgage business is expected. 

The TILA-RESPA Integrated Disclosure Rule. &#32; On November 20, 2013, the CFPB issued a final rule and official interpretation, which established integrated mortgage disclosure requirements for lenders and settlement agents in connection with most closed-end consumer credit transactions secured by real property. The final rule, commonly referred to as "TRID," became effective as to mortgage applications received on or after October 3, 2015 and combines certain disclosures that consumers receive in connection with applying for and closing on a mortgage loan under the Truth in Lending Act and the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act. Among other things, the rule mandates the use of two new disclosure forms, a Loan Estimate form and a Closing Disclosure form, which replace existing disclosure forms and include additional content not required by the prior forms. In addition, the rule requires that the Closing Disclosure form be received by the borrower at least three business days before closing in most cases, limits the circumstances in which borrowers may be required to pay more for settlement services than the amount stated on the Loan Estimate form and imposes certain recordkeeping requirements. 

The Home Mortgage Disclosure Act (the &#8220;HMDA&#8221;) and Updated Reporting Requirements. &#32; The HMDA grew out of public concern over credit shortages in certain urban neighborhoods and provides public information that will help show whether financial institutions are serving the housing credit needs of the neighborhoods and communities in which they are located. The HMDA also includes a "fair lending" aspect that requires the collection and disclosure of data about applicant and borrower characteristics as a way of identifying possible discriminatory lending patterns and enforcing anti-discrimination statutes. Regulation C provides the mechanism for this collection and reporting of data, which has been applicable to closed-end consumer loans secured by a dwelling and which a financial institution originates, purchases, or for which it receives an application. On October 15, 2015, the CFPB issued a final rule amending Regulation C, expanding the amount of data to be gathered and reported as well as subjecting home equity lines of credit and reverse mortgages to these requirements. The new data gathering requirements will become effective on January 1, 2018 while the new reporting obligations will become 

effective in 2019, although it is not yet clear how much of this new data will be made publicly available. We will continue to assess the impact to Flagstar as we update our procedures and system controls and as the CFPB provides additional guidance on how much of the data will be made publicly available. 

Predatory lending . Federal regulations require additional disclosures and consumer protections to borrowers for certain lending practices, including predatory lending. The term "predatory lending," much like the terms "safety and soundness" and "unfair and deceptive practices," is far-reaching and covers a potentially broad range of behavior. As such, it does not lend itself to a concise or a comprehensive definition. Predatory lending typically involves at least one, and perhaps all three, of the following elements: 

&#8226; 

Making unaffordable loans based on the assets of the borrower rather than on the borrower's ability to repay an obligation; 

&#8226; 

Inducing a borrower to refinance a loan repeatedly in order to charge high points and fees each time the loan is refinanced, also known as loan flipping; and/or 

&#8226; 

Engaging in fraud or deception to conceal the true nature of the loan obligation from an unsuspecting or unsophisticated borrower. 

In addition, many states also have predatory lending laws that may be applicable to the Bank. 

Gramm-Leach Bliley Act ("GLBA"). &#32;The GLBA includes provisions that protect consumers from the unauthorized transfer and use of their non-public personal information by financial institutions. Privacy policies are required by federal banking regulations which limit the ability of banks and other financial institutions to disclose non-public personal information about consumers to non-affiliated third parties. Pursuant to those rules, financial institutions must provide: 

&#8226; 

Initial notices to customers about their privacy policies, describing the conditions under which they may disclose non-public personal information to non-affiliated third parties and affiliates; 

&#8226; 

Annual notices of their privacy policies to current customers; and 

&#8226; 

A reasonable method for customers to "opt out" of disclosures to non-affiliated third parties. 

These privacy protections affect how consumer information is transmitted through diversified financial companies and conveyed to outside vendors. In addition, states are permitted under the GLBA to have their own privacy laws, which may offer greater protection to consumers than the GLBA. Numerous states in which the Bank does business have enacted such laws. 

In addition, the Bank is subject to regulatory guidelines establishing standards for safeguarding customer information. These regulations implement certain provisions of the GLBA. The guidelines describe the U.S. bank regulatory agencies expectations for the creation, implementation and maintenance of an information security program, which would include administrative, technical and physical safeguards appropriate to the size and complexity of the institution and the nature and scope of its activities. The standards set forth in the guidelines are intended to ensure the security and confidentiality of customer records and information, protect against any anticipated threats or hazards to the security or integrity of such records and protect against unauthorized access to, or use of, such records or information that could result in substantial harm or inconvenience to any customer. 

Fair Credit Reporting Act and the Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act (&#8220;FACT Act&#8221;). The Fair Credit Reporting Act, as amended by the FACT Act, requires financial firms to help deter identity theft, including developing appropriate fraud response programs, and gives consumers more control of their credit data. It also reauthorizes a federal ban on state laws that interfere with corporate credit granting and marketing practices. In connection with the FACT Act, U.S. bank regulatory agencies proposed rules that would prohibit an institution from using certain information about a consumer it received from an affiliate to make a solicitation to the consumer, unless the consumer has been notified and given a chance to opt out of such solicitations. A consumer's election to opt out would be applicable for at least five years. 

Equal Credit Opportunity Act (&#8220;ECOA&#8221;). &#32;The ECOA generally prohibits discrimination in any credit transaction, whether for consumer or business purposes, on the basis of race, color, religion, national origin, sex, marital status, age (except in limited circumstances), receipt of income from public assistance programs, or good faith exercise of any rights under the Consumer Credit Protection Act. 

Truth In Lending Act (&#8220;TILA&#8221;). &#32;The TILA is designed to ensure that credit terms are disclosed in a meaningful way so that consumers may compare credit terms more readily and knowledgeably. As a result of the TILA, all creditors must use the same credit terminology to express rates and payments, including the annual percentage rate, the finance charge, the amount financed, the total of payments and the payment schedule, among other things. In addition, the TILA, through its 

implementation of Regulation Z also provides a variety of substantive protections for consumers, including but not limited to the technical requirements of the new TILA RESPA Integrated Disclosure Rule. These protections also include the rules applicable to assessing a consumer&#8217;s ability to repay as well as what constitutes a &#8220;qualified mortgage," the rules applicable to higher-priced mortgage loans, the strict requirements applicable to making a &#8220;High Cost Mortgage Loan," and rules restricting loan originator compensation. Regulation Z also impacts mortgage loan servicing, through rules applying to billing statements, interest rate adjustment notices, and the way in which payments are to be applied. Violations of these provisions can result in civil liability and/or administrative sanctions. 

Fair Housing Act (&#8220;FH Act&#8221;). &#32;The FH Act regulates many practices, including making it unlawful for any lender to discriminate in its housing-related lending activities against any person because of race, color, religion, national origin, sex, handicap or familial status. A number of lending practices have been found by the courts to be, or may be considered illegal, under the FH Act, including some that are not specifically mentioned in the FH Act itself. 

Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act (&#8220;RESPA&#8221;). &#32;Lenders are required by RESPA to provide borrowers with disclosures regarding the nature and cost of real estate settlements. While many of these requirements are now spelled out under the Truth in Lending Act&#8217;s Regulation Z pursuant to the TILA RESPA Integrated Disclosure Rule, RESPA and its Regulation X continue to impact mortgage servicing compliance through several rules, including but not limited to those applicable to handling borrower requests for information and notices of error, force placed insurance, loss mitigation and foreclosure, and the transfer of servicing. Also, RESPA prohibits certain abusive practices, such as kickbacks, and places limitations on the amount of escrow accounts. Violations of RESPA may result in civil liability or administrative sanctions. 

&#160; 

Servicemembers&#8217; Civil Relief Act (the &#8220;SCRA&#8221;). The SCRA applies to all debts incurred prior to commencement of active military service (including credit card and other open-end debt) and limits the amount of interest, including service and renewal charges and any other fees or charges (other than bona fide insurance) that is related to the obligation or liability. 

Enforcement. &#32;Enforcement actions under the above laws may include fines, reimbursements and other penalties. Due to heightened regulatory concern related to compliance with the FACT Act, ECOA, TILA, FH Act, HMDA, RESPA and SCRA generally, the Bank may incur additional compliance costs or be required to expend additional funds for investments in its local community. 

Community Reinvestment Act ("CRA") 

The CRA, as implemented by OCC regulations, requires the OCC to evaluate how federal savings associations have helped to meet the credit needs of the communities they serve, including low to moderate income neighborhoods, while maintaining safe and sound banking practices. The evaluation rates an institution based on its actual performance in meeting community needs. In particular, the current evaluation system focuses on three tests: (i) a lending test, to evaluate the institution&#8217;s record of making loans in its service areas&#894; (ii) an investment test, to evaluate the institution&#8217;s record of investing in community development projects, affordable housing, and programs benefiting low- or moderate-income individuals and businesses; and (iii) a service test, to evaluate the institution&#8217;s delivery of services through its branches, ATMs and other offices. The OCC assigns one of four possible ratings to an institution's CRA performance and is required to make public an institution's rating and written evaluation. The four possible ratings of meeting community credit needs are outstanding, satisfactory, needs to improve and substantial non-compliance. 

An institution&#8217;s failure to comply with the provisions of the CRA could, at a minimum, result in regulatory restrictions on its activities, including, but not limited to, engaging in acquisitions and mergers. CRA ratings are also considered in evaluating applications to open a branch. 

Regulatory Reform 

&#160; 

The Dodd-Frank Act requires the federal financial regulatory agencies to adopt rules that prohibit banks and affiliates from engaging in proprietary trading and investing in and sponsoring certain "covered funds," including hedge funds and private equity funds. The statutory provision is commonly called the "Volcker Rule." The final rules implementing the Volcker Rule, as drafted by a variety of federal financial regulatory agencies, were issued December 10, 2013. The final rules extend the conformance period to July 21, 2015. Pursuant to the requirements of the Volcker Rule, we have established a standard compliance program based on the size and complexity of our operations. The standard compliance program includes written policies and procedures that document and limit our risk mitigating hedging and market-making related activities; a system of internal controls to monitor compliance; a management framework that provides a clear accountability for compliance including appropriate management review of limits; incentive compensation; and other matters identified as requiring attention; independent testing and audits; training; and recordkeeping requirements. 

We expect to incur ongoing operational and system costs for ongoing compliance with the multitude of new laws and regulations. Furthermore, there may be additional federal or state laws enacted during this period that place additional obligations on servicers of residential loans. 

Stress Testing Requirements 

&#160; 

The U.S. federal banking agencies, including the OCC and the Federal Reserve, issued final rules implementing provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act that require banking organizations, including savings associations and savings and loan holding companies, with total consolidated assets of more than $10 billion but less than $50 billion to conduct annual company-run stress tests, report the results to their primary federal regulator and the Federal Reserve and publish a summary of the results. Each Dodd-Frank Act Stress Test, or DFAST, must be conducted using certain scenarios (baseline, adverse and severely adverse), which the OCC and Federal Reserve will publish by February 15 of each year. Banking organizations are required to use the scenarios to calculate, for each quarter-end within a nine-quarter planning horizon, the impact of such scenarios on revenues, losses, loan loss reserves and regulatory capital levels and ratios, taking into account all relevant exposures and activities. The rules also require each banking organization to establish and maintain a system of controls, oversight and documentation, including policies and procedures, designed to ensure that the DFAST procedures used by the banking organization are effective in meeting the requirements of the rules. 

Limitation on Capital Distributions 

Under the Supervisory Agreement, we shall not declare or pay any cash dividends or other capital distributions or purchase, repurchase, or redeem, or commit to purchase, repurchase, or redeem any equity stock without the prior written nonobjection of the Federal Reserve. The Company does not currently pay dividends on the capital stock. 

&#160; 

OCC regulations impose limitations upon certain capital distributions by savings associations, such as cash dividends, payments to repurchase or otherwise acquire its shares, payments to shareholders of another institution in a cash-out merger and other distributions charged against capital. 

The OCC regulates all capital distributions made by the Bank, directly or indirectly, to the holding company, including dividend payments. A subsidiary of a savings and loan holding company, such as the Bank, must file a notice or application with the OCC at least 30 days prior to each proposed capital distribution. Whether an application is required is based on a number of factors including whether the institution qualifies for expedited treatment under the OCC rules and regulations or if the total amount of all capital distributions (including each proposed capital distribution) for the applicable calendar year exceeds net income for that year to date plus the retained net income for the preceding two years. Under the Consent Order, the Bank may not pay a dividend or make a capital distribution if it is not in compliance with its approved capital plan or would not remain in compliance after making the dividend or capital distribution, and the Bank must receive OCC approval under the generally applicable application or notice requirements. In addition, as a subsidiary of a savings and loan holding company, the Bank must receive approval from the Federal Reserve Bank ("FRB") before declaring any dividends. Additional restrictions on dividends apply if the Bank fails the QTL test. 

The Bank may not pay dividends to us if, after paying those dividends, it would fail to meet the required minimum levels under risk-based capital guidelines and the minimum leverage and tangible capital ratio requirements or if the dividend would violate a prohibition contained in any statute, regulation or agreement. Under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act ("FDIA") an insured depository institution such as the Bank is prohibited from making capital distributions, including the payment of dividends, if, after making such distribution, the institution would become "undercapitalized" (as such term is used in the FDIA). Payment of dividends by the Bank also may be restricted at any time at the discretion of the OCC if it deems the payment to constitute an unsafe and unsound banking practice. 

Commercial Real Estate Lending 

Lending operations that involve concentrations of commercial real estate loans are subject to enhanced scrutiny by federal banking regulators. Regulators have advised financial institutions of the risks posed by commercial real estate lending concentrations. Such loans generally include land development, construction loans and loans secured by multifamily property and nonfarm, nonresidential real property where the primary source of repayment is derived from rental income associated with the property. Interagency guidance prescribes the following guidelines for examiners to help identify institutions that are potentially exposed to concentration risk and may warrant greater supervisory scrutiny: 

&#8226; 

Total reported loans for construction, land development and other land represent 100 percent or more of the institution&#8217;s total capital, or 

&#8226; 

Total commercial real estate loans represent 300 percent or more of the institution&#8217;s total capital, and the outstanding balance of the institution&#8217;s commercial real estate loan portfolio has increased by 50 percent or more during the prior 36 months. 

Loans to One Borrower 

Under the Home Owners Loan Act ("HOLA"), savings associations are generally subject to the national bank limits on loans to one borrower. Generally, savings associations may not make a loan or extend credit to a single or related group of borrowers in excess of 15 percent of the institution&#8217;s unimpaired capital and surplus (as defined by HOLA). Additional amounts may be loaned if such loans or extensions of credit are secured by readily-marketable collateral, but in no case may they be in excess of an additional 10 percent of unimpaired capital and surplus. 

Regulatory Enforcement 

&#160; 

Both the OCC and the FDIC may take regulatory enforcement actions against any of their regulated institutions, such as the Bank, that do not operate in accordance with applicable regulations, policies and directives. Proceedings may be instituted against any banking institution, or any "institution-affiliated party," such as a director, officer, employee, agent or controlling person, who engages in unsafe and unsound practices, including violations of applicable laws and regulations. The OCC has authority under various circumstances to appoint a receiver or conservator for an insured institution that it regulates, to issue cease and desist orders, to obtain injunctions restraining or prohibiting unsafe or unsound practices, to revalue assets and to require the establishment of reserves. The FDIC has additional authority to terminate insurance of accounts, after notice and hearing, upon a finding that the insured institution is or has engaged in any unsafe or unsound practice that has not been corrected, is operating in an unsafe or unsound condition or has violated any applicable law, regulation, rule, or order of, or condition imposed by, the FDIC. In addition, the Federal Reserve may take regulatory enforcement actions against us, and the CFPB may also have the authority to take regulatory enforcement actions against us or the Bank. 

Assessments 

In its normal course of business, the OCC charges assessments to savings associations to fund its operations. The general assessment is paid on a semi-annual basis and is generally based on an institution&#8217;s total assets, with a surcharge for an institution with a composite rating of 3, 4 or 5 in its most recent safety and soundness examination. Our expense for these assessments totaled $3 million &#32;for each of the years ending December 31, 2015 &#32;and 2014 . 

Federal Home Loan Bank System 

The primary purpose of the Federal Home Loan Banks ("FHLBs") is to act as a central credit facility and provide loans to their respective members, such as the Bank, in the form of collateralized advances for making housing loans as well as for affordable housing and community development lending. The FHLBs are generally able to make advances to their member institutions at interest rates that are lower than the members could otherwise obtain. The Federal Housing Finance Agency, a government agency, is generally responsible for regulating the FHLB system. The FHLB system consists of 12 regional FHLBs, each being federally chartered, but privately owned, by their respective member institutions. The Bank is currently a member of the FHLB of Indianapolis, and as such, is required to purchase and hold shares of capital stock in that FHLB in an amount as required by that FHLB&#8217;s capital plan and minimum capital requirements. At December 31, 2015 , we held 169,881,300 shares of FHLB stock with a value of $170 million . 

Environmental Regulation 

Our business and properties are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations governing environmental matters, including the regulation of hazardous substances and wastes. For example, under the federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act, as amended and similar state laws, owners and operators of contaminated properties may be liable for the costs of cleaning up hazardous substances without regard to whether such persons actually caused the contamination. Such laws may affect us both as a current or former owner or operator of properties used in or held for our business or upon which we have foreclosed, and as a secured lender on property that is found to contain hazardous substances or wastes. Our general practice is to obtain an environmental assessment prior to foreclosing on commercial property. We may elect not to foreclose on properties that contain such hazardous substances or wastes, thereby limiting, and in some instances precluding, the liquidation of such properties. 

Anti-Tying Restrictions 

Under HOLA, the Bank is prohibited from engaging in certain tying or reciprocity arrangements with its customers. In general, the Bank may not extend credit, lease, sell property, or furnish any services or fix or vary the consideration for these on the condition that: (i) the customer obtain or provide some additional credit, property, or services from or to the Bank, us or the Bank&#8217;s or our subsidiaries or (ii) the customer may not obtain some other credit, property, or services from a competitor, except in each case to the extent reasonable conditions are imposed to assure the soundness of the credit extended. Certain arrangements are permissible. For example, the Bank may offer more favorable terms if a customer obtains two or more traditional bank products. 

Competition 

We face substantial competition in attracting deposits and making loans. Our most direct competition for deposits has historically come from other savings banks, commercial banks and credit unions in our local market areas. Money market funds and full-service securities brokerage firms also compete with us for these funds and, in recent years, many financial institutions have competed for deposits through the Internet. We compete for deposits by offering high quality and convenient banking services at a large number of convenient locations, and "sit-down" banking in which a customer is served at a desk rather than in a teller line and offered a broad range of products. We also compete by offering competitive interest rates on our deposit products. 

From a lending perspective, there are a large number of institutions offering mortgage loans, consumer loans and commercial loans, including many mortgage lenders that operate on a national scale, as well as local savings banks, commercial banks, and other lenders. With respect to those products that we offer, we compete by offering competitive interest rates, fees, and other loan terms, banking products and services and by offering efficient and rapid service. 

Additional Information 

Our executive offices are located at 5151 Corporate Drive, Troy, Michigan 48098, and our telephone number is (248) 312-2000. Our stock is traded on the NYSE under the symbol "FBC." 

We make our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act available free of charge on our website at www.flagstar.com , under "Investor Relations," as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"). These reports are also available without charge on the SEC website at www.sec.gov. 

