 Item 1. Business General 

Trex Company, Inc. (Company, we, us or our), founded as a Delaware corporation in 1998, is the world&#146;s largest manufacturer of wood-alternative decking and railing products, which are marketed under the brand name Trex &#174; and manufactured in the United States. Our principal executive offices are located at 160 Exeter Drive, Winchester, Virginia 22603, and our telephone number at that address is (540) 542-6300. We operate in a single reportable segment. 

Products 

We offer a comprehensive set of aesthetically pleasing, high performance and low maintenance outdoor living products in the decking, railing, porch, fencing, trim, steel deck framing and outdoor lighting categories. We believe that the range and variety of our product offerings allow consumers to design much of their outdoor living space using Trex &#174; brand products. A majority of our products are made in a proprietary process that combines reclaimed wood fibers and scrap polyethylene. Our products come in a wide selection of popular sizes and lengths and are available with several finishes and in numerous colors. 

Decking. Our principal decking products are Trex Transcend &#174; , Trex Enhance &#174; and Trex Select &#174; . Our decking products are comprised of a blend of 95 percent recycled wood and recycled plastic film and feature a protective shell for enhanced protection against fading, staining, mold and scratching. We also offer Trex Hideaway &#174; , a hidden fastening system for grooved boards. 

Railing. Our railing products are Trex Transcend Railing, Trex Select Railing, and Trex Reveal &#174; aluminum railing. Trex Transcend Railing is available in the colors of Trex Transcend decking and finishes that make it appropriate for use with Trex decking products as well as other decking materials, which we believe enhances the sales prospects of our railing products. Trex Select Railing is offered in a white finish and is ideal for consumers who desire a simple clean finished look for their deck. Trex Reveal &#174; aluminum railing is available in three colors and designed for consumers who want a sleek, contemporary look. 

Porch. Our Trex Transcend Porch Flooring and Railing System is an integrated system of porch components and accessories. 

Fencing. We offer our Trex Seclusions &#174; fencing product through two specialty distributors. This product consists of structural posts, bottom rail, pickets, top rail and decorative post caps. 

Trim. Our TrexTrim&#153; product is a low maintenance cellular PVC residential exterior trim product that offered exceptional workability, durability, visual appeal and a low level of required maintenance. 

Steel Deck Framing. We offer a triple-coated steel deck framing system called Trex Elevations &#174; that leverages the strength and dimensional stability of steel to create a flat surface for our decking. Trex Elevations &#174; provides consistency and reliability that wood does not and is fire resistant. 

Outdoor Lighting. Our outdoor lighting systems are Trex DeckLighting&#153; and Trex Landscape Lighting&#153;. Trex DeckLighting&#153; is a line of energy-efficient LED dimmable deck lighting, which is designed for use on 

&#160;

posts, floors and steps. The line includes a post cap light, deck rail light, riser light and a recessed deck light. The Trex Landscape Lighting&#153; line includes an energy-efficient well light, path light, multifunction light and spotlight. 

We are a licensor in a number of licensing agreements with third parties to manufacture and sell products under the Trex trademark. Our licensed products are: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Trex Outdoor Furniture&#153;, which is a line of outdoor furniture products manufactured and sold by Poly-Wood, Inc.; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Trex RainEscape &#174; , which is an above joist deck drainage system manufactured and sold by Dri-Deck Enterprises, LLC; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Trex CustomCurve &#174; , which is an on-site system that allows contractors to heat and bend Trex products manufactured and sold by CurveIt, LLC; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Trex Pergolas, which are pergolas made from TrexTrim&#153;, our low maintenance cellular PVC trim product, marketed by Home and Leisure, Inc. dba Backyard America; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Diablo &#174; Trex Blade, which is a specialty saw blade for wood-plastic composite decking manufactured and sold by Freud America, Inc.; &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Trex SpiralStairs&#153; and Structural Steel Posts manufactured and sold by M. Cohen and Sons, Inc. dba The Iron Shop for use with the Trex Elevations &#174; system; and &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Trex Outdoor Cabinets, which are outdoor storage cabinets manufactured and sold by NatureKast Products LLC. Trex products offer a number of significant aesthetic advantages over wood while eliminating many of wood&#146;s major functional disadvantages, which include warping, splitting and other damage from moisture. Our products require no staining, are resistant to moisture damage, provide a splinter-free surface and need no chemical treatment against rot or insect infestation. These qualities result in low maintenance products when compared to the on-going maintenance requirements for a wood deck and make Trex products less costly than wood over the life of the deck. Trex products are stain resistant and color fast. Special characteristics (including resistance to splitting, the ability to bend, and ease and consistency of machining and finishing) facilitate deck, railing, fencing and trim installation, reduce contractor call-backs and afford customers a wide range of design options. Trex decking products do not have the tensile strength of wood and, as a result, are not used as primary structural members in posts, beams or columns used in a deck&#146;s substructure. However, Trex does offer the Trex Elevations &#174; steel deck framing system. 

We have received product building code listings from the major U.S. and Canadian building code listing agencies for both our decking and railing systems. The listings facilitate the acquisition of building permits by deck builders and promote consumer and industry acceptance of our products as an alternative to wood decking. 

During the second half of 2014, we entered the specialty materials market. Our first specialty product is made from plastic and is a linear low-density polyethylene pellet for use in blown film, profile extrusion and molding and compounding applications. Our entry into this adjacent market leverages our core recycling and extrusion capabilities. Our initial manufacturing line commenced operations during the second quarter of 2014 and during 2015 we added three additional lines. The Company remains in the early stages of specialty market penetration. 

Growth Strategies 

Our long-term goal is to perpetuate our position as the leading producer of branded superior wood-alternative outdoor living products by increasing our market share and expanding into new product categories 

&#160;

and geographic markets through the design and marketing of high-performance outdoor living products that offer superior aesthetics and quality. Also, we will explore opportunities that leverage our manufacturing and extrusion expertise and are tied to our recycling heritage. To attain this goal, we intend to employ the following long-term strategies: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Innovation : Bring to the market new products that address unmet consumer and trade professional needs. Provide a compelling value proposition through ease of installation, low maintenance, long-term durability and superior aesthetics. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Brand : Expand preference and commitment for the Trex brand with both the consumer and trade professional. Deliver on the brand&#146;s promise of superior quality, functionality, pleasing aesthetics and overall performance in outdoor living products. Leverage online efforts to extend the Trex brand digital presence, both nationally and globally. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Channels : Achieve comprehensive market segment and geographic coverage for Trex products by increasing the number of stocking dealers and retailers and expanding our international presence, thereby making our products available wherever our customers choose to purchase their decking, railing, porch, trim, steel deck framing and outdoor lighting products. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Quality : Continuously advance the quality of all operational and business processes, with the goal of achieving superior product quality and service levels, thereby giving us a sustainable competitive advantage. &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Cost : Through capital investments and process engineering, continuously seek to lower the cost to manufacture Trex products. Investments in plastic recycling capabilities will allow us to expand our ability to use a wider breadth of waste materials thereby lowering our raw material costs. We plan to continue to achieve significant improvements in manufacturing productivity by reducing waste and improving our production process, from raw materials preparation through extrusion into finishing and packaging. Customers and Distribution 

We distribute our products as follows: 

Wholesale Distributors/Retail Lumber Dealers . We generate most of our sales through our wholesale distribution network by selling Trex products to wholesale distributors, who in turn, sell our products to retail lumber outlets. These retail dealers market to both homeowners and contractors, but they emphasize sales to professional contractors, remodelers and homebuilders. Contractor-installed decks generally are larger installations with professional craftsmanship. Our retail dealers generally provide sales personnel trained in Trex products, contractor training, inventory commitment and point-of-sale display support. 

We believe that attracting wholesale distributors, who are committed to our products and marketing approach and can effectively sell higher value products to contractor-oriented lumber yards and other retail outlets, is important to our future growth. Our distributors are able to provide value-added service in marketing our products because they sell premium wood decking products and other innovative building materials that typically require product training and personal selling efforts. We typically appoint two distributors on a non-exclusive basis to distribute Trex products within a specified area. The distributor purchases our products at prices in effect at the time we ship the product to the distributor. Based on our 2015 net sales, sales to one of our distributors, Boise Cascade, exceeded 10% of our net sales. 

Home Depot and Lowe&#146;s. We sell our products through Home Depot and Lowe&#146;s stores. Home Depot and Lowe&#146;s purchase products directly from us for stocking on their shelves. They also purchase product through our wholesale distributors for special orders placed by consumers. Home Depot and Lowe&#146;s serve both the contractor market and the &#147;do-it-yourself&#148; market. We believe that brand exposure through Home Depot and Lowe&#146;s distribution promotes consumer acceptance of our products. 

&#160;

Manufacturing Process 

We operate manufacturing facilities in Winchester, Virginia and Fernley, Nevada. 

Trex products are primarily manufactured from reclaimed wood fiber and scrap polyethylene. Our primary manufacturing process involves mixing wood particles with plastic, heating and then extruding, or forcing, the highly viscous and abrasive material through a profile die. We use many proprietary and skill-based advantages in our manufacturing process. 

Production of wood-alternative decking and railing products requires significant capital investment, expertise and time to develop. We have continuously invested the capital necessary to expand our manufacturing throughput and improve our manufacturing processes. We have also broadened the range of raw materials that we can use to produce a consistent and high-quality finished product. We maintain research and development operations in the Trex Technical Center in Winchester, Virginia. In connection with national building code listings, we maintain a quality control testing program. 

We utilize Six Sigma and Lean Manufacturing methodologies within our plant operations. We also use these methodologies throughout our Company in the planning and execution of projects that are important to our success. 

Research and Development 

Our research and development efforts focus on innovation and developing new products, lowering the cost of manufacturing our existing products and redesigning existing product lines to increase efficiency and enhance performance. For the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, research and development costs were $1.5 million, $2.3 million and $2.9 million, respectively, and have been included in &#147;Selling, general and administrative expenses&#148; in the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income. 

Suppliers 

The production of most of our products requires the supply of reclaimed wood fiber and scrap polyethylene. 

We fulfill requirements for raw materials under both purchase orders and supply contracts. In the year ended December 31, 2015, we purchased substantially all of our reclaimed wood fiber requirements under purchase orders, which do not involve long-term supply commitments. Substantially all of our polyethylene purchases are under short-term supply contracts that average approximately one to two years for which pricing is negotiated as needed. 

Reclaimed Wood Fiber . Cabinet and flooring manufacturers are our preferred suppliers of reclaimed wood fiber because the reclaimed wood fiber produced by these operations contains little contamination and is low in moisture. These facilities generate reclaimed wood fiber as a byproduct of their manufacturing operations. 

If the reclaimed wood fiber meets our specifications, our reclaimed wood fiber supply agreements generally require us to purchase at least a specified minimum and at most a specified maximum amount of reclaimed wood fiber each year. Depending on our needs, the amount of reclaimed wood fiber that we actually purchase within the specified range under any supply agreement may vary significantly from year to year. 

Scrap Polyethylene . The polyethylene we consumed in 2015 was primarily composed of scrap plastic film and plastic bags. We will continue to seek to meet our future needs for scrap polyethylene from the expansion of our existing supply sources and the development of new sources. We believe our use of multiple sources provides us with a cost advantage and facilitates an environmentally responsible approach to our procurement of polyethylene. 

&#160;

Our ability to source and use a wide variety of polyethylene from third party distribution and manufacturing operations is important to our cost strategy. We maintain this ability through the continued expansion of our plastic reprocessing operations in combination with the advancement of our proprietary material preparation and extrusion processes. 

Third-Party Manufacturing . We outsource the production of certain products to third-party manufacturers and in 2015 had supply contracts that committed us to purchase minimum levels of product related to some of the outsourced production. 

Competition 

Our primary competition consists of wood products, which constitutes a substantial majority of decking and railing sales, as measured by linear feet of lumber. Many of the conventional lumber suppliers with which we compete have established ties to the building and construction industry and have well-accepted products. A majority of the lumber used in wood decks is pressure-treated lumber. Southern yellow pine and fir have a porosity that readily allows the chemicals used in the pressure treating process to be absorbed. The same porosity makes southern yellow pine susceptible to absorbing moisture, which causes the lumber to warp, crack, splinter and expel fasteners. In addition to pine and fir, other segments of wood material for decking include redwood, cedar and tropical hardwoods, such as ipe, teak and mahogany. These products are often significantly more expensive than pressure-treated lumber, but do not eliminate many of the disadvantages of other wood products. 

In addition to wood, we also compete with other manufacturers of wood-alternative products. Industry studies indicate that we have the leading market share of the wood-alternative segment of the decking and railing market. Our principal competitors include Advanced Environmental Recycling Technologies, Inc., CPG International LLC and Fiberon, LLC. 

Our ability to compete depends, in part, on a number of factors outside our control, including the ability of our competitors to develop new wood-alternative decking and railing products that are competitive with our products. We believe that the principal competitive factors in the decking and railing market include product quality, price, aesthetics, maintenance cost, distribution and brand strength. We believe we compete favorably with respect to these factors. We believe that our products offer aesthetic and cost advantages over the life of a deck when compared to other types of decking and railing materials. Although a contractor-installed deck built with Trex products using a pressure-treated wood substructure generally costs more than a deck made entirely from pressure-treated wood, Trex products are low maintenance compared to the on-going maintenance required for a pressure-treated deck and are, therefore, less costly over the life of the deck. We believe that our manufacturing process and utilization of relatively low-cost raw material sources provide us with a competitive cost advantage relative to other manufacturers of wood-alternative decking and railing products. The scale of our operations also confers cost efficiencies in manufacturing, sales and marketing. 

Seasonality 

Our net sales, gross profit and income from operations have historically varied from quarter to quarter. Such variations are often attributable to seasonal trends in the demand for our products. We have historically experienced lower net sales during the fourth quarter because holidays and adverse weather conditions in certain regions reduce the level of home improvement and construction activity. 

Government Regulation 

We are subject to federal, state and local environmental regulation. The emissions of particulates and other substances from our manufacturing facilities must meet federal and state air quality standards implemented through air permits issued to us by the Department of Environmental Quality of the Commonwealth of Virginia, the Division of Environmental Protection of Nevada&#146;s Department of Conservation and Natural Resources. Our 

&#160;

facilities are regulated by federal and state laws governing the disposal of solid waste and by state and local permits and requirements with respect to wastewater and storm water discharge. Compliance with environmental laws and regulations has not had a material adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. 

Our operations also are subject to work place safety regulation by the U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Administration, the Commonwealth of Virginia and the State of Nevada. Our compliance efforts include safety awareness and training programs for our production and maintenance employees. 

Intellectual Property 

Our success depends, in part, upon our intellectual property rights relating to our products, production processes and other operations. We rely upon a combination of trade secret, nondisclosure and other contractual arrangements, and patent, copyright and trademark laws, to protect our proprietary rights. We have made substantial investments in manufacturing process improvements that have enabled us to increase manufacturing line production rates, facilitate our development of new products, and produce improvements in our existing products&#146; dimensional consistency, surface texture and color uniformity. 

Intellectual property rights may be challenged by third parties and may not exclude competitors from using the same or similar technologies, brands or works. We seek to secure effective rights for our intellectual property, but cannot provide assurance that third parties will not successfully challenge, or avoid infringing, our intellectual property rights. 

We have obtained a patent for a complementary method of preparing raw materials for the manufacturing phase of production. We intend to maintain this patent in effect until it expires, as well as to seek additional patents as we consider appropriate. 

We consider our trademarks to be of material importance to our business plans. The U.S. Patent and Trademark Office has granted us federal registrations for many of our trademarks. Federal registration of trademarks is effective for as long as we continue to use the trademarks and renew their registrations. We do not generally register any of our copyrights with the U.S. Copyright Office, but rely on the protection afforded to such copyrights by the U.S. Copyright Act. This law provides protection to authors of original works, whether published or unpublished, and whether registered or unregistered. 

We enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees and limit access to and distribution of our proprietary information. If it is necessary to disclose proprietary information to third parties for business reasons, we require that such third parties sign a confidentiality agreement prior to any disclosure. 

Employees 

At December 31, 2015, we had approximately 700 full-time employees, approximately 510 of whom were employed in our manufacturing operations. Our employees are not covered by collective bargaining agreements. We believe that our relationships with our employees are favorable. 

Web Sites and Additional Information 

The U. S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) maintains an Internet web site at www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy statements, and other information regarding our Company. In addition, we maintain an Internet corporate web site at www.trex.com . We make available through our web site our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file or furnish such material with or to the SEC. We do not charge any fees to view, print or access these reports on our web site. The contents of our web site are not a part of this report. 

&#160;

