 Item 1. Business 

General 

Investar Holding Corporation (the "Company"), a Louisiana corporation incorporated in 2009, is a financial holding company headquartered in Baton Rouge, Louisiana that conducts its operations primarily through its wholly-owned subsidiary, Investar Bank (the "Bank"), a Louisiana commercial bank, chartered in 2006. Through the Bank, the Company offers a wide range of commercial banking products tailored to meet the needs of individuals and small to medium-sized businesses. The primary markets served are Baton Rouge, New Orleans, Hammond and Lafayette, Louisiana, and their surrounding metropolitan areas. These markets are served from our main office located in Baton Rouge and from ten additional full service branches located throughout our market areas. As of December 31, 2015, on a consolidated basis, the Company had total assets of $1.0 billion, net loans, excluding loans held for sale, of $739.3 million, total deposits of $737.4 million, and stockholders’ equity of $109.4 million.

Management believes that the current markets present a significant opportunity for growth and franchise expansion, both organically and through strategic acquisitions. Although the financial services industry is rapidly changing and intensely competitive, and likely to remain so, we believe that the Bank competes effectively as a local community bank and possesses the consistency of local leadership, the availability of local access and responsive customer service, coupled with competitively-priced products and services, necessary to successfully compete with other financial institutions for individual and small to medium-sized business customers. 

We have experienced significant growth since the Bank was chartered, completing acquisitions in 2011 and 2013, as described below in more detail, and establishing additional branches in our market areas. In 2012, we entered the New Orleans market through de novo branching by purchasing two closed branch locations of another financial institution in suburban New Orleans, Louisiana. In 2013, we entered the Lafayette market by opening a de novo branch. In addition, we opened our sixth Baton Rouge market area branch location in August 2014.

We have completed construction of our seventh Baton Rouge market area branch location in Gonzales, Louisiana, which we expect to open in the second quarter of 2016, subject to regulatory approval. In September 2015, we acquired land and a building for an additional branch location in the New Orleans market area.

In November 2013, the Company and the Bank completed a share exchange with the Bank’s shareholders, resulting in the Bank becoming a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company. In July 2014, the Company completed the issuance and sale of 3,285,300 shares of its common stock in its initial public offering, which amount includes 410,300 shares sold pursuant to the underwriters’ exercise of their option to purchase additional shares from the Company, at a public offering price of $14.00 per share. After deducting underwriting commissions and offering expenses, the Company received net proceeds of $41.7 million from the sale of such shares.

The information set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K is as of March 11, 2016, unless otherwise indicated herein.

Operations

General . We offer a full range of commercial and retail lending products throughout our market areas, including business loans to small to medium-sized businesses as well as loans to individuals. Our business lending products include owner-occupied commercial real estate loans, construction loans and commercial and industrial loans, such as term loans, equipment financing and lines of credit, while our loans to individuals include first and second mortgage loans, installment loans, auto loans and lines of credit. For business customers, we target businesses with $10 million in annual revenue or less but do not focus on any particular industry. We also target professional organizations such as law firms, accounting firms and medical practices. 

Management considers all of our operations to be aggregated in one reportable operating segment, and accordingly no separate segment disclosures are presented in this report. Please refer to our audited consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data , for information with respect to our revenues from external customers, profit or loss and total assets for the last three years. Neither we nor the Bank have any foreign operations.

Lending Activities . Income generated by our lending activities represents a substantial portion of our total revenue. For the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, income from our lending activities comprised 77%, 80% and 78%, respectively, of our total revenue. 

Lending to Businesses . Our lending to small to medium-sized businesses falls into three gene ral categories: 

- 

Commercial real estate loans . Approximately 43% of our total loans at December 31, 2015 were commercial real estate loans, which include multifamily, farmland and commercial real estate loans, with owner-occupied loans comprising approximately 43% of the commercial real estate loan portfolio. Commercial real estate loan terms generally are ten years or less, although payments may be structured on a longer amortization basis. Interest rates may be fixed or adjustable, although rates typically will not be fixed for a period exceeding 120 months, and we generally charge an origination fee. We do not offer non-recourse loans. Risks associated with commercial real estate loans include, among other things, fluctuations in the value of real estate, new job creation trends, tenant vacancy rates and the quality of the borrower’s management. We attempt to limit risk by analyzing a borrower’s cash flow and collateral value on an ongoing basis. Also, we typically require personal guarantees from the principal owners of the property, supported by a review of their personal financial statements, as an additional means of mitigating our risk. 

- 

Construction and development loans . Construction and development loans, which consist of loans for the construction of commercial projects, single family residential properties and multifamily properties, accounted for approximately 11% of our total loans at December 31, 2015. Our construction and development loans are made on both a "pre-sold" basis and on a "speculative" basis. Construction and development loans are generally made with a term of 6 to 12 months, with interest accruing at either a fixed or floating rate and paid monthly. These loans are secured by the underlying project being built. For construction loans, loan to value ratios range from 75% to 80% of the developed/completed value, while for development loans our loan to value ratios typically will not exceed 70% to 75% of such value. Speculative loans are based on the borrower’s financial strength and cash flow position, and we disburse funds in installments based on the percentage of completion and only after the project has been inspected by an experienced construction lender or third-party inspector. 

Construction lending entails significant additional risks compared to commercial real estate or residential real estate lending. One such risk is that loan funds are advanced upon the security of the property under construction, which is of uncertain value prior to the completion of construction. Thus, it is more difficult to evaluate accurately the total loan funds required to complete a project and to calculate related loan-to-value ratios. We attempt to minimize the risks associated with construction lending by limiting loan-to-value ratios as described above. In addition, as to speculative development loans, we generally make such loans only to borrowers that have a positive pre-existing relationship with us.

- 

Commercial and industrial loans . Commercial and industrial loans primarily consist of working capital lines of credit and equipment loans. We often make commercial loans to borrowers with whom we have previously made a commercial real estate loan. The terms of these loans vary by purpose and by type of underlying collateral. We make equipment loans for a term of five years or less at fixed or variable rates, with the loan fully amortized over the term and secured by the relevant piece of equipment. Loans to support working capital typically have terms not exceeding one year, and such loans are secured by accounts receivable or inventory. Fixed rate loans are priced based on collateral, term and amortization. The interest rate for floating rate loans is typically tied to the prime rate published in The Wall Street Journal with a floor of 4.5%. Commercial and industrial loans accounted for approximately 9% of our total loans at December 31, 2015. 

Commercial lending generally involves different risks from those associated with commercial real estate lending or construction lending. Although commercial loans may be collateralized by equipment or other business assets (including real estate, if available as collateral), the repayment of these types of loans depends primarily on the creditworthiness and projected cash flow of the borrower (and any guarantors). Thus, the general business conditions of the local economy and the borrower’s ability to sell its products and services, thereby generating sufficient operating revenue to repay us under the agreed upon terms and conditions, are the chief considerations when assessing the risk of a commercial loan. The liquidation of collateral is considered a secondary source of repayment because equipment and other business assets may, among other things, be obsolete or of limited resale value. We actively monitor certain financial measures of the borrower, including advance rate, cash flow, collateral value and other appropriate credit factors. We use commercial loan credit scoring models for smaller level commercial loans. 

Lending to Individuals . We make the following types of loans to our individual customers: 

- 

Consumer loans . Consumer loans represented 16% of our total loans at December 31, 2015. We make these loans (which are normally fixed-rate loans) to individuals for a variety of personal, family and household purposes, including auto loans, secured and unsecured installment and term loans, second mortgages, home equity loans and home equity lines of credit. Because many consumer loans are secured by depreciable assets such as cars, boats and trailers, the loans are amortized over the useful life of the asset. The amortization of second mortgages generally does not exceed 15 years and the rates generally are not fixed for more than 60 months. As a general matter, in underwriting these loans, our loan officers review a borrower’s past credit history, past income level, debt history and, when applicable, cash flow, and determine the impact of all these factors on the ability of the borrower to make future payments as agreed. A comparison of the value of the collateral, if any, to the proposed loan amount, is also a consideration in the underwriting process. Repayment of consumer loans depends upon the borrower’s financial stability and is more likely to be adversely affected by divorce, job loss, illness and personal hardships than repayment of other loans. A shortfall in the value of any collateral also may pose a risk of loss to us for these types of loans. 

Auto loans comprised the largest component of our consumer loans and third largest component of our overall loan portfolio, representing 80% of our total consumer loans and 12% of our total loans as of December 31, 2015. We have been an indirect lender for our auto loans, meaning that the loans have been originated by automobile dealerships and then assigned to us. These dealerships were selected based on our review of their operating history and the dealership’s reputation in the marketplace, which we believe helps to mitigate the risks of fraud or negligence by the dealership. At all times, the decision whether or not to provide financing resided with us. 

In November 2015, the Bank announced that it was exiting the indirect auto loan origination business. The Bank discontinued accepting indirect auto loan applications December 31, 2015, but continued to process and fund applications that were accepted on or before that date. The Bank will continue to service the current auto loan portfolio for its duration but expects this portfolio to decrease over time.

- 

Residential real estate . One-to-four family residential real estate loans, including second mortgage loans, comprised approximately 21% of our total loans at December 31, 2015. Second mortgage loans in this category include only loans we make to cover the gap between the purchase price of a residence and the amount of the first mortgage; all other second mortgage loans are considered consumer loans. Long-term fixed rate mortgages are underwritten for resale to the secondary market; however, we generally hold jumbo mortgage loans (i.e., loan amounts above $417,000) in our portfolio and sell virtually all of our remaining mortgage loans on the secondary market. Unless the borrower has private mortgage insurance, loan to value ratios do not typically exceed 80%, although some of the mortgage loans that we retain in our portfolio may have higher loan to value ratios. We use an independent appraiser to establish collateral values. We generate residential real estate mortgage loans through Bank referrals and contacts with real estate agents in our markets. We do not originate subprime residential real estate loans. 

Deposits. We offer a broad base of deposit products and services to our individual and business clients, including savings, checking, money market and NOW accounts, debit cards and mobile banking with smartphone deposit capability, as well as a variety of certificates of deposit and individual retirement accounts. For our business clients, we offer a competitive suite of cash management products which include, but are not limited to, remote deposit capture, electronic statements, positive pay, ACH origination and wire transfer, investment sweep accounts and enhanced business internet banking. 

Other Banking Services. Investar Bank’s other banking services include cashiers’ checks, direct deposit of payroll and Social Security checks, night depository, bank-by-mail, automated teller machines with deposit automation and debit cards. We have also associated with nationwide networks of automated teller machines, enabling the Bank’s customers to use ATMs throughout Louisiana and other regions. Currently, we reimburse our customers up to $12.50 per month for any foreign ATM fees they may incur. We offer merchant card services through a third-party vendor, and, during 2015, launched our own credit card product. The Bank does not offer trust services or insurance products. 

Acquisition Activity

General . To complement our organic growth strategy, from time to time, we evaluate potential acquisition opportunities. We believe there are many banking institutions that continue to face credit challenges, capital constraints and liquidity issues and that lack the scale and management expertise to manage the increasing regulatory burden. Our management team has a long history of identifying targets, assessing and pricing risk and executing acquisitions in a creative, yet disciplined, manner. We seek acquisitions that provide meaningful financial benefits, long-term organic growth opportunities and expense reductions, without compromising our risk profile. Additionally, we seek banking markets with favorable competitive dynamics and potential consolidation opportunities. All of our acquisition activity is evaluated and overseen by a standing Merger and Acquisition Committee of our board of directors. 

Acquisition of South Loui siana Business Bank . On October 1, 2011, the Bank completed its acquisition of South Louisiana Business Bank ("SLBB"), a Louisiana-chartered commercial bank with one location in Prairieville, Louisiana. The Bank acquired all of the outstanding common stock of the former SLBB shareholders for a total consideration of approximately $14.7 million in the form of 1,069,065 shares of Bank common stock. Including the effect of purchase accounting adjustments, the Bank acquired assets with a fair value of $50.9 mil lion, including loans with a fair value of $31.5 million, and assumed $38.6 million in deposits. The fair value of net assets acquired including identifiable intangible assets was approximately $12.0 million. Goodwill of approximately $2.7 million was reco gnized on the acquisition date. 

Acquisition of First Community Bank . On May 1, 2013, the Bank completed its acquisition of First Community Bank ("FCB"), a Louisiana-chartered commercial bank headquartered in Hammond, Louisiana with one branch in Mandeville, Louisiana. The Bank acquired all of the outstanding common stock of the former FCB shareholders for a total consideration of approximately $4.5 million in the form of 320,774 shares of Bank common stock. Including the effect of purchase accounting adjustments, the Bank acquired assets with a fair value of $99.2 million, including loans with a fair value of $77.5 million, assumed $86.5 million in deposits and recognized a $0.9 million bargain purchase gain. 

Competition 

We face competition in all major product and geographic areas in which we conduct our operations. Through the Bank, we compete for available loans and deposits with state, regional and national banks, as well as savings and loan associations, credit unions, finance companies, mortgage companies, insurance companies, brokerage firms and investment companies. All of these institutions compete in the delivery of services and products through availability, quality and pricing, both with respect to interest rates on loans and deposits and fees charged for banking services. Many of our competitors are larger and have substantially greater resources than we do, including higher total assets and capitalization, greater access to capital markets and a broader offering of financial services. As larger institutions, many of our competitors can offer more attractive pricing than we can offer and have more extensive branch networks from which they can offer their financial services products. 

While we continually strive to offer competitive pricing for our banking products, we believe that our community bank approach to customers, focusing on quality customer service and maintaining strong customer relationships affords us the best opportunity to successfully compete with other institutions. In addition, as a smaller institution, we think we can be flexible in developing and implementing new products and services, especially in the online banking area. Further, in recent years there has been consolidation activity involving banks with a presence in our markets. In our view, mergers and other business combinations within our markets provide us with growth opportunities. Many acquisitions, especially when local institutions are acquired by institutions based outside our markets, result not only in customer disruption but also in a loss of market knowledge and relationships that we believe provide us the opportunity to acquire customers seeking a personalized approach to banking. Furthermore, acquisition activity typically creates opportunities to hire talented personnel from the combining institutions. 

The following table sets forth certain information about our total deposits and our market share. The amount of total deposits in our markets is as of June 30, 2015, which is the latest date for which such information is available. 

Market (MSA)

Investar Total Deposits

Investar Market Share

(in millions)

Baton Rouge

$

2.5

%

New Orleans

0.3

%

Hammond

3.0

%

Lafayette

0.8

%

Supervision and Regulation 

General. Banking is highly regulated under federal and state law. We are a financial holding company registered under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended, and are subject to supervision, regulation and examination by the Federal Reserve. Investar Bank is a commercial bank chartered under the laws of the State of Louisiana. The Bank is not a member of the Federal Reserve system and is subject to supervision, regulation and examination by the Louisiana Office of Financial Institutions, or OFI, and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, or FDIC. This system of supervision and regulation establishes a comprehensive framework for our operations and, consequently, can have a material impact on our growth and earnings performance. 

The primary goals of the bank regulatory scheme are to maintain a safe and sound banking system and to facilitate the conduct of sound monetary policy. This system is intended primarily for the protection of the FDIC’s deposit insurance funds, bank depositors and the public, rather than our shareholders and creditors. The banking agencies have broad enforcement power over bank holding companies and banks, including the authority, among other things, to enjoin "unsafe or unsound" practices, require affirmative action to correct any violation or practice, issue administrative orders that can be judicially enforced, direct increases in capital, direct the sale of subsidiaries or other assets, limit dividends and distributions, restrict growth, assess civil monetary penalties, remove officers and directors, and, with respect to banks, terminate deposit insurance or place the bank into conservatorship or receivership. In general, these enforcement actions may be initiated for violations of laws and regulations or unsafe or unsound practices.

The Dodd-Frank Act. The Dodd-Frank Act, enacted on July 21, 2010, aims to restore responsibility and accountability to the financial system by significantly altering the regulation of financial institutions and the financial services industry. Full implementation of the Dodd-Frank Act will require many new rules to be issued by federal regulatory agencies over the next several years, which will profoundly affect how financial institutions will be regulated in the future. The ultimate effect of the Dodd-Frank Act and its implementing regulations on the financial services industry in general, and on us in particular, is uncertain at this time. 

The Dodd-Frank Act, among other things:

- 

established the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, an independent organization within the Federal Reserve with centralized responsibility for promulgating and enforcing federal consumer protection laws applicable to all entities offering consumer financial products or services; 

- 

established the Financial Stability Oversight Council, tasked with the authority to identify and monitor institutions and systems that pose a systemic risk to the financial system; 

- 

changed the assessment base for federal deposit insurance from the amount of insured deposits held by the depository institution to the institution’s average total consolidated assets less tangible equity; 

- 

increased the minimum reserve ratio for the Deposit Insurance Fund from 1.15% to 1.35%; 

- 

permanently increased the deposit insurance coverage amount from $100,000 to $250,000; 

- 

required the FDIC to make its capital requirements for insured depository institutions countercyclical, so that capital requirements increase in times of economic expansion and decrease in times of economic contraction; 

- 

required bank holding companies and banks to be "well capitalized" and "well managed" in order to acquire banks located outside of their home state and requires any bank holding company electing to be treated as a financial holding company to be "well capitalized" and "well managed"; 

- 

directed the Federal Reserve to establish interchange fees for debit cards under a restrictive "reasonable and proportional cost" per transaction standard; 

- 

limited the ability of banking organizations to sponsor or invest in private equity and hedge funds and to engage in proprietary trading; 

- 

increased regulation of consumer protections regarding mortgage originations, including originator compensation, minimum repayment standards and prepayment consideration; 

- 

restricted the preemption of select state laws by federal banking law applicable to national banks and disallow subsidiaries and affiliates of national banks from availing themselves of such preemption; 

- 

authorized national and state banks to establish de novo branches in any state that would permit a bank chartered in that state to open a branch at that location; and 

- 

repealed the federal prohibition on the payment of interest on demand deposits, thereby permitting depository institutions to pay interest on business transaction and other accounts. 

Some of the se provisions may have the consequence of increasing our expenses, decreasing our revenues, and changing the activities in which we choose to engage. The environment in which banking organizations will operate after the financial crisis, including legislat ive and regulatory changes affecting capital, liquidity, supervision, permissible activities, corporate governance and compensation, changes in fiscal policy and steps to eliminate government support for banking organizations, may have long-term effects on the business model and profitability of banking organizations that cannot currently be foreseen. The specific impact on our current activities or new financial activities we may consider in the future, our financial performance and the markets in which we operate will depend on the manner in which the relevant agencies develop and implement the required rules and the reaction of market participants to these regulatory developments. Many aspects of the Dodd-Frank Act are subject to further rulemaking and wi ll take effect over several years. While we cannot predict what effect any presently contemplated or future changes in the laws or regulations or their interpretations would have on us, these changes could be materially adverse to our financial condition a nd results of operations. 

The Volcker Rule . On December 10, 2013, the Federal Reserve and the other federal banking regulators as well as the SEC each adopted a final rule implementing Section 619 of the Dodd-Frank Act, commonly referred to as the "Volcker Rule." Generally speaking, the final rule prohibits a bank and its affiliates from engaging in proprietary trading and from sponsoring certain "covered funds" or from acquiring or retaining any ownership interest in such covered funds. Most private equity, venture capital and hedge funds are considered "covered funds" as are bank trust preferred collateralized debt obligations. The final rule requires banking entities to divest disallowed securities by July 21, 2015, subject to extension upon application. The Volcker Rule does not impact any of our current activities nor do we hold any securities that we would be required to sell under the rule, but it does limit the scope of permissible activities in which we might engage in the future. 

Regulatory Capital Requirements

Capital Adequacy . The Federal Reserve Board monitors the capital adequacy of the Company, on a consolidated basis, and the FDIC and the OFI monitor the capital adequacy of the Bank. The regulatory agencies use a combination of risk-based guidelines and a leverage ratio to evaluate capital adequacy and consider these capital levels when taking action on various types of applications and when conducting supervisory activities related to safety and soundness. The risk-based capital standards are designed to make regulatory capital requirements more sensitive to differences in risk profiles among financial institutions and their holding companies, to account for off-balance sheet exposure, and to minimize disincentives for holding liquid assets. A financial institution’s assets and off-balance sheet items, such as letters of credit and unfunded loan commitments, are assigned to broad risk categories, each with appropriate risk weights. Regulatory capital, in turn, is classified in one of two tiers. "Tier 1" capital includes two components: (1) common equity Tier 1 capital and (2) additional Tier 1 capital. Common equity Tier 1 capital consists solely of common stock (plus related surplus), retained earnings, accumulated other comprehensive income, and limited amounts of minority interests that are in the form of common stock. Additional Tier 1 capital includes other perpetual instruments historically included in Tier 1 capital, such as non-cumulative perpetual preferred stock. "Tier 2" capital includes, among other things, qualifying subordinated debt and allowances for loan and lease losses, subject to limitations. The resulting capital ratios represent capital as a percentage of total risk-weighted assets and off-balance sheet items. 

Effective January 1, 2015, the minimum capital standards under Basel III, as well as the prompt corrective action standards discussed below, increased from previous requirements as a result of changes adopted by the federal banking agencies, which are described in greater detail below under "Basel III."

Prompt Corrective Action Regulations . Under the prompt corrective action regulations, the FDIC is required and authorized to take supervisory actions against undercapitalized financial institutions. For this purpose, a bank is placed in one of the following five categories based on its capital: well capitalized, adequately capitalized, undercapitalized, significantly undercapitalized, and critically undercapitalized. Under the prompt corrective action regulations, as currently in effect, to be well capitalized, a bank must have a leverage capital ratio of at least 5%, a common equity Tier 1 capital ratio of at least 6.5%, a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of at least 8% and a total risk-based capital ratio of at least 10% and must not be subject to any order or written agreement or directive by a federal banking agency to meet and maintain a specific capital level for any capital measure. As discussed below under "Basel III," the federal banking agencies have adopted changes to the capital thresholds applicable to each of the five categories under the prompt corrective action regulations. 

Federal banking regulators are required to take various mandatory supervisory actions and are authorized to take other discretionary actions with respect to institutions in the three undercapitalized categories. The severity of the action depends upon the capital category in which the institution is placed. Generally, subject to a narrow exception, banking regulators must appoint a receiver or conservator for an institution that is critically undercapitalized. The federal banking agencies have specified by regulation the relevant capital level for each category. An institution that is categorized as undercapitalized, significantly undercapitalized, or critically undercapitali zed is required to submit an acceptable capital restoration plan to its appropriate federal banking agency. An undercapitalized institution also is generally prohibited from increasing its average total assets, making acquisitions, establishing any branche s or engaging in any new line of business, except under an accepted capital restoration plan or with FDIC approval. The regulations also establish procedures for downgrading an institution to a lower capital category based on supervisory factors other than capital. 

Furthermore, a bank holding company must guarantee that a subsidiary depository institution meets its capital restoration plan, subject to various limitations. The controlling holding company’s obligation to fund a capital restoration plan is limited to the lesser of 5% of an undercapitalized subsidiary’s assets at the time it became undercapitalized or the amount required to meet regulatory capital requirements.

The capital classification of a bank affects the frequency of regulatory examinations, the bank’s ability to engage in certain activities and the deposit insurance premiums paid by the bank. As of December 31, 2015, Investar Bank met the requirements to be categorized as well capitalized under the prompt corrective action framework as currently in effect.

Basel III . On July 2, 2013, the federal banking agencies adopted a final rule revising the regulatory capital framework applicable to all top tier bank holding companies with consolidated assets of $500 million or more and all banks, regardless of size. The Basel III framework became effective on January 1, 2015, although the capital conservation buffer, which is discussed in greater detail below, will be phased in over a three year period, beginning January 1, 2016. 

Under the Basel III framework, we are required to maintain the following minimum regulatory capital ratios:

- 

A new ratio of common equity Tier 1 capital to total risk-weighted assets of not less than 4.5%; 

- 

A Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 6.0% (an increase from 4.0%); 

- 

A total risk-based capital ratio of 8.0%; and 

- 

A leverage ratio of 4.0%. 

The Basel III framework also changes the regulatory capital requirements for purposes of the prompt corrective action regulations. Accordingly, as of January 1, 2015, to be categorized as well capitalized, the Bank must have a minimum common equity Tier 1 capital ratio of at least 6.5%, a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of at least 8.0%, a total risk-based capital ratio of at least 10.0%, and a leverage capital ratio of at least 5.0%.

Under the Basel III framework, Tier 1 capital is redefined to include two components: (1) common equity Tier 1 capital and (2) additional Tier 1 capital. Common equity Tier 1 capital consists solely of common stock (plus related surplus), retained earnings, accumulated other comprehensive income, and limited amounts of minority interests that are in the form of common stock. Additional Tier 1 capital includes other perpetual instruments historically included in Tier 1 capital, such as non-cumulative perpetual preferred stock. With limited exceptions, trust preferred securities and cumulative perpetual preferred stock will no longer qualify as Tier 1 capital. Tier 2 capital consists of instruments that currently qualify as Tier 2 capital plus instruments that the rule has disqualified from Tier 1 capital treatment. In addition, the Basel III framework establishes certain deductions from and adjustments to the regulatory capital ratios.

The Basel III framework also implements a requirement for all banking organizations to maintain a capital conservation buffer above the minimum capital requirements to avoid certain restrictions on capital distributions and discretionary bonus payments to executive officers. The capital conservation buffer must be composed of common equity Tier 1 capital. The capital conservation buffer requirement, when fully phased in, will effectively require banking organizations to maintain regulatory capital ratios at least 50 basis points higher than well capitalized levels under prompt corrective action standards to avoid the restrictions on capital distributions and discretionary bonus payments to executive officers.

The Basel III framework alters the method under which banking organizations must calculate risk-weighted assets in an effort to make the calculation of risk-weighted assets more risk sensitive, to better account for risk mitigation techniques, and to create substitutes for credit ratings (in accordance with the Dodd-Frank Act). The standardized approach, which will apply to us, include s additional exposure categories as compared with current standards including a new high volatility commercial real estate category that is risk-weighted at 150%. Although a number of asset classes will be risk-weighted differently, the Basel III framework does not change standardized risk weightings for certain assets, including residential mortgages. 

Although management is continuing to evaluate the impact the Basel III framework will have on the Company and the Bank, we were in compliance with all applicable minimum regulatory capital requirements as of December 31, 2015, and management believes that at December 31, 2015, the Company and the Bank would have met all new capital adequacy requirements under the new Basel III framework on a fully phased-in basis if such requirements were then effective.

The Basel III framework also requires banks and bank holding companies to measure their liquidity against specific liquidity tests. However, the final rules adopted by the federal banking agencies in September 2014 implementing the Basel III liquidity framework apply only to banking organizations with $250 billion or more in consolidated assets or $10 billion or more in foreign exposures. As a result, unless modified, the Basel III liquidity framework does not apply to us.

Acquisitions by Bank Holding Companies

Federal and state laws, including the Bank Holding Company Act and the Change in Bank Control Act, impose additional prior notice or approval requirements and ongoing regulatory requirements on any investor that seeks to acquire direct or indirect "control" of an FDIC-insured depository institution or bank holding company. We must obtain the prior approval of the Federal Reserve before (1) acquiring more than 5% of the voting stock of any bank or other bank holding company, (2) acquiring all or substantially all of the assets of any bank or bank holding company, or (3) merging or consolidating with any other bank holding company. The Federal Reserve may determine not to approve any of these transactions if it would result in or tend to create a monopoly or substantially lessen competition or otherwise function as a restraint of trade, unless the anti-competitive effects of the proposed transaction are clearly outweighed by the public interest in meeting the convenience and needs of the community to be served. The Federal Reserve is also required to consider the financial and managerial resources and future prospects of the bank holding companies and banks concerned, the convenience and needs of the community to be served, and the record of a bank holding company and its subsidiary bank(s) in combating money laundering activities. In addition, a failure to implement and maintain adequate compliance programs could cause the Federal Reserve or other banking regulators not to approve an acquisition when regulatory approval is required or to prohibit an acquisition even if approval is not required.

Scope of Permissible Bank Holding Company Activities

In general, the Bank Holding Company Act limits the activities permissible for bank holding companies to the business of banking, managing or controlling banks and such other activities as the Federal Reserve has determined to be so closely related to banking as to be properly incident thereto.

A bank holding company may elect to be treated as a financial holding company and receive expanded powers if it and its depository institution subsidiaries are "well capitalized" and "well managed." We have elected for the Company to be treated as a financial holding company. As a financial holding company, we may engage in a range of activities that are (1) financial in nature or incidental to such financial activity or (2) complementary to a financial activity and which do not pose a substantial risk to the safety and soundness of a depository institution or to the financial system generally. These activities include securities dealing, underwriting and market making, insurance underwriting and agency activities, merchant banking and insurance company portfolio investments. Expanded financial activities of financial holding companies generally will be regulated according to the type of such financial activity: banking activities by banking regulators; securities activities by securities regulators; and insurance activities by insurance regulators. 

The Bank Holding Company Act does not place territorial limitations on permissible non-banking activities of bank holding companies. The Federal Reserve has the power to order any bank holding company or its subsidiaries to terminate any activity or to terminate its ownership or control of any subsidiary when the Federal Reserve has reasonable grounds to believe that continuation of such activity or such ownership or control constitutes a serious risk to the financial soundness, safety or stability of any bank subsidiary of the bank holding company.

Source of Strength Doctrine for Bank Holding Companies 

Under longstanding Federal Reserve policy which has been codified by the Dodd-Frank Act, we are expected to act as a source of financial strength to, and to commit resources to support, Investar Bank. This support may be required at times when we may not be inclined to provide it. In addition, any capital loans that we make to Investar Bank are subordinate in right of payment to deposits and to certain other indebtedness of the Bank. In the event of our bankruptcy, any commitment by us to a federal bank regulatory agency to maintain the capital of the Bank will be assumed by the bankruptcy trustee and entitled to a priority of payment.

Dividends

As a bank holding company, we are subject to certain restrictions on dividends under applicable banking laws and regulations. The Federal Reserve has issued a policy statement that provides that a bank holding company should not pay dividends unless: (1) its net income over the last four quarters (net of dividends paid) has been sufficient to fully fund the dividends; (2) the prospective rate of earnings retention appears to be consistent with the capital needs, asset quality and overall financial condition of the bank holding company and its subsidiaries; and (3) the bank holding company will continue to meet minimum required capital adequacy ratios. Accordingly, a bank holding company should not pay cash dividends that exceed its net income or that can only be funded in ways that weaken the bank holding company’s financial health, such as by borrowing. The Dodd-Frank Act imposes, and Basel III effected, additional restrictions on the ability of banking institutions to pay dividends. In addition, in the current financial and economic environment, the Federal Reserve Board has indicated that bank holding companies should carefully review their dividend policy and has discouraged payment ratios that are at maximum allowable levels unless both asset quality and capital are very strong.

The Bank is also subject to certain restrictions on dividends under federal and state laws, regulations and policies. In general, under Louisiana law, the Bank may pay dividends to us without the approval of the OFI only so long as the amount of the dividend does not exceed the Bank’s net profits earned during the current year combined with its retained net profits of the immediately preceding year. The Bank must obtain the approval of the OFI for any amount in excess of this threshold. In addition, under federal law, the Bank may not pay any dividend to us if it is undercapitalized or the payment of the dividend would cause it to become undercapitalized. The FDIC may further restrict the payment of dividends by requiring the Bank to maintain a higher level of capital than would otherwise be required to be adequately capitalized for regulatory purposes. Moreover, if, in the opinion of the FDIC, the Bank is engaged in an unsound practice (which could include the payment of dividends even within the legal requirements noted above), the FDIC may require, generally after notice and hearing, the Bank to cease such practice. The FDIC has indicated that paying dividends that deplete a depository institution’s capital base to an inadequate level would be an unsafe banking practice. The FDIC has also issued policy statements providing that insured depository institutions generally should pay dividends only out of current operating earnings.

Restrictions on Transactions with Affiliates and Loans to Insiders

Federal law strictly limits the ability of banks to engage in transactions with their affiliates, including their bank holding companies. Sections 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act, and Federal Reserve Regulation W, impose quantitative limits, qualitative standards, and collateral requirements on certain transactions by a bank with, or for the benefit of, its affiliates, and generally require those transactions to be on terms at least as favorable to the bank as transactions with non-affiliates and to be consistent with safe and sound practices. The Dodd-Frank Act significantly expands the coverage and scope of the limitations on affiliate transactions within a banking organization, including an expansion of what types of transactions are covered transactions to include credit exposures related to derivatives, repurchase agreements and securities lending arrangements and an increase in the amount of time for which collateral requirements regarding covered transactions must be satisfied.

Federal law also limits a bank’s authority to extend credit to its directors, executive officers and 10% shareholders, as well as to entities controlled by such persons. Among other things, extensions of credit to insiders are required to be made on terms that are substantially the same as, and follow credit underwriting procedures that are not less stringent than, those prevailing for comparable transactions with unaffiliated persons. Also, the terms of such extensions of credit may not involve more than the normal risk of repayment or present other unfavorable features and may not exceed certain limitations on the amount of credit extended to such persons, individually and in the aggregate, which limits are based, in part, on the amount of the bank’s capital.

Incentive Compensation Guidance 

The federal banking agencies have issued comprehensive guidance on incentive compensation policies. This guidance is designed to ensure that a financial institution’s incentive compensation structure does not encourage imprudent risk taking, which may undermine the safety and soundness of the institution. The guidance, which applies to all employees that have the ability to materially affect an institution’s risk profile, either individually or as part of a group, is based upon three primary principles: (1) balanced risk taking incentives; (2) compatibility with effective controls and risk management; and (3) strong corporate governance. 

An institution’s supervisory ratings will incorporate any identified deficiencies in an institution’s compensation practices, and it may be subject to an enforcement action if the incentive compensation arrangements pose a risk to the safety and soundness of the institution. Further, a provision of the Basel III proposals described abo ve would limit discretionary bonus payments to bank executives if the institution’s regulatory capital ratios fail to exceed certain thresholds. 

Deposit Insurance Assessments

FDIC insured banks are required to pay deposit insurance assessments to the FDIC. The amount of the assessment is based on the size of the bank’s assessment base, which is equal to its average consolidated total assets less its average tangible equity, and its risk classification under an FDIC risk-based assessment system. Institutions assigned to higher risk classifications (that is, institutions that pose a higher risk of loss to the Deposit Insurance Fund) pay assessments at higher rates than institutions that pose a lower risk. An institution’s risk classification is assigned based on its capital levels and the level of supervisory concern that the institution poses to the regulators. In addition, the FDIC can impose special assessments in certain instances. As noted above, the Dodd-Frank Act changed the way that deposit insurance premiums are calculated. Continued action by the FDIC to replenish the Deposit Insurance Fund, as well as the changes contained in the Dodd-Frank Act, may result in higher assessment rates, which could reduce our profitability or otherwise negatively impact our operations.

Branching and Interstate Banking

Under Louisiana law, Investar Bank is permitted to establish additional branch offices within Louisiana, subject to the approval of the OFI. As a result of the Dodd-Frank Act, the Bank may also establish additional branch offices outside of Louisiana, subject to prior regulatory approval, so long as the laws of the state where the branch is to be located would permit a state bank chartered in that state to establish a branch. We currently do not have any branches outside the state of Louisiana. The Bank may also establish offices in other states by merging with banks or by purchasing branches of other banks in other states, subject to certain restrictions.

Community Reinvestment Act

Investar Bank is required under the Community Reinvestment Act, or CRA, and related FDIC regulations to help meet the credit needs of its communities, including low and moderate-income borrowers. In connection with its examination of the Bank, the FDIC assesses our record of compliance with the CRA. The Bank’s failure to comply with the provisions of the CRA could, at a minimum, result in denial of certain corporate applications, such as branches or mergers, or in restrictions on its or the Company’s activities. The Bank received a "satisfactory" CRA rating on its most recent CRA examination. The CRA requires all FDIC insured institutions to publicly disclose their rating.

Concentrated Commercial Real Estate Lending Regulations

The federal banking regulatory agencies have promulgated guidance governing financial institutions with concentrations in commercial real estate lending. The guidance provides that a bank has a concentration in commercial real estate lending if (i) total reported loans for construction, land development, and other land represent 100% or more of total capital or (ii) total reported loans secured by multifamily and nonfarm residential properties and loans for construction, land development, and other land represent 300% or more of total capital and the bank’s commercial real estate loan portfolio has increased 50% or more during the prior 36 months. Owner occupied loans are excluded from this second category. If a concentration is present, management must employ heightened risk management practices that address, among other things, board and management oversight and strategic planning, portfolio management, development of underwriting standards, risk assessment and monitoring through market analysis and stress testing, and maintenance of increased capital levels as needed to support the level of commercial real estate lending. At December 31, 2015, the Company did not have a concentration in commercial real estate as defined by the regulatory guidance.

Financial Privacy Requirements

Federal law and regulations limit a financial institution’s ability to share consumer financial information with unaffiliated third parties. Specifically, these provisions require all financial institutions offering financial products or services to retail customers to provide such customers with the financial institution’s privacy policy and provide such customers the opportunity to "opt out" of the sharing of personal financial information with unaffiliated third parties. The sharing of information for marketing purposes is also subject to limitations. The Bank currently has a privacy protection policy in place.

Consumer Laws and Regulations 

The Bank is subject to numerous laws and regulations intended to protect consumers in transactions with the Bank, including, among others, laws regarding unfair, deceptive and abusive acts and practices, usury laws, and other federal consumer protection statutes. These federal laws include the ECOA, the Electronic Fund Transfer Act, the Fair Credit Reporting Act, the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act, the Real Estate Procedures Act of 1974, the S.A.F.E. Mortgage Licensing Act of 2008, the Truth in Lending Act and the Truth in Savings Act, among others. Many states and local jurisdictions have consumer protection laws analogous, and in addition, to those enacted under federal law. These laws and regulations mandate certain disclosure requirements and regulate the manner in which financial institutions must deal with customers when taking deposits, making loans and conducting other types of transactions. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations could give rise to regulatory sanctions, customer rescission rights, action by state and local attorneys general and civil or criminal liability.

In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act created the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau that has broad authority to regulate and supervise retail financial services activities of banks and various non-bank providers. The Bureau has authority to promulgate regulations, issue orders, guidance and policy statements, conduct examinations and bring enforcement actions with regard to consumer financial products and services. In general, however, banks with assets of $10 billion or less, such as Investar Bank, will continue to be examined for consumer compliance by their primary federal bank regulator.

Mortgage Lending Rules

The Dodd-Frank Act authorized the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau to establish certain minimum standards for the origination of residential mortgages, including a determination of the borrower’s ability to repay. Under the Dodd-Frank Act, financial institutions may not make a residential mortgage loan unless they make a "reasonable and good faith determination" that the consumer has a "reasonable ability" to repay the loan. The Dodd-Frank Act allows borrowers to raise certain defenses to foreclosure but provides a full or partial safe harbor from such defenses for loans that are "qualified mortgages." On January 10, 2013, the Bureau published final rules to, among other things, specify the types of income and assets that may be considered in the ability-to-repay determination, the permissible sources for verification, and the required methods of calculating the loan’s monthly payments. Since then, the Bureau has made certain modifications to these rules. The rules extend the requirement that creditors verify and document a borrower’s income and assets to include all information that creditors rely on in determining repayment ability. The rules also provide further examples of third-party documents that may be relied on for such verification, such as government records and check cashing or funds transfer service receipts. The new rules became effective on January 10, 2014. The rules also define "qualified mortgages," imposing both underwriting standards, for example, a borrower’s debt-to-income ratio may not exceed 43%, and limits on the terms of their loans. Points and fees are subject to a relatively stringent cap, and the terms include a wide array of payments that may be made in the course of closing a loan. Certain loans, including interest-only loans and negative amortization loans, cannot be qualified mortgages.

Anti-Money Laundering and OFAC

Under federal law, financial institutions must maintain anti-money laundering programs that include: established internal policies, procedures and controls; a designated compliance officer; an ongoing employee training program; and testing of the program by an independent audit function. Financial institutions are also prohibited from entering into specified financial transactions and account relationships and must meet enhanced standards for due diligence and customer identification in their dealings with foreign financial institutions and foreign customers. Financial institutions must take reasonable steps to conduct enhanced scrutiny of account relationships to guard against money laundering and to report any suspicious transactions, and law enforcement authorities have been granted increased access to financial information maintained by financial institutions.

The Office of Foreign Assets Control, or OFAC, is responsible for helping to insure that U.S. entities do not engage in transactions with certain prohibited parties, as defined by various Executive Orders and Acts of Congress. OFAC publishes lists of persons and organizations suspected of aiding, harboring or engaging in terrorist acts, known as Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons. Generally, if the Bank identifies a transaction, account or wire transfer relating to a person or entity on an OFAC list, it must freeze the account or block the transaction, file a suspicious activity report and notify the appropriate authorities.

Bank regulators routinely examine institutions for compliance with these obligations and they must consider an institution’s compliance in connection with the regulatory review of applications, including applications for banking mergers and acquisitions. Failure of a financial institution to maintain and implement adequate programs to combat money laundering and terrorist financing and comply with OFAC sanctions, or to comply with relevant laws and regulations, could have serious legal, reputational and financial consequences for the institution.

Safety and Soundness Standards 

Federal bank regulatory agencies have adopted guidelines that establish general standards relating to internal controls and information systems, internal audit systems, loan documentation, credit underwriting, interest rate exposure, asset growth and compensation, fees and benefits. Additionally, the agencies have adopted regulations that provide the authority to order an institution that has been given notice by an agency that it is not satisfying any of these safety and soundness standards to submit a compliance plan. If, after being so notified, an institution fails to submit an acceptable compliance plan or fails in any material respect to implement an acceptable compliance plan, the agency must issue an order directing action to correct the deficiency and may issue an order directing other actions of the types to which an undercapitalized institution is subject under the "prompt corrective action" provisions of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act. If an institution fails to comply with such an order, the agency may seek to enforce such order in judicial proceedings and to impose civil money penalties.

Bank holding companies are also not permitted to engage in unsound banking practices. For example, the Federal Reserve’s Regulation Y requires a holding company to give the Federal Reserve prior notice of any redemption or repurchase of its own equity securities, if the consideration to be paid, together with the consideration paid for any repurchases in the preceding year, is equal to 10% or more of the company’s consolidated net worth. The Federal Reserve may oppose the transaction if it believes that the transaction would constitute an unsafe or unsound practice or would violate any law or regulation. As another example, a holding company could not impair its subsidiary bank’s soundness by causing it to make funds available to non-banking subsidiaries or their customers if the Federal Reserve believed it not prudent to do so. The Federal Reserve has broad authority to prohibit activities of bank holding companies and their nonbanking subsidiaries that represent unsafe and unsound banking practices or that constitute violations of laws or regulations.

Effect of Governmental Monetary Policies

The commercial banking business is affected not only by general economic conditions but also by U.S. fiscal policy and the monetary policies of the Federal Reserve. Some of the instruments of monetary policy available to the Federal Reserve include changes in the discount rate on member bank borrowings, the fluctuating availability of borrowings at the "discount window," open market operations, the imposition of and changes in reserve requirements against member banks’ deposits and assets of foreign branches, and the imposition of and changes in reserve requirements against certain borrowings by banks and their affiliates. These policies influence to a significant extent the overall growth of bank loans, investments, and deposits and the interest rates charged on loans or paid on deposits. We cannot predict the nature of future fiscal and monetary policies and the effect of these policies on our future business and earnings.

Future Legislation and Regulatory Reform

As a result of the recent economic downturn and its effect on financial institutions, regulators have increased their focus on the regulation of financial institutions. New laws, regulations and policies are regularly proposed that contain wide-ranging proposals for altering the structures, regulations and competitive relationships of financial institutions operating in the United States. In addition, existing laws, regulations and policies are continually subject to modification or changes in interpretation. We cannot predict whether or in what form any law, regulation or policy will be adopted or modified or the extent to which our operations and activities, financial condition, results of operations, growth plans or future prospects may be affected by its adoption or modification.

The cumulative effect of these laws and regulations add significantly to the cost of our operations and thus have a negative impact on profitability. There has also been a tremendous expansion in recent years of financial service providers that are not subject to the same level of regulation, examination and oversight as we are. Those providers, because they are not so highly regulated, may have a competitive advantage over us and may continue to draw large amounts of funds away from traditional banking institutions, with a continuing adverse effect on the banking industry in general.

Employees 

As of December 31, 2015, we had 168 full-time equivalent employees. None of our employees are represented by any collective bargaining unit or are parties to a collective bargaining agreement. We believe that our relations with our employees are good. 

Dependence upon a Single Customer

No material portion of our loans has been made to, nor have our deposits been obtained from, a single or small group of customers; the loss of any single customer or small group of customers would not have a materially adverse effect on our business. A discussion of concentrations of credit in our loan portfolio is set forth under the heading Loan Concentrations in "Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition—Loans" in Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations .

Available Information

Our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"), including annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and all amendments thereto, are available on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after the reports are filed with or furnished to the SEC. Copies can be obtained free of charge in the "Investor Relations" section of our website at www.investarbank.com. Our SEC filings are also available through the SEC’s website www.sec.gov. Copies of these filings are also available by writing to us at the following address:

Investar Holding Corporation

P.O. Box 84207

Baton Rouge, Louisiana 70884-4207

