 ITEM 1. BUSINESS. 

Edward M. Knabusch and Edwin J. Shoemaker started Floral City Furniture in 1927, and in 1928 the newly formed company introduced its first recliner. In 1941, we were incorporated in the state of Michigan as La-Z-Boy Chair Company, and in 1996 we changed our name to La-Z-Boy Incorporated. Today, our La-Z-Boy brand is the most recognized brand in the furniture industry. 

We manufacture, market, import, export, distribute and retail upholstery furniture products. In addition, we import, distribute and retail accessories and casegoods (wood) furniture products. We are the leading global producer of reclining chairs and the second largest manufacturer/distributor of residential furniture in the United States. The La-Z-Boy Furniture Galleries&#174; stores retail network is the third largest retailer of single-branded furniture in the United States. We have seven major North American manufacturing locations and six regional retail distribution centers in the United States to support our speed-to-market and customization strategy. 

We sell our products, primarily in the United States and Canada but also internationally, to furniture retailers and directly to consumers through stores that we own and operate. The centerpiece of our retail distribution strategy is our network of 338 La-Z-Boy Furniture Galleries&#174; stores and 559 Comfort Studio&#174; locations, each dedicated to marketing our La-Z-Boy branded products. We consider this dedicated space to be "branded outlets" or "proprietary." In addition to the almost 900 branded outlets dedicated to selling La-Z-Boy product (La-Z-Boy Furniture Galleries&#174; stores and Comfort Studio&#174; locations), approximately 1,900 other dealers also sell La-Z-Boy, including some of the best known names in the industry, such as Art Van, Nebraska Furniture Mart, Slumberland and Raymour &#38; Flanigan Furniture. We own 124 of the La-Z-Boy Furniture Galleries&#174; stores. The remainder of the La-Z-Boy Furniture Galleries&#174; stores, as well as all 559 Comfort Studio&#174; locations, are independently owned and operated. La-Z-Boy Furniture Galleries&#174; stores help consumers furnish their homes by combining the style, comfort and quality of La-Z-Boy furniture with our available In-Home Design service. La-Z-Boy Comfort Studio&#174; locations are defined spaces within larger independent retailers that are dedicated to displaying and selling La-Z-Boy branded products. Our other brands&#151;England, Kincaid, American Drew, and Hammary&#151;enjoy distribution through a combined 1,500 dealers. Kincaid and England have their own dedicated proprietary in-store programs with 500 outlets and over 1.5 million square feet of proprietary floor space. In total, our proprietary floor space includes approximately 9.3 million square feet. 

Principal Products and Industry Segments 

Our reportable operating segments are the Upholstery segment, the Casegoods segment and the Retail segment. 

Upholstery Segment. Our Upholstery segment is our largest business and consists primarily of two operating units: La-Z-Boy, our largest operating unit, and our England subsidiary. Our Upholstery segment manufactures and imports upholstered furniture such as recliners and motion furniture, sofas, loveseats, chairs, sectionals, modulars, ottomans and sleeper sofas. The Upholstery segment sells directly to La-Z-Boy Furniture Galleries&#174; stores, operators of Comfort Studio&#174; locations and England Custom Comfort Center locations, major dealers and a wide cross-section of other independent retailers. 

Casegoods Segment. Our Casegoods segment is an importer, marketer and distributor of casegoods (wood) furniture such as bedroom sets, dining room sets, entertainment centers and occasional pieces, and also manufactures some coordinated upholstered furniture. The Casegoods segment consists of three brands: American Drew, Hammary, and Kincaid. The Casegoods segment sells directly to major 

dealers, as well as La-Z-Boy Furniture Galleries&#174; stores, and a wide cross-section of other independent retailers. 

Retail Segment. Our Retail segment consists of 124 company-owned La-Z-Boy Furniture Galleries&#174; stores. The Retail segment primarily sells upholstered furniture, in addition to some casegoods and other accessories, to the end consumer through our retail network. 

We have provided additional detailed information regarding our segments and their products in Note 17 to our consolidated financial statements and our "Management's Discussion and Analysis" section, both of which are included in this report. 

Raw Materials and Parts 

The principal raw materials and parts that we use in our Upholstery segment are purchased cover (primarily fabrics and leather), polyester batting and non-chlorofluorocarbonated polyurethane foam for cushioning and padding, lumber and plywood for frames, steel for motion mechanisms, and electrical components for power styles. We purchase about 55% of our polyurethane foam from one supplier, which has several facilities across the United States that deliver to our plants. We purchase cover from a variety of sources, but we rely on a limited number of major suppliers. We purchase approximately 40% of our cover in a raw state (fabric rolls or leather hides) and cut and sew it into cover, and 60% in covers that have already been cut and sewn by third-party offshore suppliers to our specifications. We buy cut-and-sewn leather and fabric products from four primary suppliers. Of the products that we import, two Chinese suppliers manufacture almost 90% of the leather cut-and-sewn sets, and two other Chinese suppliers manufacture over 95% of the fabric products. We primarily use these suppliers for their product design capabilities, to leverage our buying power, and to control quality and product flow, in addition to their ability to handle the volume of product we require to operate our business. If any of these suppliers experienced financial or other difficulties, we could experience temporary disruptions in our manufacturing process until we obtained alternate suppliers. 

During fiscal 2016, the prices of materials we used in our upholstery manufacturing process were essentially flat compared with fiscal 2015. Late in fiscal 2015, we established a global trading company in Hong Kong to assist us with procuring raw materials and parts from Asian suppliers by identifying efficiencies, savings opportunities, and managing relationships with these suppliers. We expect that our supply chain operational excellence initiatives, which include leveraging the global trading company operations, will generate savings in fiscal 2017 to offset the expected rise in material costs during the year, allowing us to keep our raw material costs flat as a percent of sales in fiscal 2017 compared with fiscal 2016, as well as increase our reliability by maintaining a more consistent supply of inventory on hand at our plants. 

Our Casegoods segment is primarily an importer, marketer, and distributor of wood furniture, with some manufacturing operations for coordinated upholstered furniture. Raw materials, primarily related to our coordinated upholstery furniture, represented only about 5% of the value of our inventory in this segment and less than 2% of our total raw material at the end of fiscal 2016, and mainly consisted of the same materials used in our Upholstery segment. 

Finished Goods Imports 

During fiscal 2015, we completed our transition to an all-import model for wood furniture sold by our Casegoods segment. As a result, we now import 100% of the casegoods products that we offer for sale compared with 79% in fiscal 2015 as we moved to the all-import model. In fiscal 2016, we purchased approximately 50% of this imported product from four suppliers. We primarily use these suppliers to leverage our buying power, to control quality and product flow, and because their capabilities align with our product design needs. In addition, these suppliers have the ability to handle the volume of product we require to operate our business. If any of these suppliers experienced financial or other difficulties, 

we could experience temporary disruptions in our product flow until we obtained alternate suppliers, and these disruptions could be lengthy due to the longer lead time required for sourced wood furniture from Asian manufacturers. 

We transitioned to an all-import model for our wood furniture primarily to remain competitive for these products. The prices we paid for these imported products in fiscal 2016 have decreased slightly from fiscal 2015. We currently expect these prices and associated transportation costs to remain unchanged in fiscal 2017 compared with fiscal 2016. Looking across our wholesale segments, imported finished goods represented 7% and 8% of our consolidated sales in fiscal 2016 and fiscal 2015, respectively. 

Seasonal Business 

We believe that the demand for furniture generally reflects sensitivity to overall economic conditions, including consumer confidence, housing market conditions and unemployment rates. The table below shows our segments' highest and lowest sales quarters for fiscal 2016 and is consistent with our historical experience: 

Segment &#160; Highest sales quarter &#160; Lowest sales quarter Upholstery &#160; 4 th &#160; 1 st Casegoods &#160; 2 nd or 4 th &#160; 1 st Retail &#160; 3 rd &#160; 1 st 

We schedule production to maintain consistent manufacturing activity throughout the year whenever possible. We shut down our domestic plants for one week in July to perform routine maintenance on our equipment. 

Economic Cycle and Purchasing Cycle 

We believe there is a strong correlation between housing starts and sales of our products. In addition, consumer confidence, employment rates, and other factors could affect demand. Upholstered furniture has a shorter life cycle than casegoods furniture because upholstered furniture is typically more fashion and design-oriented, and is often purchased one or two pieces at a time. Casegoods products, in contrast, are longer-lived and frequently purchased in groupings or "suites," resulting in a much larger cost to the consumer. As a result, casegoods sales are more sensitive to economic conditions, and upholstered furniture normally exhibits a less volatile sales pattern over an economic cycle. 

Practices Regarding Working Capital Items 

The following describes our significant practices regarding working capital items. 

Inventory: For our upholstery segment, we maintain raw materials and work-in-process inventory at our manufacturing locations, and finished goods inventory at our six regional retail distribution centers. Our regional retail distribution centers allow us to streamline the warehousing and distribution processes for our La-Z-Boy Furniture Galleries&#174; store network, including both company-owned stores and independently-owned stores. Our regional retail distribution centers also allow us to reduce the number of individual warehouses needed to supply our retail outlets and help us reduce our inventory levels at our manufacturing and retail locations. We also maintain some finished goods inventory at our manufacturing locations, which primarily supports efficient shipping of sold orders. 

For our Casegoods segment, we import wood furniture from Asian vendors, resulting in long lead times on these products. To meet our customers' delivery requirements with these lead times, we maintain 

higher levels of finished goods inventory, as a percentage of sales, of our casegoods products than our upholstery products, which is consistent with others in the casegoods industry. 

Our company-owned La-Z-Boy Furniture Galleries&#174; stores maintain finished goods inventory at the stores for display purposes. 

Our inventory increased $18.8 million, or 0.5 percentage point as a percent of sales, during fiscal 2016 compared with fiscal 2015. The majority of this increase was driven by raw materials in our Upholstery segment as we improved our in-stock position on certain items to better service our customers. Additionally, our inventory increased in our Retail segment due to new and acquired stores. We will continue to manage our inventory levels to ensure they are appropriate relative to our sales, while maintaining our focus on service to our customers. 

Accounts Receivable: During fiscal 2016, our accounts receivable decreased $12.0 million compared with fiscal 2015, which reflected a 1.5 percentage point reduction as a percent of sales. This decrease was attributable to the continued improvement in the financial condition of our customer base, including our independent La-Z-Boy Furniture Galleries&#174; dealers, and a reduction in days sales outstanding. We monitor our customers' accounts and limit our credit exposure to certain independent dealers, and we strive to decrease our days sales outstanding where possible. Our days sales outstanding is a measure of the time needed to collect outstanding accounts receivable once we have completed a sale. Our days sales outstanding decreased by approximately three days during fiscal 2016 due to continued improvement in the financial condition of our customer base and our various retail acquisitions. 

Accounts Payable: During fiscal 2016, our accounts payable decreased $1.5 million compared with fiscal 2015, which reflected a 0.3 percentage point reduction as a percent of sales. 

Customers 

Our wholesale customers are furniture retailers located primarily throughout the United States and Canada. Sales in our Upholstery and Casegoods segments are almost entirely to furniture retailers, but we also sell directly to end consumers through our company-owned La-Z-Boy Furniture Galleries&#174; stores that make up our Retail segment. 

We have formal agreements with many furniture retailers for them to display and merchandise products from one or more of our operating units and sell them to consumers in dedicated retail space, either in stand-alone stores or dedicated proprietary galleries or studios within their stores. We consider this dedicated space to be "proprietary." For our Upholstery and Casegoods segments, our fiscal 2016 customer mix based on sales was 61% proprietary, 8% major dealers such as Art Van Furniture, Nebraska Furniture Mart, Slumberland Furniture, and Raymour &#38; Flanigan Furniture, and 31% other independent retailers. 

The success of our product distribution model relies heavily on having retail floor space that is dedicated to displaying and marketing our products. Our 338-store La-Z-Boy Furniture Galleries&#174; network is central to this approach. In addition, we sell product through proprietary space within other retail furniture stores, primarily La-Z-Boy Comfort Studio&#174; locations, England Custom Comfort Center locations, and Kincaid Shoppes. 

Maintaining, updating, and when appropriate expanding our proprietary distribution network is a key part of our overall sales and marketing strategy. Our 4-4-5 initiative, through which we expect to expand the La-Z-Boy Furniture Galleries&#174; stores network to 400 stores averaging $4 million in sales per store over the five year period that began with fiscal 2014, is a key growth strategy for us. This strategy has already delivered results, as the network achieved our average sales per store target of $4 million during calendar 2015, more than two years ahead of schedule. Although we now expect the store build out to extend beyond five years, we believe as the average revenue per store increases, the 

same economic value could be delivered by the network in that time frame. As we continue to maintain and update our current stores to improve the quality of the network, the La-Z-Boy Furniture Galleries&#174; store network plans to open, relocate or remodel 25 to 30 stores during fiscal 2017. All of these stores will feature the new concept store design we developed and introduced in fiscal 2012. 

We select independent dealers for our proprietary La-Z-Boy Furniture Galleries&#174; store network based on factors such as their management and financial qualifications and the potential for distribution in specific geographical areas. This proprietary distribution benefits La-Z-Boy, our dealers and our consumers. It enables La-Z-Boy to concentrate our marketing with sales personnel dedicated to our entire product line, and only that line and approved accessories. It allows dealers who join this proprietary group to take advantage of practices with which other proprietary dealers have succeeded, and we facilitate forums for these dealers to share best practices. These La-Z-Boy Furniture Galleries&#174; stores provide our consumers a full-service shopping experience with a large variety of product and knowledgeable sales associates and In-Home Design consultants. 

Orders and Backlog 

We typically build upholstery units based on specific dealer orders, either for dealer stock or to fill a consumer's custom order. We import casegoods product primarily to fill our internal orders, rather than customer or consumer orders, resulting in higher finished goods inventory on hand as a percentage of sales. Because the size of our backlog at a given time may not be indicative of our future sales, we do not rely entirely on backlogs to predict future sales. 

Our Upholstery segment backlogs as of April 30, 2016, and April 25, 2015, were approximately $50.8 million and $71.5 million, respectively, and our Casegoods segment backlogs were approximately $7.6 million and $11.2 million, respectively. Our backlogs were lower than in the prior year due to being in a better inventory service position at April 30, 2016. 

Competitive Conditions 

We are the second largest manufacturer/distributor of residential (living and family room, bedroom, and dining room) furniture in the United States, as measured by annual sales volume. 

In the Upholstery segment, our largest competitors are Ashley, Bassett, Bernhardt, Best Chair, Ethan Allen, Flexsteel, Heritage Home Group, Klaussner, Man Wah, and Natuzzi. 

In the Casegoods segment, our main competitors are Bassett, Bernhardt, Ethan Allen, Heritage Home Group, Hooker Furniture, Lacquer Craft, and Stanley Furniture. The Casegoods segment faces additional market pressures from foreign manufacturers entering the United States market and increased direct purchases from foreign suppliers by large United States retailers. 

The La-Z-Boy Furniture Galleries&#174; stores operate in the retail furniture industry throughout North America, and different stores have different competitors based on their geographic locations. Competitors include: Arhaus, Ashley, Bassett Furniture Direct, Crate and Barrel, Ethan Allen, Restoration Hardware, Thomasville Home Furnishings Stores, Williams-Sonoma, several other regional competitors (for example Art Van Furniture, Raymour &#38; Flanigan Furniture, and Slumberland Furniture), and family-owned independent furniture stores. 

In addition to the larger competitors listed above, a substantial number of small and medium-sized companies operate within our business segments, all of which are highly competitive. 

Over the past decade alternative distribution channels have increasingly affected our retail markets. Companies such as Costco, Home Depot, IKEA, Sam's Club, Target, Wal-Mart, and others offer products that compete with some of our product lines. The increased ability of consumers to purchase furniture through various furniture manufacturers' and retailers' internet websites has also increased 

competition, including companies such as QVC and Wayfair which operate with lower overhead costs than a brick-and mortar-retailer. 

Players in the home furnishings industry compete primarily on the basis of product styling and quality, customer service (product availability and delivery), price, and location. We compete primarily by emphasizing our brand and the value, comfort, quality, and styling of our products. In addition, we remain committed to innovation while striving to provide outstanding customer service, exceptional dealer support, and efficient on-time delivery. Maintaining, updating and expanding our proprietary distribution system, including identifying desirable retail locations, is a key strategic initiative for us in striving to remain competitive. We compete in the mid-to-upper-mid price point, and a shift in consumer taste and trends to lower priced products could negatively affect our competitive position. 

Research and Development Activities 

We provide information regarding our research and development activities in Note 1 to our consolidated financial statements, which are included in Item 8 of this report. 

Trademarks, Licenses and Patents 

We own several trademarks, including the La-Z-Boy trademark, which is essential to the Upholstery and Retail segments of our business. To protect our trademarks, we have registered them in the United States and various other countries where our products are sold. These trademarks have a perpetual life, subject to renewal. We license the use of the La-Z-Boy trademark to our major international partners and dealers outside of North America. We also license the use of the La-Z-Boy trademark on contract office furniture, outdoor furniture, and non-furniture products, and these arrangements enhance our brand awareness, broaden the perceptions of La-Z-Boy, and create visibility of the La-Z-Boy brand in channels outside of the residential furniture industry. In addition, we license to our branded dealers the right to use our La-Z-Boy trademark in connection with the sale of our products and related services, on their signs and in other ways, which we consider to be a key part of our marketing strategies. We provide more information about those dealers, under "Customers." 

We hold a number of patents that we actively enforce, but we believe that the loss of any single patent or group of patents would not significantly affect our business. 

Compliance with Environmental Regulations 

Our manufacturing operations involve the use and disposal of certain substances regulated under environmental protection laws, and we are involved in a small number of remediation actions and site investigations concerning such substances. Based on a review of all currently known facts and our experience with previous environmental matters, we believe we have adequate reserves in respect of probable and reasonably estimable losses arising from environmental matters, and we currently do not believe it is probable that we will have any additional loss for environmental matters that would be material to our consolidated financial statements. 

Employees 

We employed approximately 8,700 full-time equivalent employees as of April 30, 2016, compared with 8,270 employees at the end of fiscal 2015. We employed approximately 7,300 in our Upholstery segment, 200 in our Casegoods segment, 1,000 in our Retail segment, and the remaining employees as corporate personnel. Our employment growth during fiscal 2016 was attributable to the sales volume increase in our Upholstery segment and new and acquired La-Z-Boy Furniture Galleries&#174; stores in our Retail segment. We employ the majority of our employees on a full-time basis except in our Retail segment, where many of our employees are part-time. 

Financial Information about Foreign and Domestic Operations and Export Sales 

In fiscal 2016, our direct export sales, including sales in Canada, were approximately 11% of our total sales. We are part of a manufacturing joint venture in Thailand, which distributes furniture in Australia, New Zealand, Thailand and other countries in Asia. We participate in a sales and marketing joint venture in Asia, which sells and distributes furniture in Korea, Taiwan, Japan, India, Malaysia, and other Asian countries. In addition, we have established a global trading company in Hong Kong that will enhance our ability to source products and materials from our Asian suppliers, as well as provide quality assurance and logistics expertise. 

We operate a facility in Mexico which produces cut-and-sewn fabric sets for our domestic upholstery manufacturing facilities. We provide information on sales in the United States, Canada, and other countries in Note 17 to our consolidated financial statements, which are included in Item 8 of this report. Our net property, plant, and equipment value in the United States was $164.2 million and $165.7 million at the end of fiscal 2016 and fiscal 2015, respectively. Our net property, plant, and equipment value in foreign countries was $7.4 million and $8.3 million in fiscal 2016 and fiscal 2015, respectively. 

See Item 1A of this report for information about the risks related to our foreign operations. 

Internet Availability 

Our Forms 10-K, 10-Q, 8-K, and proxy statements on Schedule 14A and amendments to those reports are available free of charge through links on our internet website, www.la-z-boy.com, as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Copies of any materials we file with the SEC can also be obtained free of charge through the SEC's website at www.sec.gov. The information on our website is not part of this report. 

