 Item 1. Business 

Introduction 

ECA Marcellus Trust I is a statutory trust formed in March 2010 under the Delaware Statutory Trust Act, pursuant to a Trust Agreement (the "Trust Agreement") among Energy Corporation of America ("ECA"), as Trustor, The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as Trustee (the "Trustee"), and Wilmington Trust Company, as Delaware Trustee (the "Delaware Trustee"). The Trust maintains its offices at the office of the Trustee, at 919 Congress Avenue, Suite 500, Austin, Texas 78701. The telephone number of the Trustee is 1-512-236-6555. 

The Trust makes copies of its reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), available at www.businesswire.com/cnn/ect.htm. The Trust's filings under the Exchange Act are also available electronically from the website maintained by the SEC at http://www.sec.gov. The Trust will also provide electronic and paper copies of its filings free of charge upon request to the Trustee. 

General 

The Trust does not conduct any operations or activities. The Trust's purpose is, in general, to hold the Royalty Interests (described below), to distribute to the Trust unitholders cash that the Trust receives in respect of the Royalty Interests after the payment of Trust expenses, and to perform certain administrative functions in respect of the Royalty Interests and the Trust units. The Trustee has no authority or responsibility for, and no involvement with, any aspect of the oil and gas operations on the properties to which the Royalty Interests relate. The Trust derives all or substantially all of its income and cash flows from the Royalty Interests, which in turn are subject to the hedge contracts described in this report. The Trust is treated as a partnership for federal and state income tax purposes. 

Initially, the Trust owned royalty interests in the 14 Producing Wells described in the Prospectus (the "Producing Wells") and royalty interests in 52 horizontal natural gas development wells to be drilled to the Marcellus Shale formation (the "PUD Wells") within the AMI, in which ECA held approximately 9,300 acres, of which it owned substantially all of the working interests, in Greene County, Pennsylvania. The AMI consisted of the Marcellus Shale formation in approximately 121 square miles in Greene County, Pennsylvania. 

ECA completed its drilling obligation to the Trust under the Development Agreement as of November 30, 2011, approximately 2.3 years in advance of the required completion date of March 31, 2014. Consequently, no additional wells will be drilled for the Trust. As of December 31, 2015 the Trust owns Royalty Interests in the 14 Producing Wells and the 40 development wells (52.06 Equivalent PUD Wells) that are now completed and in production. The 14 Producing Wells and the 40 development wells (52.06 Equivalent PUD Wells) are sometimes herein called the "Trust Wells". 

The royalty interests were conveyed from ECA's working interest in the Producing Wells and the PUD Wells limited to the Marcellus Shale formation (the "Underlying Properties"). The royalty interest in the Producing Wells (the "PDP Royalty Interest") entitles the Trust to receive 90% of the proceeds (exclusive of any production or development costs but after deducting post-production costs and any applicable taxes) from the sale of production of natural gas attributable to ECA's interest in the Producing Wells for a period of 20 years commencing on April 1, 2010 and 45% thereafter. The royalty interest in the PUD Wells (the "PUD Royalty Interest" and together with the PDP Royalty Interest, the "Royalty Interests") entitles the Trust to receive 50% of the proceeds (exclusive of any production or development costs but after deducting post-production costs and any applicable taxes) from the sale of production of natural gas attributable to ECA's interest in the PUD Wells for a period of 20 years commencing on April 1, 2010 and 25% thereafter. As used herein, the term "Producing 

Wells" means the 14 Producing Wells as defined above, and does not include the 40 PUD Wells, although they also have been completed and are producing. Approximately 50% of the originally estimated natural gas production attributable to the Trust's Royalty Interests had been hedged through March 31, 2014. A more complete description of the hedge contracts (all of which have expired) is provided in "Hedge Contracts Transferred to the Trust" below. 

ECA was obligated to drill all of the PUD Wells no later than March 31, 2014. As of November 30, 2011, ECA had fulfilled its drilling obligation to the Trust by drilling 40 PUD Wells (52.06 Equivalent PUD Wells), calculated as provided in the Development Agreement. The Trust was not responsible for any costs related to the drilling of development wells or any other development or operating costs. The Trust's cash receipts in respect of the Royalty Interests is determined after deducting post-production costs and any applicable taxes associated with the Royalty Interests, and the Trust's cash available for distribution includes any cash receipts from the hedge contracts and is reduced by Trust administrative expenses. Post-production costs generally consist of costs incurred to gather, compress, transport, process, treat, dehydrate and market the natural gas produced. Charges (the "Post-Production Services Fee") payable to ECA for such post-production costs on its Greene County Gathering System were limited to $0.52 per MMBtu gathered until ECA fulfilled its drilling obligation in 2011; since then, ECA has been permitted to increase the Post-Production Services Fee to the extent necessary to recover certain capital expenditures in the Greene County Gathering System. 

Generally, the percentage of production proceeds to be received by the Trust with respect to a well equals the product of (i) the percentage of proceeds to which the Trust is entitled under the terms of the conveyances (90% for the Producing Wells and 50% for the PUD Wells) multiplied by (ii) ECA's net revenue interest in the well. ECA on average owns an 81.53% net revenue interest in the Producing Wells. Therefore, the Trust is entitled to receive on average 73.37% of the proceeds of production from the Producing Wells. With respect to the PUD Wells, the conveyance related to the PUD Royalty Interest provides that the proceeds from the PUD Wells are calculated on the basis that the underlying PUD Wells are burdened only by interests that in total would not exceed 12.5% of the revenues from such properties, regardless of whether the royalty interest owners are actually entitled to a greater percentage of revenues from such properties. As an example, assuming ECA owns a 100% working interest in a PUD Well, the applicable net revenue interest is calculated by multiplying ECA's percentage working interest in the 100% working interest well by the unburdened interest percentage (87.5%) and such well would have a minimum 87.5% net revenue interest. Accordingly, the Trust is entitled to a minimum of 43.75% of the production proceeds from the well provided in this example. To the extent ECA's working interest in a PUD Well is less than 100%, the Trust's share of proceeds would be proportionately reduced. 

As described under "&#151;Duration of the Trust; Sale of Royalty Interests" below, the Trust is required to dissolve if the gross proceeds received by the Trust attributable to the Royalty Interests over any four consecutive quarters are less than $1.5 million. Gross proceeds over the four consecutive quarters ended December 31, 2015 were $6.2 million. 

Historical Target Distributions and Subordination and Incentive Thresholds 

The Trust makes quarterly cash distributions of substantially all of its cash receipts, after deducting Trust administrative expenses, including the costs incurred as a result of being a publicly traded entity, on or about 60 days following the completion of each quarter. Unless it is sooner liquidated, the Trust will liquidate on or about March 31, 2030. 

The amount of Trust revenues and cash distributions to Trust unitholders depend on, among other things: 

&#149; natural gas prices received; 8 

&#149; the volume and Btu rating of natural gas produced and sold; &#149; post-production costs and any applicable taxes; &#149; administrative expenses of the Trust including expenses incurred as a result of being a publicly traded entity, and any changes in amounts reserved for such expenses; and &#149; through March 31, 2014, the effects of the hedge arrangements. The effective date of the Trust was April 1, 2010, meaning the Trust has received the proceeds of production attributable to the PDP Royalty Interest from that date even though the PDP Royalty Interest was not conveyed to the Trust until July 7, 2010. The amount of the quarterly distributions fluctuates from quarter to quarter, depending on the proceeds received by the Trust, among other factors. There is no minimum required distribution. In order to provide support for cash distributions on the common units for a limited period of time, ECA agreed to subordinate 4,401,250 of the Trust units it originally acquired, which constituted 25% of the outstanding Trust units. The subordinated units automatically converted into common units on a one-for-one basis and ECA's right to receive incentive distributions terminated on December 31, 2012. 

Pursuant to IRC Section 1446, withholding tax on income effectively connected to a United States trade or business allocated to foreign partners should be made at the highest marginal rate. Under Section 1441, withholding tax on fixed, determinable, annual, periodic income from United States sources allocated to foreign partners should be made at 30% of gross income unless the rate is reduced by treaty. This release is intended to be a qualified notice to nominees and brokers as provided for under Treasury Regulation Section 1.1446-4(b) by ECA Marcellus Trust I, and while specific relief is not specified for Section 1441 income, this disclosure is intended to suffice. Nominees and brokers should withhold 39.6% of the distribution made to foreign partners. 

The Trust makes quarterly cash distributions of substantially all of its cash receipts, after deducting Trust administrative expenses, including the costs incurred as a result of being a publicly traded entity, on or about 60 days following the completion of each quarter. Unless sooner liquidated, as discussed in detail below under Item 1A. Risk Factors, the Trust will liquidate on or about March 31, 2030 (the "Termination Date"). At the Termination Date, 50% of each of the PDP Royalty Interest and the PUD Royalty Interest will revert automatically to ECA. The remaining 50% of each of the PDP Royalty Interest and the PUD Royalty Interest will be sold, and the net proceeds will be distributed pro rata to the unitholders soon after the Termination Date. ECA will have a right of first refusal to purchase the remaining 50% of the Royalty Interests at the Termination Date. Because payments to the Trust will be generated by depleting assets and the Trust has a finite life with the production from the Underlying Properties diminishing over time, a portion of each distribution will represent a return of the original investment in the Trust units. 

The Trustee can authorize the Trust to borrow money to pay Trust administrative or incidental expenses that exceed cash held by the Trust. The Trustee may authorize the Trust to borrow from the Trustee as a lender provided the terms of the loan are fair to the Trust unitholders, although the Trustee does not intend to make any such loans. The Trustee may also deposit funds awaiting distribution in an account with itself, if the interest paid to the Trust at least equals amounts paid by the Trustee on similar deposits, and make other short term investments with the funds distributed to the Trust. The Trustee may also hold funds awaiting distribution in a non interest bearing account. 

The Trust is responsible for paying all legal, accounting, tax advisory, engineering, printing costs and other administrative and out-of-pocket expenses incurred by or at the direction of the Trustee. The Trust is also responsible for paying other expenses, including the expenses of tax return and Schedule K-1 preparation and distribution, and expenses incurred as a result of being a publicly traded entity, including costs associated with annual and quarterly reports to unitholders, independent auditor fees and registrar and transfer agent fees. 

The Administrative Services Agreement 

The Trust and ECA are parties to an Administrative Services Agreement that obligates the Trust to pay ECA an administrative services fee for accounting, bookkeeping and informational services to be performed by ECA on behalf of the Trust relating to the Royalty Interests. The annual fee of $60,000 is payable in equal quarterly installments. Under certain circumstances, ECA and the Trustee each may terminate the Administrative Services Agreement at any time following delivery of notice no less than 90 days prior to the date of termination. 

The Development Agreement 

In connection with the formation of the Trust, the Trust and ECA entered into a Development Agreement that obligated ECA to drill all of the PUD Wells no later than March 31, 2014. ECA granted to the Trust a lien on ECA's interest in the Marcellus Shale formation in the AMI (except the Producing Wells and any other wells which were already producing and not subject to the Royalty Interests) to secure the estimated amount of the drilling costs for the Trust's interests in the PUD Wells (the "Drilling Support Lien"). The original maximum amount of the Drilling Support Lien was $91 million. As ECA fulfilled its drilling obligation over time, the total dollar amount recovered was proportionately reduced and the completed PUD Wells were released from the lien. As of November 30, 2011, the Drilling Support Lien had been fully released. 

For purposes of ECA's drilling obligation, and subject to the following paragraph, ECA was credited with a full development well drilled if its working interest in the development well drilled was 100%. Where ECA's working interest in a development well drilled was less than 100%, ECA was credited with a portion of a development well in the proportion that its working interest in the development well bears to 100%. For example, if ECA's working interest in a development well drilled by ECA in connection with fulfilling its drilling obligation to the Trust was 50%, ECA was credited with one-half of a development well for purposes of satisfying its drilling obligation in the period the development well was drilled. 

Wells drilled horizontally with a horizontal lateral distance (measured from the midpoint of the curve to the end of the lateral) of less than 2,500 feet counted as a Fractional well in proportion to total lateral length divided by 2,500 feet. Wells with a horizontal lateral distance of greater than 2,500 feet (subject to a maximum of 3,500 feet) counted as one well plus a Fractional well equal to the length drilled in excess of 2,500 (up to 3,500 feet) feet divided by 2,500 feet. 

In accordance with these provisions of the Development Agreement, ECA drilled 40 development wells (52.06 Equivalent PUD Wells) to fulfill its obligation to drill the 52 PUD Wells as required. 

ECA was obligated to bear all of the costs of drilling and completing the PUD Wells. ECA was required to complete and equip each development well that reasonably appeared to ECA to be capable of producing gas in quantities sufficient to pay completion, equipping and operating costs. ECA has drilled, completed and equipped each of the development wells. 

ECA has agreed not to drill and complete, and not to permit any other person within its control to drill and complete, any well on the lease acreage that would have a perforated segment within 500 feet of any perforated interval of a PUD Well or Producing Well in the Marcellus Shale formation. 

Hedge Contracts Transferred to the Trust 

In connection with the formation of the Trust, ECA transferred to the Trust natural gas derivative floor price contracts and entered into a back-to-back swap agreement with the Trust to provide the Trust with the benefit of certain contracts entered into between ECA and third parties that, at the formation of the Trust, equated to approximately 50% of the estimated natural gas to be produced by the Trust properties from April 1, 2010 through March 31, 2014. The swap contracts related to 

approximately 7,500 MMBtu per day at a weighted average price of $6.78 per MMBtu for the period commencing as of April 1, 2010 through June 30, 2012. The price of the floor price hedge contracts was $5.00 per MMBtu for the period commencing October 1, 2010 through March 31, 2014. After March 31, 2014, no hedge arrangements were in effect. 

The following table sets forth the volumes of natural gas covered by the natural gas hedge contracts and the floor price for each quarter during the term of the contracts. 

&#160; &#160; Swap Volume (MMBtu) &#160; Swap Price (MMBtu) &#160; Floor Volume (MMBtu) &#160; Floor Price (MMBtu) &#160; Second Quarter 2010 &#160; &#160; 682,500 &#160; $ 6.75 &#160; &#160; &#151; &#160; &#160; &#151; &#160; Third Quarter 2010 &#160; &#160; 690,000 &#160; $ 6.75 &#160; &#160; &#151; &#160; &#160; &#151; &#160; Fourth Quarter 2010 &#160; &#160; 690,000 &#160; $ 6.75 &#160; &#160; 225,000 &#160; $ 5.00 &#160; First Quarter 2011 &#160; &#160; 675,000 &#160; $ 6.75 &#160; &#160; 159,000 &#160; $ 5.00 &#160; Second Quarter 2011 &#160; &#160; 682,500 &#160; $ 6.75 &#160; &#160; 210,000 &#160; $ 5.00 &#160; Third Quarter 2011 &#160; &#160; 690,000 &#160; $ 6.82 &#160; &#160; 405,000 &#160; $ 5.00 &#160; Fourth Quarter 2011 &#160; &#160; 690,000 &#160; $ 6.82 &#160; &#160; 384,000 &#160; $ 5.00 &#160; First Quarter 2012 &#160; &#160; 682,500 &#160; $ 6.82 &#160; &#160; 369,000 &#160; $ 5.00 &#160; Second Quarter 2012 &#160; &#160; 682,500 &#160; $ 6.82 &#160; &#160; 516,000 &#160; $ 5.00 &#160; Third Quarter 2012 &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; 1,305,000 &#160; $ 5.00 &#160; Fourth Quarter 2012 &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; 1,362,000 &#160; $ 5.00 &#160; First Quarter 2013 &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; 1,395,000 &#160; $ 5.00 &#160; Second Quarter 2013 &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; 1,380,000 &#160; $ 5.00 &#160; Third Quarter 2013 &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; 1,278,000 &#160; $ 5.00 &#160; Fourth Quarter 2013 &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; 1,188,000 &#160; $ 5.00 &#160; First Quarter 2014 &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; 1,092,000 &#160; $ 5.00 &#160; 

Marketing and Post-Production Services 

Pursuant to the terms of the conveyances creating the Royalty Interests, ECA has the responsibility to market, or cause to be marketed, the natural gas production related to the Underlying Properties. The terms of the conveyances creating the Royalty Interests do not permit ECA to charge any marketing fee when determining the proceeds upon which the royalty payments are calculated. As a result, the proceeds to the Trust from the sales of natural gas production from the Underlying Properties are determined based on the same price (net of post-production costs) that ECA receives for natural gas production attributable to ECA's retained interest. 

ECA markets the majority of its operated production and markets all of the gas produced from the Underlying Properties. ECA enters into gas sales arrangements with large aggregators of supply and these arrangements may be on a month-to-month basis or may be for a term of up to one year or longer. The natural gas is sold at a market price and any applicable post-production costs are deducted. 

All of the production from the Producing Wells and the PUD Wells is currently gathered by ECA's Greene County Gathering System. The Trust paid the initial Post-Production Services Fee of $0.52 per MMBtu for use of this system, including ECA's costs to gather, compress, transport, process, treat, dehydrate and market the gas. This fee was fixed until ECA's drilling obligation was satisfied in 2011; since then, ECA has been permitted to increase this fee to the extent necessary to recover certain capital expenditures on the Greene County Gathering System made after the completion of the drilling period, provided the resulting charge does not exceed the prevailing charges in the area for similar services. This fee does not include the cost of fuel used in the compression process or equivalent electricity charges when electric compressors are used, firm transportation charges on interstate gas pipelines, or other third-party charges. The Trust's cash available for distribution is reduced by ECA's deductions for these post-production services. 

ECA may enter into arrangements with third parties to provide gathering, transportation, processing and other reasonable post-production services, including transportation on downstream interstate pipelines. Such additional post-production costs will be expressed as either (1) a cost per MMBtu or Mcf or (2) a percentage of the gross production from a well. To the extent that post-production costs are expressed as a cost per MMBtu or Mcf, such costs may be deducted by the purchaser of the natural gas prior to payment being made to ECA for such production. At other times, ECA will make payments directly to the third parties providing such post-production services. In either instance, the Trust's cash available for distribution will be reduced by the costs paid by ECA for such post-production services provided by third parties. If the post-production costs are expressed as a percentage of the gross production from a well, then the volume of production from that well actually available for sale is less the applicable percentage charged, and as a result the reserves associated with that well that are attributable to the Royalty Interests are reduced accordingly. 

The post-production costs for the Trust's natural gas produced and sold averaged $0.64 and $0.66 per MMBtu for the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. Such costs may increase or decrease in the future. The post-production costs attributable to third party arrangements may be costs established by arms-length negotiations or pursuant to a state or federal regulatory proceeding. ECA is permitted to deduct from the proceeds payable to the Trust other post-production costs necessary to make the natural gas from the Underlying Properties marketable, so long as such costs do not materially exceed the charges prevailing in the area for similar services. 

ECA has an agreement with Columbia Gas Transmission, LLC to provide firm transportation downstream of ECA's Greene County Gathering System for 50,000 MMBtu per day. This firm transportation arrangement, which terminates July 31, 2021, has been in effect since August 1, 2011 and is at Columbia Gas Transmission, LLC's filed tariff rate, which initially equated to $0.1996 per MMBtu at one hundred percent load factor. As a result of a filing by Columbia Gas Transmission, LLC with the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission ("FERC") (FERC Docket No. RP12-1021-000), the filed tariff rate was reduced to $0.1878 per MMBtu at one hundred percent load factor retroactively to January 1, 2012, and the Trust received $0.3 million as its proportionate share of the related refund during the second quarter of 2013. This firm transportation is an additional post-production cost and the Trust bears its proportionate share of such costs. 

ECA may enter into similar gas supply arrangements and post-production service arrangements for the natural gas to be produced from the Underlying Properties. Any new gas supply arrangements or those entered into for providing post-production services, will be utilized in determining the proceeds for the Underlying Properties. 

Competition and Markets 

The natural gas industry is highly competitive. ECA competes with major oil and gas companies and independent oil and gas companies for oil and gas leases, equipment, personnel and markets for the sale of natural gas. Many of these competitors are financially stronger than ECA, but even financially troubled competitors can affect the market because they may need to sell natural gas regardless of price to attempt to maintain cash flow. The Trust is subject to the same competitive conditions as ECA and other companies in the natural gas industry. 

Natural gas competes with other forms of energy available to customers, primarily based on price. These alternate forms of energy include electricity, coal and fuel oils. Changes in the availability or price of natural gas or other forms of energy, as well as business conditions, conservation, legislation, regulations and the ability to convert to alternate fuels and other forms of energy may affect the demand for natural gas. 

Future prices for natural gas will directly affect Trust distributions, estimates of reserves attributable to the Trust's interests, and estimated and actual future net revenues to the Trust. In view 

of the many uncertainties that affect the supply and demand for natural gas, neither the Trust nor ECA can make reliable predictions of future gas supply or demand, future gas prices or the effect of future gas prices on the Trust. 

Natural Gas Regulation 

The availability, terms and cost of transportation significantly affect sales of natural gas. The interstate transportation and sale for resale of natural gas is subject to federal regulation, including regulation of the terms, conditions and rates for interstate transportation, storage and various other matters, primarily by the FERC. Federal and state regulations govern the price and terms for access to natural gas pipeline transportation. The FERC's regulations for interstate natural gas transmission in some circumstances may also affect the intrastate transportation of natural gas. 

Although natural gas prices are currently unregulated, Congress historically has been active in the area of natural gas regulation. Neither ECA nor the Trust can predict whether new legislation to regulate natural gas prices might be proposed, what proposals, if any, might actually be enacted by Congress or the various state legislatures, and what effect, if any, the proposals might have on the operations of the Underlying Properties. Sales of condensate and natural gas liquids are not currently regulated and are made at market prices. 

Environmental Matters and Regulation 

The operations of the properties composing the Underlying Properties are subject to stringent and complex federal, state and local laws and regulations governing environmental protection, the discharge, emission or release of materials into the environment and employee health and safety. These laws and regulations may, among other things: 

&#149; restrict the types, quantities and concentration of various substances that can be released into the environment in connection with production activities; &#149; require remedial measures to mitigate pollution from former and ongoing operations, such as requirements to close pits and plug abandoned wells; and &#149; enjoin some or all of the operations of the Underlying Properties based upon environmental protection concerns such as non-compliance with permits issued pursuant to such environmental laws and regulations. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may trigger a variety of administrative, civil and criminal enforcement measures, including the assessment of monetary penalties, the imposition of remedial requirements and the issuance of orders enjoining future operations or imposing additional requirements on such operations. Certain environmental statutes impose strict joint and several liability for costs required to clean up and restore sites where hazardous substances have been disposed or otherwise released. The costs to comply with these laws, rules and regulations affects profitability. Moreover, compliance with these laws, rules and regulations may also restrict the rate of oil and natural gas production below the rate that would otherwise be possible. Additionally, Congress and federal and state agencies periodically revise environmental laws and regulations, and any changes that result in more stringent and costly waste handling, disposal and cleanup requirements for the oil and natural gas industry could have a significant impact on the operating costs of the properties comprising the Underlying Properties. 

The following is a summary of the existing laws, rules and regulations to which the operations of the properties composing the Underlying Properties are subject that may be material to the operation of the Underlying Properties. 

Environmental Regulation. The exploration, development and production operations of ECA are subject to stringent and comprehensive federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the discharge, emission or release of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to environmental protection. These laws and regulations may, among other things, require the acquisition of permits to conduct construction, drilling, water withdrawal and waste disposal operations; govern the amounts and types of substances that may be disposed or released into the environment; limit or prohibit construction or drilling activities in sensitive areas such as wetlands, wilderness areas or areas containing endangered or threatened species or their habitats; require investigatory and remedial actions to mitigate pollution conditions arising from ECA's operations or attributable to former operations; and impose obligations to reclaim and abandon well sites, impoundments and pits. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, the imposition of remedial obligations and the issuance of orders enjoining some or all of ECA's operations in affected areas. 

The clear trend in environmental regulation is to place more restrictions and limitations on activities that may affect the environment, and thus, any changes in environmental laws and regulations or re-interpretation of enforcement policies that result in more stringent or costly construction, drilling, water withdrawal, waste handling, storage, transport, disposal, or remediation requirements could have a material adverse effect on ECA's operations and financial position. ECA may be unable to pass on increased compliance costs to its customers. Moreover, accidental loss of well control, or releases or spills may occur in the course of ECA's operations, and ECA could incur significant costs and liabilities as a result of such incidents, including any third party claims for damage to property and natural resources or personal injury. Although ECA believes that it is in substantial compliance with existing environmental laws and regulations and that continued compliance with current requirements would not have a material adverse effect on ECA's capital expenditures, results of operations or financial position, ECA might not be able to maintain such compliance in the future. 

The following is a summary of the more significant existing environmental, health and safety laws and regulations to which ECA's business operations are subject and for which compliance may have a material adverse impact on ECA's capital expenditures, results of operations or financial position. 

Hazardous Substances and Wastes. The Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act, as amended, ("CERCLA"), also known as the Superfund law and comparable state laws impose liability without regard to fault or the legality of the original conduct on certain classes of persons who are considered to be jointly and severally responsible for the release of a "hazardous substance" into the environment. These persons include current and prior owners or operators of the site where the release occurred and entities that disposed or arranged for the disposal of the hazardous substances found at the site. Under CERCLA, these "responsible persons" may be liable for the costs of cleaning up the hazardous substances that have been released into the environment, for damages to natural resources, and for the costs of certain health studies. CERCLA also authorizes the EPA and, in some instances, third parties to act in response to threats to the public health or the environment and then to seek to recover from the responsible classes of persons the costs they incur. It is not uncommon for neighboring landowners and other third parties to file claims for personal injury and property damage allegedly caused by the release of hazardous substances or other pollutants into the environment. ECA handles materials in the course of ECA's operations that may be regulated as hazardous substances. 

ECA also generates solid and hazardous wastes that are subject to the requirements of the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, as amended ("RCRA"), and comparable state statutes. RCRA imposes strict requirements on the generation, storage, treatment, transportation and disposal of hazardous wastes. In the course of its operations, ECA generates petroleum hydrocarbon wastes and ordinary industrial wastes that may be classified as hazardous wastes under CERCLA and comparable state laws. 

ECA currently owns or leases, and in the past may have owned or leased, properties that have been used for numerous years to explore and produce oil and natural gas. Although ECA may have utilized operating and disposal practices that were standard in the industry at the time, hydrocarbons and wastes may have been disposed of or released at or from the properties owned or leased by ECA or at or from the other locations where these hydrocarbons and wastes have been taken for treatment or disposal. In addition, certain of these properties have been operated by third parties whose treatment and disposal or release of hydrocarbons and wastes was not under ECA's control. These properties and wastes disposed thereon may give rise to liability under CERCLA, RCRA and analogous state laws. Under these laws, ECA could be required to remove or remediate previously disposed wastes, to clean up contaminated property and to perform remedial operations to prevent future contamination. 

Air Emissions. The Clean Air Act, as amended, and comparable state laws and regulations restrict the emission of air pollutants from many sources and also impose various monitoring and reporting requirements. These laws and regulations may require ECA to obtain pre-approval for the construction or modification of certain projects or facilities expected to produce or significantly increase air emissions, obtain and strictly comply with stringent air permit requirements or utilize specific equipment or technologies to control emissions. Obtaining permits has the potential to delay the development of ECA's properties. In August 2012, the EPA published final rules that establish new air emission control requirements for natural gas production, processing and transportation activities, including New Source Performance Standards "NSPS" to address emissions of sulfur dioxide and volatile organic compounds "VOCs", and National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants "NESHAPS" to address hazardous air pollutants. The final rule seeks to achieve a 95% reduction in VOCs emitted and requires the use of reduced emission completions on all hydraulically-fractured wells constructed or refractured after January 1, 2015. While ECA may be required to incur certain capital expenditures during the next few years for air pollution control equipment or other air emissions-related issues, ECA does not believe that such requirements have a material adverse effect on its operations. 

In December 2009, the EPA published its findings that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other greenhouse gases (collectively, "GHGs") present an endangerment to public health and the environment because emissions of such gases are, according to the EPA, contributing to warming of the Earth's atmosphere and other climatic changes. These findings allow the EPA to adopt and implement regulations that would restrict emissions of GHGs under existing provisions of the federal Clean Air Act. Accordingly, the EPA has adopted regulations that could trigger permit review for GHG emissions from certain stationary sources. Those regulations were challenged in federal court and the Supreme Court has upheld the EPA's authority to regulate GHG emissions from stationary sources, concluding sources that trigger air permitting requirements based on their traditional criteria pollutant emissions must include a limit for greenhouse gases in their permit. The EPA has also issued regulations that require the establishment and reporting of an inventory of GHG emissions from specified stationary sources, including certain onshore oil and natural gas exploration, development and production facilities. On October 23, 2015, the EPA finalized its "Clean Power Plan" regulations under Section 111(d) of the Clean Air Act to limit GHG emissions from existing power plants. Several states, trade groups and companies have challenged the legality of EPA's 111(d) rule for existing power plants in federal court. In early 2014, President Obama announced the "Climate Action Plan," a broad-based plan designed to cut carbon pollution. A major focus of that plan is methane emission reductions. On January 14, 2015, the White House announced a goal to reduce methane emissions from the oil and gas sector by 40-45% from 2012 emission levels by 2025. On August 18, 2015, the EPA released a proposed rule to directly regulate methane emissions from new sources in the oil and gas industry and target ozone-forming pollutants from existing sources in areas that do not meet federal ozone health standards. ECA does not believe the proposed regulation will have a material adverse effect on its operations. 

More than one-third of the states have begun taking actions to control and/or reduce emissions of GHGs, primarily through the planned development of GHG emission inventories and/or regional GHG cap and trade programs. Although most of the state-level initiatives have to date focused on large sources of GHG emissions, such as coal-fired electric plants, it is possible that smaller sources of emissions could become subject to GHG emission limitations or allowance purchase requirements in the future. Any one of these climate change regulatory and legislative initiatives could have a material adverse effect on ECA's business, financial condition and results of operations. 

The adoption and implementation of any regulations imposing reporting obligations on, or limiting emissions of GHGs from, ECA's equipment and operations could require ECA to incur costs to reduce emissions of GHGs associated with its operations or could adversely affect demand for the natural gas it produces. Legislation or regulations that may be adopted to address climate change could also affect the markets for ECA's products by making its products more or less desirable than competing sources of energy. To the extent that its products are competing with higher GHG-emitting energy sources, ECA's products may become more desirable in the market with more stringent limitations on GHG emissions. To the extent that its products are competing with lower GHG-emitting energy, ECA's products may become less desirable in the market with more stringent limitations on greenhouse gas emissions. ECA cannot predict with any certainty at this time how these possibilities may affect its operations. 

Finally, some scientists have concluded that increasing concentrations of GHGs in the Earth's atmosphere may produce climate changes that have significant physical effects, such as increased frequency and severity of storms, droughts, and floods and other climatic events; if any such effects were to occur, they could have an adverse effect on ECA's assets and operations. 

Water Discharges. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, as amended ("Clean Water Act"), and analogous state laws impose restrictions and strict controls regarding the discharge of pollutants into navigable waters. Pursuant to the Clean Water Act and analogous state laws, permits must be obtained to discharge pollutants into state waters or waters of the United States. Any such discharge of pollutants into regulated waters must be performed in accordance with the terms of the permit issued by EPA or the analogous state agency. The term "waters of the United States" has been broadly defined to include certain inland water bodies, including certain wetlands and intermittent streams. On May 27, 2015, the EPA finalized a new definition of "waters of the United States" that broadens the scope of regulated waters. Several states, trade groups and companies have challenged the legality of EPA's new definition for "waters of the United States" in various federal courts and on October 9, 2015, the Sixth Circuit Court of Appeals issued a nationwide stay of the rule. ECA believes that even if upheld this will not have a material adverse effect on the cash distributions to the Trust unitholders. 

The Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection has adopted a new permitting policy concerning surface water discharges from wastewater treatment facilities handling flowback fluids and produced waters from oil and gas well sites that could result in increased requirements for treatment of these fluids and limitations on their discharge to receiving waters. In April 2011, PADEP called on all Marcellus Shale natural gas drilling operators to voluntarily cease delivering wastewater to centralized wastewater treatment facilities in the state. On April 7, 2015, EPA proposed technology-based pretreatment standards under the Clean Water Act for discharges of effluent from unconventional oil and gas extraction facilities to publicly owned treatment works ("POTWs"). If ECA is unable to remove and dispose of water at a reasonable cost and within applicable environmental rules, ECA's ability to produce gas commercially and in commercial quantities from the Underlying Properties could be impaired. 

Spill prevention, control and countermeasure requirements under federal law require appropriate containment berms and similar structures to help prevent the contamination of navigable waters in the event of a petroleum hydrocarbon tank spill, rupture or leak. In addition, the Clean Water Act and 

analogous state laws, including in Pennsylvania, require individual permits or coverage under general permits for discharges of storm water runoff from certain types of facilities. 

Hydraulic Fracturing Regulation. It is customary to recover natural gas from shale formations, including the Marcellus Shale formation, through the use of hydraulic fracturing, combined with sophisticated horizontal drilling. Hydraulic fracturing involves the injection of water, sand and chemical additives under pressure into rock formations to stimulate gas production. Due to public concerns raised regarding potential impacts of hydraulic fracturing on groundwater quality, legislative and regulatory efforts at the federal level and in some states have been initiated to require or make more stringent the permitting and compliance requirements for hydraulic fracturing operations. Over the past few years, the EPA has developed a comprehensive research study on the potential adverse impacts that hydraulic fracturing may have on water quality and public health. On June 5, 2015, the EPA released a draft of the report associated with the study. EPA's draft report indicated that while there are potential vulnerabilities in the water lifecycle that could impact drinking water, hydraulic fracturing activities have not led to widespread systemic impacts to drinking water resources. The EPA accepted comments on the draft report and expects to release a final peer-reviewed report in 2016. 

On March 20, 2015, the U.S. Bureau of Land Management ("BLM") released a final rule applicable to hydraulic fracturing operations on federal and tribal lands. Several states, trade groups and companies have challenged the legality of the BLM rule in federal court. On September 30, 2015, the U.S. District Court for the District of Wyoming issued a preliminary injunction, blocking BLM from enforcing the new rules nationwide. On December 10, 2015, the U.S. Department of Interior appealed that injunction to the Tenth Circuit Court of Appeals. In early 2014, the EPA released its final guidance regarding permitting of hydraulic fracturing operations that use diesel. In addition, on May 9, 2014, the EPA issued an Advanced Notice of Proposed Rulemaking seeking comment on the development of regulations under Section 8(a) and 8(d) of the Toxic Substances Control Act related to the reporting of chemical substances and mixtures used in hydraulic fracturing. On April 7, 2015, the EPA proposed new Clean Water Act effluent guidelines applicable to control unconventional oil and gas wastewater discharges from POTWs. Some states in which we operate and certain local governments have adopted, and others are considering adopting, regulations that could restrict hydraulic fracturing, including requirements regarding chemical disclosure, well integrity, water sourcing for use in hydraulic fracturing, and baseline testing of nearby water wells. In December 2014, the Governor of New York announced that the state would maintain its moratorium on hydraulic fracturing in the state. Additionally, following the passage of the Oil and Gas Amendments of February 14, 2012, or Act 13, the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection ("PADEP") enacted new regulations, which among other things require chemical disclosure, increased setbacks, and water management plans. PADEP continues to implement new regulations specifically applicable to the development of unconventional oil and gas wells. At the local level, some municipalities have considered passing zoning ordinances that would prohibit oil and gas development and hydraulic fracturing in particular. Any more stringent federal, state or local regulation could increase operational costs and reduce the volumes of oil and natural gas that ECA produces, which could materially adversely affect its revenues and results of operations. An additional level of regulation and permitting of hydraulic fracturing operations at the federal level, could lead to operational delays, increased operating costs and additional regulatory burdens that could make it more difficult for ECA to perform hydraulic fracturing. 

Endangered Species Act. The federal Endangered Species Act, as amended ("ESA"), restricts activities that may affect endangered and threatened species or their habitats. As a result of a settlement reached in 2011, the United States Fish and Wildlife Service ("FWS") is required to make a determination on whether to list numerous species as endangered or threatened under the ESA over the next several years. The designation of previously unidentified endangered or threatened species 

could cause ECA to incur additional costs or become subject to operating restrictions or bans in the affected areas. 

Employee Health and Safety. The operations of ECA are subject to a number of federal and state laws and regulations, including the federal Occupational Safety and Health Act, as amended ("OSHA"), and comparable state statutes, whose purpose is to protect the health and safety of workers. In addition, the OSHA hazard communication standard, the EPA community right-to-know regulations under Title III of the federal Superfund Amendment and Reauthorization Act and comparable state statutes require that information be maintained concerning hazardous materials used or produced in ECA's operations and that this information be provided to employees, state and local government authorities and citizens. 

State Regulation. Pennsylvania regulates the drilling for, and the production, gathering, storage, transport and sale of natural gas, including imposing requirements for obtaining drilling permits, the method of developing new fields, the spacing and operation of wells, production rates and the prevention of waste of natural gas resources. Any and all chemicals or other materials involved in the process must be disclosed and approved per statute. PADEP continues to implement new regulations specifically applicable to the development of unconventional gas wells. The Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission is charged with enforcement of the gas well impact fees, penalties for nonpayment, and additional requirements resulting from the adoption of the amendments. Proposed regulations and new requirements resulting from the amendments could require ECA to incur increased operating costs. Realized prices are not currently subject to state regulation or other similar direct economic regulation, but they could become subject to such regulation in the future. The effect of these regulations may be to limit the amounts of natural gas that may be produced from ECA's wells and to limit the number of wells or locations ECA can drill. 

ECA believes that its continued compliance with existing requirements will not have a material adverse effect on the cash distributions to the Trust unitholders. ECA did not incur any material capital expenditures for remediation or pollution control activities for the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014 with respect to the Underlying Properties. On December 24, 2015, ECA received a Notice of Violation ("NOV") from PADEP relating to ECA's operation of various water impoundments constructed on numerous well pad sites situated in Greene and Clearfield counties covering some of the Underlying Properties. ECA responded to PADEP on January 22, 2016, and stated that it believed ECA had been in compliance with all underlying rules and regulations regarding the operation of the impoundments and followed best management practices associated with the operation of the same. ECA has been communicating directly with PADEP in order to address the matters set forth in the NOV. The NOV as issued is neither an order or final action of the PADEP and it has not resulted in any fine or assessment to date. Pursuant to the conveyances the Trust is "not personally liable for any cost, risk, liability or obligations associated in any way with the ownership or operations" of the Underlying Properties, therefore the resolution of the NOV by ECA should not affect cash distributions to Trust unitholders. 

Description of the Trust Units 

Each Trust unit is a unit of beneficial interest in the Trust and is entitled to receive cash distributions from the Trust on a pro rata basis, subject to the subordination provisions during the Subordination Period, which ended with the distribution relating to the fourth quarter of 2012, as described elsewhere in this report. The Trust has 17,605,000 common units outstanding, consisting of 13,203,750 originally issued common units and 4,401,250 originally issued subordinated units that automatically converted to common units as of December 31, 2012. 

Distributions and Income Computations 

Cash distributions to Trust unitholders are made from available funds of the Trust for each calendar quarter. Production payments due to the Trust with respect to any calendar quarter are accrued based on estimated production volumes attributable to the Trust properties during such quarter (as measured at ECA metering systems) and market prices for such volumes. ECA makes a payment to the Trust equal to such accrued amounts within 30 days of the end of each such calendar quarter. After receipt of such payment, the Trustee determines for such calendar quarter the amount of funds available for distribution to the Trust unitholders. Available funds are the excess cash, if any, received by the Trust over the Trust's expenses for that quarter, reduced by any net increases to reserves. Any difference between the payment made by ECA to the Trust with respect to a calendar quarter and the actual cash production payments relative to the Trust properties received by ECA will be netted to or against future payments by ECA to the Trust. 

The amount of available funds for distribution each quarter is payable to the Trust unitholders of record on or about the 45th day following the end of such calendar quarter or such later date as the Trustee determines is required to comply with legal or stock exchange requirements. The Trust distributes available cash on or about the 60th day (or the next succeeding business day following such day if such day is not a business day) following such calendar quarter to each person who was a Trust unitholder of record on the quarterly record date. 

Unless otherwise advised by counsel or the IRS, the Trustee will treat the income and expenses of the Trust for each month as belonging to the Trust unitholders of record on the first business day of the month. 

Transfer of Trust Units 

Trust unitholders may transfer their Trust units in accordance with the Trust Agreement. The Trustee does not require either the transferor or transferee to pay a service charge for any transfer of a Trust unit. The Trustee may require payment of any tax or other governmental charge imposed for a transfer. The Trustee may treat the owner of any Trust unit as shown by its records as the owner of the Trust unit. The Trustee will not be considered to know about any claim or demand on a Trust unit by any party except the record owner. A person who acquires a Trust unit after any quarterly record date will not be entitled to any distribution relating to that quarterly record date. Delaware law governs all matters affecting the title, ownership or transfer of Trust units. 

Periodic Reports 

The Trustee files all required Trust federal and state income tax and information returns. The Trustee prepares and mails to each Trust unitholder a Schedule K-1 to enable unitholders to correctly report their respective share of the income and deductions of the Trust. The Trustee also causes to be prepared and filed reports required to be filed under the Exchange Act and by the rules of the New York Stock Exchange. 

Each Trust unitholder and such unitholder's representatives may examine, for any proper purpose, during reasonable business hours, the records of the Trust. 

Liability of Trust Unitholders 

Under the Delaware Statutory Trust Act, Trust unitholders will be entitled to the same limitation of personal liability extended to stockholders of private corporations for profit under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware. Nevertheless, courts in jurisdictions outside of Delaware may not give effect to such limitation. 

Voting Rights of Trust Unitholders 

The Trustee or Trust unitholders owning at least 10% of the outstanding Trust units may call meetings of Trust unitholders. The Trust will be responsible for all costs associated with calling a meeting of Trust unitholders unless such meeting is called by the Trust unitholders, in which case the Trust unitholders will be responsible for all costs associated with calling such meeting of Trust unitholders. Meetings must be held in such location as is designated by the Trustee in the notice of such meeting. The Trustee must send written notice of the time and place of the meeting and the matters to be acted upon to all of the Trust unitholders at least 20 days and not more than 60 days before the meeting. Trust unitholders representing a majority of Trust units outstanding must be present or represented to have a quorum. Each Trust unitholder is entitled to one vote for each Trust unit owned. 

Unless otherwise required by the Trust Agreement, a matter may be approved or disapproved by the vote of a majority of the Trust units held by the Trust unitholders at a meeting where there is a quorum. This is true, even if a majority of the total outstanding Trust units did not approve it. The affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the outstanding Trust units is required to: 

&#149; dissolve the Trust (except in accordance with its terms); &#149; remove the Trustee or the Delaware Trustee; &#149; amend the Trust Agreement, the royalty conveyances, the Administrative Services Agreement, the Development Agreement, the Royalty Interest Lien and the hedge agreements (except with respect to certain matters that do not adversely affect the right of Trust unitholders in any material respect); &#149; merge or consolidate the Trust with or into another entity; or &#149; approve the sale of all or any material part of the assets of the Trust, except that if any of the matters listed above (except removal of the Trustee or the Delaware Trustee) would result in a materially disproportionate benefit to ECA or its affiliates compared to other owners of common units, the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of common units and a majority of Trust units is required. 

In addition, certain amendments to the Trust Agreement may be made by the Trustee without approval of the Trust unitholders. The Trustee must consent before all or any part of the Trust assets can be sold except in connection with the dissolution of the Trust or limited sales directed by ECA in conjunction with its sale of Underlying Properties. 

Description of the Trust Agreement 

The Trust was created under Delaware law to acquire and hold the Royalty Interests for the benefit of the Trust unitholders pursuant to an agreement between ECA, the Trustee and the Delaware Trustee. The Royalty Interests are passive in nature and neither the Trust nor the Trustee has any control over or responsibility for costs relating to the operation of the Underlying Properties. Neither ECA nor other operators of the Underlying Properties have any contractual commitments to the Trust to provide additional funding or to conduct further drilling on or to maintain their ownership interest in any of these properties. 

The Trust Agreement provides that the Trust's business activities are limited to owning the Royalty Interests and any activity reasonably related to such ownership, including activities required or permitted by the terms of the conveyances related to the Royalty Interests and the natural gas hedge contracts relating to, at the formation of the Trust, an estimated 50% of the Trust's royalty production 

for a term ending March 31, 2014. As a result, the Trust is not permitted to acquire other oil and gas properties or royalty interests. The Trust is not able to issue any additional Trust units. 

Duties and Powers of the Trustee 

The duties of the Trustee are specified in the Trust Agreement and by the laws of the State of Delaware, except as modified by the Trust Agreement. The Trustee's principal duties consist of: 

&#149; collecting cash attributable to the Royalty Interests; &#149; paying expenses, charges and obligations of the Trust from the Trust's assets; &#149; making cash distributions to the unitholders; &#149; causing to be prepared and distributed a Schedule K-1 for each Trust unitholder and preparing and filing tax returns on behalf of the Trust; and &#149; causing to be prepared and filed reports required to be filed under the Exchange Act and by the rules of any securities exchange or quotation system on which the Trust units are listed or admitted to trading. If a Trust liability is contingent or uncertain in amount or not yet currently due and payable, the Trustee may create a cash reserve to pay for the liability. If the Trustee determines that the cash on hand and the cash to be received are insufficient to cover the Trust's liability, the Trust may borrow funds required to pay the liabilities. The Trust may borrow the funds from any person, including the Trustee or its affiliates. The terms of such indebtedness, if funds were loaned by the entity serving as Trustee or Delaware Trustee, would be similar to the terms which such entity would grant to a similarly situated commercial customer with whom it did not have a fiduciary relationship, and such entity shall be entitled to enforce its rights with respect to any such indebtedness as if it were not then serving as Trustee or Delaware Trustee. If the Trustee borrows funds, the Trust unitholders will not receive distributions until the borrowed funds are repaid. 

Responsibility and Liability of the Trustee 

The duties and liabilities of the Trustee are set forth in the Trust Agreement. The Trust Agreement provides that (i) the Trustee shall not have any duties or liabilities, including fiduciary duties, except as expressly set forth in the Trust Agreement, and (ii) the duties and liabilities of the Trustee as set forth in the Trust Agreement replace any other duties and liabilities, including fiduciary duties, to which the Trustee might otherwise be subject. 

The Trustee does not make business decisions affecting the assets of the Trust, and the Trustee's functions under the Trust Agreement are ministerial in nature. In discharging its duty to Trust unitholders, the Trustee may act in its discretion and will be liable to the Trust unitholders only for fraud, gross negligence or acts or omissions constituting bad faith. The Trustee will not be liable for any act or omission of its agents or employees unless the Trustee acted with fraud, in bad faith or with gross negligence in their selection and retention. The Trustee will be indemnified individually or as the Trustee for any liability or cost that it incurs in the administration of the Trust, except in cases of fraud, gross negligence or bad faith. The Trustee has a lien on the assets of the Trust as security for this indemnification and its compensation as Trustee. 

Assets of the Trust 

The assets of the Trust consist of the Royalty Interests, the Administrative Services Agreement, and any cash and temporary investments being held for the payment of expenses and liabilities and for distribution to the Trust unitholders. 

Liabilities of the Trust 

Because the Trust does not conduct an active business and the Trustee has little power to incur obligations, it is expected that the Trust will incur liabilities only for routine administrative expenses, such as the Trustee's fees and accounting, engineering, legal, tax advisory and other professional fees. 

Fees and Expenses 

The Trust is responsible for paying all legal, accounting, tax advisory, engineering, printing and other administrative and out-of-pocket expenses incurred by or at the direction of the Trustee or the Delaware Trustee. The Trust is also responsible for paying expenses of tax returns and Schedule K-1 preparation and distribution, as well as expenses incurred as a result of its being a publicly traded entity, including costs associated with annual and quarterly reports to unitholders, independent auditor fees and registrar and transfer agent fees. 

Duration of the Trust; Sale of Royalty Interests 

The Trust is expected to remain in existence until the Termination Date, which is March 31, 2030. The Trust will dissolve prior to the Termination Date if: 

&#149; the Trust sells all of the Royalty Interests; &#149; gross proceeds attributable to the Royalty Interests over any four consecutive quarters are less than $1.5 million; &#149; the holders of a majority of the outstanding Trust units vote in favor of dissolution; or &#149; the Trust is judicially dissolved. The Trustee would then sell all of the Trust's assets, either by private sale or public auction, and distribute the net proceeds of the sale to the Trust unitholders. 

ECA's Right of First Refusal 

ECA has a right of first refusal to purchase the Perpetual Royalty Interests upon termination of the Trust. This right of first refusal provides that the Trustee will use commercially reasonable efforts to retain a third-party advisor to market the Perpetual Royalty Interests within 30 business days of the termination of the Trust. If the Trustee receives a bid from a proposed purchaser other than ECA, prior to selling all or part of the Perpetual Royalty Interests, it will be required to give notice (the "Offer Notice") to ECA, identifying the proposed purchaser and setting forth the proposed sale price, payment terms and other material terms of the proposed sale. ECA would then have 30 days from receipt of the Offer Notice to elect, by notice to the Trustee, to purchase the subject properties offered for sale on the terms and conditions set forth in the Offer Notice. If ECA makes such election, the proposed purchaser would be entitled to receive reimbursement of its reasonable and documented expenses incurred in connection with its review and analysis of the subject properties and bid preparation. ECA and the Trust would share equally the cost of reimbursement to the proposed purchaser. 

If ECA does not give notice within the 30-day period following the Offer Notice, the Trust may sell such properties to the identified purchaser on terms and conditions that are substantially the same as those previously set forth in such Offer Notice. 

If, after a reasonable marketing period, no bid is received on any or all of the Perpetual Royalty Interests from any party other than ECA, then, as a condition to the sale, ECA shall obtain, at the Trust's expense, and deliver to the Trustee, a fairness opinion from a nationally-recognized valuation 

firm with expertise in fairness opinions stating that the proposed sale price to be paid by ECA to the Trust for the properties is fair to the Trust. 

Federal Income Tax Considerations 

The Trust's federal income tax reporting position is that it should be classified as a partnership for federal and applicable state income tax purposes. This position relies on the opinion of counsel to ECA and the Trust rendered in connection with the initial public offering of the Trust Units, in which counsel opined that at least 90% of the Trust's gross income will be qualifying income within the meaning of Section 7704 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. The Trust's federal income tax reporting positions are consistent with the Federal Income Tax Considerations section in the Trust's prospectus ("the Prospectus") filed with the SEC pursuant to Rule 424(b) under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), on July 1, 2010 in connection with the offering of its common units to the public (the "Federal Income Tax Considerations Section in the Prospectus"). However, as discussed in detail below under Item 1A. Risk Factors&#151;Tax Risks Related to the Trust's Common Units, the Trust has not requested a ruling from the IRS regarding its United States federal income tax reporting positions and its positions may not be sustained by a court or if contested by the IRS. Additional information regarding the opinion and tax matters is discussed in the Federal Income Tax Considerations Section in the Prospectus. 

Miscellaneous 

The Trustee may consult with counsel, accountants, tax advisors, geologists and engineers and other parties the Trustee believes to be qualified as experts on the matters for which advice is sought. The Trustee will be protected for any action it takes in good faith reliance upon the opinion of the expert. 

The Delaware Trustee and the Trustee may resign at any time or be removed with or without cause at any time by a vote of not less than a majority of the outstanding Trust units. Any successor must be a bank or trust company meeting certain requirements including having combined capital, surplus and undivided profits of at least $20 million, in the case of the Delaware Trustee, and $100 million, in the case of the Trustee. 

