 Item 1. Business 

&#32;Overview 

Agilent Technologies Inc. ("we", "Agilent" or the "company"), incorporated in Delaware in May 1999, is a global leader in life sciences, diagnostics and applied chemical markets, providing application focused solutions that includes instruments, software, services and consumables for the entire laboratory workflow. 

On November 1, 2014, we completed the distribution of 100% of the outstanding common shares of Keysight Technologies, Inc. ("Keysight") to Agilent stockholders who received one share of Keysight common stock for every two shares of Agilent held as of the close of business on the record date, October 22, 2014. The historical results of operations and the financial position of Keysight are included in the consolidated financial statements of Agilent and are reported as discontinued operations within this Form 10-K. 

For fiscal year ended October 31, 2016, we have three business segments comprised of the life sciences and applied markets business, the diagnostics and genomics business and the Agilent CrossLab business. 

Our life sciences and applied markets business provides application-focused solutions that include instruments and software that enable customers to identify, quantify and analyze the physical and biological properties of substances and products, as well as enable customers in the clinical and life sciences research areas to interrogate samples at the molecular level. Our diagnostics and genomics business is comprised of three areas of activity providing solutions that include reagents, instruments, software and consumables, which enable customers in the clinical and life sciences research areas to interrogate samples at the cellular and molecular level. The Agilent CrossLab business spans the entire lab with its extensive consumables and services portfolio, which is designed to improve customer outcomes. In addition, we conduct centralized order fulfillment and supply chain operations for our businesses through the order fulfillment and supply chain organization (&#8220;OFS&#8221;). OFS provides resources for manufacturing, engineering and strategic sourcing to our respective businesses. Each of our businesses, together with OFS, is supported by our global infrastructure organization, which provides shared services in the areas of finance, information technology, legal, workplace services and human resources. 

We sell our products primarily through direct sales, but we also utilize distributors, resellers, manufacturer's representatives and electronic commerce. Of our total net revenue of $4.2 billion &#32;for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2016 , we generated 30 percent &#32;in the U.S. and 70 percent &#32;&#32;outside the U.S. As of October 31, 2016 , we employed approximately 12,500 &#32;people worldwide. Our primary research and development and manufacturing sites are in California, Colorado, Delaware, Massachusetts and Texas in the U.S. and in Australia, China, Denmark, Germany, Italy, Japan, Malaysia, Singapore and the United Kingdom. 

The net revenue, income from operations and assets by business segment, as of and for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2016 &#32;and for each of the past three years are shown in Note 19, "Segment Information", to our consolidated financial statements, 

&#160; 

which we incorporate by reference herein. 

Life Sciences and Applied Markets Business 

Our life sciences and applied markets business provides application-focused solutions that include instruments and software that enable customers to identify, quantify and analyze the physical and biological properties of substances and products, as well as enable customers in the clinical and life sciences research areas to interrogate samples at the molecular level. Key product categories include: liquid chromatography ("LC") systems and components; liquid chromatography mass spectrometry ("LCMS") systems; gas chromatography ("GC") systems and components; gas chromatography mass spectrometry ("GCMS") systems; inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry ("ICP-MS") instruments; atomic absorption ("AA") instruments; microwave plasma-atomic emission spectrometry (&#8220;MP-AES&#8221;) instruments; inductively coupled plasma optical emission spectrometry ("ICP-OES") instruments; cell analysis plate based assays; laboratory software and informatics systems; laboratory automation; dissolution testing; vacuum pumps and measurement technologies. 

We employed approximately 4,300 &#32;people as of October 31, 2016 in our life sciences and applied markets business. This business generated revenue of $2.1 billion &#32;in fiscal 2016, $2.0 billion &#32;in fiscal 2015 and $2.1 billion &#32;in fiscal 2014 

Life Sciences and Applied Markets 

Our life sciences and applied markets business focuses primarily on the following five markets: 

The Pharmaceutical, Biotechnology, CRO &#38; CMO Market. &#32;&#32;This market consists of &#8220;for-profit&#8221; companies who participate across the pharmaceutical value chain in the areas of therapeutic research, discovery &#38; development, clinical trials, manufacturing and quality assurance and quality control. One sub-segment of this market is core and emerging pharmaceutical companies (&#8220;pharma&#8221;). A second sub-segment includes biotechnology companies (&#8220;biotech&#8221;), contract research organizations (&#8220;CROs&#8221;) and contract manufacturing organizations (&#8220;CMOs&#8221;). Biotech companies and, to a somewhat lesser extent, CROs and CMOs typically participate in specific points in the pharmaceutical industry value chain. Additionally, due to the relatively low drug efficacy within oncology, pharma companies are partnering with diagnostic companies to bring validated tests to the market with their new drugs. 

The Life Science Research Market. &#32;&#32;This market consists primarily of &#8220;not-for-profit&#8221; organizations and includes academic institutions, large government institutes and privately funded organizations. The life science research market plays an influential role in technology adoption and therapeutic developments for pharmaceutical and molecular diagnostics companies. After decades of investment in basic biomedical research by government funding bodies, the focus has widened to include translational research - multidisciplinary scientific efforts directed at accelerating therapy development. 

The Chemical &#38; Energy Market. The natural gas and petroleum refining markets use our products to measure and control the quality of their finished products and to verify the environmental safety of their operations. Petroleum refiners use our measurement solutions to analyze crude oil composition, perform raw material analysis, verify and improve refining processes and ensure the overall quality of gasoline, fuels, lubricants and other products. Our solutions are also used in the development, manufacturing and quality control of fine chemicals. 

The Environmental &#38; Forensics Market. Our instruments, software and workflow solutions are used by the environmental market for applications such as laboratory and field analysis of chemical pollutants in air, water, soil and solid waste. Environmental industry customers include all levels of government, the industrial and manufacturing sectors, engineering and consulting companies, commercial testing laboratories and colleges and universities. Drug testing and forensics laboratories use our instruments, software and workflow solutions for applications such as analyzing evidence associated with crime, screening athletes for performance enhancing drugs, analyzing samples for recreational drugs, or detecting and identifying biological and chemical warfare agents. This instrumentation is used in either static or mobile laboratories. Customers include local, state, federal, and international law enforcement agencies and health laboratories. 

The Food Market. Our instruments, software, and workflow solutions are used throughout the food production chain, including incoming inspection, new product development, quality control and assurance, and packaging. For example, our mass spectrometer portfolio is used to analyze contaminants and residual pesticides in food. There is also a significant food safety market involved in analyzing food for pathogen contamination, accurate verification of species type and evidence of genetically modified content. 

&#160; 

Life Sciences and Applied Markets Products and Applications 

Our products fall into nine main areas of work: liquid chromatography, gas chromatography, mass spectrometry, spectroscopy, software and informatics, lab automation and robotics, automated electrophoresis and microfluidics, vacuum technology and cell analysis. 

Our key product and applications include the following technologies: 

Liquid Chromatography 

A liquid chromatograph ("LC") or a high performance liquid chromatograph (&#8220;HPLC&#8221;) is used to separate molecules of a liquid mixture to determine the quantity and identity of the molecules present. The Agilent LC portfolio is modular in construction and can be configured as analytical and preparative systems. These systems can be stepwise upgraded to highly sophisticated, automated workflow solutions such as method development, multi&#8209;method/walk-up, high-capacity/high-throughput or multi&#8209;dimensional LC and can be extended to application&#8209;based analyzers e.g. for bio-molecular separations, chiral analysis or size exclusion chromatography. As a leader in liquid chromatography, we continue to expand our application space with new HPLC columns, new services and diagnostics offerings and ongoing instrument and software product enhancements. 

Gas Chromatography 

Agilent is the world's leading provider of gas chromatographs, both laboratory and portable models. GC's are used to separate any gas, liquid or solid that can be vaporized and then detect the molecules present to determine their identity and quantity. Agilent provides custom or standard analyzers configured for specific chemical analysis applications, such as detailed speciation of a complex hydrocarbon stream, calculation of gas calorific values in the field, or analysis of a new bio-fuel formulation. We also offer related software, accessories and consumable products for these and other similar instruments. 

Mass Spectrometry 

A mass spectrometer (&#8220;MS&#8221;) identifies and quantifies chemicals based on a chemical's molecular mass and characteristic patterns of fragment ion masses that result when a molecule is broken apart. Liquid chromatography is commonly used to separate compounds and introduce them to the MS system. The combined use of LC and MS is frequently used both to identify and quantify chemical compounds. Mass spectrometry is an important tool in analyzing small molecules and can also be used to characterize and quantify proteins and other biological entities. Agilent's LCMS portfolio includes instruments built around four main analyzer types - single quadrupole, triple quadrupole, time-of-flight (&#8220;TOF&#8221;) and quadrupole time-of-flight (&#8220;QTOF&#8221;). We significantly expanded our mass spectrometry portfolio in recent years with a focus on improving performance, sensitivity, and ease of use. 

Spectroscopy 

Spectroscopy is a technique for analyzing the individual chemical components of substances based on the absorption or emission of electromagnetic radiation of specific wavelengths of light. Our spectroscopy instruments include AA spectrometers, microwave plasma-atomic emission spectrometers (&#8220;MP-AES&#8221;), ICP-OES, ICP-MS, fluorescence spectrophotometers, ultraviolet- visible ("UV-Vis") spectrophotometers, Fourier Transform infrared ("FT-IR") spectrophotometers, near-infrared ("NIR") spectrophotometers, Raman spectrometers and sample automation products. We also offer related software, accessories and consumable products for these and other similar instruments. 

Software and Informatics 

We provide software for instrument control, data acquisition, data analysis, laboratory content and business process management, and informatics. Our software facilitates the compliant use of instruments in pharmaceutical quality assurance/quality control environments. With OpenLab Laboratory Software Suite, Agilent has a scalable, open software platform that enables customers to capture, analyze, and share scientific data throughout the lab and across the enterprise. 

Lab Automation and Robotics 

We offer a comprehensive suite of workflow solutions to our life science customers with the addition of automated liquid handling and robotics that range from standalone instrumentation to bench-top automation solutions. These solutions strengthen our offering of automated sample preparation solutions across a broad range of applications. 

&#160; 

Automated Electrophoresis and Microfluidics 

Automated electrophoresis is a separation technique for bio molecules such as proteins, peptides and nucleic acids (RNA and DNA) and is used to determine the identity of a molecule by either size or charge. It is widely used as a QC tool to check sample integrity prior to subsequent analysis. Prominent examples are nucleic acid preparation products in front of polymerase chain reaction, NGS and microarrays. 

Vacuum Technology 

Our vacuum technologies products are used to create, control, measure and test vacuum environments in life science, industrial and scientific applications where ultra-clean, high-vacuum environments are needed. Vacuum technologies' customers are typically OEMs that manufacture equipment for these applications. Products include a wide range of high and ultra-high vacuum pumps (diffusion, turbomolecular and ion getter), intermediate vacuum pumps (rotary vane, sorption and dry scroll), vacuum instrumentation (vacuum control instruments, sensor gauges and meters) and vacuum components (valves, flanges and other mechanical hardware). These products also include helium mass spectrometry and helium-sensing leak detection instruments used to identify and measure leaks in hermetic or vacuum environments. In addition to product sales, we also offer a wide range of services including an exchange and rebuild program, assistance with the design and integration of vacuum systems, applications support and training in basic and advanced vacuum technologies. 

Cell Analysis 

Our cell analysis tools are used to study cell signaling pathways and function through metabolic profile analysis for cells. The multi-well plate assays and readers are used to understand the impact of stimuli on cells as part of the drug development process. Cell analysis customers are typically academia and pharma companies who need to assess the metabolic state of the cell and use mass spectromety to study the related metabolites as part of research and drug development processes. 

Life Sciences and Applied Markets Customers 

We had approximately 23,000 &#32;customers for our life sciences and applied markets business in fiscal 2016. No single customer represented a material amount of the net revenue of the life sciences and applied markets business. A significant number of our life sciences and applied markets customers are also customers of our Agilent CrossLab business. 

The life sciences and applied markets business is susceptible to seasonality in its orders and revenues primarily based on U.S. and foreign government budgets and large pharmaceutical company budgets. Historically, the result is that our first and fourth fiscal quarters tend to deliver the strongest profits for this group. However, general economic trends, new product introductions and competition might overshadow this trend in any given year. 

Life Sciences and Applied Markets Sales, Marketing and Support 

The life science and applied markets channels focus on the therapeutics and human disease research customer base (pharma, biotech, CRO, CMO and generics), clinical customer base (high complexity clinical testing labs) and on emerging life sciences opportunities in life science research institutes. We deploy a multi-channel approach, marketing products to our customers through direct sales, electronic commerce, resellers, manufacturers' representatives and distributors. We primarily use direct sales to market our solutions to our pharmaceutical, biopharmaceutical and clinical accounts. Sales agents supplement direct sales by providing broader geographic coverage and coverage of smaller accounts. Our active reseller program augments our ability to provide more complete solutions to our customers. We sell our consumable products through distributors, electronic commerce and direct sales. 

Our products typically come with standard warranties, and extended warranties are available for additional cost. 

Life Sciences and Applied Markets Manufacturing 

Our manufacturing supports our diverse product range and customer&#8209;centric focus. We assemble highly configurable products to individual customer orders and make standard products to stock. We employ advanced manufacturing techniques and supply chain management systems to reduce costs and manufacturing cycle times. Our manufacturing process then converts these designs into custom products for shipment to customers. We selectively use third parties to provide some supply chain processes for manufacturing, warehousing and logistics. We have manufacturing facilities in California, Delaware and Massachusetts in the U.S. Outside of the U.S., we have manufacturing facilities in Germany, Malaysia and Singapore. We have FDA registered sites in California, Germany and Singapore. We utilize just-in-time manufacturing. 

&#160; 

Life Sciences and Applied Markets Competition 

The markets for analytical instruments in which we compete are characterized by evolving industry standards and intense competition. Our principal competitors in the life sciences and applied markets arena include: Danaher Corporation, PerkinElmer Inc., Shimadzu Corporation, Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc. and Waters Corporation. Agilent competes on the basis of product performance, reliability, support quality, applications expertise, global channel coverage and price. 

Diagnostics and Genomics Business 

Our diagnostics and genomics business includes genomics, nucleic acid contract manufacturing and the pathology, companion diagnostics and reagent partnership businesses. 

Our diagnostics and genomics business is comprised of five areas of activity providing solutions that include reagents, instruments, software and consumables, which enable customers in the clinical and life sciences research areas to interrogate samples at the cellular and molecular level. First, our genomics business includes arrays for DNA mutation detection, genotyping, gene copy number determination, identification of gene rearrangements, DNA methylation profiling, gene expression profiling, as well as next generation sequencing ("NGS") target enrichment and genetic data management and interpretation support software. Second, our nucleic acid solutions business provides equipment and expertise focused on production of synthesized oligonucleotides under pharmaceutical good manufacturing practices ("GMP") conditions for use as active pharmaceutical ingredients ("API") in an emerging class of drugs that utilize nucleic acid molecules for disease therapy. Next, our pathology solutions business is focused on product offerings to cancer diagnostics and anatomic pathology workflows. The broad portfolio of offerings includes immunohistochemistry (&#8220;IHC&#8221;), in situ hybridization (&#8220;ISH&#8221;), hematoxylin and eosin (&#8220;H&#38;E&#8221;) staining and special staining. We also collaborate with a number of major pharmaceutical companies to develop new potential pharmacodiagnostics, also known as companion diagnostics, which may be used to identify patients most likely to benefit from a specific targeted therapy. Finally, the reagent partnership business is a provider of reagents used for turbidimetry and flow cytometry. 

We employed approximately 1,900 &#32;people as of October 31, 2016 in our diagnostics and genomics business. This business generated revenue of $0.7 billion &#32;in fiscal 2016, $0.7 billion &#32;in fiscal 2015, and $0.7 billion &#32;in fiscal 2014. 

Diagnostics and Genomics Market 

Within diagnostics and genomics business, we focus primarily on the following market: 

The Diagnostics and Clinical Market . A significant part of our clinical diagnostic customers are in pathology labs throughout the world. Our high-quality, automated pathology tissue staining platforms and solutions are used most heavily by the large labs located in hospitals, medical centers, and reference labs. The market is skewed towards mature economies, with most of the market in North America, Western Europe and Japan. The mix is changing, however, as emerging markets increase spending on human health. 

The clinical market for genomics consists of high complexity clinical labs performing patient testing, including &#8220;for-profit&#8221; reference laboratories, hospital labs, and molecular diagnostic companies. While these labs primarily purchase in vitro diagnostics (&#8220;IVD&#8221;) labeled testing kits, they often develop and validate their own molecular based tests. Analyte Specific Reagents (&#8220;ASRs&#8221;) are often used by these labs. 

Diagnostics and Genomics Products 

Our products fall into six main areas of work: pathology products, specific proteins and flow reagents, target enrichment, cytogenetic research solutions and microarrays, PCR and qPCR instrumentation and molecular biology reagents and nucleic acid solutions. 

Pathology 

This area consists of routine clinical solutions for tissue based cancer diagnostics with solutions that comprise antibodies, reagents, instruments and software targeting both primary and advanced cancer diagnostics. Our CoverStainer and Artisan based product families target primary cancer diagnostics through Hematoxylin and Eosin staining as well as Special Stains for additional insights and detection of potentially carcinogenic tissue. In the fourth quarter of 2013, we launched our new combined IHC/ISH platform, Dako Omnis. The Dako Omnis and Autostainer based IHC solution and Instant Quality Fluorescence In Situ Hybridization 

&#160; 

("IQFISH") technologies provide advanced tumor typing through investigation of protein and gene expression. These products also include companion diagnostic tests that are used to help identify patients most likely to benefit from a specific targeted therapy. 

Specific Proteins and Flow Reagents 

Our reagent OEM business is a provider of clinical diagnostic products within the areas of specific proteins for turbidimetry and reagents for flow cytometry. These are sold OEM as customized reagent solutions supplied to top IVD companies or through retail partners. 

Companion Diagnostics 

In our Companion Diagnostics business, we partner with a number of major pharmaceutical companies to develop new potential pharmacodiagnostics, which may be used to identify patients most likely to benefit from a specific targeted therapy. 

Target Enrichment 

Agilent continues to be a strong player in the next generation sequencing market. We provide a target enrichment portfolio composed of two main platforms, SureSelect and HaloPlex, both enabling customers to select specific target regions of the genome for sequencing. Customers can customize our products for their regions of interest using the SureDesign software, or they can choose from a wide range of catalog products, including gene panels for specific applications and Exome designs, which allow analysis of the entire coding sequences of the genome. After preparing samples with SureSelect and HaloPlex, products can be sequenced in the main next generation sequencing platforms available in the market. The technologies provide an easy sample prep workflow that can be automated with the Agilent Bravo platform for scalability. HaloPlex provides less-than-24-hours fast workflow, which makes it suitable for labs that require fast turnaround time from sample to results. These products are used for mutation detection and genotyping. Results can be easily analyzed using Agilent software solutions GeneSpring or SureCall. 

Cytogenetic Research Solutions and Microarrays 

Agilent is a leading provider of microarrays for Comparative Genomic Hybridization (&#8220;CGH&#8221;), mostly used by customers in cytogenetic laboratories. The arrays allow customers to detect genome-wide copy number alterations, with high levels of resolution (from entire chromosomal copy number changes to specific microdeletions or duplications). The arrays are offered in many formats allowing the customers to choose from different levels of resolution and number of samples per arrays. Arrays can also be customized using the SureDesign software. In addition to the microarrays, Agilent's solution includes reagents for sample processing, hardware for reading the microarrays, and software to help users view the data in a meaningful way. In addition to the CGH portfolio, the cytogenetics solution comprises a line of oligonucleotide probes for Fluorescent In Situ Hybridization ("FISH") called SureFISH. Over 400 probes are available in our catalog, covering most relevant regions in the genome. Cytogenetic labs can use SureFISH probes to detect specific translocations or copy number changes in samples. Additionally, Agilent provides a wide range of microarrays to the research market for different types of applications: gene expression, microRNA, methylation, splice variants, and chromatin immunoprecipitation applications. Arrays are offered as catalog designs or customizable designs, with no minimum order size and short delivery time, which differentiates us from other vendors and enables researchers the maximum flexibility in their studies. Our end-to-end solution includes reagents for sample preparation and microarray processing; hardware for sample QC and high-throughput microarray scanning; microarrays on industry-standard 1&#8221; &#215; 3&#8221; glass slides for key applications; custom microarray design services; and GeneSpring and CytoGenomics software products for data analysis. 

PCR and qPCR Instrumentation and Molecular Biology Reagents 

Polymerase Chain Reaction (&#8220;PCR&#8221;) is a standard laboratory method used to amplify the amount of genetic material of a given sample to enable further interrogation. Quantitative PCR (&#8220;qPCR&#8221;) or real time PCR is also a standard method used in genomic research facilities to measure the amount of a specific nucleic acid sequence within a sample. There are several applications for qPCR, among the most common are identifying the expression level of a specific gene, or calculating the amount of a specific pathogen present in a sample. Agilent offers a complete portfolio of PCR &#38; qPCR instruments, as well as specialty enzymes for amplifying difficult sample types. In addition to PCR and qPCR enzymes, Agilent offers a wide range of molecular biology reagents including tools for cloning and mutagenesis applications. 

Nucleic Acid Solutions 

Our Nucleic Acid Solutions division ("NASD") is a contract manufacturing and development services business with equipment and expertise focused on mid to large scale production of synthesized oligonucleotide APIs (Active Pharmaceutical Ingredients) under pharmaceutical GMP conditions for an emerging class of drugs that utilize oligonucleotide molecules for disease 

&#160; 

therapy. State of the art for these drugs has advanced from single strand DNA molecules to complex, highly modified molecules including antisense, aptamers, double-stranded RNA, and RNA mixtures. These advancements in the technology have greatly improved the efficacy of delivery and stability of the oligos in-vivo. NASD offers industry leading experience to efficiently advance our customer&#8217;s oligo drug candidates from clinical trials to commercial launch with a common goal of patient health and safety. 

Diagnostics and Genomics Customers 

We had approximately 14,000 &#32;customers for our diagnostics and genomics business in fiscal 2016. No single customer represented a material amount of the net revenue of the diagnostics and genomics business. 

Diagnostics and Genomics Sales, Marketing and Support 

The diagnostics and genomics channels focus on the therapeutics and human disease research customer base (pharma, biotech, CRO, CMO and generics), clinical customer base (pathology labs and high complexity clinical testing labs) and on emerging life sciences opportunities in life science research institutes. We deploy a multi-channel approach, marketing products to our customers through direct sales, electronic commerce, resellers, manufacturers' representatives and distributors. We primarily use direct sales to market our solutions to our pharmaceutical, biopharmaceutical and clinical accounts. Sales agents supplement direct sales by providing broader geographic coverage and coverage of smaller accounts. Our active reseller program augments our ability to provide more complete solutions to our customers. We sell our consumable products through distributors, telesales, electronic commerce and direct sales. We utilize telesales for more mature product lines, as well as for reorders of reagent products. 

Diagnostics and Genomics Manufacturing 

Our manufacturing supports our diverse product range and customer-centric focus. We assemble highly configurable products to individual customer orders and make standard products to stock. We employ advanced manufacturing techniques and supply chain management systems to reduce costs and manufacturing cycle times. We selectively use third parties to provide some supply chain processes for manufacturing, warehousing and logistics. We have manufacturing facilities in California, Colorado and Texas in the U.S. Outside of the U.S., we have manufacturing facilities in Denmark, Malaysia and Germany. Our FDA registered sites include California, Colorado, Texas and Denmark. We utilize just-in-time manufacturing and so typically do not maintain a high level of inventory. 

Diagnostics and Genomics Competition 

The markets for diagnostics and genomics analytical products in which we compete are characterized by evolving industry standards and intense competition. Our principal competitors in the diagnostics and genomics arena include: Roche Ventana Medical Systems, Inc., a member of the Roche Group, Leica Biosystems, Inc., a division of Danaher Corporation, Abbott Laboratories, Ilumina, Inc. and Affymetrix, Inc. Agilent competes on the basis of product performance, reliability, support quality, applications expertise, whole solution offering, global channel coverage and price. 

Diagnostics and Genomics Government Regulation 

Some of the products the diagnostics and genomics business sells are subject to regulatory approval by the FDA and other regulatory bodies throughout the world. These regulations govern a wide variety of product related activities, from quality management, design and development to labeling, manufacturing, promotion, sales and distribution. We continually invest in our manufacturing infrastructure to gain and maintain certifications necessary for the level of clearance. During 2014 and 2015, we have made investments to address the issues identified in the FDA warning letter, now lifted, received by our Glostrup, Denmark facility. 

Agilent CrossLab Business 

The Agilent CrossLab business spans the entire lab with its extensive consumables and services portfolio, which is designed to improve customer outcomes. The majority of the portfolio is vendor neutral, meaning Agilent can serve and supply customers regardless of their instrument purchase choices. Solutions range from chemistries and supplies to services and software helping to connect the entire lab. Key product categories in consumables include GC and LC columns, sample preparation products, custom chemistries, and a large selection of laboratory instrument supplies. Services include startup, operational, training and compliance support, as well as asset management and consultative services that help increase customer productivity. Custom service and consumable bundles are tailored to meet the specific application needs of various industries and to keep instruments fully operational and compliant with the respective industry requirements. 

&#160; 

Our Agilent CrossLab business employed approximately 3,800 &#32;people as of October 31, 2016. Our Agilent CrossLab business generated $1.4 billion &#32;in revenue in fiscal 2016, $1.3 billion &#32;in revenue in fiscal 2015 and $1.3 billion &#32;in revenue in fiscal 2014. 

Agilent CrossLab Markets 

The Pharmaceutical, Biotechnology, CRO &#38; CMO Market. &#32;&#32;Our services and consumable products support customers in this market that consists of &#8220;for-profit&#8221; companies who participate across the pharmaceutical value chain in the areas of therapeutic research, discovery and development, clinical trials, manufacturing and quality assurance and quality control. One sub-segment of this market is core and emerging pharmaceutical companies (&#8220;pharma&#8221;). A second sub-segment includes biotechnology companies (&#8220;biotech&#8221;), contract research organizations (&#8220;CROs&#8221;) and contract manufacturing organizations (&#8220;CMOs&#8221;). Biotech companies and, to a somewhat lesser extent, CROs and CMOs typically participate in specific points in the pharmaceutical industry value chain. Additionally, due to the relatively low drug efficacy within oncology, pharma companies are partnering with diagnostic companies to bring validated tests to the market with their new drugs. 

The Life Science Research Market. &#32;&#32;Our services and consumable products support customers in this market that consists primarily of &#8220;not-for-profit&#8221; organizations and includes academic institutions, large government institutes and privately funded organizations. The life science research market plays an influential role in technology adoption and therapeutic developments for pharmaceutical and molecular diagnostics companies. After decades of investment in basic biomedical research by government funding bodies, the focus has widened to include translational research - multidisciplinary scientific efforts directed at accelerating therapy development. 

The Chemical &#38; Energy Market. The natural gas and petroleum refining markets use our services and consumable products to support their quality control and environmental safety reviews. 

The Environmental &#38; Forensics Market. Our services and consumable products support the environmental industry customers that perform laboratory and field analysis of chemical pollutants in air, water, soil and solid waste. Environmental industry customers include all levels of government, the industrial and manufacturing sectors, engineering and consulting companies, commercial testing laboratories and colleges and universities. Our services and consumable products also support drug testing and forensics laboratories that are involved with analyzing evidence associated with crime, screening athletes for performance enhancing drugs, analyzing samples for recreational drugs, or detecting and identifying biological and chemical warfare agents. Customers include local, state, federal, and international law enforcement agencies and commercial testing laboratories. 

The Food Market. Our services and consumable products support the food production chain, including incoming inspection, new product development, quality control and assurance, and packaging. 

The Diagnostics and Clinical Market . Our services and consumable products support clinical diagnostic customers in pathology labs throughout the world. The market is skewed towards the mature economies, with most of the market in North America, Western Europe and Japan. The mix is changing, however, as emerging markets increase spending on human health. 

Agilent CrossLab Applications 

Chemistries and Supplies 

We offer a broad range of consumable products, which support our technology platforms, including sample preparation consumables such as solid phase extraction ("SPE") and filtration products, self-manufactured GC and LC columns, chemical standards, and instrument replacement parts. Consumable products also include scientific instrument parts and supplies such as filters and fittings for GC systems; xenon lamps and cuvettes for UV-Vis-NIR, fluorescence, FT-IR and Raman spectroscopy instruments; and graphite furnace tubes, hollow cathode lamps and specialized sample introduction glassware for our AA, ICP-OES and ICP-MS products. 

Services and Support 

We offer a wide range of startup, operational, educational and compliance support services for our measurement and data handling systems. Our support services include maintenance, troubleshooting, repair and training for all of our chemical and bioanalytical instrumentation hardware and software products. Special service bundles have also been designed to meet the specific application needs of various industries. As customers continue to outsource laboratory operations and consolidate suppliers, our 

&#160; 

enterprise services consist of a broad portfolio of integrated laboratory management services including instrument services, lab supply management, asset management, procurement, informatics and scientific services. 

Remarketed Instruments 

We refurbish and resell certified pre-owned instruments to value oriented customers who demand Agilent quality and performance at a budget conscious price. 

Agilent CrossLab Customers 

We had approximately 43,000 &#32;Agilent CrossLab customers in fiscal 2016 and no single customer represented a material amount of the net revenue of the Agilent CrossLab business. A significant number of our Agilent CrossLab customers are also customers of our life sciences and applied markets business. 

The service and consumables business is mostly recurring in nature, and is not as susceptible to market seasonality and industry cycles in comparison to our instrument businesses. The vendor neutral portion of the portfolio allows the business to perform relatively independent from our instrument business. 

Agilent CrossLab Sales, Marketing and Support 

We deploy a multi-channel approach, marketing products and services to our customers through direct sales, electronic commerce, resellers, manufacturers' representatives and distributors. We primarily use direct sales to market our solutions to our large accounts. Sales agents supplement direct sales by providing broader geographic coverage and coverage of smaller accounts. Our active reseller program augments our ability to provide more complete solutions to our customers. We utilize telesales to enhance the transactional sales model of our products. All channels are supported by technical product and application specialists to meet our customer&#8217;s specific requirements. 

We deliver our support services to customers in a variety of ways, including on-site assistance with repair or exchange of returned products, telephone support and self-diagnostic services provided over the Internet. We also offer special industry-focused service bundles that are designed to meet the specific needs of hydrocarbon processing, environmental, pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical customers to keep instruments fully operational and compliant with the respective industry requirements. Our products typically come with standard warranties, and extended warranties are available for additional cost. 

Agilent CrossLab Manufacturing 

Our primary manufacturing sites for the consumables business are in California and Delaware in the U.S., and outside of the U.S. in the Netherlands and the United Kingdom. Our direct service delivery organization is regionally based operating in 30 countries. 

Agilent CrossLab Competition 

Our principal competitors in the services and consumable products arena include many of our competitors from the instrument business, such as: Danaher Corporation, PerkinElmer Inc., Shimadzu Corporation, Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc. and Waters Corporation, as well as numerous niche consumables and service providers. Agilent competes on the basis of product performance, reliability, support quality, applications expertise, global channel coverage and price. 

Agilent Technologies Research Laboratories 

Agilent Technologies Research Laboratories ("Research Labs") is our research organization based in Santa Clara, California, with offices in Europe and Asia. The Research Labs create competitive advantage through high-impact technology, driving market leadership and growth in Agilent's core businesses and expanding Agilent's footprint into adjacent markets. At the cross-roads of the organization, the Research Labs are able to identify and enable synergies across Agilent's businesses to create competitive differentiation and compelling customer value. 

The technical staff have advanced degrees that cover a wide range of scientific and engineering fields, including biology, chemistry, distributed measurement, image processing, mathematics, nano/microfabrication, microfluidics, software, informatics, physics and physiology. 

&#160; 

Global Infrastructure Organization 

We provide support to our businesses through our global infrastructure organization. This support includes services in the areas of finance, legal, workplace services, human resources and information technology. Generally, these organizations are centrally operated from Santa Clara, California, with services provided worldwide. As of the end of October 2016 , our global infrastructure organization employed approximately 2,500 &#32;people worldwide. 

Agilent Order Fulfillment Organizations 

Our order fulfillment and supply chain organization (&#8220;OFS&#8221;) centralizes all order fulfillment and supply chain operations in our businesses. OFS provides resources for manufacturing, engineering and strategic sourcing to our respective businesses. In general, OFS employees are dedicated to specific businesses and the associated costs are directly allocated to those businesses. 

&#160; The following discussions of Research and Development, Backlog, Intellectual Property, Materials, Environmental, International Operations and Acquisition and Disposal of Material Assets include information common to each of our businesses. 

Research and Development 

Research and development ("R&#38;D") expenditures were $329 million &#32;in 2016 , $330 million &#32;in 2015 &#32;and $358 million &#32;in 2014 , the vast majority of which was company-sponsored. We anticipate that we will continue to have significant R&#38;D expenditures in order to maintain our competitive position with a continuing flow of innovative, high-quality products and services. 

Backlog 

We believe that backlog is not a meaningful indicator of future business prospects for our business segments since a significant portion of our revenue for a given quarter is derived from the current quarter's orders. Therefore, we believe that backlog information is not material to an understanding of our business. 

Intellectual Property 

We generate patent and other intellectual property rights covering significant inventions and other innovations in order to create a competitive advantage. While we believe that our licenses, patents and other intellectual property rights have value, in general no single license, patent or other intellectual property right is in itself material. In addition, our intellectual property rights may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented or may otherwise not provide significant competitive advantage. 

Materials 

Our life sciences and applied markets, diagnostics and genomics and Agilent CrossLab businesses all purchase materials from thousands of suppliers on a global basis. Some of the parts that require custom design work are not readily available from alternate suppliers due to their unique design or the length of time necessary for design work. Our long-term relationships with suppliers allow us to proactively manage technology road maps and product discontinuance plans and monitor their financial health. Even so, some suppliers may still extend their lead times, limit supplies, increase prices or cease to produce necessary parts for our products. If these are unique components, we may not be able to find a substitute quickly or at all. To address the potential disruption in our supply chain, we use a number of techniques, including qualifying multiple sources of supply and redesign of products for alternative components. In addition, while we generally attempt to keep our inventory at minimal levels, we do purchase incremental inventory as circumstances warrant to protect the supply chain. 

Environmental 

Our R&#38;D, manufacturing and distribution operations involve the use of hazardous substances and are regulated under international, federal, state and local laws governing health and safety and the environment. We apply strict standards for protection of the environment and occupational health and safety to sites inside and outside the U.S., even if not subject to regulation imposed by foreign governments. We believe that our properties and operations at our facilities comply in all material respects with applicable environmental laws and occupational health and safety laws. However, the risk of environmental liabilities cannot be completely eliminated and there can be no assurance that the application of environmental and health and safety laws to Agilent will not require us to incur significant expenditures. We are also regulated under a number of international, federal, state, and local laws regarding recycling, product packaging and product content requirements. The environmental, product content/disposal and recycling laws are gradually becoming more stringent and may cause us to incur significant expenditures in the future. 

&#160; 

In connection with the sale of several of our businesses, we have agreed to indemnity the buyers of such business, their respective affiliates and other related parties against certain damages that they might incur in the future. The continuing indemnifications primarily cover damages relating to liabilities of the business that Agilent retained and did not transfer to the buyers as we well as other specified items, including potential liabilities for environmental matters. In our opinion, the fair value of these indemnification obligations was not material as of October 31, 2016. 

We maintain a comprehensive Environmental Site Liability insurance policy which may cover certain clean-up costs or legal claims related to environmental contamination. This policy covers specified active, inactive and divested locations. 

International Operations 

Our net revenue originating outside the U.S., as a percentage of our total net revenue, was approximately 70 percent &#32;in fiscal 2016, 70 percent &#32;in fiscal 2015 and 75 percent &#32;in fiscal 2014, the majority of which was from customers other than foreign governments. Annual revenues derived from China were approximately 20 percent &#32;in fiscal 2016, 16 percent &#32;in fiscal 2015 and 13 percent &#32;in fiscal 2014. Revenues from external customers are generally attributed to countries based on where we ship the products or provide the services. 

Long-lived assets located outside of the U.S., as a percentage of our total long-lived assets, was approximately 44 percent &#32;in fiscal year 2016 and 49 percent &#32;in fiscal year 2015. 

Most of our sales in international markets are made by foreign sales subsidiaries. In countries with low sales volumes, sales are made through various representatives and distributors. However, we also sell into international markets directly from the U.S. 

Our international business is subject to risks customarily encountered in foreign operations, including interruption to transportation flows for delivery of parts to us and finished goods to our customers, changes in a specific country's or region's political or economic conditions, trade protection measures, import or export licensing requirements, consequences from changes in tax laws and regulatory requirements, difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations, differing labor regulations, differing protection of intellectual property and geopolitical turmoil, including terrorism and war. We are also exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk inherent in our sales commitments, anticipated sales and expenses, and assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the local functional currency, and may also become subject to interest rate risk inherent in any debt we incur, or investment portfolios we hold. There may be an increased risk of political unrest in regions where we have significant manufacturing operations such as Southeast Asia. However, we believe that our international diversification provides stability to our worldwide operations and reduces the impact on us of adverse economic changes in any single country. Financial information about our international operations is contained in Note 19, "Segment Information", to our consolidated financial statements. 

Acquisition and Disposal of Material Assets 

On September 19, 2013, Agilent announced plans to separate into two publicly traded companies, one comprising of the life sciences, diagnostics and chemical analysis businesses that retained the Agilent name, and the other one that comprised of the electronic measurement business that was renamed Keysight Technologies, Inc. (&#8220;Keysight&#8221;). Keysight was incorporated in Delaware as a wholly-owned subsidiary of Agilent on December 6, 2013. On November 1, 2014, we completed the distribution of 100% of the outstanding common shares of Keysight to Agilent stockholders who received one share of Keysight common stock for every two shares of Agilent held as of the close of business on the record date, October 22, 2014. 

Executive Officers of the Registrant 

The names of our current executive officers and their ages, titles and biographies appear below: 

Henrik Ancher-Jensen, 51 , has served as Senior Vice President, Agilent and President, Order Fulfillment since September 2013. From September 2012 to September 2013, Mr. Ancher-Jensen served as our Vice President, Global Product Supply, Diagnostics and Genomics Group. From September 2010 to September 2012 he served as Corporate Vice President, Global Operations of Dako A/S, a Danish diagnostics company, and as Dako&#8217;s Vice President, Supply Chain and Chief Information Officer from 2006 to September 2010. Prior to joining Dako, he spent more than 15 years in senior management roles and management consulting with Chr. Hansen, Deloitte Consulting and NVE. 

Mark Doak , 61, has served as our Senior Vice President, Agilent and President, Agilent CrossLab Group (formerly a group within the Life Sciences &#38; Applied Markets Group) since September 2014. From August 2008 to September 2014, Mr. Doak 

&#160; 

served as our Vice President and General Manager of the Services and Support Division. Prior to that, he held several senior management positions across functions in marketing, quality and services. 

Rodney Gonsalves, &#32;51, has served as our Vice President, Corporate Controllership and Chief Accounting Officer since May 2015. From September 2009 to May 2015, Mr. Gonsalves served as Vice President and operational CFO for various business groups within the Company, most recently for the Life Sciences and Applied Markets Group. From January 2007 to August 2009 he served as our vice president of Investor Relations. Prior to assuming this position, Mr. Gonsalves served in various capacities for Agilent, including as controller, corporate governance and customer financing in Agilent&#8217;s Global Infrastructure Organization, and controller for the Photonics Systems Business Unit. Prior to joining Agilent, Mr. Gonsalves held a variety of positions in finance with Hewlett- Packard Co. Mr. Gonsalves holds a master&#8217;s degree in business administration from Santa Clara University in California. 

Dominique P. Grau 57, has served as our Senior Vice President, Human Resources since August 2014. From May 2012 to August 2014 Mr. Grau served as Vice President, Worldwide Human Resources. Prior to that, he served as Vice President, Compensation, Benefits and HR Services from May 2006 to May 2012. Mr. Grau had previously served in various capacities for Agilent and Hewlett-Packard Company. 

Didier Hirsch, &#32; 65, has served as our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since July 2010 and served as interim Chief Financial Officer from April 2010 to July 2010. Prior to that he served as Vice President, Corporate Controllership and Tax from November 2006 to July 20, 2010 and as Chief Accounting Officer from November 2007 to July 20, 2010. From April 2003 to October 2006, Mr. Hirsch served as Vice President and Controller. Prior to assuming this position, Mr. Hirsch served as Vice President and Treasurer from September 1999 to April 2003. Mr. Hirsch had joined Hewlett&#8209;Packard Company in 1989 as Director of Finance and Administration of Hewlett&#8209;Packard France. In 1993, he became Director of Finance and Administration of Hewlett&#8209; Packard Asia Pacific, and in 1996 Director of Finance and Administration of Hewlett&#8209; Packard Europe, Middle East, and Africa. Mr. Hirsch serves on the Board of Directors of Logitech International and Knowles Corporation. 

Patrick K. Kaltenbach, 53 , has served as Senior Vice President, Agilent and President, Life Sciences and Applied Markets Group since November 2014. From January 2014 to November 2014 he served as Vice President and General Manager of the Life Sciences Products and Solutions organization. Prior to that he served as Vice President and General Manager of the Liquid Phase Division from December 2012 to January 2014. From July 2010 to December 2012 he served as Vice President and General Manager of the Liquid Phase Separations Business. Prior to that he served as General Manager of the Liquid Chromatography Business from February 2008 to July 2010. Mr. Kaltenbach has held various positions in R&#38;D management and senior management beginning at Hewlett-Packard Co. 

Michael R. McMullen , 55, has served as Chief Executive Officer since March 2015 and as President since September 2014. From September 2014 to March 2015 he also served as Chief Operating Officer. From September 2009 to September 2014 he served as Senior Vice President, Agilent and President, Chemical Analysis Group. From January 2002 to September 2009, he served as our Vice President and General Manager of the Chemical Analysis Solutions Unit of the Life Sciences and Chemical Analysis Group. Prior to assuming this position, from March 1999 to December 2001, Mr. McMullen served as Country Manager for Agilent's China, Japan and Korea Life Sciences and Chemical Analysis Group. Prior to this position, Mr. McMullen served as our Controller for the Hewlett&#8209;Packard Company and Yokogawa Electric Joint Venture from July 1996 to March 1999. 

Michael Tang, 42, has served as our Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary since January 2016. From May 2015 to January 2016 he served as Vice President, Assistant General Counsel and Secretary and from November 2013 to April 2015 he served as Vice President, Assistant General Counsel and Assistant Secretary. From March 2012 to October 2013 he served as Business Development Manager in Agilent&#8217;s Corporate Development group. From November 2009 to February 2012 he served as Senior Counsel. From August 2006 to October 2009 he served in various capacities in Agilent&#8217;s legal department. Prior to joining Agilent, Mr. Tang represented public and private technology companies in a broad range of corporate and securities matters at Wilson Sonsini Goodrich &#38; Rosati, a Palo Alto, California, law firm and Fenwick &#38; West LLP, a Mountain View, California, law firm. 

Jacob Thaysen , 41, has served as Senior Vice President, Agilent and President, Diagnostics and Genomics Group since November 2014. From October 2013 to November 2014 he served as Vice President and General Manager of the Diagnostics and Genomics business. Prior to that he served as Vice President and General Manager of the Genomics Solutions unit from January 2013 to October 2013. Before joining Agilent, he was Corporate Vice President of R&#38;D at Dako A/S, a Danish diagnostics company from April 2011 to January 2013. His previous positions at Dako include Vice President, System Development, R&#38;D from March 2010 to April 2011, Vice President, Strategic Marketing from April 2009 to March 2010 and Vice President, Global 

&#160; 

Sales Operations from August 2008 to March 2009. &#32; Prior to Dako, Mr. Thaysen worked as a management consultant and Chief Technical Officer and founder of a high-tech start-up company. 

Investor Information 

We are subject to the informational requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (&#8220;Exchange Act&#8221;). Therefore, we file periodic reports, proxy statements and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission (&#8220;SEC&#8221;). Such reports, proxy statements and other information may be read and copied by visiting the Public Reference Room of the SEC at 100 F Street N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. You may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. In addition, the SEC maintains an Internet site (http://www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically. 

You can access financial and other information at our Investor Relations website. The address is www.investor.agilent.com. We make available, free of charge, copies of our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after filing such material electronically or otherwise furnishing it to the SEC. 

Our Amended and Restated Corporate Governance Standards, the charters of our Audit and Finance Committee, our Compensation Committee, our Executive Committee and our Nominating/Corporate Governance Committee, as well as our Standards of Business Conduct (including code of ethics provisions that apply to our principal executive officer, principal financial officer, principal accounting officer and senior financial officers) are available on our website at www.investor.agilent.com under &#8220;Corporate Governance&#8221;. These items are also available in print to any stockholder in the United States and Canada who requests them by calling (877) 942-4200. This information is also available by writing to the company at the address on the cover of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

