 ITEM 1. &#160; Business 

Company Overview 

Del Taco Restaurants, Inc. ("Del Taco", f/k/a Levy Acquisition Corporation ("LAC")) was originally incorporated in Delaware on August 2, 2013 as a special purpose acquisition company, formed for the purpose of effecting a merger, capital stock exchange, asset acquisition, stock purchase, reorganization or other similar business combination with one or more businesses. On June 30, 2015 (the &#8220;Closing Date&#8221;), LAC consummated its business combination with Del Taco Holdings, Inc. (&#8220;DTH&#8221;) pursuant to the agreement and plan of merger dated as of March 12, 2015 by and among LAC, Levy Merger Sub, LLC (&#8220;Levy Merger Sub&#8221;), LAC&#8217;s wholly owned subsidiary, and DTH (the &#8220;Merger Agreement&#8221;). Under the Merger Agreement, Levy Merger Sub merged with and into DTH, with DTH surviving the merger as a wholly-owned subsidiary of LAC (the &#8220;Business Combination&#8221; or &#8220;Merger&#8221;). In connection with the closing of the Business Combination, LAC changed its name from Levy Acquisition Corp. to Del Taco Restaurants, Inc. 

As a result of the Business Combination, we are the acquirer for accounting purposes, and DTH is the acquiree and accounting predecessor. Our financial statement presentation distinguishes a &#8220;Predecessor&#8221; for DTH for periods prior to the Closing Date. We are the &#8220;Successor&#8221; for periods after the Closing Date, which includes consolidation of DTH subsequent to the Business Combination on June 30, 2015. 

Del Taco is a nationwide operator and franchisor of restaurants featuring fresh and fast made-to-order cuisine, including both Mexican inspired and American classic dishes. There are 544 &#32;Del Taco restaurants, a majority of these in the Pacific Southwest. We serve our customers high-quality food typical of fast casual restaurants but with the speed, convenience and value associated with traditional quick service restaurants ("QSRs"). With attributes of both a fast casual restaurant and a QSR&#8212;a combination we call QSR+&#8212;we occupy a place in the restaurant market distinct from our competitors. Our food is prepared in working kitchens where our customers see cooks grilling marinated chicken and steak, chopping tomatoes and cilantro for salsa, grating cheddar cheese, slicing avocados and slow cooking whole pinto beans. And we believe that we are poised for growth, operating within the fastest growing segment of the restaurant industry, the limited service restaurant (&#8220;LSR&#8221;) segment. With an average system check of $6.79, we offer a compelling value proposition relative to both QSR and fast casual peers. 

Our distinctive menu offers a combination of Mexican-inspired food, such as tacos and burritos, and American classics, such as &#8220;Double Del&#8221; cheeseburgers, crinkle-cut fries and milkshakes. The dual menu offers something for everyone, helping us attract a broader customer base than other Mexican LSRs while eliminating the &#8220;veto vote.&#8221; Additionally, our menu features both premium items such as our Epic Burritos&#174;, Handcrafted Ensaladas and Fresca Bowls as well as lower priced items on our Buck &#38; Under Menu&#174;. While the lower priced items appeal to a value-oriented customer, the Buck &#38; Under Menu&#174; is also designed to increase the average check by offering variety for customers wishing to supplement their order with an additional menu item. For the year ended December 29, 2015 , approximately 22% &#32;of company-operated restaurant sales consisted of Buck &#38; Under Menu&#174; items. With our tiered pricing strategy, we appeal to customers from a wide variety of socio-economic backgrounds and price sensitivities. 

We opened our first restaurant in Yermo, California in 1964. The original restaurant had a simple menu consisting of 19 cent tacos, tostadas and french fries and 24 cent cheeseburgers. Over the last nearly 52 years, located now in 16 &#32;states, we have grown to 297 &#32;company-operated and 247 &#32;franchised restaurants as of December 29, 2015 . 

Competitive Strengths 

We believe the following strengths differentiate us from our competitors and serve as the foundation for our continued growth: 

Meeting Many Needs, our Concept has Broad Appeal . We are able to appeal to a broad group of customers due to our diverse menu featuring both Mexican and American staples, our 24-hour service model, the range of options we offer for any time of day or night, the comfort of our dining room paired with the convenience of our drive-thru, and our carefully considered pricing strategy with items of exceptional quality and value at different price points. Our QSR+ positioning sources traffic from both QSR and fast casual dining segments and we believe our diversified sales mix creates a flexible business model with multiple levers to drive restaurant sales growth. Because we are able to meet the varied needs of a wide range of customers, we have appeal in a variety of urban, suburban and other settings and in many different parts of the United States. 

Un freshing Believable&#174; Food . We are committed to delivering made-to-order food, using fresh high quality ingredients in working kitchens. We emphasize both quality and speed and effectively market these strengths to customers both within the restaurants and beyond. The menu offers items that have been enjoyed by customers for decades in combination with newer 

offering addressing market trends, such as tacos featuring the leaner alternative of ground turkey and handcrafted ensaladas as well as limited-time specials to drive traffic, such as Beer Battered Shrimp Tacos, Del Fuego Shrimp Tacos and the Epic&#174; Surf and Turf Burrito. With our menu variety including tacos, burritos, quesadillas, bowls and handcrafted ensaladas, we are able to be highly responsive to customer demands and target underutilized day-parts with new menu initiatives. We prepare entr&#233;es to order, but are able to deliver the entr&#233;e to the customer, on average, in just over 2 minutes across all day-parts and service modes. Even with the addition of new products, the coordinated work of operational and marketing leadership helps ensure that a new item is only launched when operations are ready to deliver on our promises of speed, quality and value. We believe that the way we combine freshly prepared food in working kitchens with our speed of service model and the skill of our trained and certified team members provides a layer of competitive insulation. 

Inviting Atmosphere . In order to enhance our competitive positioning, we implemented a new restaurant design that targets both QSR and fast casual dining occasions. In the new design, restaurant exteriors feature a signature Del Taco logo, color palette and artwork that reinforces the brand identity and restaurant interiors feature open kitchens and visual &#8220;freshness cues&#8221; to highlight our commitment to freshly prepared food. We have already implemented key elements of our new restaurant design across the chain as part of a system-wide re-image program. As of the date of this Form 10-K, 100% of company-operated restaurants and 92% &#32;of the restaurants in the entire Del Taco system have been re-imaged to include these new elements. In addition, our current new restaurant design includes a &#8220;freshness cooler&#8221; directly behind the point-of-order which showcases our fresh produce, 40 pound block of cheddar cheese and handmade pico de gallo. We are in the process of backcasting this element and expect it to be included in 250 or more restaurants by the end of 2016. 

Promising Industry Segment . According to Technomic, a research and consulting firm servicing the foodservice industry, 2014 total sales increased 4.2% to $200.0 billion for Limited Service Restaurants (&#8220;LSRs&#8221;) in the Technomic Top 500. In 2014, the Mexican menu category for LSRs in the Technomic Top 500 grew 10.4%, outpacing the broader LSR category. We operate within the Mexican menu category of the broader LSR segment. With our QSR+ model, we believe that we offer QSR convenience and value with high quality fresh food associated with fast casual dining. According to the Technomic Top 500, the fast casual sub-segment grew 12.8% in 2014, to $30.1 billion in total sales and the total fast casual sub-segment is projected to grow to exceed $50 billion by 2018. We believe that our differentiated menu, enhanced restaurants, aligned service model and convenient locations position us to compete successfully against other LSR concepts, providing us with a large addressable market. 

Positive Demographic Trends. We believe we are well positioned to benefit from a number of culinary and demographic trends in the United States. We expect that the improving macroeconomic environment will raise consumer demand for restaurant services, increasing sales. Furthermore, as indicated by recent growth in the Mexican restaurant segment, we expect to benefit from increased acceptance of and preference for Mexican food in the United States. Finally, we also anticipate benefits from the continued growth of the Hispanic population in the United States, which, according to the U.S. Census Bureau, has grown from 50.5 million people in 2009 to 55.4 million people in 2014, and is projected to reach 78.7 million in 2030. The growth of the Hispanic population is expected to outpace overall population growth, and the Hispanic population as a percentage of the total U.S. population is expected to increase from 16.3% in 2011 to 21.9% by 2030. 

Data Driven Operations Culture. To deliver on our brand promise and ensure that &#8220;every guest leaves happy,&#8221; we utilize a balanced measurement system for all our restaurants. Elements included are customer surveys, internal audits, staffing metrics, speed of service metrics, sales metrics, and key controllable costs. This provides corporate and field management, as well as restaurant-level operators, insight into how they are performing both from the customer&#8217;s perspective but also through the lens of our internal standards, enabling operational initiatives to be tied to the needs of the customer. We take a disciplined approach to developing operational improvement initiatives; we evaluate results-driven behaviors in top performing restaurants using restaurant questing studies, general manager roundtables, and a formal Operations Advisory Committee comprised of both company and franchise operators. We believe our deep attention to research and customer feedback gives us a competitive advantage over restaurants less committed to understanding their customers and allows us to be proactive in our initiatives instead of merely responding to the competition. 

Experienced Leadership . Our senior management team has extensive operating experience, with an average of 20 years of experience each in the restaurant industry. We are led by President and Chief Executive Officer, Paul Murphy, who joined Del Taco in 2009. Other key members of our senior leadership team include Steven Brake, Chief Financial Officer, John Cappasola, Chief Brand Officer, and David Pear, Senior Vice President of Operations. Under Paul&#8217;s leadership, the team has developed and executed a successful brand re-positioning, with data-driven menu innovation, a dramatically improved customer experience through both operations and restaurant design, and new messaging through the Un freshing Believable&#174; advertising campaign. We believe the proven ability of the senior officers to work as a team will play a critical role in our ability to continue to achieve success in the future. We believe the senior management team is a key driver of Del Taco&#8217;s success and has positioned it well for long-term growth. 

Our Growth Strategy 

We believe our differentiated QSR+ positioning within a growing market segment combined with a disciplined business model and strong unit economics, will lead to significant growth opportunities. Our plan to enhance the brand&#8217;s competitive positioning and generate earnings per share growth involves several distinct strategies, including: expanding our store count in established markets where brand recognition is strong, driving restaurant sales growth, improving margins, and over time taking advantage of the significant &#8220;white space&#8221; in the United States where the Del Taco brand is not yet established. 

Growing the Restaurant Base . We believe we are in the early stages of our growth story with 544 &#32;current locations in 16 &#32;states (including one &#32;franchised restaurant in Guam) as of December 29, 2015 . We estimate, based on internal analysis and a study prepared by a leading national consulting firm, a long-term total restaurant potential in the United States of at least 2,000 locations. For the year ended December 29, 2015 , we opened six new company-operated and six new franchised restaurants, and in 2016 we intend to open 15 &#32;to 18 &#32;new system-wide restaurants across established and emerging markets including California, Georgia, Nevada, New Mexico, Oklahoma, South Carolina and Utah. We believe that after 2016, the pace of development will increase, with a particular acceleration for company-operated stores in markets where the brand is well established. 

&#160; 

&#8226; 

Within in-fill markets, which we define as the Western one-third, where there is strong brand awareness and a loyal following, we have identified an in-fill opportunity of an additional 300+ potential new trade areas for restaurant development. We believe this presents a lower risk, high return expansion strategy, leveraging brand awareness, infrastructure and efficiencies of scale. We are currently in the process of accelerating our pipeline of in-fill locations, particularly in the Western United States. 

&#8226; 

As we continue to increase and strengthen our position in in-fill markets, we also intend to continue to expand our presence in key emerging markets such as Oklahoma and Georgia, where the brand has been well received and where demand for additional units is high. 

&#8226; 

We view our franchise program as an important resource for expanding the brand. In many new markets, the knowledge of a strategically selected franchisee as to local real estate, customers, employees, and marketing may enhance each restaurant&#8217;s prospects for greater success more quickly. Where appropriate, we may consider opportunities to seed new territories with company-operated restaurants, but ultimately expect to have the majority of emerging market growth occur through franchisees. In both in-fill and emerging markets, we expect we will continue to strategically develop franchise relationships and grow our franchise restaurant base. We believe we are well positioned for growth in comparison to other national QSR concepts, many of which are heavily saturated in the United States and/or are highly limited by existing franchise commitments. 

Growing Same Store Sales. We have developed an integrated strategic approach that aligns restaurant operations initiatives with marketing and menu innovation. This is the foundation for our sales growth within our existing restaurants. We plan to drive continued same store sales growth by increasing customer frequency, attracting new customers and improving per transaction spend. To accomplish this, we aim to enhance our QSR+ positioning and customer perceptions with targeted capital investment in the restaurant experience, optimized marketing spend across traditional and non-traditional channels, and continued introduction of new products and packaging driven by customer demand, industry trends, and a focus on day-part opportunities. We also believe we are well positioned in the Mexican LSR segment to benefit from shifting culinary and demographic trends in the United States. 

Menu Strategy and Innovation . We intend to continue to evolve our menu to create platforms that convey the differentiated QSR+ positioning and reinforce our &#8220;We Start with Fresh and Serve with Value&#8221; brand position. We believe we have opportunities for menu innovation as we look to provide customers more choices through quality/value platforms such as Epic Burritos&#174;, Handcrafted Ensaladas and Fresca Bowls. In addition, we will continue to tap in to the need for price/value offerings by building on the success of our value/variety Buck &#38; Under Menu&#174; and mid-tier products. Our marketing and operations teams have demonstrated an ability to collaborate to ensure that the items developed in our test kitchen can be executed to high standards in the restaurants with the speed, value and quality that our customers expect. 

Driving Brand Awareness and Consumer Engagement . We engage consumers through 8 to 9 annual promotional windows which feature seasonal favorites such as shrimp tacos, quality enhancing platforms such as Fresca Bowls and Handcrafted Salads, and strong value propositions showcased by the Buck &#38; Under Menu&#174; platform. The key points of differentiation are communicated through our &#8220;Un freshing Believable&#174;" advertising campaign. 

Restaurant Re-image Program . In 2012, we launched our restaurant re-image program, called Ambience Shake-Up, which was completed by all company-operated restaurants by mid-2013 at an average cost of approximately $45,000 per restaurant. The Ambience Shake-Up, together with the other elements of our integrated strategy, has contributed to the acceleration in same store sales by aligning the restaurant appearance with our brand image to support and drive our QSR + positioning. The re-imaged restaurants include revitalized exteriors and visual cues which highlight the quality and freshness of our ingredients, and provides a more modern feel and inviting experience in the dining areas. As of December 29, 2015 , 100% of company-operated restaurants and 91% of total system restaurants feature the new image and we expect we will have re-imaged substantially all of our restaurant system by the end of 2016. 

Leverage Our Infrastructure . Since 2012, we have increased our restaurant contribution margin by 280 &#32;basis points, to 20.0% . Over time we believe we can further improve our margins with effective menu pricing, by maintaining fiscal discipline, increasing fixed-cost leverage and enhancing our supply chain efforts. We currently have an infrastructure that allows us and our franchisees to grow and manage the productivity of each restaurant on a real-time basis. Additionally, we believe over time, as our restaurant base matures and AUVs increase, we will be able to leverage corporate costs and improve margins, as over time general and administrative expenses are expected to grow at a slower rate than revenues. As the restaurant base and sales expand, we will potentially have larger media budgets, allowing us to target specific opportunistic areas with incremental marketing campaigns. 

Site Selection and Expansion 

New Restaurant Development 

We believe we are well positioned for growth with improving unit economics, desirable returns on invested capital, and a strong cash flow available for investment. For the year ended December 29, 2015 , we opened six new company-operated restaurants and our franchisees opened six new restaurants, and in 2016 we intend to open between 15 &#32;and 18 &#32;new system-wide restaurants across our established and emerging markets. We believe that after 2016, the pace of development will increase, with a particular acceleration for company-operated stores in in-fill markets where the brand is well established. 

The strategy for restaurant development is three fold. First, in the near term, with an identified in-fill opportunity of an additional 300+ potential new trade areas for restaurant development (company-operated and franchise), we are accelerating our pipeline of in-fill locations to leverage the brand awareness, infrastructure and efficiencies of scale through what we believe is a lower risk, higher return expansion opportunity. Second, we will continue to develop company-operated restaurants in emerging markets such as Atlanta and Oklahoma City, establishing operational expertise, while recruiting additional franchisees to enable us to embed and scale our brand more rapidly. In some markets, we may explore a re-franchising strategy if we believe it will enhance growth opportunities and longer term earnings per share. Finally, we will be entering emerging new markets, primarily with new franchise partners and where appropriate, with company-operated restaurants. With substantial growth opportunities in established and emerging markets, efforts to expand into new markets will be carefully vetted and researched before they are undertaken and we expect that expansion into new emerging markets will be limited for at least two to three years. 

Site Selection Process 

We consider the location of a restaurant to be a critical variable in our long-term success and as such, we devote significant effort to the investigation and evaluation of potential restaurant locations, utilizing quantitative and qualitative modeling. Our in-house development team has significant prior experience working at other limited and full service brands. For company-operated restaurants, we use a combination of our in-house development team and outside real estate brokers to locate, evaluate and negotiate leases for new sites, taking into account demographic characteristics, daytime population thresholds, traffic counts and traffic patterns, along with the potential visibility and accessibility of the restaurant. The process for selecting locations applies management&#8217;s experience and expertise to an extensive set of objective data. In addition, we use a third-party data analytics tool to assist in the site selection and obtain information from a separate third party to support the analysis. Because our restaurants perform well across a variety of neighborhoods and demographics, we have great flexibility in selecting new restaurant locations without taking on excessive operating risk. 

We have primarily focused on developing freestanding or end-cap sites with drive-thrus. In the future, we may consider developing a prototype appropriate for other promising locations where a drive-thru is not feasible. 

New company-operated and franchised restaurants are reviewed by our real estate site committee, which includes senior management. The committee monitors ongoing performance to inform future site selection decisions. 

Restaurant Design 

A typical Del Taco restaurant is a free-standing building with drive-thru service that ranges in size from 2,000 to 2,600 square feet. The design creates a colorful, bright and contemporary restaurant environment. The exterior of each restaurant features a signature Del Taco logo, color palette and artwork that reinforces the brand identify; the interior generally features an open kitchen and various visual &#8220;freshness cues&#8221; to highlight the commitment to freshly prepared food. The colorful and contemporary dining rooms, typically with seating for approximately 60 people, include a variety of comfortable booths and seating arrangements with contemporary surfaces, artwork, visual "freshness cues" and a color palette that reinforces brand identity. The typical design features large windows and soft lighting. 

Our new company-operated restaurants are typically ground-up prototypes or conversions. We estimate that a restaurant will require an average total net cash investment of approximately $0.9 million, net of tenant allowances. On average, it takes approximately 18 months from identification of the specific site to the opening the restaurant. We have set processes and timelines to follow for all restaurant openings. Company-operated restaurants are constructed in approximately 13 weeks and the development and construction of new sites is the responsibility of the construction department. A conversion typically takes approximately 10 weeks to complete. The real estate department is responsible for locating and leasing potential restaurant sites and the construction department is then responsible for building the restaurants. 

Underperforming Restaurants 

During 2014, we identified 13 restaurants that generated atypically low sales volumes and negative restaurant contribution. These restaurants had been built before the current site selection criteria were established and many featured end-cap drive-thru facilities that current site selection criteria would suggest are not advisable. Further, these restaurants used an earlier iteration of the current prototype, which lacked certain design elements that are now included and that we believe contribute to higher sales volumes. 

During the year ended December 30, 2014, we recorded impairment of long-lived assets charges totaling $9.6 million related to these 13 underperforming restaurants that generated negative restaurant contribution of approximately $1.6 million during the 52 weeks ended December 30, 2014. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2015, we closed 12 of the 13 underperforming restaurants. Upon closure, we recorded restaurant closure charges totaling $4.5 million , offset by $2.7 million &#32;related to the reclassification of lease related liabilities, for a net charge of $1.8 million . The net charge of $1.8 million &#32;and additional charges of $0.2 million related to other prior restaurant closures or sublease income shortfalls are both included in restaurant closure charges, net on the consolidated statements of comprehensive income (loss) for the twenty-six weeks ended December 29, 2015. The charges for the 12 underperforming restaurants represent (1) the present value of the future lease obligations, net of estimated sublease income, (2) a lease termination payment, (3) brokerage commissions, (4) post closure rent, utilities, property tax and common area maintenance charges, (5) unused food and paper that could not be redeployed, (6) Worker Adjustment and Retraining Notification ("WARN") act and stay bonus payments to terminated employees, and (7) other direct costs associated with the closures. We believe the estimated sublease income will permit a substantial recovery of the future lease obligations, which helps mitigate the initial restaurant closure charge and future annual cash sublease shortfalls. 

Restaurant Management and Operations 

Operations 

We utilize a balanced scorecard measurement system for all company-operated restaurants. Elements included in the scorecard are customer surveys, internal audits, staffing metrics, speed of service metrics, sales metrics, and key controllable costs. Each period, managers of company-operated stores who are top performers on the scorecard are eligible for bonuses to reinforce this balanced approach to the business. The scorecard is also used by the operations leadership team to mine best practices. 

To ensure brand consistency and integrity across all system restaurants, we utilize an internal operations audit program. Each restaurant is audited two or more time per year, and each audit results in two scores &#8211; a customer experience score and a brand standards score. We also have food safety and quality assurance programs for all system restaurants. Our auditors are part of the operations support team and provide regular performance analysis to the leadership team. 

Managers and Team Members 

Each Del Taco restaurant typically has a general manager, four to six shift leaders, and two or three team leaders. There are also typically between 15 and 20 team members who prepare food and serve customers. Area Directors lead company-operated restaurants, with each typically responsible for approximately six to 13 restaurants. Overseeing the Area Directors are five Regional Directors, each responsible for approximately 10 to 80 restaurants. The franchise operations team utilizes 5 Franchise Business Consultants who each coach and oversee 40 to 70 franchised restaurants. The Franchise Business Consultants report to the Vice President of Franchise Operations. The Senior Vice President of Operations has full accountability for both 

company-operated and franchise-operated restaurants, managing both sales and profitability targets and customer experience metrics. 

Our hiring process is focused on identifying team members that are genuinely friendly, committed to preparing fresh food, and willing to ensure &#8220;every guest leaves happy&#8221;. We frequently cross-train our team members so they can fill any one of several positions to maximize labor efficiency. The investment in helping team members learn multiple skills and our internal promotion path has helped us build loyal teams that care about the success of their restaurant. Many team members and managers have been employed by us for longer than 5 years, and it is not rare to have team members with more than 10 years of seniority. 

Training 

Our senior management team fosters a culture of continuous learning and career growth at Del Taco. On the first day of employment, every team member receives the first of three training modules focused on helping the team member clearly understand the brand and their role. Subsequent modules focus on the specifics of how to provide a consistent customer experience. The current training program is a blended learning approach including self-paced reading, hands-on exercises and written knowledge validation tests. In 2015, we launched the next phase of our training program with the addition of tablet-based bilingual e-learning which includes interactive exercises, video tutorials and online testing. 

A significant portion of the restaurant leadership is comprised of former team members who have advanced along the Del Taco career path. Top performing team members who display leadership qualities take the first step in the management development program and become team leaders. As team leader candidates enter the management development program, they receive additional training and are regularly tested on their knowledge and skills. Shift leader candidates will have completed the three modules, passed all of the required testing and have their knowledge validated during a practical evaluation of one of their shifts. An external candidate for a general manager role will complete six to seven weeks of intensive classroom and hands-on training in a certified training restaurant. 

Franchise Program 

Overview 

We use a franchising strategy to augment new restaurant growth in new and established markets, allowing for brand expansion without significant capital investment. As of December 29, 2015 &#32;(Successor), there were a total of 247 &#32;franchise restaurants. Franchisees range in size from single restaurant operators to multi-unit operators, the largest of which owns 30 locations. As of December 29, 2015 (Successor) and December 30, 2014 (Predecessor), our top 12 franchisees operated over 50% and 49%, respectively, of our franchised restaurants and 20 franchisees operated approximately 64% and 63%, respectively, of our franchised restaurants. The existing franchise base consists of numerous successful, longstanding restaurant operators. 

We believe that franchise revenue provides stable and recurring cash flows to us and, as such, we plan to continue expanding the base of franchised restaurants. In established markets, we will encourage continued growth from current franchisees and assist them in identifying and securing new locations. In emerging and new markets, we will source highly qualified and experienced new franchisees for multi-unit development opportunities. We generally seek franchisees from successful, non-competitive brands operating within the expansion markets. We market franchise opportunities through strategic networking, participation in select industry conferences, our existing website and printed materials. 

We have several groups to enhance participation and engagement with the franchise community. The Franchise Marketing Advisory Team provides input and feedback on marketing strategy and initiatives. Our Operations Advisory Committee (&#8220;OAC&#8221;), comprised of experienced franchise and company operators, proposes and analyzes new equipment, training and procedures. The OAC has an ad hoc Design and Construction Advisory Team to advise on restaurant design standards. 

Franchise Owner Support 

We have structured our corporate staff, training programs, operational systems and communication systems to ensure we are delivering strong support to franchisees. We assist franchisees with the site selection process, and every new franchise location is scrutinized by our corporate real estate committee. We provide template plans franchisees may use for new restaurant construction and work with franchisees and their design and construction vendors to ensure compliance with brand specifications. A training program is required for all franchisees, operating partners and restaurant management staff. Training materials introduce new franchisees to our operational performance standards and the metrics that help maintain these high standards. 

For the first two store openings in a market, we typically provide significant on-site support, with more modest support for subsequent locations. On an ongoing basis, we collect and disseminate customer experience feedback on a real time basis 

through a third party vendor. We also conduct regular on-site audits at each franchise location. Our Franchise Business Consultants are dedicated to ongoing franchise support and oversight, regularly visiting each franchise territory. We also employ dedicated Franchise Field Marketing Managers to assist franchisees with local marketing programs. We typically communicate with franchisees through an operations newsletter and hold regular regional workshops to update franchise teams and conduct training. We also hold an annual conference for franchisees, vendors and company operations leaders to review overall performance, celebrate shared success, communicate best practices, and plan for the year ahead. 

Marketing and Advertising 

We run a highly coordinated marketing and advertising campaign to create customer awareness, engage fans, and maximize positive brand associations. We use multiple marketing channels, including television, radio, and direct mail to broadly drive brand awareness. We advertise on local TV/Cable and local radio in our primary markets, and utilize local radio, print, internet advertising, and billboards for some of the less developed markets. We complement this with email marketing to our Raving Fan E-Club, which allows us to reach more than 555,000 members, and via social media through Facebook, which allows us to reach nearly 600,000 followers. We use our Raving Fan e-Club database to invite sub-sets of members to the taste panel facility, located at our corporate office. 

Through our public relations efforts, we engage notable food editors and bloggers on a range of topics to help promote products. In addition, we engage in one on one conversations using a portfolio of social media platforms which include Facebook, Twitter and Instagram. We also use social media as a research and customer service tool, and apply insight we gain to future marketing efforts. 

Purchasing and Distribution 

To ensure an adequate supply of high-quality ingredients and other necessary supplies, we carefully select our suppliers. Our quality assurance department performs comprehensive supplier audits on a regular schedule to ensure that products conform to company standards. To ensure that prices are competitive, we use forward, fixed and formula pricing protocols where possible. We monitor industry news, trade issues, weather, and world events that may affect supply prices and we proactively attempt to lock in favorable pricing. 

We contract with a single primary foodservice distributor for substantially all of our food and supplies. Our relationship with our primary distributor has been in place since 1990, and we believe the long-term relationship yields benefits to us and our franchisees in terms of reliability and pricing. Franchisees are required to use the primary distributor and must purchase all food and supplies from approved suppliers. In our normal course of business, we evaluate bids from multiple suppliers for various products. Taco meat is the largest product cost item and represented approximately 12% &#32;of the total cost for food and paper for 2015. Fluctuations in supply and prices can significantly impact our restaurant profit performance. We actively manage cost volatility for our significant food and paper items by negotiating with multiple suppliers and entering into what we believe are the most favorable contract terms given existing market conditions. In the past, we have entered into contracts ranging from three months to two years depending on market conditions. 

Intellectual Property 

We have registered Del Taco&#174;, Un freshing Believable&#174;, Buck &#38; Under Menu&#174;, Epic Burritos&#174;, and certain other names used by our restaurants as trademarks or service marks with the United States Patent and Trademark Office and in approximately nine foreign countries. Our current advertising campaign, Un freshing Believable&#174;, has been approved for registration with the United States Patent and Trademark Office. In addition, the Del Taco logo, website name and domain name and the content on its Facebook and Twitter accounts are our intellectual property. We maintain the recipes for our taco meat, marinated grilled chicken and signature salsas, as well as certain proprietary standards, specifications and operating procedures, as trade secrets or confidential proprietary information. 

We license the use of our registered trademarks to franchisees through franchise contracts. The franchise agreements restrict franchisees&#8217; activities with respect to the use of the trademarks and impose quality control standards in connection with goods and services offered in connection with the trademarks. Our general policy is to pursue and maintain registration of the service marks, trademarks and other intellectual property rights we use for our business in those countries where business strategy requires us to do so and to oppose vigorously any infringement or dilution of the service marks or trademarks in such countries. 

Competition 

We operate in the restaurant industry, which is highly competitive and fragmented. The number, size and strength of competitors vary by region. Our competition includes a variety of locally owned restaurants and national and regional chains that may offer dine-in, carry-out and delivery services. The competition includes restaurants, convenience food stores, delicatessens, supermarkets and club stores. Based on our differentiated QSR+ positioning, we compete both with fast casual restaurants, including Chipotle, El Pollo Loco, Panera Bread, Qdoba, Rubio&#8217;s, and Habit, among others, and with traditional QSRs, such as Taco Bell, McDonald&#8217;s, Burger King and Jack In the Box. In addition, we compete with franchisors of other restaurant concepts for prospective franchisees. 

Environmental Matters 

Our operations are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to environmental protection, including regulation of discharges into the air and water, storage and disposal of waste and clean-up of contaminated soil and groundwater. Under these laws, an owner or operator of real estate may be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances. 

Certain of our properties may be located on sites that have been used by prior owners or operators as retail gas stations or other historical uses with the potential for environmental impacts. It is possible that properties on which our restaurants are located or which we owned in the past may contain forms of environmentally hazardous materials. We are aware of contamination from a release of hazardous materials by a previous owner or operator at two of our leased properties. We do not believe that we contributed to the contamination at these properties. The appropriate state agencies have been notified and these issues are being handled without disruption to our business. Under applicable federal and state environmental laws, the current owner or operator of these sites may be jointly and severally liable for the costs of investigation and remediation of any contamination. Although we lease almost all of our properties, or when we own the property we obtain certain assurances from the prior owner or seek to obtain indemnity agreements from third parties, however, we cannot assure you that we will not be liable for environmental conditions relating to prior, existing or future restaurants or restaurant sites. If we are found liable for the costs of remediation of contamination at or emanating from any of our properties, operating expenses would likely increase and operating results could be materially adversely affected. 

Regulation and Compliance 

We are subject to extensive federal, state and local government regulation, including those relating to, among others, public health and safety, zoning and fire codes, and franchising. Although we have not experienced and do not anticipate any significant problems in obtaining required licenses, permits or approvals, any difficulties, delays or failures in this regard could delay or prevent the opening of a new restaurant or adversely impact the viability of an existing restaurant. 

The development and construction of additional restaurants will be subject to compliance with applicable zoning, land use and environmental regulations. We believe existing laws and regulations in these areas has not had a material effect on us, but should such laws become more stringent or should we face different regulations in new territories, it could delay construction and increase development costs for new restaurants. 

We are also subject to the Fair Labor Standards Act, the Americans with Disabilities Act, the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986 and various federal, state, and local laws governing such matters as minimum wages, overtime, unemployment tax rates, workers&#8217; compensation rates, citizenship requirements and other working conditions. A significant portion of the hourly staff is paid at rates consistent with the applicable federal or state minimum wage and, accordingly, increases in the minimum wage will increase labor costs. 

For a discussion of the various risks we may face from regulation and compliance matters, see Item 1A. &#8220;Risk Factors.&#8221; 

Management Information Systems 

All of our company-operated and most franchised restaurants use Aloha, a leading computerized point-of-sale system, which we believe is scalable to support our long-term growth plans. This point-of-sale system provides integrated, high speed credit card and gift card processing, specifically designed for the restaurant industry. The system collects daily transaction data, which generates information about daily sales, product mix and average transaction size that we actively analyze. It allows us to manage our products and pricing in every company-operated restaurant from the corporate office. 

Our in-restaurant back office computer system assists in the management of our restaurants and provides labor and food cost management tools. The system provides corporate office and restaurant operations management quick access to detailed business data and reduces the time spent on administration. The system also provides sales, bank deposit and variance data to the accounting department on a daily basis. For company-operated restaurants, we use this data to generate daily sales information and weekly consolidated reports regarding sales and other key measures. Restaurant managers also have the ability to submit food and paper orders electronically to our primary distributor. During 2015, we successfully implemented a cloud-based information system which includes on-line recruiting tools, paperless employee files, and an on-line training system. Our systems and data are protected by advanced communication and data security systems. 

Employees 

As of December 29, 2015 , we had approximately 6,690 employees, of whom approximately 6,225 were hourly restaurant employees comprised of 4,844 crewmembers, 1,302 shift leaders and 79 assistant managers, and 296 salaried general managers. The remaining 169 employees were corporate office personnel or above restaurant level management. None of the employees are part of a collective bargaining agreement. 

Available Information 

We maintain a website at www.deltaco.com, including an investor relations section at www.investor.deltaco.com in which we routinely post important information, such as webcasts of quarterly earnings calls and other investor events in which we participate or host, and any related materials. Our Code of Ethics is also available in this section of our website. You may access our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports, as well as other reports relating to us that are filed with or furnished to the SEC, free of charge in the investor relations section of our website as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. The public may also read and copy materials we file with the SEC at the SEC&#8217;s Public Reference Room, which is located at 100 F Street, NE, Room 1580, Washington, DC 20549. You can obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC also maintains a website that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at www.sec.gov. 

The contents of the websites mentioned above are not incorporated into and should not be considered a part of this report. The references to the URLs for these websites are intended to be inactive textual references only. 

Executive Officers 

The following table sets forth our current executive officers as of December 29, 2015 : 

Name 

&#160; 

Age 

&#160; 

Position 

Paul J.B. Murphy, III 

&#160; 

&#160; 

President and Chief Executive Officer 

Steven L. Brake 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 

John D. Cappasola, Jr. 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Executive Vice President and Chief Brand Officer 

David Pear 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Senior Vice President of Operations 

Paul J.B. Murphy, III has been our President and Chief Executive Officer since February 2009. From 1996 to 2008, Mr. Murphy held various roles with Einstein Noah Restaurant Group, Inc. Mr. Murphy originally joined Einstein as Senior Vice President, Operations in 1997. He was promoted to Executive Vice President, Operations in 1998, and to Chief Operating Officer in 2002. In 2003, he was appointed President and Chief Executive Officer. Mr. Murphy holds a Bachelor&#8217;s Degree in Religious Studies from Washington &#38; Lee University. Based on his extensive industry and management experience in the quick-service sector, his familiarity with us, his understanding of restaurant operations and his work at a franchisee organization, Mr. Murphy is well qualified to lead us and to serve on our board. 

Steven L. Brake has been our Executive Vice President since July 2012. He is also the Chief Financial Officer and has held that position since April 2010 and previously served as Treasurer from March 2006 to April 2010 and as the Corporate Controller from September 2003 to March 2006. From December 1995 until September 2003 Mr. Brake was with Arthur Andersen and KPMG LLP. Mr. Brake is a licensed certified public accountant (inactive) and holds a Bachelor of Arts degree in Economics from the University of California, Irvine and a Masters in Business Administration from the Paul Merage School of Business at the University of California, Irvine. 

John D. Cappasola, Jr. has been our Executive Vice President since July 2012. He is also our Chief Brand Officer and has held that position since February 2011. Prior to that, Mr. Cappasola served as Vice President of Marketing since being 

appointed to that position in March 2009. From September 2008 to March 2009, he served as Vice President of Marketing Development. From August 2002 to September 2008, Mr. Cappasola held positions in marketing, strategic development, and operations at Blockbuster, Inc. of Dallas, Texas. Mr. Cappasola earned a Bachelor of Science degree in Business Management from California Coast University. 

David Pear has been our Senior Vice President of Operations since January 2012. From January 2009 to January 2012, Mr. Pear served as Director of DMA Operations for Taco Bell of Yum Brands. From 1985 to January 2009, Mr. Pear held various positions with Domino&#8217;s Pizza, Inc., including Vice President Operations for Arizona from 2004 to 2008, and West Zone Vice President from 1994 to 2004. Mr. Pear has over 25 years of restaurant experience. Mr. Pear earned a Bachelor of Business Administration degree from Eastern Michigan University. 

