 ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

Overview and Development Since 1998 

Our Company was incorporated on December 3, 1998, in the State of Nevada. The Company has assets of nominal value and we have generated no revenue since June 2008. We are a &#147;shell company&#148; as defined pursuant to Rule 12b-2 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the &#147;Exchange Act&#148;). We intend to seek to acquire the assets or voting securities of one or more other companies that are actively engaged in a business that generates revenues in exchange for securities of our Company, or to be acquired by such a company. We have not identified a particular acquisition target or entered into any negotiations regarding any acquisition.

From our incorporation in 1998 through approximately June 2008, we were in the startup phase of our proposed business operations. Originally, Ronald Jolley, the initial director and Chief Executive Officer, intended to operate the Company as a telecommunications company by obtaining business service agreements. He was not successful in obtaining service contracts and decided to redefine the Company&#146;s business plan to service industrial, commercial and residential lighting needs. Beginning in February 2000, the Company began selling lighting products for business and commercial applications in the greater metropolitan area of Utah County, Utah. In addition, the Company offered consulting services to help its customers achieve the optimum lighting solutions. To this end, the Company had agreements in place with local wholesale suppliers of electronics to purchase lamps and lighting products at wholesale prices. In turn, the Company sold the lighting products at a marked up cost to its customers.

In September 2002, we filed a registration statement to raise up to $75,000 for operating capital through the sale of our common stock by Mr. Jolley as selling agent for the proposed offering. Because of health problems of Mr. Jolley the registration statement was withdrawn in November 2002 and no funds were raised.

We had only limited operations during this startup phase through June 30, 2008, at which time we ceased all business operations because of increased competition in the industry, dwindling sales, and elevated costs associated with generating sales.

From March 2005 through February 2006 we issued 750,000 post reverse split shares for $15,000 to generate operating capital for the Company.

On August 2, 2007, the board authorized a reverse split of our outstanding shares of common stock at the rate of one share for each 10 shares outstanding. At the time of the reverse stock split we had 19,137,500 shares outstanding, which were reduced to 1,913,750 shares as a result of the reverse stock split. Unless otherwise stated herein, all outstanding shares designated herein give effect to this reverse stock split.

On August 30, 2007, we issued 15,000,000 shares to Steven L. White for $15,000 in a transaction which changed the control of our Company from Mr. Jolley to Mr. White. In connection with the stock purchase, Mr. White assumed management of our Company and became the sole officer and director. The purpose of this change of control was to alter the business of the Company and permit us to seek potential operating target companies to acquire, or to be acquired by, in order to generate material business operations.

In August 2008 we completed a non-public offering of our common stock in which we issued 1,200,000 shares at $0.025 per share for gross proceeds of $30,000. The net proceeds of this offering have been allocated and used for our operating costs.

The Company is a shell company and is seeking potential business acquisitions or opportunities to enter into in an effort to commence business operations. The Company has been engaged in preliminary discussions with, and has commenced preliminary due diligence on, a potential target company. The Company has prepared a letter of intent in connection with these preliminary discussions. However, there are currently no definitive agreements with respect to any acquisition, nor can an assurance be given that the Company will ever consummate any such transaction.

Business of the Company 

Selection of a Business 

The Company anticipates that businesses for possible acquisition will be referred by various sources, including its sole officer and director, shareholders, professional advisors, securities broker-dealers, venture capitalists, members of the financial community, and others who may present unsolicited proposals. The Company will not engage in any general solicitation or advertising for a business opportunity, and will rely on personal contacts of its sole officer and director and his affiliates, as well as indirect associations between him and other business and professional people. By relying on &#147;word of mouth,&#148; the Company may be limited in the number of potential acquisitions it can identify. While it is not presently anticipated that the Company will engage unaffiliated professional firms specializing in business acquisitions or reorganizations, such firms may be retained if management deems it in the best interest of the Company.

Compensation to a finder or business acquisition firm may take various forms, including a one-time cash payment, payments based on a percentage of revenues or product sales volume, payments involving issuance of securities (including those of the Company), or any combination of these or other compensation arrangements. Consequently, the Company is currently unable to predict the cost of utilizing such services.

The Company will not restrict its search to any particular business, industry, or geographical location, and management may evaluate and enter into any type of business in any location. The Company may participate in a newly organized business venture or a more established company entering a new phase of growth or in need of additional capital to overcome existing financial problems. Participation in a new business venture entails greater risks since in many instances management of such a venture will not have proved its ability, the eventual market of such venture&#146;s product or services will likely not be established, and the profitability of the venture will be unproved and cannot be predicted accurately. If the Company participates in a more established firm with existing financial problems, it may be subjected to risk because the financial resources of the Company may not be adequate to eliminate or reverse the circumstances leading to such financial problems.

In seeking a business venture, the decision of management will not be controlled by an attempt to take advantage of any anticipated or perceived appeal of a specific industry, management group, product, or industry, but will be based on the business objective of seeking long-term capital appreciation in the real value of the Company.

The analysis of new businesses will be undertaken by or under the supervision of the sole officer and director. In analyzing prospective businesses, management will consider, to the extent applicable, the following: the available technical, financial, and managerial resources, working capital and other prospects for the future, the nature of present and expected competition, the quality and experience of management services which may be available and the depth of that management, the potential for further research, development, or exploration, the potential for growth and expansion, the potential for profit, the perceived public recognition or acceptance of products, services, or trade or service marks, name identification and other relevant factors.

The decision to participate in a specific business may be based on management&#146;s analysis of the quality of the other firm&#146;s management and personnel, the anticipated acceptability of new products or marketing concepts, the merit of technological changes, and other factors which are difficult, if not impossible, to analyze through any objective criteria. It is anticipated that the results of operations of a specific firm may not necessarily be indicative of the potential for the future because of the requirement to substantially shift marketing approaches, expand significantly, change product emphasis, change or substantially augment management, and other factors.

The Company will analyze all available factors and make a determination based on a composite of available facts, without reliance on any single factor. The period within which the Company may participate in a business cannot be predicted and will depend on circumstances beyond the Company&#146;s control, including the availability of businesses, the time required for the Company to complete its investigation and analysis of prospective businesses, the time required to prepare appropriate documents and agreements providing for the Company&#146;s participation, and other circumstances.

Acquisition of a Business 

In implementing a structure for a particular business acquisition, the Company may become a party to a merger, consolidation, or other reorganization with another corporation or entity; joint venture; license; purchase and sale of assets; or purchase and sale of stock, the exact nature of which cannot now be predicted. The structure of the particular business acquisition will be approved by the Board of Directors and may not require the approval of the Company&#146;s shareholders. Notwithstanding the above, the Company does not intend to participate in a business through the purchase of minority stock positions. Upon the consummation of a transaction, it is likely that the present management and shareholders of the Company will not be in control of the Company. In addition, it is anticipated that the current sole officer and director would resign in favor of new management designated by the target company without a vote of the Company&#146;s stockholders.

In the event the Company enters into an acquisition transaction with another entity, the Company will be required to report the transaction in a Current Report on Form 8-K within four business days following the execution of the agreement, and any amendment thereto, and within four business days following the closing of the transaction. In addition, because the Company is a shell company, if the transaction results in the Company no longer being a shell company, it will be required to file within four business days a Current Report on Form 8-K which includes the information that would be required if the Company were filing a general form for registration of securities on Form 10 reflecting the Company and its securities upon consummation of the transaction, including information on the new business and management of the Company after closing.

In connection with the Company&#146;s acquisition of a business, the present shareholders of the Company, including current management, may, as a negotiated element of the acquisition, sell a portion or all of the Company&#146;s Common Stock held by them at a significant premium over their original investment in the Company. It is not unusual for affiliates of the entity participating in the reorganization to negotiate to purchase shares held by the present shareholders in order to reduce the number of &#147;restricted securities&#148; held by persons no longer affiliated with the Company and thereby reduce the potential adverse impact on the public market in the Company&#146;s Common Stock that could result from substantial sales of such shares after the restrictions no longer apply. As a result of such sales, affiliates of the entity participating in the business reorganization with the Company would acquire a higher percentage of equity ownership in the Company. Public investors will not receive any portion of the premium that may be paid in the foregoing circumstances. Furthermore, the Company&#146;s shareholders may not be afforded an opportunity to approve or consent to any particular stock buy-out transaction.

In the event sales of shares by present stockholders of the Company, including current management, is a negotiated element of a future acquisition, a conflict of interest may arise because our sole director will be negotiating for the acquisition on behalf of the Company and for sale of his or shareholders&#146; shares for his own or the shareholders&#146; respective accounts. Where a business opportunity is well suited for acquisition by the Company, but affiliates of the business opportunity impose a condition that management sell shares at a price which is unacceptable to our sole director, management may not sacrifice his or the shareholders&#146; financial interest for the Company to complete the transaction. Where the business opportunity is not well suited, but the price offered management for the shares is high, management will be tempted to effect the acquisition to realize a substantial gain on the shares in the Company. Management has not adopted any policy for resolving the foregoing potential conflicts, should they arise, and does not intend to obtain an independent appraisal to determine whether any price that may be offered for their shares is fair. Stockholders must rely, instead, on the obligation of management to fulfill its fiduciary duty under state law to act in the best interests of the Company and its stockholders.

It is anticipated that any securities issued in any such reorganization would be issued in reliance on exemptions from registration under applicable federal and state securities laws. Securities, including shares of the Company&#146;s Common Stock, issued by the Company in such a transaction would be &#147;restricted securities&#148; as defined in Rule 144 promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission. Under amendments to Rule 144 adopted by the Commission, and which took effect on February 15, 2008, these restricted securities could not be resold under Rule 144 until the following conditions were met: the Company ceased to be a shell company; it remained subject to the Exchange Act reporting obligations; filed all required Exchange Act reports during the preceding 12 months; and at least one year had elapsed from the time the Company filed &#147;Form 10 information&#148; reflecting the fact that it had ceased to be a shell company. In some circumstances, however, as a negotiated element of the transaction, the Company may agree to register such securities either at the time the transaction is consummated, under certain conditions, or at specified times thereafter. Although the terms of such registration rights and the number of securities, if any, which may be registered cannot be predicted, it may be expected that registration of securities by the Company in these circumstances would entail substantial expense to the Company. The issuance of substantial additional securities and their potential sale into any trading market that may develop in the Company&#146;s securities may have a depressive effect on such market.

While the actual terms of a transaction to which the Company may be a party cannot be predicted, it may be expected that the parties to the business transaction will find it desirable to structure the acquisition as a so-called &#147;tax-free&#148; event under sections 351 or 368(a) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, (the &#147;Code&#148;). In order to obtain tax-free treatment under section 351 of the Code, it would be necessary for the owners of the acquired business to own 80% or more of the voting stock of the surviving entity. In such event, the shareholders of the Company would retain less than 20% of the issued and outstanding shares of the surviving entity. Section 368(a)(1) of the Code provides for tax-free treatment of certain business reorganizations between corporate entities where one corporation is merged with or acquires the securities or assets of another corporation. Generally, the Company will be the acquiring corporation in such a business reorganization, and the tax-free status of the transaction will not depend on the issuance of any specific amount of the Company&#146;s voting securities. It is not uncommon, however, that as a negotiated element of a transaction completed in reliance on section 368, the acquiring corporation issue securities in such an amount that the shareholders of the acquired corporation will hold 50% or more of the voting stock of the surviving entity. Consequently, there is a substantial possibility that the shareholders of the Company immediately prior to the transaction would retain substantially less than 50% of the issued and outstanding shares of the surviving entity. It is anticipated that these shareholders would in fact retain less than 5% control of the Company after a reverse acquisition.

Therefore, regardless of the form of the business acquisition, it may be anticipated that stockholders immediately prior to the transaction will experience a significant reduction in their percentage of ownership in the Company.

Notwithstanding the fact that the Company is technically the acquiring entity in the foregoing circumstances, generally accepted accounting principles will ordinarily require that such transaction be accounted for as a capital transaction by the other entity owning the business and, therefore, will not permit a write-up in the carrying value of the assets of the other company.

The manner in which the Company participates in a business will depend on the nature of the business, the respective needs and desires of the Company and other parties, the management of the business, and the relative negotiating strength of the Company and such other management.

The Company will participate in a business only after the negotiation and execution of appropriate written agreements. Although the terms of such agreements cannot be predicted, generally such agreements will require specific representations and warranties by all of the parties thereto, will specify certain events of default, will detail the terms of closing and the conditions which must be satisfied by each of the parties prior to such closing, will outline the manner of bearing costs if the transaction is not closed, will set forth remedies on default, and will include miscellaneous other terms.

Operation of Business After Acquisition 

The Company&#146;s operation following its acquisition of a business will be dependent on the nature of the business and the interest acquired. It is unlikely that current shareholders would be in control of the Company or that present management would be in control of the Company following the acquisition. It may be expected that the business will present various risks, which cannot be predicted at the present time.

Governmental Regulation 

It is impossible to predict the government regulation, if any, to which the Company may be subject until it has acquired an interest in a business. The use of assets and/or conduct of businesses that the Company may acquire could subject it to environmental, public health and safety, land use, trade, or other governmental regulations and state or local taxation. In selecting a business in which to acquire an interest, management will endeavor to ascertain, to the extent of the limited resources of the Company, the effects of such government regulation on the prospective business of the Company. In certain circumstances, however, such as the acquisition of an interest in a new or start-up business activity, it may not be possible to predict with any degree of accuracy the impact of government regulation. The inability to ascertain the effect of government regulation on a prospective business activity will make the acquisition of an interest in such business a higher risk.

Competition 

The Company will be involved in intense competition with other business entities, many of which will have a competitive edge over the Company by virtue of their stronger financial resources and prior experience in business. There is no assurance that the Company will be successful in obtaining suitable investments.

Employees 

The Company currently has no employees. Steven L. White, the Company&#146;s President and principal shareholder, will devote such time to the affairs of the Company as he deems appropriate. Management of the Company expects to use consultants, attorneys, and accountants as necessary, and does not anticipate a need to engage any full-time employees so long as it is seeking and evaluating businesses. The future need for employees and their availability will be addressed in connection with a decision whether or not to acquire or participate in a specific business industry.

