 Item 1. 

Business. 

General 

Imation Corp., a Delaware Corporation, is a global data storage and data security company. With a 60-year history of technology leadership, the Company's mission is to help organizations create an integrated storage, private cloud, file sync and share enterprise solution. The Company historically operated in two reportable segments: Consumer Storage and Accessories (which consisted of our Consumer Storage Media and Audio and Accessories businesses) and Tiered Storage and Security Solutions (which consisted of our Commercial Storage Media and Storage and Security Solutions (i.e. Nexsan and IronKey) businesses. 

The company is executing on a restructuring plan whereby it is in the final phases of winding down its Consumer Storage and Accessories, Audio and Accessories, and Commercial Storage Media businesses (combined the "legacy businesses"). Additionally, in January 2016, we sold our IronKey business (which was part of our historical Tiered Storage and Security Solutions reportable segment). Going forward, we will focus on our Nexsan business as well as explore strategic alternatives to deploy our excess capital. 

As used in this document, the terms &#8220;Imation&#8221;, &#8220;the Company&#8221;, &#8220;we&#8221;, &#8220;us&#8221;, and &#8220;our&#8221; mean Imation Corp. and its subsidiaries and consolidated entities unless the context indicates otherwise. 

Strategic Direction 

Imation was formed in 1996 from the spin-off of substantially all the businesses that comprised the data storage and imaging systems groups of 3M Company. The Company had historically undertaken a series of strategic transformations to leverage Imation&#8217;s global footprint and deep roots in data storage to become a leading player in data storage and security solutions. 

In May, 2015, through a proxy contest, shareholders elected three directors nominated by the Clinton Group, Inc. ("Clinton") to the Imation Board of Directors. These directors comprised half of the seats of the Imation board. 

In August 2015, Imation formed a Strategic Alternatives Committee of its Board to develop initiatives for strategic value creation and to work with management to make recommendations to the Board regarding the Company&#8217;s use of excess capital. On October 19, 2015, the Company announced that it will actively explore alternative uses for its excess capital. Interim Chief Executive Officer, Robert B. Fernander is leading the evaluation and deployment of capital in conjunction with the Strategic Alternatives Committee. The scope of the opportunities to consider may be outside Imation&#8217;s historical focus, and may be sourced in the private or public markets. The Company generally expects to evaluate opportunities to acquire businesses that we can actively manage and oversee, but the Company may also invest in opportunities that we will not control, such as index funds, mutual funds and other investment funds that offer attractive returns without significantly compromising liquidity. 

On September 27, 2015, the Company adopted a restructuring plan which began the termination process of its legacy businesses including commercial storage media (magnetic tape), consumer storage media (optical disc and flash drive) and audio and accessories. The plan also called for the aggressive rationalization of Imation&#8217;s corporate overhead. The strategic shift resulted from continued losses due to secular declines in Imation&#8217;s legacy businesses, and it aimed to reduce the cost structure and streamline the organization in light of these declines. The Company expects that it will incur approximately $120 million in total charges for the restructuring plan excluding tax impact. The charges are mostly non-cash, with cash charges expected to be approximately $35 million. The Company will complete the majority of the restructuring plan during the first quarter of 2016, with most of the charges already incurred in the third and fourth quarters of 2015. 

On October 14, 2015, Imation acquired substantially all of the equity of Connected Data, Inc. (CDI), an emerging enterprise-class, private cloud sync and share company, in a transaction valued at $6.7 million. The acquisition of CDI augments Imation&#8217;s vision to deliver a comprehensive and secure storage, backup and collaboration ecosystem. 

During the third quarter of 2015, management and the Board of Directors evaluated the Nexsan and IronKey businesses. As a result of this assessment, we significantly revised our previous business strategy by narrowing our product portfolio and reducing the operating expenses associated with these businesses. 

In late December 2015, the Company also amended its cash investment policy to permit investment activity in public company stock, index funds, mutual funds, and other investment funds that offer attractive returns without significantly compromising liquidity, at all times considering the applicable risks. In January 2016, the Board of 

&#32;2 

Directors approved investing up to 25 percent of the Company&#8217;s cash in investment funds with the focus on producing attractive risk-adjusted rates of return while maintaining liquidity. On February 8, 2016, the Company entered into a subscription agreement to invest up to $20 million of its excess cash in the Clinton Lighthouse Equity Strategies Fund (Offshore) Ltd. (&#8220;Clinton Lighthouse&#8221;). Clinton Lighthouse is a market neutral, statistical arbitrage fund which provides daily liquidity to its investors. The Fund is managed by Clinton Group Inc., a shareholder of the Company. One of Clinton&#8217;s senior portfolio managers is Joseph A. De Perio, Imation&#8217;s Chairman of the Board. Due to the arrangement, Clinton waived its customary management fee and agreed to receive incentive compensation in the form of shares of Imation common stock at a value of $1.00 per share, which may be reset from time to time. The Board of Directors, in conjunction with management, reviewed various funds and voted to approve this investment, with Mr. De Perio abstaining from the vote. Management will continue to seek out and evaluate other attractive investment options under its cash management policy. 

On January 4, 2016, Imation completed the sale of its corporate headquarters facility in Oakdale, Minnesota, to Larson Family Real Estate LLLP for a gross purchase price of $11.5 million, with net proceeds of approximately $11 million. As previously described in the Company&#8217;s Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2015, the Company classified its corporate headquarters facility as an asset held for sale. The Company will keep a small team and its headquarters in Minnesota. 

Also on January 4, 2016, the Company also sold its Memorex trademark and two associated trademark licenses to DPI Inc., a St. Louis-based branded consumer electronics company for $9.4 million. 

On February 2, 2016, the Company sold its IronKey business to Kingston Digital, Inc. and DataLocker Inc. in two asset purchase agreements. To Kingston Digital, Inc., we sold the assets representing the Company&#8217;s business of developing, designing, manufacturing and selling IronKey mobile security solutions. This includes Windows to Go USB flash drives, Windows to Go use cases and encrypted USB flash drives and external USB hard drives. The sale specifically excluded the software and services aspect of the IronKey business . &#32;Kingston Digital, Inc. paid a purchase price of $4.25 million at closing for certain assets, including inventory, and the Company retained accounts receivable and accounts payable relating to that business. To DataLocker, Imation sold the assets of the Company&#8217;s business of software and services for its IronKey products, including services related to Windows to Go USB flash drives. DataLocker paid a purchase price of $0.4 million at closing and agreed to assume certain service obligations in the amount of approximately $2 million, as well as pay the Company earn-outs in the event certain service revenue targets are achieved . 

Our current business segments were formed in 2015 to align with our go-forward and legacy operations. A description of our 2015 segments follows directly below. Upon completion of Imation&#8217;s restructuring plan in 2016, there will be one operating business segment: Nexsan. 

Nexsan Segment 

This segment operates as its own product line. Our storage systems portfolio ranges from high volume, dense storage products to innovative unified hybrid storage solutions for small and medium commercial businesses, enterprise and government customers. 

This product line offers strong growth potential and is the main target of our investment spending. It consists of Imation Nexsan and Connected Data products, There are more than 11,000 Nexsan customers worldwide with over 38,000 systems deployed since 1999. Imation&#8217;s Nexsan portfolio features solid-state optimized unified hybrid storage systems, secure automated archive solutions and high-density enterprise storage arrays. Our solutions are ideal for mission-critical IT applications such as virtualization, cloud, databases and collaborations and energy efficient, high-density storage for backup and archiving. Nexsan systems are delivered through a worldwide network of cloud service providers, value-added resellers (VARs) and solutions integrators. We offer global customers four main solution sets: 

&#8226; 

The NST&#174; hybrid storage line (SAN &#38; NAS) which addresses the high-growth hybrid storage market by combining solid state technology with spinning disk for high performance and capacity; 

&#8226; 

The Nexsan E-Series disk arrays which provide industry-leading storage density, reliability and power management to the block-based storage market; 

&#8226; 

The Assureon&#174; line which delivers secure archive systems for data offload, compliance and secure cloud deployment; and 

&#8226; 

The Transporter line, which delivers private cloud sync and share services for connected workers in security and cost-sensitive work environments. Transporter, which came from the CDI acquisition, is a secure, on- 

&#32;3 

site alternative to Dropbox and provides mobile access, file sync-and-share and global replication. Unlike Dropbox, Transporter enables an enterprise to create a private cloud. Transporter extends existing file servers and NAS systems, is non-disruptive to current systems and processes and has a much higher capacity and performance, while being significantly less expensive than public cloud storage. 

This product family addresses growth segments of the data storage market. We have added sales, engineering resources and value-added resellers around the world to build Nexsan&#8217;s presence in key geographies. Recently, we have rationalized the infrastructure to concentrate on the strongest opportunities. Our targeted vertical markets include government, healthcare, and media and entertainment. 

IronKey Segment 

The IronKey portfolio, which was part of Imation in 2015 but was sold in early 2016, met the challenge of protecting today&#8217;s mobile workforce, featuring secure USB solutions for data transport and mobile workspaces. The IronKey line includes the world&#8217;s leading hardware encrypted USB drives, PC on a Stick&#174; workspaces for Microsoft&#174; Windows To Go&#174;, and cloud-based or on-premises centralized secure device management solutions. 

Storage Media and Accessories (Legacy Business) Business Segment 

The Storage Media and Accessories business segment distributes differentiated products through retail and commercial channels across the globe. Storage Media and Accessories consist of the Commercial Storage Media, Consumer Storage Media and Audio and Accessories product categories. This business continues to be impacted by lower revenues from the expected secular declines in magnetic tape and optical media products. Due to the declines in the business, in 2015, we adopted a restructuring plan in which the Company will terminate sales and operations of this legacy business. The strategic shift of winding down the legacy business is still in process and is expected to be complete in Q1 2016. Our strategy is to maximize cash flows, extract working capital from this business and manage our cost structure efficiently as the business winds down. 

Commercial Storage Media 

Our magnetic tape media products are used for business and operational continuity planning, disaster recovery, data backup, near-line data storage and retrieval, and for cost-effective mass and archival storage. Our magnetic tape revenues decreased consistent with the overall market and we are in the process of terminating this business. 

Consumer Storage Media 

Our Consumer Storage Media product line includes optical products, USB flash drives, flash cards and external hard disk drives. Imation&#8217;s optical products consist of DVDs, CDs and Blu-ray&#8482; recordable media. Our strategy is to maximize cash flows, extract working capital from this business and manage our cost structure efficiently as the business winds down. We marketed our optical media brands as well as USB flash drives, flash cards and external hard disk drives under our Imation, Memorex and TDK Life on Record brands. We sourced these products from manufacturers primarily in Asia and sold them through a variety of retail and commercial distribution channels globally. 

Our Brands 

The Nexsan brand was acquired by Imation at the end of 2012. We began operations in 2013. Imation Nexsan Storage Solutions are ideal for a broad range of applications including virtual machine storage, cloud storage, database, surveillance, bulk storage, backup and recovery, disaster recovery and archive. The Nexsan products are sold to small and medium-size enterprise customers across a range of vertical markets exclusively through our worldwide network of VARs. 

The Transporter brand was acquired by Imation in 2015 though Connected Data, Inc. Transporter is a secure, on-premise, cost-efficient alternative to Dropbox that allows users to bypass the cloud when sharing business files to their mobile devices. Transporter products allow us to fill the growing demand for secure file synchronization to mobile devices. 

The Imation brand has been at the forefront of data storage and digital technology for many years. Imation brand products include magnetic tape media, recordable CDs, DVDs and Blu-ray discs, flash products and hard disk drives. 

The IronKey brand was purchased in 2011 for its secure storage and workspace management software and service. In 2012, we consolidated our Mobile Security portfolio around the IronKey brand. Our products included hardware encrypted USB drives, PC on a Stick IronKey Workspaces for Microsoft Windows To Go and cloud-based 

&#32;4 

or on-premises centralized secure device management solutions. On February 2, 2016, we closed on the sale of our IronKey business. 

The Memorex brand included recordable CDs, DVDs and Blu-ray discs, optical drives and optical storage accessories. We sold consumer electronics products under the Memorex brand until October 15, 2013 when we divested our Memorex consumer electronics business. On January 4, 2016, we sold the Memorex trademark and two associated trademark licenses. 

The TDK Life on Record logo is a trademark owned by TDK Corporation and had been licensed exclusively to Imation since 2007. TDK Life on Record brand products include recordable CDs, DVDs and Blu-ray discs, flash drives, tape cartridges, headphones and speakers which are sold to commercial customers and individual consumers. TDK Life on Record brand products are sold across the globe. On September 28, 2015, we entered into an agreement to terminate our license agreement with TDK Corporation. 

Geographic Regions 

Both of our reporting segments serve customers in all geographic regions worldwide. The United States represents the largest current individual market for our products and offers several sophisticated channels of distribution including VARs, OEMs and retail outlets. However, most of our revenue comes from markets outside the United States. Western Europe exhibits traits similar to North America in terms of overall breadth of product offerings, high penetration of end user markets and range of sophistication of distribution channels. Emerging markets in Eastern Europe represent potential growth markets for our products as Information Technology (IT) end user and consumer markets grow. Our Asian and Pacific region serves China, Hong Kong, Korea, Australia, Singapore, India and Taiwan. Japan is the single largest market outside the United States. We also sell our products in the Middle East and parts of Africa. 

Seasonality 

Our revenues are subject to some levels of seasonality. Historically, our fourth quarter has been the highest revenue quarter of the year due to stronger consumer and information technology spending in the fourth quarter of the calendar year. Our revenues are also subject to secular decline of the markets for magnetic tape products as well as for optical media products. 

Customers, Marketing and Distribution 

Our products are sold to businesses and individual consumers. No one customer accounted for 10 &#160; percent or more of our revenue in 2015, 2014 or 2013. 

We market Imation products through a combination of distributors, wholesalers, VARs, OEMs and retail outlets. Worldwide, approximately 68 percent of our 2015 revenue came from distributors and VARs, 28 percent came from the retail channel and 4 percent came from OEMs. We maintain a Company sales force and a network of distributors and VARs to generate sales of our products around the world. 

Market and Competition 

The global market for our products is highly competitive and characterized by continuing technology changes, frequent new product introductions and performance improvements, diverse distribution channels, aggressive marketing and pricing practices and ongoing variable price erosion. Competition is based on many factors, including product design, brand strength, distribution presence and capability, channel knowledge and expertise, geographic availability, breadth of product line, product cost, media capacity, access speed and performance, durability, reliability, scalability, intellectual property, compatibility and global product support capability. 

Imation Nexsan storage system products operate in a large and competitive data storage market. Demand for data storage capacity is expected to increase, and customers require flexible solutions that include data security and protection, performance and scalability. We believe we have a diverse and competitive product portfolio that addresses a wide range of customer needs. Our primary competitors for our Nexsan products include mid-range storage systems and products from EMC, NetApp, Pure Storage, Overland, Violin, Dot Hill, Nimble and a number of smaller, privately held storage system companies. 

Imation Nexsan Transporter appliances compete in the file Sync and Share market. Cloud storage continues to increase in usage, but concerns about security, availability and cost are growing. Primary competitors are Dropbox, Box and Google Drive. We are highly differentiated with our patented peer to peer synchronization approach which provides for lower overall cost and greatly enhanced data availability and security. 

&#32;5 

Imation IronKey products compete in the mobile workspace market and the secure mobile security market. Demand for mobile workspace, especially given the BYOD trend, is expected to grow, and customers require solutions that include security, ease of use, performance and central management, which IronKey products provide. Secure storage demand is flat but is seeing an extended life. Our primary competitors for our IronKey products include other Microsoft Windows-certified providers, such as Spyrus and Kingston. 

The magnetic tape industry has consistently addressed the growth in demand for storage capacity with higher capacity cartridges, resulting in a lower cost per gigabyte, which leads to a decline in the actual number of media units shipped. In addition, lower cost disk and storage optimization strategies, such as virtual tape and de-duplication, continue to compete with magnetic tape. Therefore, tape revenue continues to decline. Our major competitors include Fuji, Sony, Maxell and HP. 

Our main competitors in recordable optical media include Maxell, JVC, Sony and Verbatim. The optical market is in secular decline as digital streaming, hard disk and flash media replace optical media in some applications such as music and video recording. Our different brands have varying strengths in different regions of the world. 

In standard flash media, Imation&#8217;s primary competitors include Kingston, SanDisk, Lexar and PNY. In standard external and removable hard drives, our major competitors are Western Digital and Seagate. The traditional flash media market is competitive, with highly variable price swings driven by NAND chip manufacturing volume and capacity as well as market demand in the much larger embedded flash market. Focused and efficient sourcing and distribution, as well as diligent management of portfolio size, inventories, channel placement and promotional activity are critical elements for success. 

Audio and accessories products are sold based on a range of factors, including brand and reputation, product features and designs, distribution coverage, innovation and price. Our competitors in the audio and accessories products market consist of numerous manufacturers and brands. The global audio and accessories products market is very large and highly diverse in terms of competitors, channels and products. 

Product Sourcing 

We contract for the manufacturing of all products we sell and distribute from a variety of third-party providers that manufacture predominantly outside the United States. When required, we manufacture in a manner consistent with Country of Origin Guidelines. We seek to differentiate our products through unique designs, product positioning, packaging, merchandising and branding. 

Our legacy businesses purchased finished and semi-finished products, including optical media and USB flash drives, and consumer electronic products, primarily from Asian suppliers. For our optical media, we procured our supply primarily from three companies. 

Our go-forward Nexsan business purchases the components and semi-finished products from the various suppliers, primarily in the US and Mexico. 

Research, Development and Engineering 

Our success depends on the development and timely introduction of new products. Beginning in 2013, we narrowed our research and development efforts to priority projects in our growth areas of data protection and management, storage hardware, removable hard drive systems, disk-based storage systems and related software. We maintain advanced research facilities and invest both in researching, developing and engineering potential new products, as well as improving existing products. Our research and development expense was $19.2 million, $18.8 million and $18.4 million for 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. We invest in focused research, development, engineering and capital equipment in order to remain competitive and successfully develop and source products that meet market requirements. While the total amount of the research and development expense may decrease following the sale of the IronKey business in February, 2016, the percentage of expense dedicated to research and development will likely increase in 2016 as we continue to focus on Nexsan/CDI research and development. 

&#32;6 

Intellectual Property 

We rely on a combination of patent, trademark and copyright laws, trade secret protection, and confidentiality and license agreements to protect the intellectual property rights related to our products. We register our patents and trademarks in the United States and in a number of other countries where we do business. United States patents are currently granted for a term of 20 years from the date a patent application is filed. United States trademark registrations are for a term of 10 years and are renewable every 10 years as long as the trademarks are used in the regular course of trade. On September 28, 2015, we entered into an agreement to terminate our license agreement with TDK Corporation pursuant to which TDK had granted the Company and its affiliates a long-term exclusive license to use the TDK Life on Record brand for current and future recordable magnetic, optical, flash media and accessory products globally. 

During 2015, we were awarded 17 United States patents and acquired two key patents with the acquisition of Connected Data. At the end of 2015, Imation held over 180 patents in the United States. Currently, we are pursuing strategies to market non-core patents with the goal of monetizing these assets. 

Employees 

At December 31, 2015 , we employed approximately 600 people worldwide, with approximately 280 employed in the United States and approximately 320 employed internationally. We expect the number of worldwide employees to be reduced to approximately 200 by the end of Q1 2016. 

Environmental Matters 

Our operations are subject to a wide range of federal, state and local environmental laws. Environmental remediation costs are accrued when a probable liability has been determined and the amount of that liability has been reasonably estimated. We review these accruals periodically as remediation and investigatory activities proceed and adjust them accordingly. Compliance with environmental regulations has not had a material adverse effect on our financial results. We did not have any environmental accruals as of December 31, 2015. 

International Operations 

Approximately 61 &#160; percent of our total revenue in 2015 came from sales outside the United States, primarily through subsidiaries, sales offices, distributors, VARs and relationships with OEMs throughout Europe, Asia, Latin America and Canada. We do not own any manufacturing facilities. See Note &#160; 14 - Business Segment Information and Geographic Data in our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on our international operations . 

As discussed under Risk Factors &#32;in Item &#160; 1A of this Form &#160; 10-K, our international operations are subject to various risks and uncertainties that are not present in our domestic operations. 

Executive Officers of the Registrant 

Information regarding our executive officers, as of March 15, 2016 &#32;is set forth below: 

Robert B. Fernander , age 57, is Interim Chief Executive Officer. Mr. Fernander has served on the Board of Directors of the Company since May 22, 2015. Since September 2014, Mr. Fernander has served as an advisor and provided consulting services for I/O Switch Technologies, Inc., a developer of data center technologies, Storage Strategies NOW, an industry analyst firm that offers written publications and analysis for IT users, business and technology leaders and venture capitalists, and FLM.TV, a company focused on delivering, distributing, and marketing independent film. Prior to that, Mr. Fernander served as the Chief Revenue Officer of Datagres Technologies Inc., a data storage optimization software company, from September 2013 until September 2014. During his time at Datagres Technologies Inc., Mr. Fernander also served on its board of directors. Mr. Fernander served as the CEO and a member of the board of directors of Gnodal Limited, a storage and computer networking company, from 2012 until 2013 when it was acquired by Cray Inc. From 2007 until 2012, Mr. Fernander served on the board of directors and as the CEO of Pivot3 Inc., a hyper converged storage and compute platform. Prior to serving at Pivot3, Mr. Fernander served as an executive at several private startup companies. For over four years, Mr. Fernander served as a Vice President at Compaq Computer Corporation, a company that developed, sold and supported computers and related products and services. For over nine years, Mr. Fernander also held several sales and marketing leadership positions at Sun Microsystems, Inc., a company that sold computers, computer components, computer software and information technology services. 

&#32;7 

Barry L. Kasoff , age 58, is Chief Restructuring Officer and Interim Chief Financial Officer. Mr. Kasoff has served on the Board of Directors of the Company since May 22, 2015. Mr. Kasoff currently serves as the President of Realization Services, Inc. (RSI), a full-service management consulting firm specializing in assisting companies and capital stakeholders in troubled business environments, and has served in such capacity since founding RSI in 1997. 

Gregory J. Bosler, &#32;age 54, is Senior Vice President and Group President, Consumer Storage and Accessories. Mr. Bosler will leave the Company by the end of March 2016 when the legacy business wind down is substantially completed. From October 2010 to December 2015, he was Senior Vice President of Global Business Management. From May 2010 to October 2010 he was Vice President, Americas, and from January 2009 to April 2010 he was Vice President, Americas Consumer. Prior to joining Imation in January 2009, he was with TTE Corporation, a global consumer electronics manufacturer, where he held the position of Executive Vice President, North America Business Center from August 2004 until February 2008. Prior to that, Mr. Bosler held a series of senior sales and general management positions at Thomson Inc., Pioneer Electronics (USA) and Duracell Inc. 

Availability of SEC Reports 

The Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) maintains a website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers, including Imation Corp., that file electronically with the SEC. The public can obtain any documents that we file with the SEC at www.sec.gov. We file annual reports, quarterly reports, proxy statements and other documents with the SEC under the Exchange Act. The public may read and copy any materials that we file with the SEC at the SEC&#8217;s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. 

We also make available free of charge through our website (www.imation.com) our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and, if applicable, amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. 

&#32;8 

