 ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

Overview 

History and Our Corporate Structure 

We are a human food ingredient, functional food ingredient, packaged functional food and animal nutrition company focused on value-added processing and marketing of healthy, natural and nutrient dense products derived from raw rice bran, an underutilized by-product of the rice milling industry.

Using our rice bran bio-refining business model, we apply our proprietary and patented technologies and intellectual properties to convert raw rice bran into numerous high value products including stabilized rice bran (SRB), rice bran oil (RBO), defatted rice bran (DRB) and derivative products including: RiBalance, a complete rice bran nutritional package derived from further processing of SRB; RiSolubles, a highly nutritious, carbohydrate and lipid rich fraction of RiBalance; RiFiber, a protein and fiber rich insoluble derivative of RiBalance; and our family of ProRyza products, which include derivatives including protein and protein/fiber blends.

In 2016, we entered into a strategic supply partnership with the Thailand-based Narula Group of companies to add organic jasmine rice bran and organic red rice bran, as well as other organic products, to our portfolio of products.

Our target markets are organic and natural food, functional food, nutria-cosmetic and animal nutrition manufacturers, wholesalers and retailers, both domestically and internationally.

We have two reportable operating segments in 2015: (i) USA segment, which manufactures and distributes SRB (for human food ingredient and animal nutrition customers) and derivative products as well as contract manufacturing of functional food products with an emphasis on utilization of our proprietary and patented functional food ingredients; and (ii) Brazil segment, which extracts crude RBO from raw rice bran and produces DRB as a co-product. RBO is then further processed into degummed, neutralized and/or fully refined rice bran oil for sale internationally and in Brazil. DRB is sold as feed for horses, cows, swine, sheep and poultry and a number of human food and animal nutrition products. We incur corporate and other expenses not directly attributable to operating segments. These include costs related to our corporate staff, general and administrative expenses including public company expenses, intellectual property, professional fees, and other expenses. No Corporate allocations, including interest, are made to the operating segments.

The combined operations of our USA and Brazil segments encompass our bio-refining approach to processing raw rice bran into various high quality, value-added constituents and finished products. Over the past decade, we have developed and optimized our proprietary bio-refining processes to support the production of healthy, natural, hypoallergenic, gluten/soy free, and non-genetically modified ingredients for use in meats, baked goods, cereals, coatings, health foods, nutritional supplements, nutraceuticals and high-end animal nutrition and animal health products.

On January 2, 2014, we acquired H&#38;N Distribution Inc., an Irving, Texas based company now operating as Healthy Natural, Inc. (HN) which has a formulating, blending and co-packaging facility in Irving, Texas. At that location we manufacture blended and/or packaged functional food products for the human nutrition and functional food markets. See Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of the terms of the acquisition.

In February 2008, through our Delaware subsidiary Nutra S.A. LLC (Nutra SA), we acquired 100% ownership of Industria Riograndens De Oleos Vegetais Ltda. ( Irgovel), our rice bran oil bio-refining plant in Pelotas, Brazil. During 2011, we sold a minority interest in Nutra SA, to AF Bran Holdings-NL LLC and AF Bran Holding LLC.

We incorporated under the laws of the State of California on March 18, 1998. From July 2003 until October 2012, our corporate name was &#8220;NutraCea.&#8221; At that time we changed our name to RiceBran Technologies. Our common stock is currently trading on NASDAQ Capital Market under the symbol &#8220;RIBT.&#8221; Certain of our warrants are currently trading on the same exchange under the symbol &#8220;RIBTW&#8221;.

&#160;

USA 

The USA segment produces SRB inside three locations: two leased raw rice bran stabilization facilities located within supplier-owned rice mills in Arbuckle and West Sacramento, California; and one owned rice bran stabilization facility in Mermentau, Louisiana. At Dillon, Montana, the USA segment produces our process patented Stage II products including: RiSolubles, a highly nutritious, carbohydrate and lipid rich fraction of SRB; RiFiber, a fiber rich derivative of SRB; RiBalance, a complete rice bran nutritional package derived from further processing RiBalance, and our ProRyza family of products including, protein- and protein/fiber-based products. &#8220;Stage II&#8221; refers to the process patented processes run at our Dillon, Montana facility and describes products produced at that facility. The manufacturing facilities included in our USA segment have proprietary processing equipment and process patented technology for the stabilization and further processing of rice bran into finished products.

With the acquisition of HN, we formulate, blend and package finished products on a business-to-business basis for our customers at a leased facility in Irving Texas. We also lease a facility in West Sacramento, California that houses a laboratory, warehouse and facility for assembling RBT proprietary extruders for stabilizing raw rice bran. We use an owned facility in Lake Charles, Louisiana as a temporary warehouse. In 2015, approximately 84% of USA segment revenue is from sales of human nutrition products and the remainder was from sales of animal nutrition products.

Brazil Segment 

The Brazil segment consists of the consolidated operations of Nutra SA, whose only operating subsidiary is Irgovel, located in Pelotas, Brazil. Irgovel manufactures RBO and DRB products for both the human ingredient and animal nutrition markets in Brazil and internationally. In refining RBO to an edible grade, several co-products are obtained. One such product is distilled fatty acids, a valuable raw material for the detergent industry. Irgovel also produces rice lecithin, which has application in human nutrition, animal nutrition and industrial applications. DRB is sold in bulk in the Brazilian market and internationally as an animal nutrition ingredient, and is sold as a raw material for further processing into human food ingredients. In 2015, approximately 52% of Brazil segment product revenue was from sales of RBO products and the remainder was from sales of DRB products.

Our Irgovel subsidiary is comprised of several facilities on approximately 19 acres in Pelotas, Brazil. These facilities include a plant for extraction of RBO from raw rice bran, RBO refining processes, compounded animal nutrition manufacturing, consumer RBO bottling, distilled fatty acid manufacture, lecithin manufacture, and support systems for the plant, including steam generation, maintenance, administrative offices and a quality assurance laboratory.

Ownership Interest in Nutra SA 

In December 2010, we entered into a membership interest purchase agreement (MIPA) with AF Bran Holdings-NL LLC and AF Bran Holdings LLC (collectively, the Investors) and sold a minority interest in Nutra SA to the Investors in January 2011. The Investors initially purchased a 35.6% interest in Nutra SA. The Investors ownership percentage in Nutra SA was 32.0% at December 31, 2015 and averaged 32.9% in 2015 and 40.0% in 2014. Under agreements with the Investors, we are restricted from competing with Nutra SA and Irgovel in Brazil as further described in the MIPA.

The Investors have drag along rights, the right to force the sale of all Nutra SA assets after January 1, 2018. The right terminates upon the occurrence of certain events (a $50 million Nutra SA initial public offering or a change of control, as defined). We may elect to exercise a right of first refusal to purchase the Investors&#8217; interest instead of proceeding to a sale.

Under the Nutra SA limited liability company agreement (LLC Agreement), Nutra SA must distribute all distributable cash (as defined in the LLC Agreement) to the members on March 31 of each year as follows: (i) first, to us and the Investors in proportion to our additional capital preference percentages (with respect to us, this means total contributions we make on or after June 3, 2015 as a percentage of the total contributions we make after June 3, 2015 plus the amount contributed by the investors as of April 30, 2015; with respect to the Investors, this means the amount contributed by the investors as of April 30, 2015, as a percentage of the amount contributed by the investors as of April 30, 2015, plus total contributions we make on or after June 3, 2015), (ii) second, to the Investors in an amount equal to 2.0 times the Investors&#8217; capital contributions, less the aggregate amount of distributions paid to the Investors, (iii) third, to us in an amount equal to twice the capital contributions made by us, less the aggregate amount of distributions paid to us; and (iv) fourth, to us and the Investors in proportion to our respective membership interests.

Under the LLC agreement, the business of Nutra SA is to be conducted by the manager, currently our CEO, subject to the oversight of the management committee. The management committee is comprised of three of our representatives and two Investor representatives. Upon an event of default or a qualifying event, we will no longer control the management committee and the management committee will include three Investor representatives and two of our representatives. In addition, following an event of default or a qualifying event, a majority of the members of the management committee may replace the manager of Nutra SA.

&#160;

Background 

Consistent with our mission to convert feed to food, our greatest opportunities are in the functional food, nutraceutical and human food ingredient markets.

Premium natural, organic and functional ingredient manufacturers are in high demand and we are strategically positioned to take advantage of this growing and sustainable market opportunity as discussed below in &#8220;Our Growth Strategy&#8221;.

Our ingredient products are primarily sold to consumer nutrition and healthcare companies, nutritional supplement retailers and direct sales companies. In August 2013, we entered into a multi-year agreement to sell certain of our Stage II products to a rapidly growing direct marketing company. Pursuant to that agreement, that company is obligated to purchase a minimum of $7.7 million in products during the term of the agreement which expires in December 2016. We will seek additional long-term supply agreements with similar companies in the future. As part of this strategy, we have been working with co-packaging and fulfillment companies to expand our presence in these markets.

Human and Functional Food Ingredients 

Our SRB, DRB, RBO and derivatives are nutritional, functional and beneficial food products that contain a unique combination of oil, protein, carbohydrates, vitamins, minerals, fibers, and antioxidants that enhance the nutritional value of popular consumer products. Foods that are ideally suited for the addition of our SRB and DRB to their products include processed meats, cereals, baked goods, breading and batters. The inclusion of DRB in breading and batters can result in a reduction in oil uptake, higher moisture retention, improved nutritional profiles, and reduced costs.

In 2008, we received USDA/FSIS approval to market rice bran as an ingredient to be used as a filler in comminuted meat products, such as meat and poultry sausages that contain binders, nugget-shaped patties, meatballs, meatloaf, and meat and poultry patties. Our products replace functional ingredients like soy protein isolate, soy protein concentrate, modified food starch, pea protein and mustard flour at a significantly reduced cost. With strong application benefits such as reduced cost per unit, increased product yield and reduced purge, our SRB has a significant market opportunity in the comminuted meat market both inside and outside of the U.S.

Animal Nutrition 

Our SRB and DRB are marketed as feed ingredients in the U.S. and international animal nutrition markets. We will continue to pursue high margin sales opportunities in those markets. Our SRB and DRB are used as equine feed ingredients and have been shown to provide health benefits. Show and performance horses represent the premium end of the equine market and are a key target for our animal nutrition products. In our Brazil segment, we also sell DRB as an ingredient for inclusion in a variety of feed formulations targeted to animal species such as horses, beef cattle, dairy cows, pigs, sheep and poultry.

About Rice Bran 

Rice is the staple food for over half of the world&#8217;s population and is the staple food source for several of the world&#8217;s most populous countries. Asia accounts for roughly 90% of global rice production and China is the world&#8217;s number one rice producer. Globally, Brazil and the United States rank 9th and 12th, respectively, in production of rice, with approximately 8.5 and 7.1 million metric tons, respectively, produced.

When harvested from the field, individual rice kernels are stored in common receiving locations such as farm silos for future delivery to grain dryers or area rice mills. At this stage, large quantities of individual rice kernels are collectively called &#8220;paddy rice,&#8221; or &#8220;rough&#8221; rice. In this form, the rice kernel is fully enveloped by the rice hull, which serves as a protective cover, shielding the inner rice kernel from damage.

After storage and drying, if necessary, paddy rice is cleaned of foreign material (scalping, de-stoning and aspiration) just before it enters the first stage of milling, or paddy husking. In the paddy husker, the hull is removed from rough rice by differential speed rubber rollers. Loosened hulls are carried off by aspiration. After husking, a paddy separator uses a reciprocating motion to separate normal brown rice kernels (caryopsis) from unhusked kernels which are returned to the paddy husker.

In the second stage of milling, the outer brown layers of bran are removed from the inner white starch endosperm by an abrasive or frictional milling process which produces a milled, white rice kernel. After milling, white rice is typically sorted by size to remove broken pieces of rice kernels from whole kernels, as well as color sorting to remove discolored kernels. Additional stages may be required (per customer specifications) to polish the white rice to a smooth surface.

&#160;

Raw rice bran collected from the milling process is composed of rice germ and several sub-layers (pericarp, testa, nucellus and aleurone) surrounding the white starchy endosperm. Commercial rice bran makes up approximately 10% of rough rice by weight. Rice germ, an especially nutrient rich material, makes up approximately 10% of commercial rice bran by weight.

As brown rice is milled into white rice, the oils present in raw rice bran come into contact with native lipase enzymes that are naturally present in the rice kernel. These lipase enzymes initiate a rapid enzymatic hydrolysis of the oil, converting oils (triglycerides) into monoglycerides, diglycerides and free fatty acids (FFA). As the FFA content builds in raw rice bran, the bran becomes unpalatable and off flavors (rancidity) develop. If left unchecked, enzymatic degradation at normal room temperatures can increase the FFA levels to 5-8% within 24 hours and can continue at a rate of approximately 4-5% per day thereafter. Enzymatic degradation is the most serious form of degradation of raw rice bran. Rice bran stabilization is the process of carefully deactivating native enzymes to prevent the increase of FFA otherwise caused by lipase enzyme activity. Proper stabilization is critical in the preservation of the nutritional value of the bran, an important nutrient source that is largely used as animal feed or otherwise wasted.

Historically there have been a number of attempts to develop rice bran stabilization techniques, including the use of chemicals, microwave heating, or variations of existing extrusion technology. Many of these approaches have had limited success in part because they have produced rice bran with limited shelf life or with significant degradation of nutrients.

Our Technologies 

Our Proprietary Rice Bran Stabilization Technology 

Our stabilization process uses proprietary innovations to create a combination of temperature, pressure and other conditions necessary to thoroughly deactivate enzymes without significantly damaging the structure or nutrient content of raw rice bran. This means that higher value compounds in bran, such as oils, proteins and phytonutrients are left undamaged and are available for utilization. Our process does not use chemicals to stabilize raw rice bran.

Our stabilizers are designed to be installed adjacent to, on the premises of or in near proximity to any conventional rice mill so that freshly milled raw rice bran can be quickly delivered to our proprietary stabilizers. Process logic controllers maintain exact process conditions within the prescribed pressure/temperature regime. In case of power failure or interruption of the flow of fresh bran into the system, the electronic control system is designed to purge the equipment of materials in process and resume production only after proper operating conditions are re-established.

SRB leaving our system is then discharged onto cooling units specifically designed to control air pressure and humidity. Cooled SRB can be loaded into bulk hopper trucks for large volume customers or sent by pneumatic conveyor to a bagging unit for packaging into 50 pound or 2,000 pound sacks.

Each stabilization module can process approximately 2,000 pounds of bran per hour and has a capacity of over 7,200 tons per year. Stabilization production capacity can be doubled, tripled or further multiplied by installing additional units sharing a common conveyor and stage system, which we believe can handle the output of the world&#8217;s largest rice mills. We have also developed and tested a smaller production unit, with a maximum production capacity of 840 tons per year, for installation in countries or locations where rice mills are substantially smaller than those in the United States.

Additional patented and proprietary processes involve enzyme treatment of SRB or DRB to produce fractions enriched in one or more macronutrients, including proteins, fibers, lipids and micronutrients such as vitamins, minerals and phytosterols, among others. In these processes SRB or DRB, in an aqueous slurry, is treated with one or more enzymes, centrifugally separated and the fractions dried on drum driers or other drying systems such as spray dryers.

Our Bio-Refining Process 

Rice bran is free of all major allergens and is a valuable source of protein with a balanced amino acid profile for human nutrition and is rich in healthy oil, vitamins, antioxidants, dietary fiber and other nutrients. The approximate composition and caloric content of our SRB is as follows:

Fat (oil)

18-23%

Protein

12-16%

Total Dietary Fiber

20-30%

Moisture

4-8%

Ash

6-14%

Calories

3.2 kcal/gram

&#160;

Rice bran contains approximately 18-23% oil, which has a favorable fatty acid composition and excellent heat stability. Rice bran oil contains essential fatty acids and a broad range of nutraceutical compounds that have been demonstrated to have therapeutic properties.

In the bio-refining process, raw rice bran is obtained from a number of rice mills and transported to a facility within which it is first stabilized via extrusion and then solvent extracted to produce crude RBO and DRB. Crude RBO is subsequently processed in a number of steps designed to sequentially capture constituents of value and to remove and discard impurities. The final outcome of these steps is a highly refined, edible RBO that has superior flavor and functional properties. In addition, the various co-products of crude RBO processing, distilled fatty acids for example, are refined and sold as products in their own right. DRB is finely ground and packaged for use as a versatile food ingredient in many applications. DRB may also be compounded with other ingredients such as a vegetable proteins, carbohydrates, vitamin premixes and minerals to produce an array of nutritionally targeted animal feeds for various species. The DRB can also be further processed to extract and concentrate protein and dietary fiber. Our bio-refining process and related technologies are being continuously improved and optimized as we examine the technical and commercial feasibility of producing additional products derived from both RBO and DRB.

DRB contains many of the same nutritional and functional benefits as SRB, except that the oil has been removed. This is important for several ingredient applications where SRB&#8217;s oil content could present food formulation challenges. By removing oil from SRB, nutritionists have greater options to formulate DRB into breakfast bars, low-calorie foods, low-fat baking applications and batter and breading for frying applications. Additionally, DRB is ideally suited for downstream enzymatic processing, transforming DRB into an ideal feedstock for protein and fiber concentrates.

RBO as extracted from stabilized rice bran can be utilized in a variety of edible and industrial oil applications. With proper processing, RBO becomes high quality cooking oil possessing beneficial high temperature frying characteristics. RBO has a unique fatty acid content that imparts improved oxidative stability as compared to other vegetable oils such as soy or cottonseed giving it advantages when used in food applications. The RBO extraction process utilized at our Brazilian facility uses a conventional solvent extraction process to separate oil from raw bran, resulting in crude RBO available for sale to industrial markets or other processors. Additional refining processes done in Brazil can involve degumming, neutralization, bleaching, de-waxing and deodorizing. A bio-refining process approach results in numerous marketable co-products in addition to the actual end product.

Our Growth Strategy 

With the proceeds from our recent financing transactions, we are positioned to capitalize on specific market conditions that we believe will increase market acceptance of our products and lead to increased growth and profitability. The following market conditions and company actions represent a summary of our growth strategy:

1. Emphasis on Natural, Organic and Functional Foods: &#160; Based on industry sources, the U.S. market for natural, organic and functional foods grew in excess of 10% and exceeded $110 billion in 2014 making that category 15% of total U.S. food sales, with natural and organic sub-sectors of that market growing 12% and 13% respectively &#8211; the fastest growing segments in the U.S. market for foods. These sales levels and growth rates are much higher than previously forecast confirming that the trend to healthy eating as part of an overall wellness regimen is not a fad. Our portfolio of functional ingredients includes rice bran extracts that demonstrate beneficial properties in areas of cardiovascular health, weight management, glucose balance, inflammatory response and gastrointestinal health. Premium ingredient manufacturers are in high demand and we are strategically positioned to take advantage of this growing and sustainable market opportunity. We will continue marketing our proprietary and patented ingredients directly to formulators and co-packers who manufacture turnkey finished products for direct to consumer marketing companies (i.e., multi-level marketing (MLM), web, radio, retail) and to active ingredient distributors to reduce new product development cycles and drive sales of our functional ingredients. We believe that focusing our marketing efforts on distributors to reduce new product development cycles and drive sales of our functional ingredients. We believe that focusing our marketing efforts on distributors, formulators and co-packaging companies will increase sales of our Stage II products in both the short- and long-term as new functional ingredients are added to our portfolio of products. 

2. Acquisition of formulating and packaging company that serves the Natural, Organic and Functional Food market: &#160; In January 2014 we acquired HN. By incorporating HN&#8217;s formulating and packaging capabilities into our business model, we expect to drive sales of our Stage II products into multiple natural, organic and functional food channels allowing us to capture not only single ingredient sales but also sales of blended finished products consisting predominantly of our ingredients blended with other products and sold as a finished product on a business to business basis. In 2014 and 2015 we used capital raised from the market to double the capacity of HN. As a part of our strategy to grow our natural organic and functional food business, we will continue to develop functional ingredients and packaged, compounded finished products from rice bran and to validate their functionality through evidence-based scientific studies and human clinical trials. 

&#160;

3. Increased production capacity of our Stage II products; Addition of proprietary and patent pending protein products: &#160; During 2014, we doubled our capacity to produce certain Stage II products at our Dillon, Montana facility in response to projected increased demand for natural, organic and functional food products. We completed the expansion project near the end of 2014. We co-developed proprietary and provisionally patented technologies with DSM Innovation Center, a subsidiary of Royal DSM N.V. that enables the extraction of protein from DRB and SRB. In early 2015 we launched new protein products from our U.S. operations and plan to produce protein from DRB in our Brazil segment in the future based on the technologies developed with DSM. In addition, we entered into a series of agreements with various affiliates of Wilmar International limited (collectively, Wilmar) to develop and commercialize rice bran products, including protein, for the China market. 

4. Increasing global demand for vegetable oil: &#160; Our Brazil segment currently sells all of the rice bran oil it can produce in our oil extraction and bio-refining plant in Pelotas, Brazil. Following the capital expansion project at this plant, raw rice bran processing capacity increased approximately 50% in first quarter 2015. That expansion increased raw rice bran processing capacity from 200 metric tons per day to over 300 metric tons per day. 

5. Demand for minimally processed, natural, non-genetically modified &#8220;clean&#8221; label food products: &#160; The market for natural, organic and functional foods is rapidly expanding in the U.S., Europe and other global markets with increasing demand for healthy, natural and minimally processed ingredients that are hypoallergenic, non-genetically modified and produced in a sustainable fashion. The regulatory need to add front-of-label warnings on food items is driving food companies to replace standard food ingredients like soy and wheat with &#8220;cleaner&#8221; ingredients such as rice bran which is non-allergenic, non-genetically modified, natural and minimally processed. Incorporation of our food ingredients by major global food companies continue as more food companies adopt rice bran as a standard food ingredient. This trend is not limited to human foods as we are finding a similar transition to &#8220;clean&#8221; ingredients among high-end animal nutrition companies. 

6. The value of proprietary, evidence-based functional ingredients for nutraceuticals and functional foods: With increasing medical costs associated with doctor visits and medications, consumers are becoming more proactive in adopting and maintaining healthier lifestyles through exercise, balanced nutrition and increased consumption of functional foods and nutraceuticals. Associated with this trend is higher demand by marketers of nutraceuticals and functional foods for novel functional ingredients and particularly for proprietary and patented ingredients that provide barriers to competition in the marketplace, therefore commanding higher premiums. We currently develop and commercialize proprietary rice bran ingredients and derivatives from our Stage II facility in the USA segment. 

7. Increase global distribution network: &#160; Our growth strategy includes increasing sales of our products in overseas markets. In 2015 we added distributors in Canada and Mexico and plan to strengthen our network in other global markets. 

8. Continue to generate evidence-based functionality of our proprietary ingredients: 

&#9679; A 57-subject clinical trial conducted by Advanced Medical Research (Journal of Nutritional Biochemistry, Volume 13, 2002), with our funding, suggested that consumption of our RiSolubles nutritional supplements may lower blood glucose levels of type 1 and type 2 diabetes mellitus patients and may be beneficial in reducing high blood cholesterol and high blood lipid levels. To date, we have not developed any such products nor sanctioned any subsequent trials to confirm the results from the initial trial. If warranted, we may develop products which address the use of SRB products as medical foods for, and to potentially make health benefit claims relating to, the effects of dietary rice bran on overall health and well-being and as it may relate to maintaining balanced sugar and lipid levels. 

&#9679; We have maintained relationships with several medical institutions and practicing physicians who may continue to conduct clinical trials and beta work for our products. Some of these previous clinical trials are reviewed in an article entitled &#8220;Effects of Stabilized Rice Bran, its Soluble and Fiber Fractions on Blood Glucose Levels and Serum Lipid Parameters in Humans with Diabetes Mellitus Types I and II&#8221; published in the Journal of Nutritional Biochemistry (March 2002, 175-187). The trial produced positive results by showing that the levels of blood lipids and glycosylated hemoglobin were reduced. Subsequently, three domestic and six international patents were issued to us on the strength of this clinical trial. 

&#160;

&#9679; In December 2007, we formed Rice Science, LLC (Rice Science), and a Delaware limited liability company, with Herbal Science Singapore Pte. Ltd. (Herbal Science) to develop nutraceutical extracts and pharmaceutical chemistries from our SRB. Herbal Science utilized sophisticated methodologies in the identification and isolation of specific biologically active compounds that have been tested for effectiveness against specific disease conditions. In March 2011, our partnership with Herbal Science ended with us acquiring the membership interest formerly owned by Herbal Science, leaving Rice Science as our wholly owned subsidiary. We are hopeful that the research performed by Herbal Science will result in biologically active SRB extracts for use in the nutraceutical and functional food industry.In 2008, Rice Science conducted research regarding the development of extracts from SRB that would be effective in addressing inflammation and pain. A number of SRB extracts have been tested with two identified as having significant in vitro activities. A blend of these two extracts was created to produce a third extract that exhibits a high level of in vitro inhibition of Cox 1, Cox 2 and Lox 5 enzymes (Journal of Medicinal Food (2009) 12, 615-623). This extract was used in a pharmacokinetic study to determine uptake kinetics of key bioactives into human serum. Results indicated that the bioactive compounds were rapidly assimilated. The next step would be to conduct a human clinical trial if funds were available. A number of active compounds were identified and modeled. 

&#9679; Late in 2007, the Cancer Biomarkers Group in the Department of Cancer Studies and Molecular Medicine, University of Leicester in Leicester, UK published a research paper evaluating the effect of our SRB in ApcMin mice (British Journal of Cancer (2007) 96, 248-254). The mice were genetically modified to serve as models for mammary, prostate and intestinal carcinogenesis. They reported that consumption of SRB (30% in the diet) reduced the numbers of intestinal adenomas in these mice by 51% compared to the same mice on a control diet. 

Intellectual Property 

From 2011 to March 2013, we engaged in a joint research project with DSM Innovation Center, a subsidiary of Royal DSM N.V., to develop methods for extracting and concentrating high quality vegetable protein from rice bran. Combined spending on research and development related to that project totaled $3.0 million. In March 2013, we announced the development of an improved fiber protein product and a separate water soluble rice bran protein product which have been commercialized under the ProRyza mark. We will continue to support internal as well as external R&#38;D efforts that improve on existing technologies or lead to the development of new technologies relating to rice bran processing and applications.

We hold eight U.S. patents relating to the production or use of rice bran and rice bran derivatives. In addition to the issued U.S. patents, we have been issued fourteen additional foreign patents covering the subject areas. We intend to apply for additional patents in the future as new products, treatments and uses are developed.

Our bio-refining and related stabilization activities are an adaptation and refinement of standard food processing technology applied to rice bran. We have chosen to treat certain of our methods and processes as a trade secret and not to pursue process or process equipment patents on the original processes. However, as we develop improvements we intend to periodically review whether we should seek patent protection for them. We believe that certain unique products, and their biological effects, resulting from our SRB may be patentable in the future. We also hold a number of U.S. registered trademarks and trade names and have applied for additional marks.

Government Regulations 

Our operations are subject to federal, foreign, state and local government laws and regulations, including those relating to zoning, workplace safety and accommodations for the disabled and our relationship with our employees are subject to regulations, including minimum wage requirements, anti-discrimination laws, overtime and working conditions and citizenship requirements.

In both our United States and foreign markets, we are affected by extensive laws, governmental regulations, administrative determinations, court decisions and similar constraints. Such laws, regulations and other constraints exist at the federal, state or local levels in the United States, and at all levels of government in foreign jurisdictions, including regulations pertaining to the formulation, manufacturing, packaging, labeling, distribution, sale and storage of our products. In addition, we are subject to regulations regarding product claims and advertising.

&#160;

USA Segment 

The formulation, manufacturing, packaging, labeling, advertising, distribution and sale of our products are subject to regulation by one or more federal agencies, primarily the FDA, the FTC and the USDA. Our activities are also regulated by various governmental agencies for the states and localities in which our products are manufactured and sold, as well as by governmental agencies in certain countries outside the United States, such as Brazil (discussed below), in which our products are manufactured and sold. Among other matters, regulation by the FDA and FTC is concerned with product safety and claims made with respect to a product's ability to provide health-related benefits. Specifically, the FDA, under the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act (FDCA), regulates the formulation, manufacturing, packaging, labeling, distribution and sale of food and food ingredients. The FTC regulates the advertising of these products.

Federal agencies, primarily the FDA and the FTC, have a variety of procedures and enforcement remedies available to them, including initiating investigations, issuing warning letters and cease-and-desist orders, requiring corrective labeling or advertising, requiring consumer redress such as requiring that a company offer to repurchase products previously sold, seeking injunctive relief or product seizures, imposing civil penalties or commencing criminal prosecution. In addition, certain state agencies have similar authority. These federal and state agencies have in the past used these remedies in regulating participants in the food and food ingredient industries, including the imposition of civil penalties.

The FDA Food Safety Modernization Act (FSMA), enacted January 4, 2011, amended the FDCA to significantly enhance FDA's authority over various aspects of food regulation. The FSMA granted FDA mandatory recall authority when the FDA determines there is a reasonable probability that a food is adulterated or misbranded and that the use of, or exposure to, the food will cause serious adverse health consequences or death to humans or animals. One of the FSMA's more significant changes is the requirement of hazard analysis and risk-based preventive controls (HARPC) for all food facilities required to register with the FDA.

Any substance that is intentionally added to food is a food additive and is subject to premarket review and approval by the FDA, unless the substance is generally recognized, among qualified experts, as having been adequately shown to be safe under the conditions of its intended use, or unless the use of the substance is otherwise excluded from the definition of a food additive. When an additive is proposed for use in a meat, its safety, technical function and conditions of use must also be evaluated by the USDA. Because the USDA retains jurisdiction over meat products and food ingredients intended for use in meats, the use of our SRB and DRB meat enhancers is regulated by this agency. Both SRB and DRB have USDA approval for use in meat products.

Animal feed ingredients are regulated by FDA at the federal level and the American Association of Feed Control Officials (AAFCO) at the state level. Our SRB is defined by AAFCO as heat stabilized rice bran for use as a feed ingredient.

Brazil Segment 

The Brazilian Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock and Food Supply (MAPA), one of the Federal administrative bodies, is the primary regulator of agricultural products in Brazil, and its main activity is the management of public policies to encourage agriculture, the promotion of agribusiness and the regulation and standardization of services related to the sector. Amongst other activities, MAPA is responsible for the regulation and control of pharmaceuticals, biological products and medicated feed additives for animal use. MAPA is organized into departments, each one responsible for different sectors of the nation&#8217;s agribusiness. Amongst these departments, the Secretary of Agricultural Defense (SDA) is responsible for implementing the actions of the State which aims at the prevention, control and eradication of animal diseases and plant pests. The SDA also contributes to the formulation of the national agricultural policy by planning, regulating, coordinating and supervising the activities of agricultural defense throughout the country, being responsible for the coordination of the Department of Inspection of Livestock Products. In order to fulfill its mission, the SDA provides central management and regulatory bodies as well as projections within the states for the implementation and coordination of those activities for which it is responsible. Furthermore, ANVISA, a regulatory agency which operates in all those sectors related to products and services that affect the health of the population, and with expertise that covers both sanitary regulation and the economic regulation of the market, contributes to the enforcement of most of the regulations regarding processed food products, including vegetable oils, fats and vegetable creams.

Sales and Marketing 

Both our USA and Brazil segments use internal sales staff, outside independent sales representatives and third party distributors to market our portfolio of products domestically and internationally. In 2015, three customers accounted for 63% of USA segment revenues. In our Brazil segment, three customers accounted for 40% of segment revenues. In 2014, three customers accounted for 60% of USA segment revenues and three customers accounted for 23% of Brazil segment revenues. &#160; W e continue to focus efforts on diversification of our customer base in an attempt to mitigate the concentration of customers. We have recently signed multi-year agreements with a supplier and strategic partner that we believe will assist us in those efforts.

&#160;

Our Strategic Alliances 

In February 2016, we entered into an exclusive supply and cooperation agreement with a Thailand-based entity (Youji) granting us the exclusive worldwide, with certain exclusions, supply and distribution rights for their organic rice bran. In addition, as part of the agreement we have agreed to lease two of our proprietary stabilization extruders to Youji for stabilization purposes at one of their rice mills. As part of our overall alliance with Youji, we have formed a joint venture entity, 55% owned by us, that will serve as the business platform for selling non-rice bran related organic products in North America produced by Youji related entities.

I n 2013, we entered into a series of agreements with various affiliates of Wilmar International Limited (collectively Wilmar). In connection therewith, we sold a 50% membership interest in RBT PRO, LLC (RBT PRO) &#160; to Wilmar . RBT PRO granted an exclusive, royalty free, perpetual sublicense of the license to use processes for deriving protein from rice bran to Wilmar for use throughout China and to us for use worldwide, excluding China. Any royalty revenue derived from that same license would be revenue of RBT PRO.

We also entered into a cross license agreement with Wilmar, and under the agreements, we obtained the right to purchase 45% of the capital stock of any entity Wilmar establishes to develop new products relating to rice bran or its derivatives, as defined in the agreement, using the intellectual property licensed to Wilmar. If we decline the right to purchase 45% of the capital stock of any such new entity, we have the option to purchase 25% of the entity within two years of the entity&#8217;s formation. The exercise price for this option will equal 25% of the capital investment made in the entity, plus interest, as defined in the agreement.

&#160;

Our Competition 

There are a number of companies that have invested significant resources to develop stabilizing technologies for stabilizing and further processing rice bran and who market rice bran products with varying levels of stabilization into multiple markets around the world. We believe that we have best of breed technologies for stabilizing rice bran and, as such, have developed significant brand recognition in the animal feed and human food ingredient sectors both domestically and internationally. Together with our decades of application technology know-how and patented processing methods, we believe that we have a first-to-market advantage over the competition with respect to our SRB products

We are aware of several new producers of rice based animal nutrition and food ingredient products in the U.S., Europe and Asia. We believe that our major nutritional supplement competitors include producers of isolated soy protein, wheat bran and oat bran, particularly in the functional food ingredients market segment.

We compete with other companies that offer products incorporating SRB as well as companies that offer other food ingredients and nutritional supplements. We also face competition from companies providing products that use oat bran and wheat bran as nutritional supplements as well as for health and beauty aids. Many consumers may consider such products to be a replacement for the products we manufacture and distribute.

We also compete in the world's edible oil market. Our competition for exports of rice bran oil resides primarily in Southeast Asia. Our branded rice bran oil &#8220;Carreteiro&#8221; competes with other bottled oils such as soy, palm, canola, peanut and others in the Brazilian market. In addition, our exported rice bran oil competes with those same oils from other grains, seeds and plants in markets around the world.

Our Employees 

As of December 31, 2015, the USA and Corporate segments had 72 employees located in the U.S. and the Brazil segment had 192 employees. Our employee count may change periodically. From year to year we experience normal variable labor fluctuation at our production facilities. We believe relations with our employees are good. None of our U.S. based employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. All of the employees at our Irgovel facility in Brazil are represented by a labor union and are covered by a collective bargaining agreement.

&#160;

Securities and Exchange Commission Reports 

We maintain an Internet website at the following address: www.ricebrantech.com. We make available on or through our Internet website certain reports and amendments to those reports that we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) in accordance with the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Exchange Act). These include our annual reports on Form 10-K, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and our current reports on Form 8-K. We make this information available on our website free of charge as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file the information with, or furnish it to, the SEC. The contents of our website are not incorporated by reference in this report on Form 10-K and shall not be deemed &#8220;filed&#8221; under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The public may also read and copy any materials that we file with the SEC at the SEC&#8217;s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. You may obtain information about the Public Reference Room by contacting the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. Reports filed with the SEC are also made available on the SEC website ( www.sec.gov). 

&#160;

&#160;

