 ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

Corporate Overview 

Preaxia was incorporated in the State of Nevada on April 3, 2000. On December 11, 2008, the Nevada Secretary of State effected a name change which had been previously approved by the majority of the stockholders on October 28, 2008.

Our company undertakes all of its operations through its wholly-owned subsidiary, PreAxia Health Care Payment Systems Inc. (&#8220;PreAxia Canada&#8221;- formerly H Pay Card Inc). PreAxia Canada, prior to being acquired by PreAxia, was a private corporation incorporated pursuant to the laws of the Province of Alberta on January 28, 2008.

&#160; 4 &#160; 

&#160;

General Overview 

PreAxia Canada is a company which intends to deliver a comprehensive suite of solutions and services directed at the emerging health payment market, specifically the opportunities tied to the growth of health spending accounts (&#8220;HSA&#8221;). There is a rapid shift in healthcare traditional payment models to consumer-directed healthcare that is creating significant opportunities for financial services and insurance industries to deliver new dynamic products to this emerging market.

Spawned by the need to address escalating health care costs, changes in the regulatory environment and the growing consumer desire for greater participation in the management of their health benefits, the boundaries between health care and the financial services industries are becoming increasingly blurred. With the trend towards self-directed health payment solutions and the growing demand for faster, easier and more convenient benefit services, the insurance and benefits industries are banking on HSA medical payments being their next big growth conduit. Studies suggest that HSAs in the US reached $30 billion in assets and 16.7 million consumers in 2015, an increase of more than 20% over the prior year. This coupled with the continued growth of the Canadian group insurance industry illustrates the emerging opportunity for innovative health payment services. We intend to initially launch our products in Canada. We believe that Canadian businesses are embracing a new healthcare financing vehicle to control costs, increase profitability and get more return from their investment. We intend to provide them with services to capture this market opportunity.

Description of Health Spending Account (&#8220;HSA&#8221;) 

An HSA is a uniquely designed bank account established exclusively and specifically for the purpose of health care spending. An employer deposits funds into a special account for the employee. These funds can be used to pay for eligible medical and related health care expenses for the employee and their dependents. HSAs provide employers and employees with greater control in both the amount of funds invested and how these funds are used.

&#160;

Services and infrastructure provided by PreAxia enable organizations and individuals to eliminate all paper involved in the management of these accounts and benefit through savings in time and money.

&#160;

The PreAxia platform for processing and managing accounts, including cardholder and customer account management, reconciliation and financial settlement, and customer reporting is fully operational.

&#160;

Over time, the company will evaluate opportunities for forms of virtual banking and PayPal-type services. One opportunity seen as particularly relevant to the health care market is to offer instant issuing services that enable corporations to issue and fund Pre-Paid Interac or credit card services to beneficiaries in real time. If implemented, the beneficiary will most likely select a personal identification number (&#8220;PIN&#8221;) using a PIN and card activation terminal, thus gaining instant access to funds that can be reloaded. This consideration would require development of software systems for the issuing of health payment cards and financial transaction processing services that would be fully managed by a data center.

Matching of consumers in need of health care products or services with providers is another area PreAxia intends to evaluate. Consumers managing their health care dollars through an online system will find convenience in seeking out health care professionals and services through the same system . 

Distribution Methods and Marketing Strategy 

PreAxia operates on a Cloud Computing Platform that makes it accessible to anyone with a personal computer and Internet access. The preliminary market for PreAxia&#8217;s HSA Management Solution is small and medium sized companies that are not currently well served by the current group benefits model. The financial benefits of the PreAxia business model, however, are also relevant to larger employers and we believe that these larger employers will migrate to the PreAxia product over time.

&#160; 5 &#160; 

&#160;

PreAxia&#8217;s s marketing strategy is to promote its existing platform direct to consumers and businesses, and to the groups that most need access to it. Specifically, independent brokers, financial advisors and small to medium sized businesses need access. Brokers should see PreAxia as a superior method of promoting and supporting HSAs that allow them to earn above average commission rates on invested funds. Financial advisors should see PreAxia in a similar way as brokers except that there is the additional benefit of tax reduction. Small to medium sized businesses, which are expected to drive the growth in business, should see PreAxia as offering financial savings to the company and to employees by offering personal health care benefits through an HSA, along with the same conveniences they have come to expect from other services they currently utilize over the Internet. It is expected that the group benefits market will subsequently follow as they too realize the advantages of PreAxia over their current HSA offerings. PreAxia has begun and will continue to seek opportunities with lead customers and alliance partners to establish reference-able, high-profile implementations and market-leading, early-adopter firms for further developing innovative products and services. The company intends to design solutions targeted towards corporate financial management, financial risk, audit management and cash management while targeting product/service management as a support to financial management.

We anticipate that the prime target for services will be small to medium sized organizations that are not adequately served by the current insurance and group benefits offerings. These organizations should realize significant benefits in both cost and time savings by utilization of PreAxia technology while providing their employees with an increased level of benefits.

PreAxia intends to achieve service volume and the associated economies of scale through marketing directly to select target customers that provide the necessary transaction volumes, through market specific channel partners and through an education based public relations strategy geared to the small to mid-sized employers including the brokers and financial advisors utilized by these businesses. The channel strategy is supported in the solution design, as multiple channel partners will require branding and our company&#8217;s fee charging/collection capabilities.

It is our company&#8217;s intention that brokers and financial advisors will aggressively promote their PreAxia supported HSA offerings due to the quality of product, higher margins and because of the non-competitive relationship with PreAxia.

PreAxia has identified the following &#8220;channels&#8221; through which it will target prime end market customers:

Independent brokers that sell, or desire to sell, Health Spending Accounts

Financial advisors who manage funds and advise on tax saving strategies for individuals and corporations

Managing General Agents that provide services and education to the broker community

Accountants and bookkeepers who regularly advise businesses on financial and operational matters

Benefits managers/adjudicators, including insurance, health or outsourced government benefits processors that manage benefits disbursement

Issuer banks, including partner banks that enable the issuance of Health Cards and/or sell insurance products

Application providers, including software manufacturers selling into the target vertical markets

Professional services, including consulting, development and implementation companies serving the target vertical markets

&#160; 6 &#160; 

&#160;

PreAxia intends to establish several key customer reference accounts, channel marketing partners and technology alliances. These corporate relationships are relevant to advancing our company&#8217;s goals in 2016 and beyond for achieving a prime position in the Canadian marketplace and establishing a solid service foundation.

Competitive Business Conditions and our Company&#8217;s Competitive Position in the Industry and Methods of Competition 

PreAxia intends to offer a combination of products and services in its solution. However, there are other providers of components or versions of the Health Card value proposition in the marketplace. Our company is taking a different approach by providing a high value added and robust capability within specific target markets, rather than the &#8220;one size fits all&#8221; and mass volume approach of the larger companies in the Canadian and international market. The following are some of the leading providers of products and services that are or may be potential competitors in PreAxia&#8217;s target markets:

Canadian Market: 

Pay Linx Financial Corporation is presently inactive, but was a company offering prepaid debit card payment solutions that integrated into the Interac and MasterCard financial networks in North America. Pay Linx Financial Corporation was presently 27.0% owned by Royal Bank of Canada and provided services to Royal Bank of Canada for Canadian governments through QuickLinxTM, replacing cheque and voucher payments. DirectCash Income Fund offers prepaid debit and credit cards and processes cash card transactions. In addition, DirectCash Income Fund provides ATM and debit terminal transaction processing, sales and maintenance. CardOne Plus Ltd. offers prepaid debit card products designed to support merchant specific programs, including card graphics and merchant account management. These products are certified for acceptance on multiple card scheme and ATM networks. HyperWALLET Systems Inc. offers a product offering &#8220;flexible debit card payment solutions&#8221; through Alterna Savings, HSBC and the Credit Union Central of British Columbia, Canada. It also offers pre- authorized debit, credit card, EFT and bill payment services. NextWave Wireless Inc. is a joint venture between Money Mart and DataWave Systems Inc., established to provide card issuance solutions including prepaid debit and credit cards. &#8221;Nextwave Titanium&#8221; prepaid cards issued by Money Mart support loading from Money Mart transactions, such as cheque cashing, bill payment and ATM cash withdrawal. DataWave Systems Inc. provides prepaid card products for scheme cards as well as prepaid phone cards and prepaid wireless airtime. It offers &#8220;instant activation&#8221; through retail point of sale (&#8220;POS&#8221;) terminals. DataWave Systems Inc. is owned by InComm, a global provider of prepaid services. DataWave Systems Inc. also powers the Peoples Trust Company&#8217;s card service initiative, &#8220;HorizonPlus&#8221;, which is the contracted provider of &#8220;Titanium&#8221; card services. &#160; 7 &#160; 

&#160;

&#160;

International Market: 

Orbiscom Inc. is in an alliance with MasterCard to offer &#8220;custom use cards&#8221; that can be issued by MasterCard banks and provides for restricted authorizations (by merchant, merchant type or geography) as well as instant issuance. Comdata Corporation offers &#8220;controlled spending solutions&#8221;, with enhanced authorization and &#8220;real time&#8221; transfer of funds to payees, including government program payments. Affiliated Computer Services Inc. (ACS) is penetrating the U.S. government benefits card issuance marketplace through MasterCard prepaid cards that support &#8220;no fee&#8221; ATM cash withdrawals through participating ATM networks. ACS provides these services for a range of governmental benefits programs. Metavante Corporation is owned by Marshall &#38; Ilsley Corporation and provides a wide range of payments products and services. Blackhawk Network is owned by Safeway and is a provider of the &#8220;gift card mall&#8221;, which can be used at participating merchants only. These cards are Visa, MasterCard or American Express branded and are activated at the POS. InComm is expanding its prepaid card services network &#8220;Fastcard&#8221; through an arrangement with Green Dot Corporation, which is a leading network of reloadable debit cards and processes for the MasterCard &#8220;repower&#8221; POS-based load network for prepaid cards. Intangible Properties 

When negotiating its arrangements with clients, PreAxia intends to ensure that all rights to and ownership of its intellectual property remains with our company. We anticipate that source codes or other proprietary knowledge will be protected through agreements entered into between PreAxia and its employees and contractors, and additional high standards of confidentiality and protection of data are set by clients and regulatory authorities within the industry.

Intellectual Property and Patent Protection 

At present, PreAxia does not have any pending or registered patents or any trademarks.

Research and Development 

For the years ended May 31, 2016, and 2015, we expended $31,643 and $0 on research and development.

Employees 

PreAxia has one full-time consultant, our President, Mr. Tom Zapatinas effective September 1, 2011. We anticipate that we will hire additional key staff throughout 2016/17 in areas of administration/accounting, business development, operations, sales/marketing, and research/development.

