 Item 1. Business 

General 

Franklin Financial Services Corporation (the &#8220;Corporation&#8221;) was organized as a Pennsylvania business corporation on June 1, 1983 and is a registered bank holding company under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (the &#8220;BHCA&#8221;). On January 16, 1984, pursuant to a plan of reorganization approved by the shareholders of Farmers and Merchants Trust Company of Chambersburg (&#8220;F&#38;M Trust&#8221; or &#8220;the Bank&#8221;) and the appropriate regulatory agencies, the Corporation acquired all the shares of F&#38;M Trust and issued its own shares to former F&#38;M Trust shareholders on a share-for-share basis. 

The Corporation&#8217;s common stock is thinly traded in the over-the-counter market. The Corporation&#8217;s stock is listed under the symbol &#8220;FRAF&#8221; www.otcmarkets.com/stock/FRAF/quote ) on the OTCQX Market Tier of the OTC Markets . The Corporation&#8217;s Internet address is www.franklinfin.com . Electronic copies of the Corporation&#8217;s 201 5 Annual Report on Form 10-K are available free of charge by visiting the &#8220;Investor Information&#8221; section of www.franklinfin.com . Electronic copies of quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K are also available at this Internet address. These reports are posted as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). 

The Corporation conducts substantially all of its business through its direct banking subsidiary, F&#38;M Trust, which is wholly owned. F&#38;M Trust, established in 1906, is a full-service, Pennsylvania-chartered commercial bank and trust company, which is not a member of the Federal Reserve System. F&#38;M Trust operates twenty-two community banking offices in Franklin, Cumberland, Fulton and Huntingdon Counties, Pennsylvania. The Bank engages in general commercial, retail banking and trust services normally associated with community banks and its deposits are insured (up to applicable limits) by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (the &#8220;FDIC&#8221;). F&#38;M Trust offers a wide variety of banking services to businesses, individuals, and governmental entities. These services include, but are not necessarily limited to, accepting and maintaining checking, savings, and time deposit accounts, providing investment and trust services, making loans and providing safe deposit facilities. Franklin Future Fund Inc., a direct subsidiary of the Corporation, is a non-bank investment company that makes venture capital investments within the Corporation&#8217;s primary market area. Franklin Financial Properties Corp. is a &#8220;qualified real estate subsidiary&#8221; , a wholly owned subsidiary of F&#38;M Trust and was established to hold real estate assets used by F&#38;M Trust in its banking operations. 

F&#38;M Trust is not dependent upon a single customer or a few customers for a material part of its business. Thus, the loss of any customer or identifiable group of customers would not materially affect the business of the Corporation or the Bank in an adverse manner. Also, none of the Bank&#8217;s business is seasonal. The Bank&#8217;s lending activities consist primarily of commercial real estate, construction and land development, agricultural, commercial and industrial loans, installment and revolving loans to consumers and residential mortgage loans. Secured and unsecured commercial and industrial loans, including accounts receivable and inventory financing, and commercial equipment financing, are made to small and medium-sized businesses, individuals, governmental entities, and non-profit organizations. 

The Bank classifies loans in this report by the type of collateral, primarily residential or commercial and agricultural real estate. Loans secured by residential real estate loans may be further broken down into consumer or commercial purpose. Consumer purpose residential real estate loans represent traditional residential mortgages and home equity products. Both of these products are underwritten in generally the same manner; however, home equity products may present greater risk since many of these loans are secured by a second lien position where the Bank may or may not hold the first lien position. Commercial purpose residential real estate loans represent loans made to businesses, but are secured by residential real estate. These loans are underwritten as commercial loans and the repayment ability may be dependent on the business operation, despite the residential collateral. In addition to the real estate collateral, it is possible that personal guarantees or UCC filings on business assets provide additional security. In certain situations, the Bank acquires properties through foreclosure on delinquent loans. The Bank initially records these properties at the estimated fair value less cost to sell with subsequent adjustments to fair value recorded as needed. 

Commercial and agricultural real estate loans are secured by properties such as hotels, office buildings , apartment buildings, retail sites, and farmland or agricultural related properties. These loans are highly dependent on the business operations for repayment. Compared to residential real estate, this collateral may be more difficult to sell in the event of a delinquency. 

Construction loans are made to finance the purchase of land and the construction of residential and commercial buildings, and are secured by mortgages on real estate. These loans are primarily comprised of loans to consumers to build a home, and loans to contractors and developers to construct residential properties for resale or rental. Construction loans present various risks that include, but are not limited to: schedule delays, cost overruns, changes in economic conditions during the construction period, and the inability to sell or rent the property upon completion. 

Commercial loans are made to businesses and government municipalities of various sizes for a variety of purposes including operations, property, plant and equipment, and working capital. These loans are highly dependent on the business operations for repayment and are generally secured by business assets and personal guarantees. As such, this collateral may be more difficult to sell 

&#160;

in the event of a delinquency. Commercial lending, including commercial real estate, is concentrated in the Bank&#8217;s primary market, but also includes purchased loan participations originated primarily in south-central Pennsylvania. 

Consumer loans are comprised of installment and unsecured personal lines of credit. While some of these loans are secured, the collateral behind the loans is often comprised of assets that lose value quickly (e.g. automobiles) and if repossessed, may not fully satisfy the loan in the event of default. Repayment of these loans is highly dependent on the borrowers&#8217; financial condition that can be affected by economic factors beyond their control and personal circumstances. 

F&#38;M Trust&#8217;s Investment and Trust Services Department offers all of the personal and corporate trust services normally associated with trust departments including: estate planning and administration, corporate and personal trust fund management, pension, profit sharing and other employee benefit funds management, and custodial services. F&#38;M Trust through licensed members of its Investment and Trust Services Department sells mutual funds, annuities and selected insurance products. 

Competition 

The Corporation and its banking subsidiary operate in a highly competitive environment. The principal market of F&#38;M Trust is in south central Pennsylvania, primarily the counties of Franklin, Cumberland, Fulton and Huntingdon. There are 24 competing commercial banks that have offices within the Corporation&#8217;s primary market area. These banks range from large regional banks to independent community banks. In addition, credit unions, savings and loan associations, mortgage banks, brokerage firms and other competitors with only an Internet site are present in the market. The Bank has 22 community offices and approximately 11% of the total deposits in its market . The majority of the Bank&#8217;s loan and deposit customers are in Franklin County. There are 6 commercial bank competitors in Franklin County and the Bank has approximately 31 % of the Franklin County deposit market share. The Bank&#8217;s approximate deposit market share in other counties is: Fulton (3 5 %), Cumberland (3 %) and Huntingdon (2%). &#160; 

Because of increasing competition, profit margins in the traditional banking business of lending and gathering deposits have declined and many nonbanking institutions offer services similar to those offered by the Bank. Some competitors have access to resources (e.g., financial and technological) that are unavailable to the Bank, thereby creating a competitive disadvantage for the Bank in terms of product , service pricing and delivery. The Bank utilizes various strategies including its long history of local customer service and convenience as part of a relationship management culture, a wide variety of products and services and, to a lesser extent, the pricing of loans and deposits, to compete. F&#38;M Trust is the largest financial institution headquartered in Franklin County and had total assets of approximately $1.0 3 6 billion on December 31, 201 5 . 

Staff 

As of December 31, 201 5 , the Corporation and its banking subsidiary had 250 full- time equivalent employees. The officers of the Corporation are employees of the Bank. The Bank offers a 401(k) plan , employee stock purchase plans and incentive compensation plans and employees are also provided with group life and health insurance. Management considers employee relations to be excellent. 

Supervision and Regulation 

Various requirements and restrictions under the laws of the United States and under Pennsylvania law affect the Corporation and its subsidiaries. 

General 

The Corporation is registered as a bank holding company and is subject to supervision and regulation by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System under the Bank Holding Act of 1956, as amended. The Corporation has also made an effective election to be treated as a "financial holding company." Financial holding companies are bank holding companies that meet certain minimum capital and other standards and are therefore entitled to engage in financially related activities on an expedited basis; see further discussion below. Bank holding companies are required to file periodic reports with and are subject to examination by the Federal Reserve. The Federal Reserve has issued regulations under the Bank Holding Company Act that require a bank holding company to serve as a source of financial and managerial strength to its subsidiary banks. As a result, the Federal Reserve, pursuant to such regulations, may require the Corporation to stand ready to use its resources to provide adequate capital funds to its Bank subsidiary during periods of financial stress or adversity. &#160; In addition to the impact of regulation, commercial banks are affected significantly by the actions of the Federal Reserve Board as it attempts to control the money supply and credit availability in order to influence the economy. 

The Bank Holding Company Act prohibits the Corporation from acquiring direct or indirect control of more than 5% of the outstanding shares of any class of voting stock, or substantially all of the assets of any bank, or from merging or consolidating with another bank holding company, without prior approval of the Federal Reserve Board. Additionally, the Bank Holding Company Act prohibits the Corporation from engaging in or from acquiring ownership or control of more than 5% of the outstanding shares of any class of voting stock of any company engaged in a non &#8209;banking business, unless such business is determined by the Federal Reserve Board to be so closely related to banking as to be a proper incident thereto. Federal law and Pennsylvania law also require persons or 

&#160;

entities desiring to acquire certain levels of share ownership (generally, 10% or more, or 5% or more for another bank holding company) of the Corporation to first obtain prior approval from the Federal Reserve and the Pennsylvania Department of Banking and Securities . 

As a Pennsylvania bank holding company for purposes of the Pennsylvania Banking Code, the Corporation is also subject to regulation and examination by the Pennsylvania Department of Banking and Securities . 

The Bank is a state chartered bank that is not a member of the Federal Reserve System, and its deposits are insured (up to applicable limits) by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC). Accordingly, the Bank's primary federal regulator is the FDIC, and the Bank is subject to extensive regulation and examination by the FDIC and the Pennsylvania Department of Banking and Securities . The Bank is also subject to requirements and restrictions under federal and state law, including requirements to maintain reserves against deposits, restrictions on the types and amounts of loans that may be granted and the interest that may be charged thereon, and limitations on the types of investments that may be made and the types of services that may be offered. The Bank is subject to extensive regulation and reporting requirements in a variety of areas, including helping to prevent money laundering, to preserve financial privacy, and to properly report late payments, defaults, and denials of loan applications. 

Community Reinvestment Act 

The Community Reinvestment Act requires the Bank to help meet the credit needs of the entire community where the Bank operates, including low and moderate-income neighborhoods. The Bank's rating under the Community Reinvestment Act (CRA), assigned by the FDIC pursuant to an examination of the Bank, is important in determining whether the bank may receive approval for, or utilize certain streamlined procedures in, applications to engage in new activities. The Bank&#8217;s present CRA rating is &#8220;satisfactory.&#8221; Various consumer laws and regulations also affect the operations of the Bank. 

Capital Adequacy Guidelines 

The Corporation, as a bank holding company, is required to comply with the capital adequacy standards established by Federal Reserve Board. The Bank is required to comply with capital adequacy standards established by the FDIC. In addition, the Pennsylvania Department of Banking and Securities also requires state chartered banks to maintain minimum capital ratios , defined substantially the same as the federal regulations. 

In July 2013, Federal banking regulators approved the final rules from the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision for the regulation of capital requirements for bank holding companies and U.S banks, generally referred to as &#8220;Basel III.&#8221; The Basel III standards were effective for the Corporation and the Bank, effective January 1, 2015 (subject to a phase-in period for certain provisions). Basel III imposes significantly higher capital requirements and more restrictive leverage and liquidity ratios than those previously in place. The capital ratios to be considered &#8220;well capitalized&#8221; under Basel III are: (1) Common Equity Tier1 &#160; (CET1) of 6.5%, (2) Tier 1 Leverage of 5%, (3)Tier 1 Risk-Based Capital of 8%, and (4) Total Risk-Based Capital of 10%. The CET1 ratio is a new capital ratio under Basel III and the Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 8% has been increased from 6%. The rules also include changes in the risk weights of certain assets to better reflect credit and other risk exposures. In addition, a capital conservation buffer will be phased-in beginning January 1, 2016 at 0.125%, increasing each year until fully implemented in 2019 at 2.5% above the minimum capital ratios required to avoid any capital distribution restrictions. The capital conservation buffer will be applicable to all of the capital ratios except for the Tier1 Leverage ratio. When fully implemented, the capital conservation buffer will have the effect of increasing the minimum capital ratios by 2.5%. As of December 31, 2015, the Bank was &#8220;well capitalized&#8217; under the Basel III requirements and believes it would be &#8220;well capitalized&#8221; on a fully-phased in basis had such a requirement been in effect. The minimum capital ratios (shown as &#8220;adequately capitalized&#8221;) and the &#8220;well capitalized&#8221; capital ratios are reported i n Note 2 of the accompanying financial statements. 

Prompt Corrective Action Rules 

The federal banking agencies have regulations defining the levels at which an insured institution would be considered "well capitalized," "adequately capitalized," "undercapitalized," "significantly undercapitalized" and "critically undercapitalized." The applicable federal bank regulator for a depository institution could, under certain circumstances, reclassify a "well &#8209;capitalized" institution as "adequately capitalized" or require an "adequately capitalized" or "undercapitalized" institution to comply with supervisory actions as if it were in the next lower category. Such a reclassification could be made if the regulatory agency determines that the institution is in an unsafe or unsound condition (which could include unsatisfactory examination ratings). At December 31, 201 5 , the Corporation and the Bank each satisfied the criteria to be classified as "well capitalized" within the meaning of applicable regulations. 

Regulatory Restrictions on Dividends 

Dividend payments by the Bank to the Corporation are subject to the Pennsylvania Banking Code, the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, and the regulations of the FDIC. Under the Banking Code, no dividends may be paid except from "accumulated net earnings" (generally, retained earnings). The Federal Reserve and the FDIC have formal and informal policies which provide that insured banks and bank holding companies should generally pay dividends only out of current operating earnings, with some exceptions. The 

&#160;

Prompt Corrective Action Rules, described above, further limit the ability of banks to pay dividends, because banks that are not classified as well capitalized or adequately capitalized may not pay dividends. 

Volker Rule 

In December 2013, Federal banking regulators issued rules for complying with the Volker Rule provision of the Dodd-Frank Act. The Bank does not engage in , or expect to engage in, any transactions that are considered &#8220;covered activities&#8221; as defined by the Volker Rule. Therefore, the Bank does not have any compliance obligations under the Volker Rule. 

Consumer Laws and Regulations 

In addition to the laws and regulations discussed herein, the Bank is also subject to certain consumer laws and regulations that are designed to protect consumers in transactions with banks. While the list set forth herein is not exhaustive, these laws and regulations include the Truth in Lending Act, the Truth in Savings Act, the Electronic Funds Transfer Act, the Expedited Funds Availability Act, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Fair Housing Act, the Real Estate Settlement and Procedures Act, the Fair Credit Reporting Act and the Federal Trade Commission Act, among others. These laws and regulations mandate certain disclosure requirements and regulate the manner in which financial institutions must deal with customers when taking deposits or making loans to such customers. The Bank must comply with the applicable provisions of these consumer protection laws and regulations as part of its ongoing customer relations. 

Consumer Financial Protection Bureau 

The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (&#8220;CFPB&#8221;) was created under the Dodd-Frank Act to centralize responsibility for consumer financial protection with broad rulemaking, supervision, and enforcement authority for a wide range of consumer protection laws that would apply to all banks and thrifts, including the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, Truth in Lending Act (&#8220;TILA&#8221;), Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act (&#8220;RESPA&#8221;), Fair Credit Reporting Act, Fair Debt Collection Act, the Consumer Financial Privacy provisions of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, and certain other statues. It is likely that future CFPB rulemaking action will affect the Bank. Banks with total assets less than $10 billion are not subject to examination by the CFPB. However, the CFPB can require any bank to submit reports it deems necessary to fulfill its mission. 

Ability to Repay / Qualified Mortgages 

In July 2013, the Consumer Finance Protection Bureau adopted the final rules that implement the Ability to Repay (ATR) / Qualified Mortgages (QM) provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act. Regulators believe that the ATR/QM rules will prevent many of the loose underwriting practices that contributed to the mortgage crisis in 2008. The ATR/QM rule applies to almost all closed-end consumer credit transactions secured by a dwelling. The ATR rule provides eight specific factors that must be considered during the underwriting process. QMs generally have three types of requirements: restrictions on loan features, points and fees, and underwriting criteria. A QM is presumed to comply with the ATR requirements. The ATR/QM rule wa s effective January 10, 2014 . &#160; 

Commercial Real Estate Guidance 

In December 2015, the federal banking agencies released a &#8220;Statement on Prudent Risk Management for Commercial Real Estate Lending&#8221; (the &#8220;CRE Statement&#8221;). The agencies stated that financial institutions should review their policies and practices related to CRE lending and should maintain risk management practices and capital levels commensurate with the level and nature of their CRE concentration risk, including maintaining underwriting discipline and exercising prudent risk management practices that identify, measure, monitor and manage the risks arising from their CRI lending activity. Financial i nstitutions were directed to review the interagency guidance on &#8220;Concentrations in Commercial Real Estate Lending, Sound Risk Management Practices&#8221; issued in 2006 providing that a financial institution is potentially exposed to significant CRE concentration risk, and should employ enhanced risk management practices where (1) total CRE loans represent 300% or more of total capital, and (2) the outstanding balance the CRE loan portfolio has increased by 50% or more during the prior 36 months. The agencies state in the CRE statement that they will focus on those financial institutions that have recently experienced, or whose lending strategy plans for, substantial growth in CRE lending activity, or that operate in markets or loan segments with increasing growth or risk fundamentals. 

Pennsylvania Regulation and Supervision 

In December 2012, the &#8220;Banking Law Modernization Package&#8221; became effective. The law permits banks to disclose formal enforcement actions initiated by the Pennsylvania Department of Banking and Securities, clarifies that the Department has examination and enforcement authority over subsidiaries as well as affiliates of regulated banks, and bolsters the Department&#8217;s enforcement authority over its regulated institutions by clarifying its ability to remove directors, officers and employees from institutions for violations of laws or orders or for any unsafe or unsound practice or breach of fiduciary duty. The Department also may assess civil money penalties of up to $25,000 per violation. 

&#160;

FDIC Insurance 

The Bank is a member of the Deposit Insurance Fund (DIF), which is administered by the FDIC. The FDIC insures deposit accounts at the Bank, generally up to a maximum of $250,000 for each separately insured depositor. The FDIC charges a premium to depository institutions for deposit insurance. This rate is based on the risk category of the institution and the total premium is based on average total assets less average tangible equity. As of December 31, 2015, the Bank was in risk category 1 and its assessment rate was approximately 7 basis points of the assessment base. Dodd-Frank established a new minimum DIF ratio set at 1.35% of estimated insured deposits. The FDIC is required to attain this ratio by September 30, 2020 and its efforts to achieve this ratio could greatly influence future premium rates. &#160; 

Insurance of deposits may be terminated by the FDIC upon a finding that an institution has engaged in unsafe or unsound practices, is in an unsafe or unsound condition to continue operations or has violated any applicable law, regulation, rule, order or condition imposed by the FDIC. We do not currently know of any practice, condition or violation that might lead to termination of our deposit insurance. 

In addition to the FDIC assessments, the Financing Corporation (&#8220;FICO&#8221;) is authorized to impose and collect, with the approval of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, assessments for anticipated payments, issuance costs and custodial fees on bonds issued by the FICO in the 1980s to recapitalize the former Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation. The bonds issued by the FICO are due to mature from 2017 to 2019. The Bank&#8217;s FICO assessment was approximately $ 5 4 thousand in 201 5 and was included in FDIC insurance expense. 

New Legislation 

Congress is often considering new financial industry legislation, and the federal banking agencies routinely propose new regulations. The Corporation cannot predict how any new legislation, or new rules adopted by the federal banking agencies, may affect its business in the future. 

Selected Statistical Information 

Certain statistical information is included in this report as part of Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 

&#160; 

