 ITEM 1. BUSINESS. 

&#160; Unless otherwise provided in this report, all references in this report to "we," "us," "our company," "our," or the "Company" refer to Radius Health, Inc. 

Overview 

We are a science-driven biopharmaceutical company that is committed to developing innovative therapeutics in the areas of osteoporosis, oncology and endocrine diseases. Our lead product candidate, the investigational drug abaloparatide for subcutaneous injection, has completed Phase 3 development for potential use in the reduction of fracture risk in postmenopausal women with osteoporosis and is currently under regulatory review in Europe. Our clinical pipeline also includes an investigational abaloparatide transdermal patch for potential use in osteoporosis and the investigational drug RAD1901 for potential use in hormone-driven, or hormone-resistant, breast cancer, and vasomotor symptoms in postmenopausal women. Our preclinical pipeline includes RAD140, a non-steroidal selective androgen receptor modulator, or SARM, under investigation for potential applications in oncology and multiple conditions where androgen modulation may offer therapeutic benefit. 

Our Investigational Product Candidates 

The following table identifies the investigational product candidates in our current product portfolio, their proposed indication and stage of development: 

* We submitted an MAA in the European Union for abaloparatide-SC in November 2015, which was validated in December 2015. Abaloparatide 

Abaloparatide is an investigational therapy for the potential treatment of women with postmenopausal osteoporosis who are at an increased risk for a fracture. Abaloparatide is a novel 

synthetic peptide analog that engages the parathyroid hormone receptor, or PTH1 receptor, and was selected for clinical development based on its favorable bone building activity. Abaloparatide was created to have a unique mechanism of action with the goal of stimulating enhanced bone building activity including bone formation, increasing bone mineral density, restoring bone microarchitecture and augmenting bone strength. We are developing two formulations of abaloparatide: 

&#149; Abaloparatide-SC&#151; Abaloparatide has completed Phase 3 development for potential use as a daily self-administered injection, which we refer to as abaloparatide-SC. We hold worldwide commercialization rights to abaloparatide-SC, except for Japan. In December 2014, we announced the positive 18-month top-line data from our Phase 3 ACTIVE clinical trial, in which abaloparatide-SC met the primary endpoint with a statistically significant reduction in new vertebral fractures versus placebo, and in June 2015, we announced the positive top-line data from the first six months of the ACTIVExtend clinical trial and the 24-month combined data from ACTIVE and ACTIVExtend. In November 2015, we submitted a marketing authorization application, or MAA, to the European Medicines Agency, or EMA, which was validated and is currently undergoing regulatory review by the EMA. We intend to enter into one or more partnerships or collaborations for the potential commercialization of abaloparatide-SC prior to a commercial launch. We plan to submit a new drug application, or NDA, in the United States, at the end of the first quarter of 2016. Subject to regulatory review and a favorable regulatory outcome, we anticipate the first commercial sales of abaloparatide-SC will take place in 2016. &#149; Abaloparatide-TD&#151; We are also developing abaloparatide-transdermal, which we refer to as abaloparatide-TD, based on 3M's patented Microstructured Transdermal System technology for potential use as a short wear-time transdermal patch. We hold worldwide commercialization rights to the abaloparatide-TD technology. During 2014, we reported progress towards the development of an optimized transdermal patch that may be capable of demonstrating comparability to abaloparatide-SC. In preliminary, nonhuman primate pharmacokinetic studies, we achieved a desirable pharmacokinetic profile, with comparable AUC, Cmax, Tmax and T1/2 relative to abaloparatide-SC. We believe that these results support continued clinical development of abaloparatide-TD toward future global regulatory submissions as a potential post-approval line extension of the investigational drug abaloparatide-SC. We commenced a human replicative clinical evaluation of the optimized abaloparatide-TD patch in December 2015, with the goal of achieving comparability to abaloparatide-SC. We expect to complete our clinical evaluation of the optimized abaloparatide-TD patch during 2016. RAD1901 

RAD1901 is a selective estrogen receptor down-regulator/degrader, or SERD, that at high doses has potential for use as an oral non-steroidal treatment for hormone-driven, or hormone-resistant, breast cancer. RAD1901 is currently being investigated in postmenopausal women with advanced estrogen receptor positive, or ER-positive, HER2-negative breast cancer, the most common form of the disease. The compound has the potential for use as a single agent or in combination with other therapies to overcome endocrine resistance in breast cancer. 

In September 2015, we announced results from a Phase 1 maximum tolerated dose, or MTD, study of RAD1901 in 52 healthy volunteers. In the study, RAD1901 was administered to healthy postmenopausal women in doses ranging from 200mg to 1000mg, and the data showed that RAD1901 was well-tolerated and the overall safety was supportive of continued development. In addition, a subset of subjects that received 18F estradiol positron emission tomography, or FES-PET, imaging demonstrated suppression of the FES-PET signal to background levels after six days of dosing. 

In December 2014, we commenced a Phase 1, multicenter, open-label, two-part, dose-escalation study of RAD1901 in postmenopausal women with advanced ER-positive and HER2-negative breast 

cancer in the United States to determine the recommended dose for a Phase 2 clinical trial and to make a preliminary evaluation of the potential anti-tumor effect of RAD1901. We expect to complete this study by the middle of 2016. Dose escalation is currently ongoing with no dose limiting toxicities to date and we expect to initiate expansion cohorts in 2016. 

In December 2015, we commenced a Phase 1 FES-PET study in patients with metastatic breast cancer in the European Union which includes the use of FES-PET imaging to assess estrogen receptor occupancy in tumor lesions following RAD1901 treatment. 

In July 2015, we announced that early but promising preclinical data showed that our investigational drug RAD1901, in combination with Pfizer's palbociclib, a cyclin-dependent kinase, or CDK, 4/6 inhibitor, or Novartis' everolimus, an mTOR inhibitor, was effective in shrinking tumors. In patient-derived xenograft, or PDx, breast cancer models with either wild type or mutant ESR1, treatment with RAD1901 resulted in marked tumor growth inhibition, and the combination of RAD1901 with either agent, palbociclib or everolimus, showed anti-tumor activity that was significantly greater than either agent alone. We believe that this preclinical data suggests that RAD1901 has the potential to overcome endocrine resistance, is well-tolerated, and has a profile that is well suited for use in combination therapy. 

In January 2016 we entered into a worldwide clinical collaboration with Novartis Pharmaceuticals to evaluate the safety and efficacy of combining RAD1901, with Novartis' investigational agent LEE011 (ribociclib), a CDK 4/6 inhibitor, and BYL719 (alpelisib), an investigational phosphoinositide 3-kinase inhibitor. 

RAD1901 is also being evaluated at low doses as an estrogen receptor ligand for the potential relief of the frequency and severity of moderate to severe hot flashes in postmenopausal women with vasomotor symptoms. We commenced a Phase 2b clinical study of RAD1901 for the potential treatment of postmenopausal vasomotor symptoms in December 2015. 

Our Strategy 

Our goal is to become a leading provider of therapeutics for osteoporosis, cancer and other serious endocrine diseases. To achieve this goal we plan to: 

&#149; Obtain regulatory approval of abaloparatide-SC and establish sales and marketing capabilities to commercialize abaloparatide-SC in the United States. We completed a Phase 3 clinical trial and the first six months of an extension trial of abaloparatide-SC for the potential use in the reduction of fractures in postmenopausal osteoporosis. We submitted an MAA in the European Union for abaloparatide-SC in November 2015, which was validated in December 2015, and plan to submit an NDA for abaloparatide-SC in the United States at the end of the first quarter of 2016. &#149; Selectively pursue partnerships or collaborations to develop and/or commercialize our product candidates. We intend to enter into one or more partnerships or collaborations for the development or commercialization of our product candidates. We intend to establish one or more partnerships or collaborations for the potential commercialization of abaloparatide-SC prior to a commercial launch. &#149; Extend the lifecycle of abaloparatide through the continued development of abaloparatide-TD and additional clinical research. We are developing abaloparatide-TD as a short-wear-time transdermal patch and we anticipate, pending successful development and a favorable regulatory outcome, commercial launch two to three years after the approval and first commercial sale of abaloparatide-SC. We initiated the clinical evaluation of the optimized abaloparatide-TD patch in December 2015, with the goal of achieving pharmacokinetic equivalence to abaloparatide-SC. We expect to complete our clinical evaluation of the optimized abaloparatide-TD patch during 5 

2016. We believe abaloparatide-TD may be submitted for regulatory approval based upon a demonstration of bioequivalence to abaloparatide-SC. Upon completion of clinical evaluation of the optimized abaloparatide-TD patch, we will meet with regulatory agencies to discuss the regulatory path for the abaloparatide-TD program. If our clinical trials of abaloparatide-SC and abaloparatide-TD are successful, we expect to seek marketing approval of abaloparatide-TD as a line extension of abaloparatide-SC. 

We are continuing to evaluate other underserved osteoporosis patient populations that might benefit from abaloparatide therapy. We may engage in additional clinical research to achieve additional labeling to treat these populations. 

&#149; Advance the development of RAD1901 for the treatment of breast cancer and vasomotor symptoms. During 2015, we completed a Phase 1 MTD study of RAD1901 in healthy volunteers, and commenced Phase 1 studies in patients with metastatic breast cancer in the United States and the European Union. Preliminary results show that RAD1901 has a favorable safety and tolerability profile and potential anti-tumor effect. We expect to initiate expansion cohorts in 2016. In addition, we commenced a Phase 2b study of RAD1901 for the treatment of vasomotor symptoms in December 2015. &#149; Continue to expand our product portfolio. We plan to leverage our drug development expertise to discover and develop additional investigational product candidates focused on serious endocrine-related diseases and conditions. We may also consider opportunistically expanding our product portfolio through in-licensing, acquisitions or partnerships. Our Opportunity 

Osteoporosis 

Osteoporosis is a disease characterized by low bone mass and structural deterioration of bone tissue, which leads to greater fragility and an increase in fracture risk. All bones become more fragile and susceptible to fracture as the disease progresses. People tend to be unaware that their bones are getting weaker, and a person with osteoporosis can fracture a bone from even a minor fall. The debilitating effects of osteoporosis have substantial costs. Loss of mobility, admission to nursing homes and dependence on caregivers are all common consequences of osteoporosis. The prevalence of osteoporosis is growing and, according to the National Osteoporosis Foundation, or NOF, is significantly under-recognized and under-treated in the population. While the aging of the population is a primary driver of an increase in cases, osteoporosis is also increasing from the use of drugs that induce bone loss, such as chronic use of glucocorticoids and aromatase inhibitors that are increasingly used for breast cancer and hormone therapies used for prostate cancer. 

The NOF has estimated that 10 million people in the United States, composed of eight million women and two million men, already have osteoporosis, and another approximately 44 million have low bone mass placing them at increased risk for osteoporosis. In addition, the NOF has estimated that osteoporosis is responsible for more than two million fractures in the United States each year resulting in an estimated $19 billion in costs annually. The NOF expects that the number of fractures in the United States due to osteoporosis will rise to three million by 2025, resulting in an estimated $25.3 billion in costs each year. Worldwide, osteoporosis affects an estimated 200 million women according to the International Osteoporosis Foundation, or IOF, and causes more than 8.9 million fractures annually, which is equivalent to an osteoporotic fracture occurring approximately every three seconds. The IOF has estimated that 1.6 million hip fractures occur worldwide each year, and by 2050 this number could reach between 4.5 million and 6.3 million. The IOF estimates that in Europe alone, the annual cost of osteoporotic fractures could surpass &#8364;76 billion by 2050. 

In 2015, total sales of branded osteoporosis drugs approximated $6.4 billion, worldwide, of which more than $3.0 billion was attributable to injectable therapies (Source: EvaluatePharma, February 2016, Evaluate Ltd, www.evaluate.com). There are two main types of osteoporosis drugs currently available in the United States, anti-resorptive agents and anabolic agents. Anti-resorptive agents act to prevent further bone loss by inhibiting the breakdown of bone, whereas anabolic agents stimulate bone formation to build new bone. We believe there is a large unmet need in the market for osteoporosis treatment because existing therapies have been reported to have shortcomings in efficacy, tolerability and convenience. For example, one current standard of care, bisphosphonates, which are anti-resorptive agents, has been associated with infrequent but serious adverse events, such as osteonecrosis of the jaw and atypical fractures, especially of long bones. These side effects, although uncommon, reportedly have created increasing concern with physicians and patients. Many physicians are seeking alternatives to bisphosphonates. Lilly's Forteo/Forsteo and Amgen's Prolia are the two primary alternatives to bisphosphonates that are approved for the treatment of osteoporosis. In 2015, Forteo/Forsteo had reported worldwide sales of approximately $1.3 billion, $0.6 billion in the U.S. and $0.7 billion outside of the U.S., and Prolia had reported sales of approximately $1.3 billion, $0.8 billion in the U.S. and $0.5 billion outside of the U.S. Forteo, a 34 amino acid recombinant peptide of human parathyroid hormone, is the only anabolic drug approved in the United States for the treatment of osteoporosis. 

Today, the treatment of osteoporosis has no clear consensus goals for BMD, bone turnover biomarkers or fracture risk. Patients suffering from osteoporosis are generally treated with a bisphosphonate first, regardless of their initial BMD or fracture risk in order to preserve bone. Those patients that have already suffered from a fracture, lost BMD, or cannot tolerate or comply with bisphosphonate therapies may progress to other therapies such as a RANK-L inhibitor (denosumab) or anabolic therapy (such as teriparatide). Anabolic bone building agents have been reserved primarily for patients with the most severe BMD loss or who fail (i.e. fracture) on prior anti-resportives. The current anti-resorptive treatment paradigm means that the majority of patients only maintain their bone mass without having a sustained benefit in terms of fracture reduction. 

We believe there is substantive effort underway to update osteoporosis treatment guidelines towards goal directed therapy that could improve outcomes for both patients and payers. In this new potential goal directed paradigm, patients may be stratified by severity of BMD and fracture risk in order to create an individualized treatment plan based on achieving a target goal (either BMD or improved 10 year fracture risk reduction). Patients will then be offered therapies that reduce the near term, higher risk of fracture and then monitored periodically to ensure they remain at goal (i.e. the lowest possible achievable fracture risk score). 

We believe there is a significant opportunity for anabolic agents that have the potential to provide early, extensive and durable effects on both BMD and fracture risk compared to other approve therapies, with the potential added advantages of convenience and safety. With the addition of new guidelines, expanding research, increased diagnosis effort, higher awareness of the long term risk associated with osteoporotic fracture, and new, more effective therapies we believe osteoporosis treatment will expand and thus our potential commercial opportunity. 

Our Investigational Drug&#151;Abaloparatide 

Abaloparatide is a novel synthetic peptide analog that engages the PTH1 receptor and was selected for clinical development based on its favorable bone building activity. Parathyroid hormone, or PTH, analogs (like Forteo (teriparatide) and parathyroid hormone-related protein, or PTHrP) represent a family of proteins and peptides that share regions of partial or complete amino acid sequence similarity. The first 34 amino acids of PTH analogs contain the binding site for engaging the PTH1 receptor. Abaloparatide is a unique 34 amino acid PTH analog that has 41% homology (i.e. amino acid similarity) to Forteo (teriparatide) and has 76% homology to the first 34 amino acids 

of PTHrP. Abaloparatide is manufactured using organic chemistry techniques to create the 34 amino acid peptide. 

Abaloparatide was created to have a unique mechanism of action with the goal of stimulating enhanced bone building activity including bone formation, increasing bone mineral density, restoring bone microarchitecture and augmenting bone strength. We believe that abaloparatide is the most advanced PTH analog in clinical development for the treatment of osteoporosis and that, subject to regulatory review and approval, it could have the potential to provide the following advantages over other current standard of care treatments for osteoporosis: 

&#149; improved efficacy&#151;greater bone build at hip and spine with lower vertebral and non-vertebral fracture risk; &#149; earlier onset of building bone; &#149; shorter treatment duration; &#149; no refrigeration of multi-dose injection pen; and &#149; less hypercalcemia. We acquired and maintain exclusive worldwide rights, excluding development and commercialization rights for Japan, to certain patents, data and technical information related to abaloparatide through a license agreement with an affiliate of Ipsen Pharma SAS, or Ipsen. 

We are developing two formulations of abaloparatide: abaloparatide-SC, an injectable subcutaneous formulation of abaloparatide, and abaloparatide-TD, a line extension of abaloparatide-SC in the form of a convenient, short-wear-time, transdermal patch. 

We believe that the results from our Phase 3 ACTIVE clinical trial and the first six months of our ACTIVExtend clinical trial, have demonstrated the improved efficacy of abaloparatide relative to teriparatide (Forteo/Forsteo) in treating osteoporosis, while still maintaining a well-tolerated long-term safety profile. In November 2015, we submitted an MAA in Europe, which was validated in December 2015, and are on track to submit an NDA in the United States, at the end of the first quarter of 2016. 

During 2014, we reported progress towards the development of an optimized, short-wear-time transdermal patch that may be capable of demonstrating comparability to abaloparatide-SC injection. In preliminary, nonhuman primate pharmacokinetic studies, we observed a favorable pharmacokinetic profile, with comparable AUC, Cmax, Tmax and T1/2 relative to abaloparatide-SC. We believe that these results support continued clinical development of abaloparatide-TD toward future global regulatory submissions as a potential post-approval line extension of the investigational drug abaloparatide-SC. We commenced the clinical evaluation of the optimized abaloparatide-TD patch at the end of 2015, with the goal of achieving comparability to abaloparatide-SC. If our clinical trials of abaloparatide-SC and abaloparatide-TD are successful, we expect to seek marketing approval of abaloparatide-TD as a line extension of abaloparatide-SC. We believe abaloparatide-TD may be submitted for regulatory approval based upon a demonstration of bioequivalence to abaloparatide-SC. Upon completion of clinical evaluation of the optimized abaloparatide-TD patch, we will meet with regulatory agencies to discuss the regulatory path for the abaloparatide-TD program. The FDA's approval of abaloparatide-TD, and the timing of any such approval, is dependent upon the approval of abaloparatide-SC. 

Abaloparatide-SC Phase 3 Clinical Trial 

In 2014, we completed a multicenter, multinational, double-blind, placebo-controlled Phase 3 clinical trial of abaloparatide-SC, or the ACTIVE trial, in which 2,463 postmenopausal women aged 49 

to 86 received daily doses of one of the following: 80 &#181;g of abaloparatide, a matching placebo, or the approved dose of 20 &#181;g of Forteo for 18 months. 

On February 15, 2012, we received a letter from the FDA stating that, after internal consideration, it believes that a minimum of 24-month fracture data are necessary for approval of new products for the treatment of postmenopausal osteoporosis. We subsequently met with the FDA on March 21, 2012 to discuss satisfying the 24-month data request while preserving the current 18-month primary endpoint. Based upon our discussion with the FDA, we believe that the 18-month primary endpoint will be acceptable, provided that our NDA includes the 24-month fracture data derived from a 6-month extension of the abaloparatide 80 &#181;g and placebo groups in our Phase 3 study during which patients received an approved alendronate (generic Fosamax) therapy for osteoporosis management. Accordingly, patients from the abaloparatide-SC and placebo groups from our ACTIVE trial were eligible to continue in an extension study, or the ACTIVExtend trial, in which they received 70 mg once weekly of an approved alendronate therapy for osteoporosis management. We intend to submit the NDA with the 24-month fracture data at the end of the first quarter of 2016. 

The ACTIVE trial was designed to evaluate as the primary endpoint whether abaloparatide-SC is superior to placebo for prevention of vertebral fracture. The top-line results of the 18-month ACTIVE trial showed that abaloparatide-SC met the primary endpoint with a statistically significant 86% reduction in new vertebral fractures versus placebo, and Forteo met the same endpoint with a statistically significant 80% reduction. On the secondary endpoints, as compared to placebo, abaloparatide achieved a statistically significant reduction of 43% in non-vertebral fracture; a statistically significant reduction of 43% in the clinical fracture; and a significant difference in the time to first incident of non-vertebral fracture and clinical fracture. 

An exploratory analysis of the ACTIVE trial showed that, for major osteoporotic fractures, there was a statistically significant 70% reduction in major osteoporotic fractures for the abaloparatide treatment group versus placebo, and a statistically significant 55% reduction in major osteoporotic fractures for the abaloparatide-SC treatment group as compared to Forteo over the 18-month period. 

The results from the first six months of the ACTIVExtend study showed that the group previously treated with abaloparatide-SC had no new vertebral fractures during the first six months of receiving alendronate. From the start of the ACTIVE trial, this group showed a statistically significant 87% reduction in new vertebral fractures, a 52% reduction in non-vertebral fractures, a 45% reduction in clinical fractures and a 58% reduction in major osteoporotic fractures over the 24-month period, as compared to placebo. 

Abaloparatide-SC Phase 2 Clinical Trial 

In 2009, we completed a randomized, placebo-controlled, parallel group dose-finding Phase 2 study in the United States, Argentina, India and the United Kingdom. Data from our Phase 2 study showed abaloparatide produced faster and greater BMD increases at the spine and the hip after six months and 12 months of treatment than did Forteo, which was a comparator in our study. Key findings were that the highest dose of abaloparatide tested of 80 &#181;g increased mean lumbar spine BMD at six months and 12 months by 6.7% and 12.9% compared to the increases seen with Forteo trial arms of 5.5% and 8.6%, respectively. Abaloparatide also produced increases in mean femoral neck BMD at the hip at six months and 12 months of 3.1% and 4.1% compared to increases for Forteo of 1.1% and 2.2%, respectively. Abaloparatide was generally safe and well tolerated in this study, with adverse events similar between abaloparatide, placebo and Forteo groups. In addition, the occurrence of hypercalcemia as a side effect for the 80 &#181;g dose of abaloparatide was half that seen with Forteo. 

Abaloparatide-SC Phase 1 Clinical Trials 

We have completed seven Phase 1 clinical trials of abaloparatide-SC. Together with our Phase 2 and Phase 3 clinical trials, over 1,500 patients have received any dose/route of abaloparatide. The results of our Phase 1 clinical trials suggest that abaloparatide-SC is safe and well tolerated at doses of up to 240 m g administered once daily. 

Abaloparatide-TD Phase 2 Clinical Trial 

In 2013, we completed a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, Phase 2 clinical trial of abaloparatide administered via a coated transdermal microarray delivery system in healthy postmenopausal women with osteoporosis. This study was conducted in nine centers in the United States, Denmark, Poland and Estonia. The primary objective of this study was to determine the clinical safety and efficacy of abaloparatide-TD as assessed by changes in BMD when compared to a transdermal placebo and abaloparatide-SC. The results showed that for each abaloparatide-TD dose there was a statistically significant mean percent increase from baseline in BMD at the lumbar spine, as compared to placebo. For the 100 &#181;g and 150 &#181;g abaloparatide-TD doses, there was also a statistically significant mean percent increase from baseline in BMD at the hip, as compared to placebo. The highest abaloparatide-TD dose of 150 &#181; g produced increases in BMD from baseline in the lumbar spine and total hip of +2.9% and +1.5%, respectively, compared to changes in the placebo group of +0.04% and &#150;0.02%, respectively. In addition, there was a consistent dose effect seen with increasing doses of abaloparatide-TD, with a statistically significant dosing trend seen for changes in both spine and total hip BMD. Further, the overall tolerability and safety profile was acceptable; there were no clinically significant signs of anti-abaloparatide antibodies; and patient ratings of patch adhesion and local skin response to the transdermal patch technology were also acceptable. 

Abaloparatide-TD Phase 1 Clinical Trials 

We have completed three Phase 1 clinical trials that collectively evaluated the safety, PK, time course of delivery and dose ranging of abaloparatide-TD. Abaloparatide-TD was characterized by a rapid release of abaloparatide with a faster time to reach peak concentration as well as more rapid elimination in plasma compared to abaloparatide-SC. Peak transdermal drug levels were consistent with abaloparatide-SC. An optimal wear time of five minutes or less was identified as well as effective sites of application. Abaloparatide-TD showed an increase in the bone-formation marker P1NP in serum after seven days of exposure, consistent with bone-building activity, and was shown to be safe and well tolerated in all doses studied. 

Preclinical Pharmacology of Abaloparatide 

We have completed several preclinical studies of abaloparatide, and we observed the following: 

&#149; abaloparatide was a potent selective agonist of the human PTH type 1 receptor (PTHR1), with binding selectivity for the RG vs R0 receptor conformation compared to PTH(1-34) and greater selectivity than PTHrP(1-34); &#149; in models of calcium mobilization, abaloparatide has significantly less calcium mobilizing activity at higher doses than PTHrP(1-34), and less activity than PTH(1-34); &#149; abaloparatide-SC stimulated the formation of normal, well-organized bone and restored BMD in ovariectomized, or OVX, osteopenic rats and primates; mechanical testing of bones from OVX rats after treatment with abaloparatide-SC revealed a significant increase in femur and vertebral bone strength; similar studies in rats with abaloparatide-TD showed comparable restoration of bone; &#149; abaloparatide-SC was generally well tolerated over a wide range of doses in two species, rats and primates, for up to six months and nine months, respectively; and &#149; safety pharmacology studies showed no respiratory, gastroenterologic, hematologic, renal or central nervous system effects. A two-year subcutaneous injection carcinogenicity study of abaloparatide in Fischer 344 albino rats was conducted to assess the carcinogenic potential of abaloparatide. The study was conducted according 

to the provisions set forth in Guidance ICH-S1A, ICH-S1B and ICH-S1C(R2), and the design was accepted under a Special Protocol Assessment by the FDA on July 15, 2009. This study evaluated three abaloparatide dose levels. The doses were selected based upon findings and tolerance in completed long-term rat toxicology studies and the anticipated tolerance over a two-year dosing period. Furthermore, the doses represent an exposure multiple over maximum clinical doses. The study included a cohort of rats being dosed with a daily subcutaneous injection of PTH(1-34) as a positive control, as it was anticipated that osteosarcomas would be observed with this treatment, as previously published for both rhPTH(1-34) and rhPTH(1-84) in similar two-year rat carcinogenicity studies. The positive control served to provide confirmation of the sensitivity of the model. The results of the study revealed osteosarcomas in our carcinogenicity study in both the abaloparatide and PTH(1-34) treated groups, with similar frequency between abaloparatide and PTH(1-34) when comparing comparable exposure multiples to the human therapeutic dose. 

We have also conducted one preclinical bone quality study in OVX rats with 12 months of daily abaloparatide-SC dosing and a second preclinical bone quality study in adult OVX monkeys for 16 months. The primary objective of these studies was to determine the long-term treatment effects of abaloparatide-SC on bone quality. Effects on bone mass, both cortical bone and cancellous bone, were assessed by BMD and peripheral quantitative CT, and bone strength was determined by biomechanical testing. The mechanisms by which abaloparatide affects bone were assessed by evaluation of biomarkers of bone turnover and histomorphometric indices of bone turnover. Data from the 12-month rat study showed marked, dose dependent increases in BMD following abaloparatide treatment, increases in bone formation markers, but not bone resorption, and an increase in bone strength. 

Results from the 16-month monkey OVX study have also shown significant BMD gains, together with increases in bone strength. 

Breast Cancer 

According to the World Health Organization, breast cancer is the second most common cancer in the world and the most prevalent cancer in women, accounting for 16% of all female cancers. The major cause of death from breast cancer is metastases, most commonly to the bone, liver, lung and brain. Approximately 30% of early-stage patients develop metastatic disease, and of those patients 90% relapse between therapy levels. About 5% of patients have distant metastases at the time of diagnoses, and these patients have a five-year survival rate of only 25%, compared with a greater than 99% survival rate for patients with only local disease. Importantly, even patients without metastases at diagnosis are at risk for developing metastases over time. 

Approximately 70% of breast cancers express the ER and depend on estrogen signaling for growth and survival. Patients with ER-positive breast cancers are typically treated with endocrine therapies. There are three main classes of therapies for ER-positive tumors available: aromatase inhibitors, or AIs; selective estrogen receptor modulators, or SERMs; and selective estrogen receptor degraders, or SERDs. AIs, which block the generation of estrogen, and SERMs, which selectively inhibit an ER's ability to bind estrogen, both block ER-dependent signaling but leave functional ERs present on breast cancer cells. For this reason, although AIs and SERMs are effective treatments for some breast cancers, some patients often acquire resistance to them by developing the ability to signal through the ER in a ligand-independent manner. In contrast, SERDs are a class of endocrine therapies that directly induce ER degradation. Therefore, SERDs should have the potential to treat ER-dependent tumors without allowing ligand-independent resistance to develop, and to act on AI- and SERM-resistant ER-positive tumors. 

Currently only one SERD, fulvestrant, is approved for the treatment of ER-positive metastatic breast cancer. We believe a significant opportunity exists for new oral therapies that do not allow ligand-independent resistance to develop and can more effectively treat ER-positive breast cancer. 

Our Investigational Drug&#151;RAD1901 

RAD1901 is a SERD that at high doses has potential for use as an oral non-steroidal treatment for hormone-driven, or hormone-resistant, breast cancer. RAD1901 is currently being investigated in postmenopausal women with advanced ER-positive, HER2-negative breast cancer, the most common form of the disease. The compound has the potential for use as a single agent or in combination with other therapies to overcome endocrine resistance in breast cancer. RAD1901 selectively binds to and degrades the estrogen receptor. In preclinical models of ER-positive breast cancer, RAD1901 has shown potent anti-tumor activity and complete degradation of the ER and progesterone receptor, an ER-regulated gene. RAD1901 has shown good tissue selectivity in preclinical models and does not appear to stimulate the uterine endometrium while it appears to protect against bone loss in an ovariectomy-induced osteopenia rat model. When RAD1901 was used in combination with other approved breast cancer agents such as everolimus, an mTOR inhibitor, or the inhibitor palobciclib, a CDK 4/6 inhibitor, greater tumor shrinkage in PDx animal models was achieved than with the agents alone. In addition, RAD1901 has been shown to effectively inhibit tumor growth in PDx models that harbor mutations in the ER, a potential mechanism of endocrine therapy resistance. In a healthy volunteer study, FES-PET imaging was used to assess how much RAD1901 has engaged in the ER, RAD1901 showed suppression of the FES-PET signal to background levels after six days of dosing. 

Studies with RAD1901 have established the PK profile, including demonstration of good oral bioavailability. We believe that, subject to successful development, regulatory review and approval, RAD1901 could have the potential to offer the following advantages over other current standard of care treatments for ER-positive breast cancer: 

&#149; ability to suppress estrogen receptor turnover; &#149; favorable tolerability profile; &#149; oral administration; and &#149; treatment of hormone-resistant breast cancers. We exclusively licensed the worldwide rights to RAD1901 from Eisai Co. Ltd., or Eisai. 

Phase 1 Studies&#151;Breast Cancer 

In September 2015, we announced results from a Phase 1 maximum tolerated dose, or MTD, study of RAD1901 in 52 healthy volunteers. In the study, RAD1901 was administered to healthy postmenopausal women in doses ranging from 200mg to 1000mg, and the data showed that RAD1901 was well-tolerated and the overall safety was supportive of continued development. In addition, a subset of subjects that received 18F estradiol positron emission tomography, or FES-PET, imaging demonstrated suppression of the FES-PET signal to background levels after six days of dosing. 

In December 2014, we commenced a Phase 1, multicenter, open-label, two-part, dose-escalation study of RAD1901 in postmenopausal women with advanced ER-positive and HER2-negative breast cancer in the United States to determine the recommended dose for Phase 2 studies and to make a preliminary evaluation of the potential anti-tumor effect of RAD1901. We expect to complete this study by the middle of 2016. Dose escalation is currently ongoing with no dose limiting toxicities to date, and we expect to initiate expansion cohorts in 2016. 

In December 2015, we commenced a Phase 1 FES-PET study in patients with metastatic breast cancer in the European Union which includes the use of FES-PET imaging to assess estrogen receptor occupancy in tumor lesions following RAD1901 treatment. 

In January 2016 we entered into a worldwide clinical collaboration with Novartis Pharmaceuticals to evaluate the safety and efficacy of combining RAD1901, with investigational agent LEE011 

(ribociclib), a CDK 4/6 inhibitor and BYL719 (alpelisib), an investigational phosphoinositide 3-kinase inhibitor. 

Preclinical Pharmacology of RAD1901 

RAD1901 has been shown to bind with good selectivity to the ER alpha, or ER a , and to have both estrogen-like and estrogen antagonist effects in different tissues. RAD1901 has also been shown to have estrogen-like behavioral effects in an animal model of partner preference and to reduce vasomotor signs in an animal model of menopausal hot flashes. In bone, RAD1901 protected against gonadectomy-induced bone loss. RAD1901 does not stimulate the endometrium, as shown in short- and long-term animal models, where changes in uterine weight, uterine epithelial thickness, and C3 gene expression are measured, all of which are sensitive indicators. In studies in which an estrogen is used to stimulate the endometrium, RAD1901 antagonizes this estrogen-mediated stimulation of the endometrium. In cell culture, RAD1901 does not stimulate replication of breast cancer cells, and antagonizes the stimulating effects of estrogen on cell proliferation. Furthermore, in breast cancer cell lines a dose dependent down regulation of ER a is observed, a process we have shown to involve proteosomal-mediated degradation pathway. In a model of breast cancer, in which human breast cancer cells are implanted in mice and allowed to establish tumors in response to estrogen treatment, we observed that treatment with RAD1901 results in decreased tumor growth. 

In July 2015, we announced that early but promising preclinical data show that our investigational drug RAD1901, in combination with Pfizer's palbociclib, a CDK 4/6 inhibitor, or Novartis' everolimus, an mTOR inhibitor, was effective in shrinking tumors. In PDx breast cancer models with either wild type or mutant ESR1, treatment with RAD1901 resulted in marked tumor growth inhibition, and the combination of RAD1901 with either agent, palbociclib or everolimus, showed anti-tumor activity that was significantly greater than either agent alone. 

Our Investigational Drug&#151;RAD140 

RAD140 is a potent, orally bioavailable non-steroidal SARM that resulted from an internal drug discovery program focused on the androgen receptor pathway, which is highly expressed in many ER-positive and ER-negative breast cancers. Due to its receptor and tissue selectivity, potent oral activity and long duration half-life, RAD140 could have clinical potential in the treatment of oncology and multiple conditions where androgen modulation may offer therapeutic benefit. 

Vasomotor symptoms 

Vasomotor symptoms, such as hot flashes, hot flushes and night sweats, are common during menopause, with up to 85% of women experiencing them during the menopause transition, for a median duration of four years. An estimated two million women go through menopause every year in the United States, with a total population of 45 million postmenopausal women. In addition, most women receiving systemic therapy for breast cancer suffer hot flashes, often with more severe or prolonged symptoms than women experiencing natural menopause. These symptoms can disrupt sleep and interfere with quality of life. 

Historically hormone replacement therapy, or HRT, with estrogen and/or progesterone has been considered the most efficacious approach to relieving menopausal symptoms such as hot flashes. However, data from the Women's Health Initiative, or WHI, identified increased risks for malignancy and cardiovascular disease associated with estrogen therapy. Sales of HRT declined substantially after the release of the initial WHI data, but HRT remains the current standard of care for many women suffering from hot flashes. However, due to concerns about the potential long-term risks and contraindications associated with HRT, we believe that there is a significant need for new therapeutic options to treat vasomotor symptoms. 

Our Investigational Drug&#151;RAD1901 

RAD1901 is also being evaluated at low doses as an estrogen receptor ligand for the potential relief of the frequency and severity of moderate to severe hot flashes in postmenopausal women with vasomotor symptoms. We believe that the studies completed to date have demonstrated RAD1901's acceptable safety profile and potential to reduce or prevent hot flashes associated with menopause, while simultaneously providing a bone-protective effect, without stimulating breast or uterine tissues. 

We commenced a Phase 2b clinical study of RAD1901 for the potential treatment of postmenopausal vasomotor symptoms in December 2015. We plan to enroll 300 healthy postmenopausal women between the ages of 40 and 65 years old with moderate to severe hot flashes in approximately sixty clinical sites across the United States. 

Phase 2 Study&#151;Vasomotor Symptoms 

A Phase 2 proof-of-concept study was conducted in 100 healthy perimenopausal women using four doses of RAD1901 (10 mg, 25 mg, 50 mg and 100 mg) and placebo. The primary study outcome was reduction in the frequency and severity of moderate and severe hot flashes. While a classic dose-response effect was not demonstrated, efficacy was determined to occur at the 10 mg dose level which achieved a statistically significant reduction in the frequency of moderate and severe hot flashes both by linear trend test and by comparison to placebo and in overall (mild-moderate-severe) hot flashes at either the two-, three- or four-week time-points. A similar reduction in composite score (frequency &#215; severity of hot flashes) was identified at all time-points, with a statistically significant difference from placebo achieved at the two-, three- or four-week time-points. Numerical reductions in mean severity and mean daily severity were observed, but did not reach statistical significance. We believe RAD1901 is an attractive candidate for advancement to Phase 3 development as a potential treatment for vasomotor symptoms. 

No serious adverse events, or SAEs, were reported during the course of the study. Overall, 69% of patients had an adverse event, generally mild or moderate in severity, with some evidence of dose dependency, and events were most commonly gastrointestinal symptoms and headaches. Three severe adverse events occurred, one in a placebo patient, none of which were considered treatment related. Two patients discontinued treatment due to an adverse event, neither in relation to the 10 mg dose. 

Phase 1 Study&#151;Vasomotor Symptoms 

We have conducted Phase 1 safety, PK and bioavailability studies of RAD1901 in 80 healthy postmenopausal women over a range of doses. Bioavailability was determined to be approximately 10%. Food effect was also investigated and the presence of food was determined to increase absorption and delay clearance of RAD1901. RAD1901 was generally well tolerated at all dose levels tested. All study-related adverse events were of mild intensity, with some increase in frequency at the higher doses in the multiple dose group, most commonly gastrointestinal symptoms and headaches. There were no SAEs observed. 

Manufacturing 

We do not own or operate manufacturing facilities for the production of any of our investigational product candidates, nor do we have plans to develop our own manufacturing operations in the foreseeable future. The active pharmaceutical ingredient, or API, of abaloparatide is manufactured on a contract basis by Lonza Group Ltd., or Lonza, using a solid phase peptide synthesis assembly process, and purification by high pressure liquid chromatography. Abaloparatide-SC is supplied as a liquid in a multi-dose cartridge for use in a pen delivery device. The pen delivery device is manufactured by Ypsomed AG. The multi-dose cartridges and pen delivery device are filled, assembled and packaged by Vetter Pharma Fertigung GmbH &#38; Co. Abaloparatide-TD is manufactured by 3M based on their 

patented microneedle technology to administer drugs through the skin, as an alternative to subcutaneous injection. The API of RAD1901 is manufactured for us on a contract basis by Patheon, Inc. 

Manufacturing is subject to extensive regulations that impose various procedural and documentation requirements, which govern record keeping, manufacturing processes and controls, personnel, quality control and quality assurance, among others. Our contract manufacturing organizations are required to manufacture our investigational product candidates under current Good Manufacturing Practice, or cGMP, conditions. cGMP is a regulatory standard for the production of human pharmaceuticals that imposes extensive procedural, substantive and record keeping requirements on the manufacturing process and associated production and testing facilities. 

Intellectual Property 

As of December 31, 2015, we owned or co-owned 11 issued U.S. patents, as well as 29 pending U.S. patent applications and about 39 pending foreign patent applications in Europe and 15 other jurisdictions, and about 22 granted foreign patents. As of December 31, 2015, we had licenses to 8 U.S. patents related to compositions and related uses thereof as well as numerous foreign counterparts to many of these patents and patent applications. 

We strive to protect the proprietary technology that we believe is important to our business, including seeking and maintaining patents intended to cover our investigational product candidates and compositions, their methods of use and processes for their manufacture and any other inventions that are commercially important to the development of our business. We also rely on trade secrets to protect aspects of our business that are not amenable to, or that we do not consider appropriate for, patent protection. 

Our success will significantly depend on our ability to obtain and maintain patent and other proprietary protection for commercially important technology and inventions and know-how related to our business, defend and enforce our patents, preserve the confidentiality of our trade secrets, and operate without infringing the valid and enforceable patents and proprietary rights of third parties. We also rely on know-how and continuing technological innovation to develop and maintain our proprietary position. 

Abaloparatide 

We acquired and maintain exclusive worldwide rights, excluding development and commercialization rights for Japan, to certain patents, data and technical information related to abaloparatide through a license agreement with an affiliate of Ipsen. Composition of matter of abaloparatide is claimed in the United States (U.S. Patent No. 5,969,095), Europe, Australia, Canada, China, Hong Kong, South Korea, New Zealand, Poland, Russia, Singapore, Mexico, Hungary, and Taiwan. These patents have a statutory expiration date of 2016. European Patent No. 0847278, which was included in the license from Ipsen and claimed the composition of matter of abaloparatide, lapsed due to Ipsen's failure to pay annuities. We are pursuing restoration of those patent rights. To date, the patent rights in Austria, Belgium, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Ireland, Italy, the Netherlands, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, and the United Kingdom have been restored. We believe that the data and market exclusivity provided in Europe for a new chemical entity, coupled with the need for a potential competitor to conduct clinical trials will likely provide a longer barrier to entry than the patent protection provided by the original European patent term, which will expire in 2016. The Phase 3 clinical dosage of abaloparatide by the subcutaneous route for potential use in treating osteoporosis is covered by Patent No. 7,803,770 until the statutory term expires October 3, 2027 which we expect will be extended to March 26, 2028 (statutory term extended with 175 days of patent term adjustment due to delays in patent prosecution by the United States Patent and Trademark Office, or USPTO) in the 

United States (not including any patent term extension under the Hatch-Waxman Act). The intended therapeutic formulation for abaloparatide-SC is covered by Patent No. 8,148,333 until 2027 in the United States (not including any patent term extension under the Hatch-Waxman Act). Related patents granted in Australia, China, Israel, Japan, South Korea, Mexico, New Zealand, Russia, Singapore, and Ukraine, and currently pending in Brazil, Canada, Europe, Hong Kong, India, South Korea, Norway, and Singapore, will have a patent expiration date of 2027, not taking into account extension under any applicable laws. Patent applications which cover various aspects of abaloparatide for microneedle application are pending in the United States, Australia, Brazil, Canada, China, Europe, Hong Kong, Israel, India, Japan, South Korea, Mexico, New Zealand, Russia, Singapore, and Ukraine. Any patents that might issue from these applications will have a statutory expiration date in 2032, not taking into account extension under any applicable laws. 

RAD1901 

We exclusively licensed the worldwide rights to RAD1901 from Eisai. US Patent No. 7,612,114 (statutory term expires December 25, 2023 which we expect will be extended up to August 18, 2026 with 967 days of patent term adjustment not taking into account any Hatch-Waxman patent term extensions) covers RAD1901 as a composition of matter as well as the use of RAD1901 for treatment of estrogen-dependent osteoporosis or estrogen-dependent breast cancer. Corresponding patents issued in Australia, Canada and Europe and pending in India will have a statutory expiration date in 2023, not taking into account extension under any applicable laws. Patent applications covering methods of using RAD1901 for the treatment of vasomotor symptoms are issued in the United States (US Patent No. 8,933,130, statutory term expires June 22, 2027, which we expect will be extended up to October 19, 2031 with 1,580 days of patent term adjustment not taking into account any Hatch-Waxman patent term extensions), Canada and Europe; any issued patents will have a statutory expiration date in 2027. Patent applications covering a dosage form have been filed in the United States, Europe, Canada and Mexico, and any claims that might issue from these applications will have a statutory expiration date in 2031. 

RAD140 

The composition of matter of, and methods of using, RAD140 are covered by US Patent No. 8,067,448 (statutory term expires February 19, 2029, which we expect will be extended to September 25, 2029, with 218 days of patent term adjustment due to delays by the USPTO, not taking into account any Hatch Waxman patent term extensions) and U.S. Patent No. 8,268,872 (statutory term expires February 19, 2029 which we expect will be extended to September 25, 2029 with patent term adjustment, subject to a terminal disclaimer of Patent Nos. 8,067,448 and 8,455,525). Related patents have been granted in Australia, Canada, Europe, Japan and Mexico and additional patent applications are pending in Brazil and India. Any patents issued from these filings will have a statutory expiration date in 2029. 

There can be no assurance that an issued patent will remain valid and enforceable in a court of law through the entire patent term. Should the validity of a patent be challenged, the legal process associated with defending the patent can be costly and time consuming. Issued patents can be subject to oppositions, interferences and other third-party challenges that can result in the revocation of the patent or that can limit patent claims such that patent coverage lacks sufficient breadth to protect subject matter that is commercially relevant. Competitors may be able to circumvent our patents. Development and commercialization of pharmaceutical products can be subject to substantial delays and it is possible that at the time of commercialization any patent covering the product has expired or will be in force for only a short period of time following commercialization. We cannot predict with any certainty if any third party U.S. or foreign patent rights, or other proprietary rights, will be deemed infringed by the use of our technology. Nor can we predict with certainty which, if any, of these rights 

will or may be asserted against us by third-parties. Should we need to defend ourselves and our partners against any such claims, substantial costs may be incurred. Furthermore, parties making such claims may be able to obtain injunctive or other equitable relief, which could effectively block our ability to develop or commercialize some or all of our products in the United States and abroad, and could result in the award of substantial damages. In the event of a claim of infringement, we or our partners may be required to obtain one or more licenses from a third party. There can be no assurance that we can obtain a license on a reasonable basis should we deem it necessary to obtain rights to an alternative technology that meets our needs. The failure to obtain a license may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 

We also rely on trade secret protection for our confidential and proprietary information. No assurance can be given that we can meaningfully protect our trade secrets on a continuing basis. Others may independently develop substantially equivalent confidential and proprietary information or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets. 

It is our policy to require our employees and consultants, outside scientific collaborators, sponsored researchers and other advisors who receive confidential information from us to execute confidentiality agreements upon the commencement of employment or consulting relationships. These agreements provide that all confidential information developed or made known to these individuals during the course of the individual's relationship with us is to be kept confidential and is not to be disclosed to third parties except in specific circumstances. The agreements provide that all inventions conceived by an employee shall be our property. There can be no assurance, however, that these agreements will provide meaningful protection or adequate remedies for our trade secrets in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of such information. 

Our success will depend in part on our ability to obtain and maintain patent protection, preserve trade secrets, prevent third parties from infringing upon our proprietary rights and operate without infringing upon the proprietary rights of others, both in the United States and other territories worldwide. 

Competition 

The development and commercialization of new products to treat the targeted indications of our investigational product candidates is highly competitive, and our products, if approved, will face considerable competition from major pharmaceutical, biotechnology and specialty pharmaceutical companies, including Amgen, UCB S.A., Merck &#38; Co, Novartis, Lilly, Pfizer, Roche, Asahi Kasei, Corium and Zosano, that currently market and/or are seeking to develop products for similar indications. Many of our competitors have substantially more resources than we do, including financial, manufacturing, marketing, research and drug development resources. In addition, many of these companies have longer operating histories and more experience than us in preclinical and clinical development, manufacturing, regulatory and global commercialization. 

Abaloparatide 

There are two main types of osteoporosis drugs currently available in the United States, anti-resorptive agents and anabolic agents. Anti-resorptive agents including bisphosphonates, estrogen, SERMs and Amgen's Prolia are the most common treatments for osteoporosis. Lilly's Forteo, is the only anabolic drug approved in the United States for the treatment of osteoporosis. In addition, there are other organizations working to develop new therapies to treat osteoporosis. In April 2012, UCB and Amgen started a Phase 3 clinical trial program for their anti-sclerostin antibody for the treatment of osteoporosis. We are also aware of at least one biosimilar to Lilly's Forteo, which is currently under review by the EMA. In addition, we are aware that Corium and Zosano are developing a transdermal form of PTH(1-34) that would compete with abaloparatide-TD. 

RAD1901 

RAD1901 for the treatment of breast cancer will face competition from SERDs, CNS-penetrant anti-cancer agents and from chemotherapy derivatives. AstraZeneca's Faslodex is the only SERD currently approved in the United States for the treatment of metastatic breast cancer. In addition, there are other organizations working to develop new therapies to treat metastatic breast cancer, including Roche, which is developing two oral SERD's which are currently in Phase 1 and Phase 2 clinical development. 

RAD1901 for the treatment of vasomotor systems will face competition from recently launched products including Pfizer's Duavee and Premarin, and Noven Therapeutic's Brisdelle. 

We cannot assure you that our current investigational product candidates, if successfully developed and approved, will be able to compete effectively against these, or any other competing therapeutics that may become available on the market. 

Collaborations and License Agreements 

Nordic Bioscience 

Abaloparatide-SC Phase 3 Clinical Trial &#151;We have entered into agreements with Nordic Bioscience Clinical Development VII A/S, or Nordic, to conduct the ACTIVE trial. On March 29, 2011, we entered into a Clinical Trial Services Agreement, or the Clinical Trial Services Agreement. On the same date, we also entered into Work Statement NB-1, as amended on December 9, 2011, June 18, 2012, March 28, 2014, May 19, 2014, July 22, 2014, August 15, 2014 and March 12, 2015, or Work Statement NB-1, and the Stock Issuance Agreement, as amended and restated on May 16, 2011, and as further amended on February 21, 2013, March 28, 2014, and May 19, 2014, or the Stock Issuance Agreement. 

Abaloparatide-SC Phase 3 Clinical Extension Study &#151;On February 21, 2013, we entered into the Work Statement NB-3, as amended on February 28, 2014, March 23, 2015, July 8, 2015 and October 21, 2015, or the Work Statement NB-3. Pursuant to the Work Statement NB-3, Nordic performed the ACTIVExtend trial following the completion of the ACTIVExtend, and, upon completion of the ACTIVExtend trial, an additional period of 18 months of standard-of-care osteoporosis management, or the Second Extension. 

In April 2015, we entered into an amendment to the Work Statement NB-3, or the NB-3 Amendment. The NB-3 Amendment was effective as of March 23, 2015 and provides that Nordic will perform additional services, including monitoring of patients enrolled in the Second Extension. Payments in cash to be made to Nordic under the NB-3 Amendment are denominated in euros and total up to approximately &#8364;4.1 million ($4.5 million). 

Payments in cash to be made to Nordic under the Work Statement NB-3, are denominated in both euros and U.S. dollars and total up to &#8364;11.9 million ($12.9 million) and $1.1 million, respectively. In addition, payments are due to Nordic in connection with the Work Statement NB-3 pursuant to the Stock Issuance Agreement, as discussed below. 

Stock Issuance Agreement &#151;Pursuant to the Stock Issuance Agreement, Nordic agreed to purchase 6,443 shares of our Series A-5 convertible preferred stock, which provided them with the right to receive quarterly stock dividends, payable in shares of our Series A-6 convertible preferred stock, for services rendered under Work Statement NB-1 and Work Statement NB-3. The Stock Issuance Agreement was later amended to provide that in the event an initial public offering of our common stock occurred prior to June 30, 2014, any rights to receive stock dividends in relation to Work Statement NB-1 and Work Statement NB-3, for all periods of time after 2014, would be changed from the right to receive stock to the right to receive a total cash payment of $4.3 million, payable in ten equal monthly installments of $430,000 beginning on March 31, 2015. The amendment also stipulated 

that all consideration to be paid to Nordic pursuant to the Stock Issuance Agreement at any time after the consummation of an initial public offering be payable in cash. As we completed an initial public offering on June 11, 2014, Nordic no longer has the right to receive stock and has been paid in cash for all periods after June 11, 2014. 

3M 

In June 2009, we entered into a Development and Clinical Supplies Agreement with 3M under which 3M is responsible for the development of an abaloparatide-TD product and the manufacture of clinical and toxicology supplies of the abaloparatide-TD product for preclinical, Phase 1 and Phase 2 studies on an exclusive basis during the term of the Development and Clinical Supplies Agreement. In December 2012, we entered into an amendment to the Development and Clinical Supplies Agreement in which 3M agreed to develop and manufacture clinical and toxicology supplies for the Phase 3 abaloparatide-TD clinical study. In addition, 3M agreed that it will not use jointly owned intellectual property developed during and resulting from its work with us on abaloparatide-TD in relation to any other PTH or PTHrP analogue or derivative. We hold exclusive worldwide rights to this use of the 3M transdermal technology. 

We pay 3M for services delivered pursuant to the Development and Clinical Supplies Agreement on a fee-for-service or a fee-for-deliverable basis as specified in the Development and Clinical Supplies Agreement. We have paid 3M approximately $16.7 million, in the aggregate, through December 31, 2015 in respect to services and deliverables delivered pursuant to the Development and Clinical Supplies Agreement. 

The Development and Clinical Supplies Agreement, as amended, provides for services through December 31, 2017, unless it is sooner terminated. Either party may terminate the Development and Clinical Supplies Agreement upon a material breach by the other party unless such other party cures the alleged breach within the notice period specified in the Development and Clinical Supplies Agreement. The Development and Clinical Supplies Agreement contains customary risk allocation clauses with 3M indemnifying us in respect of third-party claims arising from any personal injury to the extent that such claim results from 3M's breach of warranty with respect to abaloparatide-TD meeting applicable specifications; and us indemnifying 3M in respect of third-party claims arising from our or our agent's use, testing or clinical studies of abaloparatide-TD. The Development and Clinical Supplies Agreement contains other customary clauses and terms as are common in similar agreements in the industry. 

Ipsen Pharma 

In September 2005, we entered into a license agreement with Ipsen, as amended on September 12, 2007 and May 11, 2011, or the License Agreement, under which we exclusively licensed certain Ipsen compound technology and related patents covering abaloparatide to research, develop, manufacture and commercialize certain compounds and related products in all countries, except Japan (where we do not hold abaloparatide-SC development and commercialization rights) and France (where our commercialization rights are subject to certain co-marketing and co-promotion rights exercisable by Ipsen, provided that certain conditions included in the License Agreement have been met). Ipsen also granted us an exclusive right and license under the Ipsen compound technology and related patents to make and have made compounds or product in Japan. Ipsen also granted us an exclusive right and license under certain Ipsen formulation technology and related patents solely for purposes of enabling us to develop, manufacture and commercialize compounds and products covered by the compound technology license in all countries, except Japan (where we do not hold abaloparatide-SC development and commercialization rights) and France (where our commercialization rights are subject to certain co-marketing and co-promotion rights exercisable by Ipsen, provided that certain conditions included in the License Agreement have been met). With respect to France, if Ipsen exercises its co-marketing and 

co-promotion rights, then Ipsen may elect to receive a percentage of the net sales of the product by both parties in France (subject to a mid-double digit percentage cap), and Ipsen shall bear a corresponding percentage of the costs and expenses incurred by both parties with respect to such marketing and promotion efforts in France; Ipsen shall also pay us a mid-single digit royalty on Ipsen's allocable portion of net sales of the product by both parties in France. Specifically, we licensed US Patent No. 5,969,095 (statutory term expires March 29, 2016), entitled "Analogs of Parathyroid Hormone," US Patent No. 6,544,949 (statutory term ends March 29, 2016), entitled "Analogs of Parathyroid Hormone," and the corresponding foreign patents and continuing patent applications. European Patent No. 0847278, which was included in the license from Ipsen and claimed the composition of matter of abaloparatide, lapsed due to Ipsen's failure to pay annuities. We are pursuing restoration of those rights. To date, the patent rights in Austria, Belgium, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Ireland, Italy, the Netherlands, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, and the United Kingdom have been restored. We believe that the data and market exclusivity provided in Europe for a new chemical entity, coupled with the need for a potential competitor to conduct clinical trials, will likely provide a longer barrier to entry than the patent protection provided by the original European patent term, which will expire in 2016. 

We also have rights to joint intellectual property related to abaloparatide, including rights to the jointly derived intellectual property contained in US Patent No. 7,803,770 (statutory term expires October 3, 2027 which we expect will be extended to March 26, 2028 with 175 days of patent term adjustment due to delays in patent prosecution by the USPTO), US Patent No. 8,148,333 (statutory term expires October 3, 2027 which we expect will be extended to November 8, 2027 with 36 days of patent term adjustment due to delays in patent prosecution by the USPTO) and related patents and patent applications both in the United States and worldwide that cover the method of treating osteoporosis using the ACTIVE trial dosage strength and form. Two corresponding European applications are pending with claims to the intended therapeutic formulation for abaloparatide-SC. Examination has been requested, and substantive examination has commenced for one application and has not yet commenced for the other one. Upon grant, these patents could be validated in any designated contracting or extension states and potentially could be considered for a Supplemental Protection Certificate depending upon the timing of its grant. Related cases granted in Australia, China, Israel, Japan, South Korea, Mexico, New Zealand, Russia, Singapore, and Ukraine, and currently pending in Brazil, Canada, Europe, Hong Kong, India, South Korea, Norway, and Singapore, will have a patent expiration date of 2027. Patent applications which cover various aspects of abaloparatide for microneedle application are pending in the United States, Australia, Brazil, Canada, China, Europe, Hong Kong, Israel, India, Japan, South Korea, Mexico, New Zealand, Russia, Singapore, and Ukraine. Any patents that might issue from these applications will have a statutory expiration date in 2032, not taking into account extension under any applicable laws. 

In consideration for the rights to abaloparatide and in recognition of certain milestones having been met to date, we have paid to Ipsen an aggregate amount of $1.0 million. The license agreement further requires us to make payments upon the achievement of certain future clinical and regulatory milestones. The range of milestone payments that could be paid under the agreement is &#8364;10.0 million to &#8364;36.0 million ($10.9 million to $39.1 million). Should abaloparatide be approved and subsequently become commercialized, we or our sublicensees will be obligated to pay to Ipsen a fixed five percent royalty based on net sales of the product on a country-by-country basis until the later of the last to expire of the licensed patents or for a period of 10 years after the first commercial sale of the licensed products in such country. The date of the last to expire of the abaloparatide patents licensed from or co-owned with Ipsen, barring any extension thereof, is expected to be March 26, 2028. In the event that we sublicense abaloparatide to a third party, we are obligated to pay a percentage of certain payments received from such sublicensee (in lieu of milestone payments not achieved at the time of such sublicense). The applicable percentage is in the low double digit range. In addition, if we or our sublicensees commercialize a product that includes a compound discovered by us based on or derived 

from confidential Ipsen know-how, we will be obligated to pay to Ipsen a fixed low single digit royalty on net sales of such product on a country-by-country basis until the later of the last to expire of our patents that cover such product or for a period of 10 years after the first commercial sale of such product in such country. The license agreement contains other customary clauses and terms as are common in similar agreements in the industry. 

The License Agreement expires on a country-by-country basis on the later of (1) the date the last remaining valid claim in the licensed patents expires in that country; or (2) a period of 10 years after the first commercial sale of the licensed products in such country, unless it is sooner terminated. 

The License Agreement may be terminated by us with prior notice to Ipsen. The License Agreement may be terminated by Ipsen upon notice to us with immediate effect, if we, in any country of the world, bring an action or proceeding seeking to have any Ipsen patent right declared invalid or unenforceable. The License Agreement can also be terminated by Ipsen if we fail to use reasonable commercial efforts to develop the licensed product for sale and commercialization in those countries within the territory where it is commercially reasonable to do so as contemplated by the License Agreement, or fail to use reasonable commercial efforts to perform our obligations under the latest revised version of the development plan approved by the joint steering committee, or fail to use reasonable commercial efforts to launch and sell one licensed product in those countries within the territory where it is commercially reasonable to do so. Either party may also terminate the License Agreement upon a material breach by the other party unless such other party cures the alleged breach within the notice period specified in the license agreement. Ipsen may terminate the License Agreement in the event that the License Agreement is assigned or sublicensed or in the event that a third party acquires us or in the event that we acquire control over a PTH or a PTHrP compound that is in clinical development or is commercially available in the territory and that, following such assignment, sublicense, acquisition, or acquisition of control by us, such assignee, sublicensee, acquirer or we fail to meet the timetable under the latest revised version of the development plan approved by the joint steering committee under the License Agreement. Any failure to meet such timetable for purposes of such termination clause is deemed a material breach by us. 

The License Agreement contains customary risk allocation clauses with each party indemnifying the other in respect of third-party claims arising out of or resulting from: (1) the gross negligence or willful misconduct of such party, its affiliates, licensees, distributors or contractors; (2) any breach by such party of its representations and warranties or any other provision of the License Agreement or any related agreement; (3) the manufacture on behalf of such party of any licensed product or compound; (4) (in the case of Ipsen) the use, development, handling or commercialization of any licensed compound, licensed product or the Ipsen formulation technology by or on behalf of Ipsen or any of its affiliates, licensees, distributors or contractors; and (5) (in our case) the making, use, development, handling or commercialization of any licensed compound or any licensed product by or on our behalf or any of our affiliates, licensees or contractors. The license agreement contains other customary clauses and terms as are common in similar agreements in the industry. 

Prior to executing the License Agreement for abaloparatide with Radius, Ipsen licensed the Japanese rights for abaloparatide to Teijin Limited, or Teijin, a Japanese pharmaceutical company. Teijin has completed a Phase 2 clinical study of abaloparatide in Japan for the treatment of postmenopausal osteoporosis. 

Eisai 

In June 2006, we exclusively licensed the worldwide rights to research, develop, manufacture and commercialize RAD1901 and related products from Eisai, or the Eisai Agreement. Our license with Eisai did not originally include rights for Japan, however, on March 9, 2015, we entered into an amendment to the Eisai Agreement in which Eisai granted us an exclusive right and license to research, 

develop, manufacture and commercialize RAD1901 in Japan, or the Eisai Amendment. Specifically, we licensed the patent application that subsequently issued as US Patent No. 7,612,114 (statutory term expires December 25, 2023 which we expect will be extended to August 18, 2026 with 967 days of patent term adjustment due to delays by the USPTO), entitled "Selective Estrogen Receptor Modulator," the corresponding foreign patent applications and continuing patent applications. As consideration for the rights to RAD1901, we paid Eisai an initial license fee of $0.5 million. We have also agreed to pay Eisai certain fees in the range of $1.0 million to $20.0 million (inclusive of the $0.5 million initial license fee), payable upon the achievement of certain clinical and regulatory milestones. In consideration for the rights to RAD1901 in Japan, we paid Eisai an initial license fee of $0.4 million upon execution of the Eisai Amendment. The Eisai Amendment also provides for additional payments, payable upon the achievement of certain clinical and regulatory milestones in Japan. 

Under the license with Eisai, as amended by the Eisai Amendment, or the Eisai Agreement, should a product covered by the licensed technology be commercialized, we will be obligated to pay to Eisai royalties in a variable mid-single digit range based on net sales of the product on a country-by-country basis. The royalty rate will be reduced, on a country-by-country basis, at such time as the last remaining valid claim in the licensed patents expires, lapses or is invalidated and the product is not covered by data protection clauses. In addition, the royalty rate will be reduced, on a country-by-country basis, if, in addition to the conditions specified in the previous sentence, lawful generic versions of such product account for more than a specified minimum percentage of the total sales of all products that contain the licensed compound during a calendar quarter. The latest patent to expire, barring any extension thereof, is expected on August 18, 2026. 

We were also granted the right to sublicense with prior written approval from Eisai. If we sublicense the licensed technology to a third party, we will be obligated to pay Eisai, in addition to the milestone fees referenced above, a fixed low double digit percentage of certain fees we receive from such sublicensee and royalties in the low single digit range based on net sales of the sublicensee. The license agreement expires on a country-by-country basis on the later of (1) the date the last remaining valid claim in the licensed patents expires, lapses or is invalidated in that country, the product is not covered by data protection clauses, and the sales of lawful generic version of the product account for more than a specified percentage of the total sales of all pharmaceutical products containing the licensed compound in that country; or (2) a period of 10 years after the first commercial sale of the licensed products in such country, unless it is sooner terminated. 

The Eisai Agreement may be terminated by us with respect to the entire territory with prior notice to Eisai if we reasonably determine that the medical/scientific, technical, regulatory or commercial profile of the licensed product does not justify continued development or marketing. The license agreement can also be terminated by Eisai on a country-by-country basis at any time prior to the date on which we have submitted for either an NDA approval or EMA marketing approval with respect to a licensed product, upon prior written notice to us if Eisai makes a good faith determination that we have not used commercially reasonable efforts to develop the licensed product in the territory having reference to prevailing principles and time scales associated with the development, clinical testing and government approval of products of a like nature to such licensed product, unless such default is cured within the period specified in the Eisai Agreement or if not capable of being cured within such period we commence efforts to cure and make diligent efforts to do so. Either party may also terminate the Eisai Agreement upon a material breach by the other party unless such other party cures the alleged breach within the notice period specified in the Eisai Agreement. Either party may also terminate the Eisai Agreement upon the bankruptcy or insolvency of the other party. Eisai may also terminate the Eisai Agreement with prior notice if we are acquired by, or if we transfer all of our pharmaceutical business assets (or an essential part of such assets) or more than 50% of our voting stock to, any third party person or organization, or otherwise come under the control of, such a person or organization, 

whether resulting from merger, acquisition, consolidation or otherwise in the event that Eisai reasonably determines that the person or organization assuming control of us is not able to perform the Eisai Agreement with the same degree of skill and diligence that we would use, such determination being made with reference to the following criteria with respect to the person or organization assuming control of us: (1) whether such person or organization has the financial resources to assume our obligations with respect to development and commercialization of products; (2) whether such person or organization has personnel with skill and experience adequate to assume our obligations with respect to development and commercialization of products at the stage of development and commercialization as of the date of such change; and (3) whether such person or organization expressly assumes all obligations imposed on us by the Eisai Agreement and agrees to dedicate personnel and financial resources to the development and commercialization of the licensed product that are at least as great as those provided by us. Eisai shall further have the right to terminate if the acquiring person or organization: (a) has any material and active litigations with Eisai; or (b) is a hostile takeover bidder against us which has not been approved by our board of directors as constituted immediately prior to such change of control. 

The Eisai Agreement contains customary risk allocation. We agreed to indemnify Eisai in respect of third-party claims arising out of or resulting from: (1) negligence, recklessness or intentional acts or omissions by us, our affiliates and licensees; (2) any breach by us of a representation, warranty or covenant; and (3) any personal injury arising out of the labeling, packaging, package insert, other materials or promotional claims with respect to any licensed product by us, our affiliates, licensees or distributors in the territory. Eisai agreed to indemnify us for (1) negligence, recklessness or intentional acts or omissions by Eisai or its affiliates and licensees and (2) any breach by Eisai of a representation, warranty or covenant. The license agreement contains other customary clauses and terms as are common in similar agreements in the industry. 

Lonza 

In October 2007, we entered into a Development and Manufacturing Services Agreement with Lonza as amended in May 2011, January 2014 and December 2015, or the Development and Manufacturing Service Agreement. We and Lonza have entered into a series of Work Orders pursuant to the Development and Manufacturing Services Agreement pursuant to which Lonza has performed pharmaceutical development and manufacturing services for our abaloparatide product. We pay Lonza for services rendered and deliverables delivered pursuant to these work orders on a fee for service basis as specified in the applicable work statement. The Development and Manufacturing Services Agreement will expire on March 31, 2016 unless it is sooner terminated, and is subject to renewal by us for successive multiple-year terms with notice to Lonza. 

The Development and Manufacturing Services Agreement or any Work Order may be terminated by either party upon a material breach by the other party with respect to the Development and Manufacturing Services Agreement unless such other party cures the alleged breach within the notice period specified in the Development and Manufacturing Services Agreement. Either party may also terminate a Work Order if force majeure conditions have prevented performance by the other party for more than a specified period of time with respect to such Work Order. Termination of any Work Order for force majeure shall not result in termination of the Development and Manufacturing Services Agreement or any other Work Orders, which shall remain in force until terminated. Either party may also terminate the Development and Manufacturing Services Agreement upon the bankruptcy or insolvency of the other party. We may also terminate the Development and Manufacturing Services Agreement or any Work Order with prior notice to Lonza for convenience. We may also terminate the Development and Manufacturing Services Agreement or any Work Order if we reasonably determine that Lonza is or will be unable to perform the applicable services in accordance with the agreed upon 

timeframe and budget set forth in the applicable Work Order, or if Lonza fails to obtain or maintain any material governmental licenses or approvals required in connection with such services. 

The Development and Manufacturing Services Agreement contains customary risk allocation clauses with each party indemnifying the other in respect of third-party claims arising out of or resulting from: (i) the negligence or willful misconduct of such party, its affiliates and their respective officers, directors, employees and agents in performing its obligations under the Developing and Manufacturing Services Agreement; and (ii) any breach by such party of its representations and warranties under the Development and Manufacturing Services Agreement. We have agreed to indemnify Lonza in respect of third-party claims arising from or relating to the use of our product. 

Government Regulation 

United States&#151;FDA Process 

The research, development, testing, manufacture, labeling, promotion, advertising, distribution and marketing, among other things, of our product candidates are extensively regulated by governmental authorities in the United States and other countries. In the United States, the FDA regulates drugs under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, or the FDCA, and its implementing regulations. Failure to comply with the applicable United States requirements may subject us to administrative or judicial sanctions, such as FDA refusal to approve pending NDAs, warning letters, product recalls, product seizures, total or partial suspension of production or distribution, injunctions, and/or criminal prosecution. We expect abaloparatide, RAD1901 and RAD140 will each be subject to review by the FDA as a drug pursuant to the NDA process, and we currently only have active IND applications in relation to abaloparatide and RAD1901 in the United States. 

Approval Process &#151;None of our drugs may be marketed in the United States until the drug has received FDA approval of an NDA. The steps required to be completed before a drug may be marketed in the United States include, among others: 

&#149; preclinical laboratory tests, animal studies, and formulation studies, all performed in accordance with the FDA's Good Laboratory Practice, or GLP, regulations; &#149; submission to the FDA of an IND application for human clinical testing, which must become effective before human clinical trials may begin and must be updated annually; &#149; adequate and well-controlled human clinical trials to establish the safety and efficacy of the drug for each proposed indication to FDA's satisfaction; &#149; submission to the FDA of an NDA; &#149; satisfactory completion of an FDA pre-approval inspection of one or more clinical trial site(s) at which the drug was studied in a clinical trial(s) to assess compliance with Good Clinical Practices, or GCP, regulations; &#149; satisfactory completion of an FDA pre-approval inspection of the manufacturing facility or facilities at which the drug is produced to assess compliance with cGMP regulations; and &#149; FDA review and approval of the NDA. Preclinical tests include laboratory evaluation of product chemistry, toxicity, and formulation, as well as animal studies. The conduct of the preclinical tests and formulation of the compounds for testing must comply with federal regulations and requirements. The results of the preclinical tests, together with manufacturing information and analytical data, are submitted to the FDA as part of an IND application, which must become effective before human clinical trials may begin. An IND application will automatically become effective 30 days after receipt by the FDA, unless before that time the FDA raises concerns or questions about issues such as the conduct of the trials as outlined in 

the IND application. In such a case, the IND application sponsor and the FDA must resolve any outstanding FDA concerns or questions before clinical trials can proceed. We cannot be sure that submission of an IND application will result in the FDA allowing clinical trials to begin. 

Clinical trials involve the administration of the investigational drug to human subjects under the supervision of qualified investigators. Clinical trials are conducted under GCP pursuant to protocols detailing the objectives of the study, the parameters to be used in monitoring safety, and the effectiveness criteria to be evaluated. Each protocol must be submitted to the FDA as part of the IND application. 

Clinical trials necessary for product approval are typically conducted in three sequential phases, but the Phases may overlap. The study protocol and informed consent information for study subjects in clinical trials must also be approved by an Institutional Review Board, or IRB, for each institution where the trials will be conducted, and each IRB must monitor the study until completion. Study subjects must provide informed consent and sign an informed consent form before participating in a clinical trial. Clinical testing also must satisfy the extensive GCP regulations for informed consent and privacy of individually identifiable information. 

Phase 1 usually involves the initial introduction of the investigational drug into people to evaluate its short-term safety, dosage tolerance, metabolism, pharmacokinetics and pharmacologic actions, and, if possible, to gain an early indication of its effectiveness. Phase 1 studies are usually conducted in healthy individuals and are not intended to treat disease or illness. However, Phase 1b studies are conducted in healthy volunteers or in patients diagnosed with the disease or condition for which the study drug is intended, who present some biomarker, surrogate, or possibly clinical outcome that could be considered for "proof of concept." Proof of concept in a Phase 1b study typically confirms the hypothesis that the current prediction of biomarker, or outcome benefit is compatible with the mechanism of action. 

Phase 2 usually involves trials in a limited patient population to: (1) evaluate dosage tolerance and appropriate dosage; (2) identify possible adverse effects and safety risks; and (3) evaluate preliminarily the efficacy of the drug for specific target indications. Several different doses of the drug may be looked at in Phase 2 to see which dose has the desired effects. Patients are monitored for side effects and for any improvement in their illness, symptoms, or both. 

Phase 3 trials usually further evaluate clinical efficacy and test further for safety by using the drug in its planned commercial form in an expanded patient population. A Phase 3 trial usually compares how well the study drug works compared with an inactive placebo and/or another approved medication. One group of patients may receive the investigational new drug being tested, while another group of patients may receive the comparator drug (already approved drug for the disease being studied), or placebo. 

There can be no assurance that Phase 1, Phase 2 or Phase 3 testing will be completed successfully within any specified period of time, if at all. Furthermore, we or the FDA or an IRB (with respect to a particular study site) may suspend clinical trials at any time on various grounds, including a finding that the subjects or patients are being exposed to an unacceptable health risk. 

Assuming successful completion of the required clinical testing, the results of the preclinical studies and of the clinical studies, together with other detailed information, including information on the manufacture and composition of the drug, are submitted to the FDA in the form of an NDA requesting approval to market the product for one or more proposed indications. The testing and approval process requires substantial time, effort and financial resources. The FDA reviews the application and may deem it to be inadequate, and companies cannot be sure that any approval will be granted on a timely basis, if at all. The FDA may also refer the application to an appropriate advisory committee, typically a panel of clinicians, for review, evaluation and a recommendation as to whether 

the application should be approved. The FDA is not bound by the recommendations of the advisory committee, but the Agency historically has tended to follow such recommendations. 

The FDA has various programs, including fast track designation, breakthrough therapy designation, priority review and accelerated approval, which are intended to expedite or simplify the process for reviewing drugs and/or provide for approval on the basis of surrogate endpoints. Generally, drugs that may be eligible for one or more of these programs are those intended to treat serious or life-threatening diseases or conditions, those with the potential to address unmet medical needs for those disease or conditions, and those that provide meaningful benefit over existing treatments. For example, a sponsor may be granted FDA designation of a drug candidate as a "breakthrough therapy" if the drug candidate is intended, alone or in combination with one or more other drugs, to treat a serious or life-threatening disease or condition and preliminary clinical evidence indicates that the drug may demonstrate substantial improvement over existing therapies on one or more clinically significant endpoints, such as substantial treatment effects observed early in clinical development. If a drug is designated as breakthrough therapy, FDA will expedite the development and review of such drug. From time to time, we anticipate applying for such programs where we believe we meet the applicable FDA criteria. A company cannot be sure that any of its drugs will qualify for any of these programs, or even if a drug does qualify, that the review time will be reduced. 

Before approving an NDA, the FDA usually will inspect the facility or the facilities at which the drug is manufactured and will not approve the product unless the manufacturing and production and testing facilities are in compliance with cGMP regulations. If the NDA and the manufacturing facilities are deemed acceptable by the FDA, it may issue an approval letter, or in some cases, a Complete Response Letter. An approval letter authorizes commercial marketing of the drug with specific prescribing information for a specific indication(s). A Complete Response Letter indicates that the review cycle of the application is complete and the application is not ready for approval. A Complete Response Letter may require additional clinical data and/or an additional pivotal Phase 3 clinical trial(s), and/or other significant, expensive and time-consuming requirements related to clinical trials, preclinical studies or manufacturing. Even if such additional information is submitted, the FDA may ultimately decide that the NDA does not satisfy the criteria for approval. The FDA could also require, as a condition of NDA approval, post-marketing testing and surveillance to monitor the drug's safety or efficacy, or impose other conditions. Approval may also be contingent on a Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy, or REMS, that limits the labeling, distribution or promotion of a drug product. The FDA also may condition approval on, among other things, changes to proposed labeling, development of adequate controls and specifications, or a commitment to conduct one or more post-marketing studies or clinical trials. Once issued, the FDA may withdraw product approval if ongoing regulatory requirements are not met or if safety problems occur after the product reaches the market. 

After approval, certain changes to the approved product, such as adding new indications, making certain manufacturing changes or making certain additional labeling claims, are subject to further FDA review and approval. Before a company can market products for additional indications, it must obtain additional approvals from the FDA. Obtaining approval for a new indication generally requires that additional clinical studies be conducted. A company cannot be sure that any additional approval for new indications for any investigational product candidate will be approved on a timely basis, or at all. 

Post-Approval Requirements &#151;Often times, even after a drug has been approved by the FDA for sale, the FDA may require that certain post-approval requirements be satisfied, including the conduct of additional clinical studies. If such post-approval conditions are not satisfied, the FDA may withdraw its approval of the drug. In addition, holders of an approved NDA are required to: (1) report certain adverse reactions to the FDA, (2) comply with certain requirements concerning advertising and promotional labeling for their products, and (3) continue to have quality control and manufacturing procedures conform to cGMP regulations after approval. The FDA periodically inspects the sponsor's 

records related to safety reporting and/or manufacturing facilities; this latter effort includes assessment of ongoing compliance with cGMP regulations. Accordingly, manufacturers must continue to expend time, money and effort in the area of production and quality control to maintain cGMP compliance. We have used and intend to continue to use third-party manufacturers to produce our products in clinical and commercial quantities, and future FDA inspections may identify compliance issues at the facilities of our contract manufacturers that may disrupt production or distribution, or require substantial resources to correct. In addition, discovery of problems with a product after approval may result in restrictions on a product, including recall or withdrawal of the product from the market. 

Hatch-Waxman Act &#151;Under the Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act of 1984, also known as the Hatch-Waxman Act, Congress created an abbreviated FDA review process for generic versions of pioneer (brand name) drug products. In considering whether to approve such a generic drug product, the FDA requires that an Abbreviated New Drug Application, or ANDA, applicant demonstrate, among other things, that the proposed generic drug product's active ingredient is the same as that of the reference product, that any impurities in the proposed product do not affect the product's safety or effectiveness, and that its manufacturing processes and methods ensure the consistent potency and purity of its proposed product. 

The Hatch-Waxman Act provides five years of data exclusivity for new chemical entities, which generally (except as discussed below) prevents the FDA from accepting ANDAs and 505(b)(2) applications containing the protected active ingredient during the five-year period. We expect to be eligible for five years of data exclusivity following any FDA approval of abaloparatide-SC. 

The Hatch-Waxman Act also provides three years of exclusivity for applications containing the results of new clinical investigations (other than bioavailability studies) essential to the FDA's approval of new uses of approved products, such as new indications, delivery mechanisms, dosage forms, strengths, or conditions of use. For example, if abaloparatide-SC is approved for commercialization and we are successful in performing a clinical trial of abaloparatide-TD that provides a new basis for approval (a different delivery mechanism), it is possible that we may become eligible for a three year period of market exclusivity which protects against the approval (but not the filing) of ANDAs and 505(b)(2) applications for the protected use but will not prohibit the FDA from accepting or approving ANDAs or 505(b)(2) applications for other products containing the same active ingredient. 

The Hatch-Waxman Act requires NDA applicants and NDA holders to provide certain information about patents related to the drug for listing in the FDA's list of Approved Drug Products with Therapeutic Equivalence Evaluations (commonly known as the Orange Book). ANDA and 505(b)(2) applicants must then certify regarding each of the patents listed with the FDA for the reference product. A certification that a listed patent is invalid and/or will not be infringed by the marketing of the applicant's product is called a "Paragraph IV certification." If the ANDA or 505(b)(2) applicant provides such a notification of patent invalidity or non-infringement, then the FDA may accept the ANDA or 505(b)(2) application beginning four years after approval of the NDA. If an ANDA or 505(b)(2) application containing a Paragraph IV certification is submitted to the FDA and accepted as a reviewable filing by the Agency, the ANDA or 505(b)(2) applicant then must provide, within 20 days, notice to the NDA holder and patent owner stating that the application has been submitted and providing the factual and legal basis for the applicant's opinion that the patent is invalid and/or not infringed. The NDA holder or patent owner then may file suit against the ANDA or 505(b)(2) applicant for patent infringement. If this is done within 45 days of receiving notice of the Paragraph IV certification, a one-time 30-month stay of the FDA's ability to approve the ANDA or 505(b)(2) application is triggered. The 30-month stay begins at the end of the NDA holder's data exclusivity period, or, if data exclusivity has expired, on the date that the patent holder is notified of the submission of the ANDA. The FDA may approve the proposed product before the expiration of the 30-month stay if a court finds the patent invalid and/or not infringed or if the court shortens the period because the parties have failed to cooperate in expediting the litigation. 

European Union&#151;EMA Process 

In the EU, medicinal products are authorized following a similar demanding process as that required in the United States and applications are based on the ICH Common Technical Document. In the European Economic Area, or EEA (comprised of 28 EU Member States plus Iceland, Liechtenstein and Norway), medicines can be authorized by using either the centralized authorization procedure or national authorization procedures. 

Centralized procedure &#151;Under the centralized procedure, following the opinion of the EMA's Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP), the European Commission issues a single marketing authorization valid across the EEA. The centralized procedure is compulsory for human medicines derived from biotechnology processes, advanced therapy medicinal products (such as gene therapy, somatic cell therapy and tissue engineered products), containing a new active substance indicated for the treatment of certain diseases, such as HIV/AIDS, cancer, or neurodegenerative disorders, diabetes, autoimmune diseases and other immune dysfunctions, viral diseases, and officially designated orphan medicines. For medicines that do not fall within these categories, an applicant has the option of submitting an application for a centralized marketing authorization to the EMA, as long as the medicine concerned contains a new active substance not yet authorized in the EEA, is a significant therapeutic, scientific or technical innovation, or if its authorization would be in the interest of public health in the EEA. In November 2015, we submitted an MAA for abaloparatide-SC to the EMA under the centralized procedure. The MAA was validated in December 2015 and is currently undergoing regulatory review by the EMA. 

National authorization procedures &#151;There are also two other possible routes to authorize medicinal products in several countries, which are available for products that fall outside the scope of the centralized procedure: 

&#149; Decentralized procedure. Using the decentralized procedure, an applicant may apply for simultaneous authorization in more than one EU country of a medicinal product that has not yet been authorized in any EU country and that does not fall within the mandatory scope of the centralized procedure. &#149; Mutual recognition procedure. In the mutual recognition procedure, a medicine is first authorized in one EU Member State, in accordance with the national procedures of that country. Thereafter, further marketing authorizations can be sought from other EU countries in a procedure whereby the countries concerned agree to recognize the validity of the original, national marketing authorization. In light of the fact that there is no policy at the EU level governing pricing and reimbursement, the 28 EU Member States each have developed their own, often varying, approaches. In many EU Member States, pricing negotiations must take place between the holder of the marketing authorization and the competent national authorities before the product is sold in their market with the holder of the marketing authorization required to provide evidence demonstrating the pharmaco-economic superiority of its product in comparison with directly and indirectly competing products. We have reviewed our development program, proposed Phase 3 study design, and overall non-clinical and clinical data package and believe they support future regulatory approval of abaloparatide-SC in the EU. 

Good manufacturing practices &#151;Like the FDA, the EMA, the competent authorities of the EU Member States and other regulatory agencies regulate and inspect equipment, facilities and processes used in the manufacturing of pharmaceutical and biologic products prior to approving a product. If, after receiving clearance from regulatory agencies, a company makes a material change in manufacturing equipment, location, or process, additional regulatory review and approval may be required. Once we or our partners commercialize products, we will be required to comply with cGMP, 

and product-specific regulations enforced by, the European Commission, the EMA and the competent authorities of EU Member States following product approval. Also like the FDA, the EMA, the competent authorities of the EU Member States and other regulatory agencies also conduct regular, periodic visits to re-inspect equipment, facilities, and processes following the initial approval of a product. If, as a result of these inspections, it is determined that our or our partners' equipment, facilities, or processes do not comply with applicable regulations and conditions of product approval, regulatory agencies may seek civil, criminal or administrative sanctions and/or remedies against us, including the suspension of our manufacturing operations or the withdrawal of our product from the market. 

Data and Market Exclusivity &#151;Similar to the United States, there is a process for approval of generic versions of innovator drug products in the EU. Abridged applications for the authorization of generic versions of drugs authorized by EMA can be submitted to the EMA through the centralized procedure referencing the innovator's data and demonstrating bioequivalence to the reference product, among other things. 

New medicinal products in the EU can receive eight years of data exclusivity coupled with two years of market exclusivity, and a potential one year extension, if the marketing authorizations holder obtains an authorization for one or more new therapeutic indications that demonstrates "significant clinical benefit" in comparison with existing therapies; this system is usually referred to as "8+2+1". We expect to be eligible for at least ten years of exclusivity (8 years of data exclusivity + 2 years of market exclusivity) following any approval of abaloparatide-SC. At this time we do not believe that there are orphan or pediatric applications for abaloparatide that would be likely to result in a grant of exclusivity or supplemental protection certificate in the EU. 

Abridged applications cannot rely on an innovator's data until after expiry of the 8-year data exclusivity term; applications for a generic product can be submitted after that 8 th year, but the product cannot be marketed until the end of the market exclusivity term. 

Other International Markets&#151;Drug approval process 

In some international markets (e.g., China or Japan), although data generated in United States or EU trials may be submitted in support of a marketing authorization application, additional clinical trials conducted in the host territory, or studying people of the ethnicity of the host territory, may be required prior to the filing or approval of marketing applications within the country. 

Pricing and Reimbursement 

In the United States and internationally, sales of products that we market in the future, and our ability to generate revenues on such sales, are dependent, in significant part, on the availability and level of coverage and reimbursement from third-party payors such as state and federal governments, managed care providers and private insurance plans. Private insurers, such as health maintenance organizations and managed care providers, have implemented cost-cutting and reimbursement initiatives and likely will continue to do so in the future. These include establishing formularies that govern the drugs and biologics that will be offered and also the out-of-pocket obligations of member patients for such products. In addition, particularly in the United States and increasingly in other countries, we may be required to provide discounts and pay rebates to state and federal governments and agencies in connection with purchases of our products that are reimbursed by such entities. It is possible that future legislation in the United States and other jurisdictions could be enacted which could potentially impact the reimbursement rates for the products we are developing and may develop in the future and also could further impact the levels of discounts and rebates paid to federal and state government entities. Any legislation that impacts these areas could impact, in a significant way, our ability to generate revenues from sales of products that, if successfully developed, we bring to market. 

The Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act of 2003, or MMA, established the Medicare Part D program to provide a voluntary prescription drug benefit to Medicare beneficiaries. Under Part D, Medicare beneficiaries may enroll in prescription drug plans offered by private entities to provide coverage of outpatient prescription drugs. Part D plans include both stand-alone prescription drug benefit plans and prescription drug coverage as a supplement to Medicare Advantage plans. Unlike Medicare Parts A and B, Part D coverage is not standardized. Part D prescription drug plan sponsors are not required to pay for all covered Part D drugs, and each Part D prescription drug plan can develop its own drug formulary that identifies which drugs it will cover and at what tier or level. However, Part D prescription drug formularies must include drugs within each therapeutic category and class of covered Part D drugs, although not necessarily all of the drugs within each category or class. Any formulary used by a Part D prescription drug plan must be developed and reviewed by a pharmacy and therapeutic committee. We anticipate that a significant proportion of patients eligible for abaloparatide-SC will be Medicare beneficiaries and we expect that abaloparatide-SC, if approved, will be covered under Medicare Part D, although we cannot assure you that Part D prescription drug plan sponsors will cover abaloparatide-SC, or, if covered, at what tier or level. 

Government payment for some of the costs of prescription drugs may increase demand for any of our products that is successfully developed and approved. However, any negotiated prices for our products covered by a Part D prescription drug plan will likely be lower than the prices we might otherwise obtain. Moreover, although the MMA applies only to drug benefits for Medicare beneficiaries, private payers often follow Medicare coverage policy and payment limitations in setting their own payment rates. Accordingly, any reduction in payment under Medicare may result in a similar reduction in payments from non-governmental payers. 

We expect that there will continue to be a number of federal and state proposals to implement governmental pricing controls and limit the growth of healthcare costs, including the cost of prescription drugs. Currently, Medicare is prohibited from negotiating directly with pharmaceutical companies for drugs. However, the U.S. Congress may in the future consider legislation that would lift the ban on federal negotiations. 

The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 provides funding for the federal government to compare the effectiveness of different treatments for the same illness. A plan for the research would be developed by the Department of Health and Human Services, the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality and the National Institutes of Health, and periodic reports on the status of the research and related expenditures would be made to the U.S. Congress. Although the results of the comparative effectiveness studies are not intended to mandate coverage policies for public or private payers, it is not clear whether research would have any effect on the sales of any of our products that is successfully developed and approved, if the product or the condition that it is intended to treat becomes the subject of a study. It is also possible that comparative effectiveness research demonstrating benefits of a competitor's product could adversely affect the sales of any of our products that is successfully developed and approved. If third-party payers do not consider our products to be cost-effective compared to other available therapies, they may not cover our products after approval as a benefit under their plans or, if they do, the level of payment may not be sufficient to allow us to sell our products on a profitable basis. 

The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, or the ACA, as amended by the Health Care and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act of 2010, or collectively the ACA, is expected to have a significant impact on the health care industry. The ACA expands coverage for the uninsured while at the same time containing overall healthcare costs. Among other things, the ACA expands and increases industry rebates for drugs covered under Medicaid programs and make changes to the coverage requirements under the Medicare Part D program. In addition, other legislative changes have been proposed and adopted in the United States since the ACA was enacted. On August 2, 2011, the Budget 

Control Act of 2011, among other things, created measures for spending reductions by Congress. A Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction, tasked with recommending a targeted deficit reduction of at least $1.2 trillion for the years 2013 through 2021, was unable to reach required goals, thereby triggering the legislation's automatic reduction to several government programs. This includes aggregate reductions to Medicare payments to providers of 2% per fiscal year, which went into effect on April 1, 2013 and, due to subsequent legislative amendments to the statute, will remain in effect through 2025 unless additional Congressional action is taken. On January 2, 2013, President Obama signed into law the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012, or the ATRA, which among other things, further reduced Medicare payments to several providers, including hospitals, imaging centers and cancer treatment centers. 

There is no legislation at the EU level governing the pricing and reimbursement of medicinal products in the EU. As a result, the competent authorities of each of the 28 EU Member States have adopted individual strategies regulating the pricing and reimbursement of medicinal products in their territory. These strategies often vary widely in nature, scope and application. However, a major element that they have in common is an increased move towards reduction in the reimbursement price of medicinal products, a reduction in the number and type of products selected for reimbursement, and an increased preference for generic products over innovative products. These efforts have mostly been executed through these countries' existing price-control methodologies, including price cuts, mandatory rebates, value-based pricing, and reference pricing (i.e., referencing prices in other countries and using those reference prices to set a price). The government of the UK announced the phase-out of its established Pharmaceutical Pricing Reimbursement Scheme approach in January 2014 and the adoption of a new value-based pricing approach, at least for new product introductions. Under this approach, in a complete departure from established methodologies, reimbursement levels of each drug will be explicitly based on an assessment of value, looking at the benefits for the patient, unmet need, therapeutic innovation, and benefit to society as a whole. It is increasingly common in many EU Member States for Marketing Authorization Holders to be required to demonstrate the pharmaco-economic superiority of their products as compared to products already subject to pricing and reimbursement in specific countries. In order for drugs to be evaluated positively under such criteria, pharmaceutical companies may need to re-examine, and consider altering, a number of traditional functions relating to the selection, study, and management of drugs, whether currently marketed, under development, or being evaluated as candidates for research and/or development. 

Future legislation, including the current versions being considered at the federal and state level in the United States and at the national level in EU Member States, or regulatory actions implementing recent or future legislation may have a significant effect on our business. Our ability to successfully commercialize products depends in part on the extent to which coverage and reimbursement for the costs of our products and related treatments will be available in the United States and worldwide from government health administration authorities, private health insurers and other organizations. Substantial uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of newly approved healthcare products by third-party payors. In addition, negotiating prices with government authorities under current and proposed legislation can delay the commercialization of our product candidates. 

Sales and Marketing 

The FDA regulates all advertising and promotion activities for products under its jurisdiction both prior to and after approval. A company can make only those claims relating to safety and efficacy that are approved by the FDA following review and approval of an NDA. Physicians may prescribe legally available drugs for uses that are not described in the drug's labeling and that differ from those tested by us and approved by the FDA. Such off-label uses are common across medical specialties, and often reflect a physician's belief that the off-label use is the best treatment for the patients. The FDA does not regulate the behavior of physicians in their choice of treatments, but FDA regulations do impose 

stringent restrictions on manufacturers' communications regarding off-label uses. Failure to comply with applicable FDA requirements may subject a company to adverse publicity, enforcement action by the FDA, corrective advertising, consent decrees and the full range of civil and criminal penalties available to the FDA. 

We may also be subject to various federal and state laws pertaining to healthcare "fraud and abuse," including anti-kickback laws and false claims laws. Anti-kickback laws make it illegal for a prescription drug manufacturer to solicit, offer, receive, or pay any remuneration in exchange for, or to induce, the referral of business, including the purchase or prescription of a particular drug. Due to the breadth of the statutory provisions and the absence of guidance in the form of regulations and very few court decisions addressing industry practices, it is possible that our practices might be challenged under anti-kickback or similar laws. Moreover, recent healthcare reform legislation has strengthened these laws. For example, the ACA, among other things, amends the intent requirement of the federal anti-kickback and criminal healthcare fraud statutes, so that a person or entity no longer needs to have actual knowledge of this statute or specific intent to violate it in order to have committed a violation. In addition, ACA permits the government to assert that a claim that includes items or services resulting from a violation of the federal anti-kickback statute constitutes a false or fraudulent claim for purposes of the false claims statutes. False claims laws prohibit anyone from knowingly and willingly presenting, or causing to be presented for payment, to third-party payors (including Medicare and Medicaid) claims for reimbursed drugs or services that are false or fraudulent, claims for items or services not provided as claimed, or claims for medically unnecessary items or services. Our activities relating to the sale and marketing of our products, if approved, may be subject to scrutiny under these laws. Violations of fraud and abuse laws may be punishable by criminal and civil sanctions, including fines and civil monetary penalties, the possibility of exclusion from federal healthcare programs (including Medicare and Medicaid) and corporate integrity agreements, which impose, among other things, rigorous operational and monitoring requirements on companies. Similar sanctions and penalties also can be imposed upon executive officers and employees, including criminal sanctions against executive officers under the so-called "responsible corporate officer" doctrine, even in situations where the executive officer did not intend to violate the law and was unaware of any wrongdoing. 

Given the significant penalties and fines that can be imposed on companies and individuals if convicted, allegations of such violations often result in settlements even if the company or individual being investigated admits no wrongdoing. Settlements often include significant civil sanctions, including fines and civil monetary penalties, and corporate integrity agreements. If the government were to allege or convict us or our executive officers of violating these laws, our business could be harmed. In addition, private individuals have the ability to bring similar actions. The majority of states also have anti-kickback and false claims laws, which establish similar prohibitions and in some cases may apply to items or services reimbursed by any third-party payor, including commercial insurers. Our activities could be subject to challenge for the reasons discussed above and due to the broad scope of these laws and the increasing attention being given to them by law enforcement authorities. 

There has also been a recent trend of increased federal and state regulation of payments made to physicians and other healthcare providers. The ACA, among other things, imposes new reporting requirements on drug manufacturers for payments made by them to physicians and teaching hospitals, as well as ownership and investment interests held by physicians and their immediate family members. Failure to submit required information may result in civil monetary penalties of up to an aggregate of $150,000 per year (or up to an aggregate of $1 million per year for "knowing failures"), for all payments, transfers of value or ownership or investment interests that are not timely, accurately and completely reported in an annual submission. Drug manufacturers are required to submit reports to the government by the 90th day of each calendar year. Certain states also mandate implementation of compliance programs, impose restrictions on drug manufacturer marketing practices and/or require the tracking and reporting of gifts, compensation and other remuneration to physicians. Many of these laws 

contain ambiguities as to what is required to comply with the laws. Given the lack of clarity in laws and their implementation, our actions could be subject to the penalty provisions of the pertinent state authorities. 

Similar rigid restrictions are imposed on the promotion and marketing of medicinal products in the EU and other countries. Laws (including those governing promotion, marketing and anti-kickback provisions), industry regulations and professional codes of conduct often are strictly enforced. Even in those countries where we are not directly responsible for the promotion and marketing of our products, inappropriate activity by our international distribution partners can have adverse implications for us. 

Other Laws and Regulatory Processes 

We are subject to a variety of financial disclosure and securities trading regulations as a public company in the United States, including laws relating to the oversight activities of the SEC and the regulations of the NASDAQ Global Market or any national securities exchange on which our capital stock may be traded. In addition, the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, the SEC and other bodies that have jurisdiction over the form and content of our accounts, our consolidated financial statements and other public disclosure are constantly discussing and interpreting proposals and existing pronouncements designed to ensure that companies best display relevant and transparent information relating to their respective businesses. 

Our international operations are subject to compliance with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or the FCPA, which prohibits corporations and individuals from paying, offering to pay, or authorizing the payment of anything of value to any foreign government official, government staff member, political party, or political candidate in an attempt to obtain or retain business or to otherwise influence a person working in an official capacity. We also may be implicated under the FCPA for activities by our partners, collaborators, clinical research organizations, vendors or other agents. 

Our present and future business has been and will continue to be subject to various other laws and regulations. Various laws, regulations and recommendations relating to safe working conditions, laboratory practices, the experimental use of animals, and the purchase, storage, movement, import and export and use and disposal of hazardous or potentially hazardous substances used in connection with our research work are or may be applicable to our activities. Certain agreements entered into by us involving exclusive license rights or acquisitions may be subject to national or supranational antitrust regulatory control, the effect of which cannot be predicted. The extent of government regulation, which might result from future legislation or administrative action, cannot accurately be predicted. 

Employees 

As of December 31, 2015, we employed 73 full-time employees and 2 part-time employees, 20 of whom held Ph.D. or M.D. degrees. Forty-eight of our employees were engaged in research and development activities and 27 were engaged in support administration, including business development and finance. We intend to use CROs and other third parties to perform our clinical studies and manufacturing. 

Corporate Information 

We were incorporated in the state of Delaware on February 4, 2008 under the name MPM Acquisition Corp. In May 2011, we entered into a reverse merger transaction, or the Merger, with our predecessor, Radius Health, Inc., a Delaware corporation formed on October 3, 2003, or the Former Operating Company, pursuant to which the Former Operating Company became a wholly-owned subsidiary of ours. Immediately following the merger transaction, the Former Operating Company was merged with and into us and we assumed the business of the Former Operating Company and changed our name to Radius Health, Inc. 

Legal Proceedings 

We are not currently involved in any material legal proceedings. 

Investor Information 

Financial and other information about us is available on our website at www.radiuspharm.com. We make available on our website, free of charge, copies of our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. In addition, we have previously filed registration statements and other documents with the SEC. Any document we file may be inspected, without charge, at the SEC's public reference room at 100 F Street NE, Washington, DC 20549, or at the SEC's internet address at www.sec.gov. These website addresses are not intended to function as hyperlinks, and the information contained in our website and in the SEC's website is not intended to be a part of this filing. Information related to the operation of the SEC's public reference room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 800-SEC-0330. 

