 Item 1. Business 

References in this Annual Report on Form 10-K to &#8220;we,&#8221; &#8220;our,&#8221; &#8220;us,&#8221; &#8220;LII&#8221; or the &#8220;Company&#8221; refer to Lennox International Inc. and its subsidiaries, unless the context requires otherwise. 

The Company 

We are a leading global provider of climate control solutions and design, manufacture and market a broad range of products for the heating, ventilation, air conditioning and refrigeration (&#8220;HVACR&#8221;) markets. We have leveraged our expertise to become an industry leader known for innovation, quality and reliability. Our products and services are sold through multiple distribution channels under various brand names. The Company was founded in 1895, in Marshalltown, Iowa, by Dave Lennox, the owner of a machine repair business for railroads. He designed and patented a riveted steel coal-fired furnace, which led to numerous advancements in heating, cooling and climate control solutions. 

Shown in the table below are our three business segments, the key products, services and well-known product and brand names within each segment and net sales in 2015 &#32;by segment. Segment financial data for 2015 , 2014 &#32;and 2013 , including financial information about foreign and domestic operations, is included in Note 19 of the Notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements in &#8220;Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data&#8221; and is incorporated herein by reference. 

Segment 

&#160; 

Products &#38; Services 

&#160; 

Product and Brand Names 

&#160; 

Net Sales (in millions) 

Residential Heating &#38; Cooling 

&#160; 

Furnaces, air conditioners, heat pumps, packaged heating and cooling systems, indoor air quality equipment, comfort control products, replacement parts 

&#160; 

Lennox, Dave Lennox Signature, Armstrong Air, Ducane, Aire-Flo, Air-Ease, Concord, Magic-Pak, ADP Advanced Distributor Products, iComfort and Lennox PartsPlus 

&#160; 

$ 

1,866.9 

Commercial Heating &#38; Cooling 

&#160; 

Unitary heating and air conditioning equipment, applied systems, controls, installation and service of commercial heating and cooling equipment 

&#160; 

Lennox, Allied Commercial, Magic-Pak, Raider, Landmark, Prodigy, Strategos, Energence and Lennox National Account Services 

&#160; 

887.2 

Refrigeration 

&#160; 

Condensing units, unit coolers, fluid coolers, air cooled condensers, air handlers, process chillers, controls, compressorized racks, supermarket display cases and systems 

&#160; 

Heatcraft Worldwide Refrigeration, Bohn, Larkin, Climate Control, Chandler Refrigeration, Kysor/Warren, Friga-Bohn, HK Refrigeration, Hyfra, Kirby and Interlink 

&#160; 

713.3 

&#160; 

&#160; 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Total 

&#160; 

$ 

3,467.4 

On March 22, 2013, the Company sold its Service Experts business to a majority-owned entity of American Capital, Ltd. in an all cash transaction for proceeds, excluding transaction costs, of $10.4 million. The Service Experts business had previously been reported within our Service Experts segment along with the Lennox National Account Services ("NAS") commercial services business. Beginning in the third quarter of 2012, the Service Experts business was included in discontinued operations, NAS was included in our Commercial Heating &#38; Cooling segment, and the Service Experts reportable segment was eliminated. Segment results for all periods have been revised to reflect this new presentation. 

Products and Services 

Residential Heating &#38; Cooling 

Heating &#38; Cooling Products . We manufacture and market a broad range of furnaces, air conditioners, heat pumps, packaged heating and cooling systems, equipment and accessories to improve indoor air quality, comfort control products, replacement parts and related products for both the residential replacement and new construction markets in North America. These products are available in a variety of designs and efficiency levels and at a range of price points, and are intended to provide a complete line of home comfort systems. We believe that by maintaining a broad product line marketed under multiple brand names, we can address different market segments and penetrate multiple distribution channels. 

The &#8220;Lennox&#8221; and &#8220;Aire-Flo&#8221; brands are sold directly to a network of approximately 7,000 independent installing dealers, 

making us one of the largest wholesale distributors of residential heating and air conditioning products in North America. The Allied Air Enterprise brands (&#8220;Armstrong Air,&#8221; &#8220;Air-Ease,&#8221; &#8220;Concord,&#8221; &#8220;Ducane,&#8221; and &#8220;Magic-Pak&#8221;) include a full line of heating and air conditioning products and are sold through independent distributors in North America. 

We are continuing to grow our network of 186 Lennox PartsPlus stores across the United States and Canada. These stores provide an easy access solution for contractors and independent dealers to obtain universal service and replacement parts, supplies, convenience items, tools, Lennox equipment and OEM parts. 

Our Advanced Distributor Products (&#8220;ADP&#8221;) operation builds evaporator coils and air handlers under the &#8220;ADP Advanced Distributor Products&#8221; brand, as well as the &#8220;Lennox&#8221; brand. ADP sells its own ADP branded evaporator coils to over 400 HVAC wholesale distributors across North America as well as a full line of evaporator coils to Allied Air Enterprise. 

&#32; 

Commercial Heating &#38; Cooling 

North America . In North America, we manufacture and sell unitary heating and cooling equipment used in light commercial applications, such as low-rise office buildings, restaurants, retail centers, churches and schools. Our product offerings for these applications include rooftop units ranging from 2 to 50 tons of cooling capacity and split system/air handler combinations, which range from 1.5 to 20 tons of cooling capacity. These products are distributed primarily through commercial contractors and directly to national account customers. In 2014, we launched Lennox-branded variable refrigerant flow ("VRF") commercial products through Lennox company-owned distribution. We believe the success of our products is attributable to their efficiency, design flexibility, total cost of ownership, low life-cycle cost, ease of service and advanced control technology. 

National Account Services . NAS provides installation, service and preventive maintenance for commercial HVAC national account customers in the United States and Canada. 

Europe . In Europe, we manufacture and sell unitary products, which range from 2 to 70 tons of cooling capacity, and applied systems with up to 200 tons of cooling capacity. Our European products consist of small package units, rooftop units, chillers, air handlers and fan coils that serve medium-rise commercial buildings, shopping malls, other retail and entertainment buildings, institutional applications and other field-engineered applications. We manufacture heating and cooling products in several locations in Europe and market these products through both direct and indirect distribution channels in Europe, Russia, Turkey and the Middle East. 

Refrigeration 

We manufacture and market equipment for the global commercial refrigeration markets under the Heatcraft Worldwide Refrigeration name. We sell these products to distributors, installing contractors, engineering design firms, original equipment manufacturers and end-users. Our global manufacturing, distribution, sales and marketing footprint serves customers in over 70 countries worldwide. 

North America . Our commercial refrigeration products for the North American market include condensing units, unit coolers, fluid coolers, air-cooled condensers, air handlers, display cases and refrigeration rack systems. These products preserve food and other perishables in supermarkets, convenience stores, restaurants, warehouses and distribution centers. In addition, our products are used to cool a wide variety of industrial processes, including data centers, machine tooling, and other critical cooling applications. We routinely provide application engineering for consulting engineers, contractors, store planners, end customers and others to support the sale of commercial refrigeration products. In addition to providing complete refrigeration systems and display cases, we also provide turnkey installations for our supermarket customers in Mexico. 

International . In international markets, we manufacture and market refrigeration products including condensing units, unit coolers, air-cooled condensers, fluid coolers, compressor racks and industrial process chillers. We have manufacturing locations in Germany, France, Brazil and China. In Australia and New Zealand, we are the leading wholesale distribution business serving the HVACR industry with more than 60 locations serving our customers, which also includes the sale of refrigerant. In addition, we own a 50% common stock interest in a joint venture in Mexico that produces unit coolers, air-cooled condensers, condensing units, compressors and compressorized racks of the same design and quality as those manufactured by our U.S. business. This joint venture product line is complemented with imports from the U.S., which are sold through the joint venture's distribution network. 

Business Strategy &#32; 

Our business strategy is to sustain and expand our premium market position as well as offer a full spectrum of products to meet our customers' needs. We plan to expand our market position through organic growth and acquisitions while maintaining our focus on cost reductions to drive margin expansion and support growth in target business segments. This strategy is supported by the following five strategic priorities: 

Innovative Product and System Solutions. In all of our markets, we are building on our heritage of innovation by developing residential, commercial, and refrigeration products that give families and business owners more precise control over more aspects of their indoor environments, while significantly lowering their energy costs. 

Manufacturing and Sourcing Excellence. We maintain our commitment to manufacturing and sourcing excellence by driving low-cost assembly through rationalization of our facilities and product lines, maximizing factory efficiencies, and leveraging our purchasing power and sourcing initiatives to expand the use of lower-cost components that meet our high-quality requirements. 

Distribution Excellence. By investing resources in expanding our distribution network, we are making products available to our customers in a timely, cost-efficient manner. Additionally, we provide enhanced dealer support through the use of technology, training, advertising and merchandising. 

Geographic Expansion. We are growing our business by extending our successful business model and product knowledge into domestic and international markets. 

Expense Reduction. Through our cost management initiatives, we are optimizing operating, manufacturing and administrative costs. 

Marketing and Distribution 

We utilize multiple channels of distribution and offer different brands at various price points in order to better penetrate the HVACR markets. Our products and services are sold through a combination of direct sales, distributors and company-owned parts and supplies stores. Dedicated sales forces and manufacturers' representatives are deployed across our business segments and brands in a manner designed to maximize our ability to service each distribution channel. To optimize enterprise-wide effectiveness, we have active cross-functional and cross-organizational teams coordinating approaches to pricing, product design, distribution and national account customers. 

The North American residential heating and cooling market provides an example of the competitive strength of our marketing and distribution strategy. We use three distinct distribution approaches in this market: the company-owned distribution system, the independent distribution system and direct sales to end-users. We distribute our &#8220;Lennox&#8221; and &#8220;Aire-Flo&#8221; brands in a company-owned process directly to independent dealers that install these heating and cooling products. Also, we sell our products directly to customers through our Lennox PartsPlus stores. We distribute our &#8220;Armstrong Air,&#8221; &#8220;Ducane,&#8221; &#8220;Air-Ease,&#8221; &#8220;Concord,&#8221; &#8220;Magic-Pak&#8221; and &#8220;ADP Advanced Distributor Products&#8221; brands through the traditional independent distribution process pursuant to which we sell our products to distributors who, in turn, sell the products to installing contractors. 

Over the years, the &#8220;Lennox&#8221; brand has become inextricably linked with &#8220;Dave Lennox,&#8221; a highly recognizable advertising icon in the heating and cooling industry. We utilize the &#8220;Dave Lennox&#8221; image in mass media advertising, as well as in numerous locally produced dealer advertisements, open houses and trade events. 

Manufacturing 

We operate manufacturing facilities worldwide and utilize the best available manufacturing techniques based on the needs of our businesses, including the use of lean manufacturing and principles of Six Sigma, a disciplined, data-driven approach and methodology for improving quality. We use numerous metrics to track and manage annual efficiency improvements. Some facilities are impacted by seasonal production demand, and we manufacture both heating and cooling products in those facilities to balance production and maintain a relatively stable labor force. We may also hire temporary employees to meet changes in demand. 

Strategic Sourcing 

We rely on various suppliers to furnish the raw materials and components used in the manufacturing of our products. To 

maximize our buying effectiveness in the marketplace, we have a central strategic sourcing group that consolidates purchases of certain materials, components and indirect items across business segments. The goal of the strategic sourcing group is to develop global strategies for a given component group, concentrate purchases with three to five suppliers and develop long-term relationships with these vendors. By developing these strategies and relationships, we seek to leverage our material needs to reduce costs and improve financial and operating performance. Our strategic sourcing group also works with selected suppliers to reduce costs and improve quality and delivery performance by employing lean manufacturing and Six Sigma. 

Compressors, motors and controls constitute our most significant component purchases, while steel, copper and aluminum account for the bulk of our raw material purchases. We own equity interests in joint ventures that manufacture compressors. These joint ventures provide us with compressors for our residential and commercial heating and cooling and refrigeration businesses. 

Research and Development and Technology 

Research and development is a key pillar of our growth strategy. We operate a global engineering and technology organization that focuses on new technology invention, product development, product quality improvements and process enhancements, including our development of next-generation thermostats and control systems. We leverage intellectual property and innovative designs across our businesses. We also leverage product development cycle time improvements and product data management systems to commercialize new products to market more rapidly. We use advanced, commercially available computer-aided design, computer-aided manufacturing, computational fluid dynamics and other sophisticated design tools to streamline the design and manufacturing processes. We use complex computer simulations and analyses in the conceptual design phase before functional prototypes are created. We also operate a full line of prototype machine equipment and advanced laboratories certified by applicable industry associations. 

&#160; 

Seasonality 

Our sales and related segment profit tend to be seasonally higher in the second and third quarters of the year because summer is the peak season for sales of air conditioning equipment and services in the U.S. and Canada. For the same reason, our working capital needs are generally greater in the first and second quarters, and we generally have higher operating cash inflows in the third and fourth quarters. 

&#32;&#32;&#32;&#32;&#32;&#32;Our markets are driven by seasonal weather patterns. HVAC products and services are sold year round, but the volume and mix of product sales and service change significantly by season. The industry ships roughly twice as many units during June as it does in December. Overall, cooling equipment represents a substantial portion of the annual HVAC market. Between the heating season (roughly November through February) and cooling season (roughly May through August) are periods commonly referred to as "shoulder seasons" when the distribution channel transitions its buying patterns from one season to the next. These seasonal fluctuations in mix and volume drive our sales and related segment profit, resulting in somewhat higher sales in the second and third quarters due to the higher volume in the cooling season relative to the heating season. 

Patents and Trademarks 

We hold numerous patents that relate to the design and use of our products. We consider these patents important, but no single patent is material to the overall conduct of our business. We proactively obtain patents to further our strategic intellectual property objectives. We own or license several trademarks and service marks we consider important in the marketing of our products and services, and we protect our marks through national registrations and common law rights. 

Competition &#32; 

Substantially all markets in which we participate are competitive. The most significant competitive factors we face are product reliability, product performance, service and price, with the relative importance of these factors varying among our businesses. The following are some of the companies we view as significant competitors in each of our three business segments, with relevant brand names, when different from the company name, shown in parentheses. The marks below may be the registered or unregistered trademarks or trade names of their respective owners. 

&#8226; 

Residential Heating &#38; Cooling - United Technologies Corp. (Carrier, Bryant, Tempstar, Comfortmaker, Heil, Arcoaire, KeepRite, Day &#38; Night); Ingersoll-Rand plc (Trane, American Standard); Paloma Industries, Inc. (Rheem, Ruud); Johnson Controls, Inc. (York); Daikin Industries, Ltd. (Goodman, Amana); and Nortek, Inc. (Maytag, Westinghouse, Frigidaire, Tappan, Philco, Kelvinator, Gibson, Broan, NuTone). 

&#8226; 

Commercial Heating &#38; Cooling - United Technologies Corp. (Carrier, ICP Commercial); Ingersoll-Rand plc (Trane); Paloma 

Industries, Inc. (Rheem, Ruud); Johnson Controls, Inc. (York); Daikin Industries, Ltd. (Goodman, McQuay); Nortek, Inc. (Mammoth); and AAON, Inc. 

&#8226; 

Refrigeration - Hussmann Corporation; Paloma Industries, Inc. (Rheem Manufacturing Company (Heat Transfer Products Group)); Emerson Electric Co. (Copeland); United Technologies Corp. (Carrier); GEA Group (Kuba, Searle, Goedhart); Alfa Laval; Guntner GmbH; and Panasonic Corp. (Sanyo). 

Employees 

As of February 4, 2016, we employed approximately 10,000 &#32;employees. Approximately 4,700 &#32;of these employees were salaried and 5,300 &#32;were hourly. The number of hourly workers we employ may vary in order to match our labor needs during periods of fluctuating demand. Approximately 2,400 &#32;employees, including international locations, are represented by unions. We believe we have good relationships with our employees and with the unions representing our employees. We currently do not anticipate any material adverse consequences resulting from negotiations to renew any collective bargaining agreements. 

Environmental Regulation 

Our operations are subject to evolving and often increasingly stringent international, federal, state and local laws and regulations concerning the environment. Environmental laws that affect or could affect our domestic operations include, among others, the National Appliance Energy Conservation Act of 1987, as amended (&#8220;NAECA&#8221;), the Energy Policy Act, the Energy Policy and Conservation Act, the Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, the National Environmental Policy Act, the Toxic Substances Control Act, any regulations promulgated under these acts and various other international, federal, state and local laws and regulations governing environmental matters. We believe we are in substantial compliance with such existing environmental laws and regulations. 

Energy Efficiency. &#32;The U.S. Department of Energy has numerous active energy conservation rulemakings that impact residential and commercial heating, air conditioning and refrigeration equipment. We are actively involved in U.S. Department of Energy and Congressional activities related to energy efficiency. We are prepared to have compliant products in place in advance of the effectiveness of all such regulations being considered by the U.S. Department of Energy. 

Refrigerants. &#32;The use of hydrochlorofluorocarbons ("HCFCs&#8221;) and hydroflurocarbons ("HFCs") as refrigerants for air conditioning and refrigeration equipment is common practice in the HVACR industry and is regulated. We believe we have complied with applicable rules and regulations in various countries governing the use of HCFCs and HFCs. The U.S. Congress, Environmental Protection Agency and international regulatory bodies are considering steps to phase down the future use of HFCs in HVACR products. We are an active participant in the ongoing international and domestic dialogue on this subject and are well positioned to react in a timely manner to changes in the regulatory landscape. In addition, we are taking proactive steps to implement responsible use principles and guidelines with respect to limiting refrigerants from escaping into the atmosphere throughout the life span of our HVACR equipment. 

Remediation Activity . In addition to affecting our ongoing operations, applicable environmental laws can impose obligations to remediate hazardous substances at our properties, at properties formerly owned or operated by us and at facilities to which we have sent or send waste for treatment or disposal. We are aware of contamination at some of our facilities; however, based on facts presently known, we do not believe that any future remediation costs at such facilities will be material to our results of operations. For more information, see Note 10 in the Notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements. 

In the past, we have received notices that we are a potentially responsible party along with other potentially responsible parties in Superfund proceedings under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act for cleanup of hazardous substances at certain sites to which the potentially responsible parties are alleged to have sent waste. Based on the facts presently known, we do not believe environmental cleanup costs associated with any Superfund sites about which we have received notice that we are a potentially responsible party will be material. 

European WEEE and RoHS Compliance. In the European marketplace, electrical and electronic equipment is required to comply with the Directive on Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment (&#8220;WEEE&#8221;) and the Directive on Restriction of Use of Certain Hazardous Substances (&#8220;RoHS&#8221;). WEEE aims to prevent waste by encouraging reuse and recycling and RoHS restricts the use of six hazardous substances in electrical and electronic products. All HVACR products and certain components of such products &#8220;put on the market&#8221; in the EU (whether or not manufactured in the EU) are potentially subject to WEEE and RoHS. Because all HVACR manufacturers selling within or from the EU are subject to the standards promulgated under WEEE and RoHS, we believe that neither WEEE nor RoHS uniquely impact us as compared to such other manufacturers. Similar directives 

are being introduced in other parts of the world, including the U.S. For example, California, China and Japan have all adopted standards possessing similar intent as RoHS. We are actively monitoring the development of such directives and believe we are well positioned to comply with such directives in the required time frames. 

Available Information 

Our web site address is www.lennoxinternational.com . We make available, free of charge through our web site, our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), as soon as reasonably possible after such material is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. The information on our web site is not a part of, or incorporated by reference into, this annual report on Form 10-K. 

You can also read and copy any document that we file, including this Annual Report on Form 10-K, at the Securities and Exchange Commission's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. Call the Securities and Exchange Commission at 1-800-SEC-0330 for information on the operation of the Public Reference Room. In addition, the Securities and Exchange Commission maintains an Internet site at www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers, including Lennox International, that file electronically with the Securities and Exchange Commission. 

Executive Officers of the Company 

Our executive officers, their present positions and their ages are as follows as of February 4, 2016: 

Name 

Age 

Position 

Todd M. Bluedorn 

Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer 

Joseph W. Reitmeier 

Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 

Douglas L. Young 

Executive Vice President and President and Chief Operating Officer, LII Residential Heating &#38; Cooling 

Terry L. Johnston 

Executive Vice President and President and Chief Operating Officer, LII North America Commercial Heating &#38; Cooling 

David W. Moon 

Executive Vice President and President and Chief Operating Officer, LII Worldwide Refrigeration 

Prakash Bedapudi 

Executive Vice President and Chief Technology Officer 

Daniel M. Sessa 

Executive Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer 

John D. Torres 

Executive Vice President, Chief Legal Officer and Secretary 

Roy A. Rumbough, Jr. 

Vice President, Controller and Chief Accounting Officer 

Todd M. Bluedorn &#32;was appointed Chief Executive Officer and was elected to our Board of Directors in April 2007. Mr. Bluedorn was elected Chairman of the Board of Directors in May 2012. Prior to joining Lennox International, Mr. Bluedorn served in numerous senior management positions for United Technologies since 1995, including President, Americas - Otis Elevator Company; President, North America - Commercial Heating, Ventilation and Air Conditioning for Carrier Corporation; and President, Hamilton Sundstrand Industrial. He began his professional career with McKinsey &#38; Company in 1992. A graduate of the United States Military Academy at West Point with a bachelor of science in electrical engineering, Mr. Bluedorn served in the United States Army as a combat engineer officer and United States Army Ranger from 1985 to 1990. He received his MBA from Harvard University School of Business in 1992. Mr. Bluedorn also serves on the Board of Directors of Eaton Corporation, a diversified industrial manufacturer, and on the Board of Trustees of Washington University in St. Louis. 

Joseph W. Reitmeier &#32;was appointed Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer in July 2012. He had served as Vice President of Finance for the LII&#8217;s Commercial Heating &#38; Cooling segment since 2007 and as Director of Internal Audit from 2005 to 2007. Before joining the company, he held financial leadership roles at Cummins Inc. and PolyOne Corporation. He is a 

director of Watts Water Technologies, Inc., a global provider of plumbing, heating and water quality solutions for residential, industrial, municipal and commercial settings. Mr. Reitmeier holds a bachelor&#8217;s degree in accounting from the University of Akron and an MBA from Case Western Reserve University. He is also a Certified Public Accountant. 

Douglas L. Young &#32;was appointed Executive Vice President and President and Chief Operating Officer of LII's Residential Heating &#38; Cooling segment in October 2006. Mr. Young had previously served as Vice President and General Manager of North American Residential Products since 2003 and as Vice President and General Manager of Lennox North American Residential Sales, Marketing, and Distribution from 1999 to 2003. Prior to his career with LII, Mr. Young was employed in the Appliances division of GE, where he held various management positions before serving as General Manager of Marketing for GE Appliance division's retail group from 1997 to 1999 and as General Manager of Strategic Initiatives in 1999. He holds a BSBA from Creighton University and a master&#8217;s of science in management from Purdue University. Mr. Young serves on the Board of Directors of Beacon Roofing Supply, a general building material distributor. Beginning in 2016, he will serve as Chairman of the Board of Directors of AHRI. 

Terry L. Johnston &#32;was appointed Executive Vice President and President and Chief Operating Officer of LII's North America Commercial Heating &#38; Cooling business, in January 2013. Since May 2007, he had served as Vice President and General Manager, North America Commercial. He had previously served as Vice President, Marketing and Product Management, LII Worldwide Heating &#38; Cooling and as Vice President, Marketing and Product Management for Lennox Industries. Before joining LII in 2001, Mr. Johnston worked for 20 years at GE in a variety of product management and sales and marketing roles. He holds a bachelor of science in marketing from the University of Arkansas. 

David W. Moon &#32;was appointed Executive Vice President and President and Chief Operating Officer of LII's Worldwide Refrigeration business in August 2006. He had previously served as Vice President and General Manager of Worldwide Refrigeration, Americas Operations since 2002. Prior to serving in that position, he served as Managing Director in Australia beginning in 1999, where his responsibilities included heat transfer manufacturing and distribution, refrigeration wholesaling and manufacturing, and HVAC manufacturing and distribution in Australia and New Zealand. Mr. Moon originally joined LII in 1998 as Operations Director, Asia Pacific. Prior to that time, Mr. Moon held various management positions at Allied Signal, Inc., Case Corporation, and Tenneco Inc. in the United States, Hong Kong, Taiwan and Germany. He holds a bachelor of science in civil engineering and an MBA from Texas A&#38;M University. Mr. Moon serves on the Board of Directors of American Woodmark Corporation, a kitchen and bath cabinet manufacturer. 

Prakash Bedapudi was appointed Executive Vice President and Chief Technology Officer in July 2008. He had previously served as Vice President, Global Engineering and Program Management for Trane Inc. Commercial Systems from 2006 through 2008, and as Vice President, Engineering and Technology for Trane's Residential Systems division from 2003 through 2006. Prior to his career at Trane, Mr. Bedapudi served in senior engineering leadership positions for GE Transportation Systems, a division of General Electric Company, and for Cummins Engine Company. He holds a bachelor of science in mechanical/automotive engineering from Karnataka University, India and a master's of science in mechanical/aeronautical engineering from the University of Cincinnati. 

Daniel M. Sessa &#32;was appointed Executive Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer in June 2007. He had previously served in numerous senior human resources and legal leadership positions for United Technologies Corporation since 1996, including Vice President, Human Resources for Otis Elevator Company - Americas from 2005 to 2007, Director, Employee Benefits and Human Resources Systems for United Technologies Corporation from 2004 to 2005, and Director, Human Resources for Pratt &#38; Whitney from 2002 to 2004. He holds a bachelor of arts in law and society from the State University of New York at Binghamton and a juris doctor from the Hofstra University School of Law. 

John D. Torres &#32;was appointed Executive Vice President and Chief Legal Officer and Secretary in December 2008. He had previously served as Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary for Freescale Semiconductor, a semiconductor manufacturer that was originally part of Motorola. He joined Motorola's legal department as Senior Counsel in 1996 and was appointed Vice President, General Counsel of the company's semiconductor business in 2001. Prior to joining Motorola, Mr. Torres served 13 years in private practice in Phoenix, specializing in commercial law. He holds a bachelor of arts from Notre Dame and a juris doctor from the University of Chicago. 

Roy A. Rumbough, Jr. was appointed Vice President, Controller and Chief Accounting Officer in July 2006. He had previously served as Vice President, Corporate Controller of Maytag Corporation, a position he held since 2002. From 1998 to 2002, he served as Vice President, Controller of Blodgett Corporation, a portfolio of food service equipment companies and former affiliate of Maytag. Mr. Rumbough's career at Maytag spanned 17 years and included internal audit, financial planning and analysis, and business unit controller roles. Prior to his career at Maytag, he worked for Deloitte and Touche, LLP. He holds a bachelor of arts 

in accounting from North Carolina State University and an MBA from the Kellogg School of Management, Northwestern University . 

