 Item 1. Business 

Summary 

BankUnited, Inc. ("BankUnited, Inc." or "BKU"), with total consolidated assets of $23.9 billion &#32;at December 31, 2015, is a national bank holding company with one wholly-owned subsidiary, BankUnited, National Association ("BankUnited" or the "Bank"), collectively, the Company. BankUnited, a national banking association headquartered in Miami Lakes, Florida, provides a full range of banking services to individual and corporate customers through 98 &#32;branches located in 15 Florida counties and 6 &#32;banking centers in the New York metropolitan area. The Bank also provides certain commercial lending products on a national platform. The Company has built, through organic growth and, to a lesser extent, acquisitions, a premier commercially focused regional bank with a long-term value oriented business model serving primarily small and medium sized businesses. We endeavor to provide relationship focused, personalized customer service and offer a full range of traditional banking products and services to both our commercial and retail customers. 

BankUnited, Inc. was organized by a management team led by our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, John A. Kanas and was initially capitalized with $945.0 million by a group of investors. On May 21, 2009, BankUnited acquired substantially all of the assets and assumed all of the non-brokered deposits and substantially all other liabilities of BankUnited, FSB (the "Failed Bank"), from the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation ("FDIC"), in a transaction which we refer to as the FSB Acquisition. On February 2, 2011, we completed the initial public offering ("IPO") of our common stock. 

The FSB Acquisition 

On May 21, 2009, BankUnited entered into a purchase and assumption agreement (the "Purchase and Assumption Agreement") with the FDIC, Receiver of the Failed Bank, to acquire substantially all of the assets and assume all of the non-brokered deposits and substantially all other liabilities of the Failed Bank. Excluding the effects of acquisition accounting adjustments, BankUnited acquired $13.6 billion of assets and assumed $12.8 billion of liabilities. The fair value of the assets acquired was $10.9 billion and the fair value of the liabilities assumed was $13.1 billion. BankUnited received net cash consideration from the FDIC in the amount of $2.2 billion. 

The acquired assets included $5.0 billion of loans with a corresponding unpaid principal balance ("UPB") of $11.2 billion, a $3.4 billion FDIC indemnification asset, $539 million of investment securities, $1.2 billion of cash and cash equivalents, $178 million of foreclosed assets and $591 million of other assets. Liabilities assumed included $8.3 billion of non-brokered deposits, $4.6 billion of Federal Home Loan Bank ("FHLB") advances, and $112 million of other liabilities. 

Concurrently with the FSB Acquisition, the Bank entered into two loss sharing agreements with the FDIC, which we refer to as the "Loss Sharing Agreements." The Loss Sharing Agreements cover certain legacy assets, including the entire legacy loan portfolio and other real estate owned ("OREO") and certain purchased investment securities. We refer to assets covered by the Loss Sharing Agreements as covered assets or, in certain cases, covered loans or covered securities. The Loss Sharing Agreements do not apply to subsequently acquired, purchased or originated assets. At December 31, 2015 , the covered assets, consisting of residential loans and OREO, had an aggregate carrying value of $818 million . The total UPB of the covered assets at December 31, 2015 &#32;was $2.1 billion . 

The following charts illustrate the percentage of total assets represented by covered assets and the FDIC indemnification asset at December 31, 2015 &#32;and 2010, reflecting the change in balance sheet composition over time: 

Pursuant to the terms of the Loss Sharing Agreements, the covered assets are subject to a stated loss threshold whereby the FDIC will reimburse the Bank for 80% of losses up to a $4.0 billion stated threshold and 95% of losses in excess of the $4.0 billion stated threshold, calculated, in each case, based on UPB (or, for investment securities, unamortized cost basis) plus certain interest and expenses. The carrying value of the FDIC indemnification asset at December 31, 2015 &#32;was $740 million . The Bank will reimburse the FDIC for its share of recoveries with respect to losses for which the FDIC paid the Bank a reimbursement under the Loss Sharing Agreements. The FDIC's obligation to reimburse the Company for losses with respect to the covered assets began with the first dollar of loss incurred. We have received reimbursements of $2.7 billion &#32;for claims submitted to the FDIC under the Loss Sharing Agreements as of December 31, 2015 . 

The Loss Sharing agreements consist of a single family shared-loss agreement (the "Single Family Shared-Loss Agreement"), and a commercial and other loans shared-loss agreement, (the "Commercial Shared-Loss Agreement"). The Single Family Shared-Loss Agreement provides for FDIC loss sharing and the Bank's reimbursement for recoveries to the FDIC for ten years from May 21, 2009 for single family residential and home equity loans and OREO. The Commercial Shared-Loss Agreement provided for FDIC loss sharing for five years from May 21, 2009 and provides for the Bank's reimbursement for recoveries to the FDIC for eight years from May 21, 2009 for all other covered assets. 

Under the terms of the Purchase and Assumption Agreement with the FDIC, the Bank may sell up to 2.5% of the covered loans based on the UPB at the date of the FSB Acquisition, or approximately $280.0 million, on an annual basis without prior consent of the FDIC. Any losses incurred from such loan sales are covered under the Loss Sharing Agreements. Any loan sale in excess of the annual threshold requires approval from the FDIC to be eligible for loss share coverage. However, if the Bank seeks to sell residential loans in excess of the agreed 2.5% threshold in the nine months prior to the stated termination date of loss share coverage (May 21, 2019) and the FDIC refuses to consent, then the Single Family Shared-Loss Agreement will be extended for two years only with respect to the loans requested to be included in such sales. The Bank will have the right to sell all or any portion of such loans without FDIC consent at any time within the nine months prior to the respective extended termination date, and any losses incurred will be covered under the Loss Sharing Agreement. If exercised, this final sale mechanism ensures no residual credit risk in our covered loan portfolio that would otherwise arise from credit losses occurring after the termination dates of the Loss Sharing Agreement. 

With respect to the Commercial Shared-Loss Agreement, FDIC loss sharing terminated on May 21, 2014. In the nine months prior to termination, requests for sales of non-residential loans were subject to the same terms as those discussed above for residential loans. In accordance with the terms of the Commercial Shared-Loss Agreement, the Bank requested and received approval from the FDIC to sell certain covered commercial and consumer loans and commercial OREO in the first quarter of 2014. See the sections entitled "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations&#8212;Results of Operations&#8212;Non-interest Income" and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations&#8212;Results of Operations&#8212;Termination of the Commercial Shared-Loss Agreement" for further discussion. 

Our Market Areas 

Our primary banking markets are Florida, with the largest concentration being the Miami metropolitan statistical area, and the Tri-State market of New York, New Jersey and Connecticut. We believe both represent long-term attractive banking markets. We also operate several national commercial lending platforms and purchase residential loans on a national basis through established correspondent channels. 

Our competitive strengths, including experienced management, lending and relationship banking teams, a strong capital position and scalable platform, continue to allow us to take advantage of opportunities across our markets. 

According to estimates from the United States Census Bureau and SNL Financial, from 2010 to 2015, Florida added over 1.4 million new residents, the sixth most of any U.S. state, and, in 2015, had a total population of 20.3 million and a median household annual income of $47,912. The Florida unemployment rate decreased to 5.0% at December 31, 2015 . The Case-Shiller home price index for Florida reflected a year over year increase of 7% at September 30, 2015. According to CoStar Commercial Repeat-Sale Indices, commercial real estate values in the South region reflected a year over year increase of 11% at September 30, 2015. According to a report published in December, 2015 by the University of Central Florida, personal income in Florida will grow by 4.7% in 2015 and is expected to average 4.0% growth from 2015 to 2018 while Florida's Real Gross State Product is forecast to expand at an average annual rate of 3.2% from 2015 to 2018. 

We had six &#32;banking centers in metropolitan New York at December 31, 2015 &#32;including four in Manhattan, one in Long Island and one in Brooklyn. According to SNL Financial, at June 30, 2015, the Tri-State area had approximately $1.7 trillion in deposits, with the majority of the market concentrated in the New York metropolitan area. The New York unemployment rate decreased to 4.8% at December 31, 2015 . According to CoStar Commercial Repeat-Sale Indices, commercial real estate values in the Northeast region reflected a year over year increase of 13% at September 30, 2015. The size and economic health of the 

Tri-State market, coupled with the management team's experience in building a successful Northeast U.S. regional bank in the past, make us well positioned to continue our expansion and growth in this market. 

Through three commercial lending subsidiaries of BankUnited, we engage in equipment and municipal finance on a national basis. The Bank also originates small business loans through programs sponsored by the U.S. Small Business Administration ("SBA") and to a lesser extent the U.S. Department of Agriculture ("USDA") and provides mortgage warehouse finance on a national basis. We refer to our three commercial lending subsidiaries, our small business finance unit, our mortgage warehouse lending operations and our residential loan purchase program as national platforms. 

Products and Services 

Lending and Leasing 

General &#8212;Our primary lending focus is to serve small and middle-market businesses, their executives and consumers with a variety of financial products and services, while maintaining a strong and disciplined credit culture. 

We offer a full array of lending products that cater to our customers' needs including small business loans, commercial real estate loans, equipment loans and leases, term loans, formula-based loans, municipal loans and leases, commercial lines of credit, letters of credit and consumer loans. We also purchase performing residential loans through established correspondent channels on a national basis. 

We have attracted and invested in experienced lending teams from competing institutions in our Florida, Tri-State and national markets, resulting in significant growth in our new loan portfolio. At December 31, 2015 , our loan portfolio included $15.8 billion &#32;in loans originated or purchased since the FSB Acquisition, or new loans, including $12.8 billion &#32;in commercial and commercial real estate loans, $2.9 billion &#32;in residential loans and $35 million &#32;in consumer loans. A continued trend of strong loan growth in both the Florida and Tri-State markets and across our national lending and leasing platforms is a core component of our current business strategy. 

Commercial loans and leasing &#8212;Our commercial loans, which are generally made to growing companies and middle-market businesses, include equipment loans and leases, secured and unsecured commercial and working capital lines of credit, formula-based loans, mortgage warehouse lines, taxi medallion loans, letters of credit, SBA product offerings and business acquisition finance credit facilities. 

Commercial real estate loans &#8212;We offer term financing for the acquisition or refinancing of properties, primarily rental apartments, mixed-use commercial properties, industrial properties, warehouses, retail shopping centers, free-standing single-tenant buildings, office buildings and hotels. Other products that we provide include real estate secured lines of credit, acquisition, development and construction loan facilities and construction financing. We make commercial real estate loans secured by both owner-occupied and non-owner occupied properties. Construction lending is not a primary area of focus for us; construction and land loans comprised 2.1% &#32;of the loan portfolio at December 31, 2015 . 

National Commercial Lending Platforms &#8212;Through the Bank's three commercial lending subsidiaries, we provide municipal and equipment financing on a national basis. Pinnacle Public Finance, Inc. ("Pinnacle"), headquartered in Scottsdale, Arizona, offers essential use equipment financing to municipalities through loan, bond refunding and direct finance lease structures. United Capital Business Lending, Inc. ("UCBL") offers small business equipment leases and loans with a primary focus on franchise equipment finance. Bridge Capital Leasing, Inc ("Bridge") provides transportation equipment finance through loan, direct finance lease and operating lease structures. UCBL and Bridge are headquartered in Baltimore, Maryland; effective January 1, 2016, these entities were merged into a single legal entity, Bridge Funding Group, Inc. In 2015 we acquired the Small Business Finance Unit ("SBF") of CertusHoldings, Inc. (see Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements), enabling us to expand our small business lending platform on a national basis. SBF offers an array of SBA, and to a lesser extent, USDA products. We typically sell the government guaranteed portion of the loans SBF originates, and retain the unguaranteed portion in portfolio. We also engage in mortgage warehouse lending on a national basis. 

Residential mortgages &#8212;At December 31, 2015 , our portfolio of new 1-4 single family residential loans included $2.4 billion &#32;of purchased loans and $475 million &#32;of originated loans. We have historically originated mortgage loans in Florida and New York for portfolio and for sale into the secondary market. In January 2016, we terminated our retail mortgage origination business line. We purchase residential loans through select correspondent channels to diversify our loan portfolio, both by product type and geographically. While the credit parameters we use for purchased loans are substantially similar to the underwriting guidelines we used for originated loans, differences include: (i) loans are purchased on a nationwide basis, while originated loans have been limited to Florida and New York; (ii) purchased loans and loans originated for portfolio, on average, have higher principal balances than loans originated for sale; and (iii) we consider payment history in selecting which seasoned 

loans to purchase, while such information is not available for originated loans. We do not originate or purchase negatively amortizing or sub-prime residential loans. 

Home equity loans and lines of credit are not a significant component of the new loan portfolio. 

Consumer loans &#8212;We offer consumer loans to our customers for personal, family and household purposes, including auto, boat and personal installment loans. At December 31, 2015 , consumer loans were not a material component of our loan portfolio. 

Loan servicing &#8212;We entered the residential mortgage servicing business in 2013; we have acquired servicing portfolios and have retained servicing on residential loans originated and sold into the secondary market. At December 31, 2015 , we serviced residential mortgage loans with a UPB of $755 million. We anticipate growing this business at a moderate pace, depending on market conditions, to take advantage of existing mortgage servicing capacity. 

We service SBA loans originated and sold into the secondary market by SBF. We anticipate that this servicing business will expand as SBF originations grow. At December 31, 2015, we serviced $452 million of SBA loans. 

The balance of servicing assets was not material to the Company's consolidated financial statements at December 31, 2015. 

Credit Policy and Procedures 

The foundation underlying the Company's credit culture, policy and procedures is high credit quality standards, which enhance the long term value of the Company to its customers, employees, stockholders and communities. Credit quality is a key corporate objective that is managed in concert with other key objectives including volume growth, earnings and expense management. 

Since lending represents risk exposure, our Board of Directors, its duly appointed committees and certain Bank-level committees seek to ensure that the Company maintains high credit quality standards. BankUnited, Inc. and the Bank have established asset oversight committees to administer the loan portfolio and monitor and manage credit risk. These committees include: (i) the Enterprise Risk Management Committee, (ii) the Credit Risk Management Committee and its Florida and New York regional subcommittees, (iii) the Asset Recovery Committee, and (iv) the Criticized Asset Committee. These committees meet at least quarterly. 

The credit approval process provides for prompt and thorough underwriting and approval or decline of loan requests. The approval method used is a hierarchy of individual lending authorities for new credits and renewals. The Credit Risk Management Committee approves authorities for lending and credit personnel, which are ultimately submitted to our Board for ratification. Lending authorities are based on position, capability and experience of the individuals filling these positions. Authorities are periodically reviewed and updated. 

BankUnited has established in-house borrower lending limits which are significantly lower than its legal lending limit of approximately $376 million , at December 31, 2015 . The in-house lending limit at December 31, 2015 &#32;was $75 million based on total credit exposure of a borrower. This limit is reviewed periodically by the Credit Risk Management Committee and approved annually by the Board of Directors. 

Deposits 

We offer traditional deposit products including checking accounts, money market deposit accounts, savings accounts and certificates of deposit with a variety of terms and rates. Our deposits are insured by the FDIC up to statutory limits. Demand deposit balances are concentrated in commercial and small business accounts. Our service fee schedule and rates are competitive with other financial institutions in our markets. 

Investment Securities 

The primary objectives of our investment policy are to provide liquidity necessary for day-to-day operations, provide a suitable balance of high credit and diversified quality assets to the consolidated balance sheet, manage interest rate risk exposure, and generate acceptable returns given the Company's established risk parameters. 

The investment policy is reviewed annually by our Board of Directors. Overall investment goals are established by our Board, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, and members of the Asset/Liability Committee ("ALCO"). The Board has delegated the responsibility of monitoring our investment activities to ALCO. Day-to-day activities pertaining to the investment portfolio are conducted within the Company's Treasury division under the supervision of the Chief Financial Officer. 

Risk Management and Oversight 

Our Board of Directors oversees our risk management process, including the company-wide approach to risk management, carried out by our management. Our Board approves the Company's business plans and the policies that set standards for the nature and level of risk the Company is willing to assume. The Board receives reports on the Company's management of critical risks and the effectiveness of risk management systems. While our full Board maintains the ultimate oversight responsibility for the risk management process, its committees, including the audit and risk committee, the compensation committee and the nominating and corporate governance committee, oversee risk in certain specified areas. 

Our Board has assigned responsibility to our Chief Risk Officer for maintaining a risk management framework to identify, manage and mitigate risks to the achievement of our strategic goals and objectives and ensure we operate in a safe and sound manner in accordance with the Board approved policies. We have invested significant resources to establish a robust enterprise-wide risk management framework to support the planned growth of our Company. Our framework is consistent with common industry practices and regulatory guidance and is appropriate to our size, growth trajectory and the complexity of our business activities. Significant elements include ongoing identification and assessments of risk, executive management level risk committees to oversee compliance with the Board approved risk policies and adherence to risk limits, and ongoing testing and reporting by independent internal audit, credit review, and regulatory compliance groups. Executive level oversight of the risk management framework is provided by the Enterprise Risk Management Committee which is chaired by the Chief Risk Officer and attended by the senior executives of the Company. Reporting to the Enterprise Risk Management Committee are sub-committees dedicated to guiding and overseeing management of critical categories of risk, including the Credit Risk Management, ALCO, Compliance Risk Management, Operational Risk Management, Corporate Disclosure, and Loss Share Compliance committees. 

Marketing and Distribution 

We conduct our banking business through 98 &#32;branches located in 15 Florida counties as well as 6 banking centers in the New York metropolitan area as of December 31, 2015 . Our distribution network also includes 100 ATMs, fully integrated on-line banking, mobile banking and a telephone banking service. We target growing companies and commercial and middle-market businesses, as well as individual consumers. 

In order to market our products, we use local television, radio, digital, print and direct mail advertising as well as a variety of promotional activities, and provide sales incentives for our employees. 

Competition 

Our markets are highly competitive. Our markets contain not only a large number of community and regional banks, but also a significant presence of the country's largest commercial banks. We compete with other state, national and international financial institutions located in our market areas as well as savings associations, savings banks and credit unions for deposits and loans. In addition, we compete with financial intermediaries such as consumer finance companies, mortgage banking companies, insurance companies, securities firms, mutual funds and several government agencies as well as major retailers, all actively engaged in providing various types of loans and other financial services. Our largest banking competitors in the Florida market include Bank of America, BB&#38;T, BBVA Compass, HSBC, JPMorgan Chase, PNC, Regions Bank, Santander, Sabadell, SunTrust Banks, TD Bank and Wells Fargo and a number of community banks. In the Tri-State market, we also compete with, in addition to the national and international financial institutions listed, Capital One, Signature Bank, New York Community Bank, Valley National Bank, M&#38;T Bank and numerous community banks. 

Interest rates on both loans and deposits and prices of fee-based services are significant competitive factors among financial institutions generally. Other important competitive factors include office location, office hours, quality of customer service, availability of on-line and remote banking products, community reputation, continuity of personnel and services, and, in the case of larger commercial customers, relative lending limits and ability to offer sophisticated cash management and other commercial banking services. While we continue to provide competitive interest rates on both depository and lending products, we believe that we can compete most successfully by focusing on the financial needs of growing companies and their executives, consumers and commercial and middle-market businesses, and offering them a broad range of personalized services and sophisticated cash management tools tailored to their businesses. 

Regulation and Supervision 

The U.S. banking industry is highly regulated under federal and state law. These regulations affect the operations of BankUnited, Inc. and its subsidiaries. 

Statutes, regulations and policies limit the activities in which we may engage and the conduct of our permitted activities and establish capital requirements with which we must comply. Further, the regulatory system imposes reporting and information collection obligations. We incur significant costs relating to compliance with these laws and regulations. Banking statutes, regulations and policies are continually under review by federal and state legislatures and regulatory agencies, and a change in them, including changes in how they are interpreted or implemented, could have a material adverse effect on our business. 

The material statutory and regulatory requirements that are applicable to us are summarized below. The description below is not intended to summarize all laws and regulations applicable to us. 

Bank and Bank Holding Company Regulation 

BankUnited is a national bank. As a national bank organized under the National Bank Act, BankUnited is subject to ongoing and comprehensive supervision, regulation, examination and enforcement by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency ("OCC"). BankUnited is subject to certain commitments made to the OCC, in conjunction with its conversion to a national bank in 2012, regarding its business and capital plans. 

Any entity that directly or indirectly controls a bank must be approved by the Federal Reserve Board under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 ("BHC Act") to become a bank holding company ("BHC"). BHCs are subject to regulation, inspection, examination, supervision and enforcement by the Federal Reserve Board under the BHC Act. The Federal Reserve Board's jurisdiction also extends to any company that is directly or indirectly controlled by a BHC. 

BankUnited, Inc., which controls BankUnited, is a BHC and, as such, is subject to ongoing and comprehensive supervision, regulation, examination and enforcement by the Federal Reserve Board. 

FDIC Deposit Insurance 

The FDIC is an independent federal agency that insures the deposits of federally insured depository institutions up to applicable limits. The FDIC also has certain regulatory, examination and enforcement powers with respect to FDIC-insured institutions. The deposits of BankUnited are insured by the FDIC up to applicable limits. As a general matter, the maximum deposit insurance amount is $250,000 per depositor. 

Broad Supervision, Examination and Enforcement Powers 

A principal objective of the U.S. bank regulatory system is to protect depositors by ensuring the financial safety and soundness of banking organizations. To that end, the banking regulators have broad regulatory, examination and enforcement authority. The regulators regularly examine the operations of banking organizations. In addition, banking organizations are subject to periodic reporting requirements. 

The regulators have various remedies available if they determine that the financial condition, capital resources, asset quality, earnings prospects, management, liquidity or other aspects of a banking organization's operations are unsatisfactory. The regulators may also take action if they determine that the banking organization or its management is violating or has violated any law or regulation. The regulators have the power to, among other things: 

&#8226; 

enjoin "unsafe or unsound" practices; 

&#8226; 

require affirmative actions to correct any violation or practice; 

&#8226; 

issue administrative orders that can be judicially enforced; 

&#8226; 

direct increases in capital; 

&#8226; 

direct the sale of subsidiaries or other assets; 

&#8226; 

limit dividends and distributions; 

&#8226; 

restrict growth; 

&#8226; 

assess civil monetary penalties; 

&#8226; 

remove officers and directors; and 

&#8226; 

terminate deposit insurance. 

The FDIC may terminate a depository institution's deposit insurance upon a finding that the institution's financial condition is unsafe or unsound or that the institution has engaged in unsafe or unsound practices or has violated any applicable rule, regulation, order or condition enacted or imposed by the institution's regulatory agency. Engaging in unsafe or unsound practices or failing to comply with applicable laws, regulations and supervisory agreements could subject BankUnited, Inc., the Bank and their subsidiaries or their officers, directors and institution-affiliated parties to the remedies described above and other sanctions. 

The Dodd-Frank Act 

On July 21, 2010, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010, or the Dodd-Frank Act, was signed into law. The Dodd-Frank Act is having a broad impact on the financial services industry, and imposes significant regulatory and compliance requirements, including the designation of certain financial companies as systemically important financial institutions ("SIFIs"), the changing roles of credit rating agencies, the imposition of increased capital, leverage, and liquidity requirements, and numerous other provisions designed to improve supervision and oversight of, and strengthen safety and soundness within, the financial services sector. Additionally, the Dodd-Frank Act establishes a new framework of authority to conduct systemic risk oversight within the financial system to be distributed among new and existing federal regulatory agencies, including the Financial Stability Oversight Council, or Council, the Federal Reserve Board, the OCC, and the FDIC. 

The following is a a brief description of certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act that are most relevant to BankUnited, Inc. and its banking subsidiary. 

&#8226; 

Source of strength. The Dodd-Frank Act requires all companies, including BHCs, that directly or indirectly control an insured depository institution to serve as a source of strength for the institution. Under this requirement, BankUnited, Inc. in the future could be required to provide financial assistance to BankUnited should it experience financial distress. 

&#8226; 

Limitation on federal preemption. The Dodd-Frank Act significantly reduces the ability of national banks to rely on federal preemption of state consumer financial laws. Although the OCC, as the primary regulator of national banks, will have the ability to make preemption determinations where certain conditions are met, the broad rollback of federal preemption has the potential to create a patchwork of federal and state compliance obligations. This could, in turn, result in significant new regulatory requirements applicable to BankUnited, with potentially significant changes in our operations and increases in our compliance costs. It could also result in uncertainty concerning compliance, with attendant regulatory and litigation risks. 

&#8226; 

Company-Run Stress Testing. Under Section 165(i) of the Dodd-Frank Act and the stress testing rules of the Federal Reserve Board and OCC, each bank holding company and national bank with more than $10 billion and less than $50 billion in total consolidated assets must annually conduct a company-run stress test to estimate the potential impact of three scenarios provided by the agencies on its regulatory capital ratios and certain other financial metrics. In 2016 , BankUnited, Inc. and the Bank will submit the results of their company-run stress test to the Federal Reserve Board and OCC by July 31 and will publish a public summary of the results between October 15 and October 30. 

&#8226; 

Mortgage loan origination and risk retention. The Dodd-Frank Act imposes new standards for mortgage loan originations on all lenders, including banking organizations, by requiring that lenders be able to substantiate they have made a good faith determination of a borrower's ability to repay a mortgage. The ability to repay requirement mandates specific factors that a lender must consider in evaluating a borrower's ability to repay. In 2013, federal regulators released the "qualified mortgage" rule. The qualified mortgage rule is intended to clarify the application of the Dodd-Frank Act requirement that mortgage lenders have a reasonable belief that borrowers have the ability to repay their mortgages. For mortgages meeting the regulatory definition of qualified mortgages, lenders generally enjoy a safe harbor with respect to compliance with the ability to repay rules. Generally, to be considered qualified mortgages, loans must meet all requirements set forth in the ability to repay rules and have debt-to-income ratios and closing costs not exceeding specified levels. Any prepayment penalties must fall within defined constraints. Loans meeting the regulatory definition of higher priced loans, or those with balloon, negative amortization or interest-only features do not meet the definition of qualified mortgages. While lenders are permitted to originate mortgages that do not meet the definition of qualified mortgages, the burden of demonstrating compliance with the ability to repay rules with respect to such mortgages is greater, possibly impeding a lender's ability to foreclose on such mortgages. 

In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act generally requires lenders or securitizers to retain an economic interest in the credit risk relating to loans the lender sells or mortgage and other asset-backed securities that the securitizer issues. The risk retention requirement generally requires a securitizer to retain no less than 5 percent of the credit risk in assets it sells into a securitization and prohibits a securitizer from directly or indirectly hedging or otherwise transferring the credit risk that the securitizer is required to retain, subject to limited exemptions. One significant exemption is for securities 

entirely collateralized by "qualified residential mortgages" ("QRMs"), which are loans deemed to have a lower risk of default. QRMs have the same meaning as the term "qualified mortgage," as defined by the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau ("CFPB"). In addition, qualifying commercial loan, commercial real estate loan and auto loan securitizations have lower risk retention requirements. . BankUnited is not currently a securitizer. 

&#8226; 

Expanded FDIC resolution authority. While insured depository institutions have long been subject to the FDIC's resolution process, the Dodd-Frank Act creates a new mechanism for the FDIC to conduct the orderly liquidation of certain "covered financial companies," including bank and thrift holding companies and systemically significant non-bank financial companies. Upon certain findings being made, the FDIC may be appointed receiver for a covered financial company, and would conduct an orderly liquidation of the entity. The FDIC liquidation process is modeled on the existing Federal Deposit Insurance Act, or FDIA bank resolution process, and generally gives the FDIC more discretion than in the traditional bankruptcy context. The FDIC has issued final rules implementing the orderly liquidation authority. 

&#8226; 

CFPB. The Dodd-Frank Act created a new independent CFPB. The CFPB is tasked with establishing and implementing rules and regulations under certain federal consumer protection laws with respect to the conduct of providers of certain consumer financial products and services. The CFPB has rulemaking authority over many of the statutes governing products and services offered to bank and thrift consumers. For banking organizations with assets of $10 billion or more, the CFPB has exclusive rule making and examination, and primary enforcement authority under federal consumer financial law. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act permits states to adopt consumer protection laws and regulations that are stricter than those regulations promulgated by the CFPB. Compliance with any such new regulations could increase our cost of operations and could necessitate changes to certain of our business practices. 

&#8226; 

Deposit insurance. The Dodd-Frank Act made permanent the general $250,000 deposit insurance limit for insured deposits. Amendments to the FDIA also revised the assessment base against which an insured depository institution's deposit insurance premiums paid to the deposit insurance fund, or DIF, of the FDIC are calculated. Under the amendments, the assessment base is the institution's average consolidated total assets less its average tangible equity. Additionally, the Dodd-Frank Act made changes to the minimum designated reserve ratio of the DIF, increasing the minimum from 1.15 percent to 1.35 percent of the estimated amount of total insured deposits, and eliminating the requirement that the FDIC pay dividends to depository institutions when the reserve ratio exceeds certain thresholds. 

&#8226; 

Transactions with affiliates and insiders. The Dodd-Frank Act generally enhanced the restrictions on transactions with affiliates under Section 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act, including an expansion of the definition of "covered transactions" and clarification regarding the amount of time for which collateral requirements regarding covered credit transactions must be satisfied. Insider transaction limitations are expanded through the strengthening of loan restrictions to insiders and the expansion of the types of transactions subject to the various limits, including derivatives transactions, repurchase agreements, reverse repurchase agreements and securities lending or borrowing transactions. Restrictions are also placed on certain asset sales to and from an insider to an institution, including requirements that such sales be on market terms and, in certain circumstances, approved by the institution's board of directors. 

&#8226; 

Enhanced lending limits. The Dodd-Frank Act strengthens the existing limits on a depository institution's credit exposure to one borrower. The OCC has published a final rule amending its existing lending limits to incorporate changes made by the Dodd-Frank Act. The Dodd-Frank Act and the final rule amend the OCC's lending limit regulation to include credit exposures arising from derivative transactions and repurchase agreements, reverse repurchase agreements, securities lending transactions, and securities borrowing transactions. The final rule exempts certain types of transactions, and outlines the methods that banks can choose from to measure credit exposures of derivative transactions and securities financing transactions. In most cases, a bank may choose which method it will use; the OCC, however, may specify that a bank use a particular method for safety and soundness reasons. 

&#8226; 

Corporate governance. The Dodd-Frank Act addresses many investor protection, corporate governance and executive compensation matters that affect most U.S. publicly traded companies, including BankUnited, Inc. The Dodd-Frank Act (1) grants stockholders of U.S. publicly traded companies an advisory vote on executive compensation; (2) enhances independence requirements for compensation committee members; (3) requires companies listed on national securities exchanges to adopt incentive-based compensation clawback policies for executive officers; and (4) provides the SEC with authority to adopt proxy access rules that would allow stockholders of publicly traded companies to nominate candidates for election as a director and have those nominees included in a company's proxy materials. 

The requirements of the Dodd-Frank Act are in the process of being implemented over time and most will be subject to regulations implemented over the course of several years. 

The Volcker Rule 

On December 10, 2013, five U.S. financial regulators, including the Federal Reserve Board and the OCC, adopted a final rule implementing the so-called "Volcker Rule." The Volcker Rule was created by Section 619 of the Dodd-Frank Act and generally prohibits "banking entities" from engaging in "proprietary trading" and making investments and conducting certain other activities with "covered funds." 

Although the final rule provides some tiering of compliance and reporting obligations based on size, the fundamental prohibitions of the Volcker Rule apply to banking entities of any size, including BankUnited, Inc. and BankUnited. Banking entities with total assets of $10 billion or more that engage in activities subject to the Volcker Rule will be required to establish a six-element compliance program to address the prohibitions of, and exemptions from, the Volcker Rule. The final rule became effective April 1, 2014; however, at the time the agencies released the final Volcker Rule, the Federal Reserve Board announced an extension of the conformance period for all banking entities until July 21, 2015. On December 18, 2014, the Federal Reserve Board granted an additional one year extension to July 21, 2016, for certain &#8220;legacy covered fund&#8221; investments and relationships entered into by banking entities prior to December 31, 2013. The Federal Reserve Board also indicated that it plans to grant an additional one year extension to July 21, 2017, at a later date. 

In response to industry questions regarding the final Volcker Rule, the OCC, Federal Reserve Board, the FDIC, the SEC, and the CFTC issued a clarifying interim final rule on January 14, 2014, permitting banking entities to retain interests in certain collateralized debt obligations ("CDOs") backed by trust preferred securities if the CDO meets certain requirements. 

Notice and Approval Requirements Related to Control 

Banking laws impose notice, approval, and ongoing regulatory requirements on any stockholder or other party that seeks to acquire direct or indirect "control" of an FDIC-insured depository institution. These laws include the BHC Act, the Change in Bank Control Act, and the Savings and Loan Holding Company Act. Among other things, these laws require regulatory filings by a stockholder or other party that seeks to acquire direct or indirect "control" of an FDIC-insured depository institution. The determination of whether an investor "controls" a depository institution is based on all of the facts and circumstances surrounding the investment. As a general matter, a party is deemed to control a depository institution or other company if the party owns or controls 25% or more of any class of voting stock. Subject to rebuttal, a party may be presumed to control a depository institution or other company if the investor owns or controls 10% or more of any class of voting stock. Ownership by affiliated parties, or parties acting in concert, is typically aggregated for these purposes. If a party's ownership of BankUnited, Inc. were to exceed certain thresholds, the investor could be deemed to "control" the Company for regulatory purposes. This could subject the investor to regulatory filings or other regulatory consequences. 

In addition, except under limited circumstances, BHCs are prohibited from acquiring, without prior approval: 

&#8226; 

control of any other bank or BHC or all or substantially all the assets thereof; or 

&#8226; 

more than 5% of the voting shares of a bank or BHC which is not already a subsidiary. 

Permissible Activities and Investments 

Banking laws generally restrict the ability of BankUnited, Inc. to engage in activities other than those determined by the Federal Reserve Board to be so closely related to banking as to be a proper incident thereto. The Gramm-Leach-Bliley Financial Modernization Act of 1999, or "GLB Act," expanded the scope of permissible activities for a BHC that qualifies as a financial holding company. Under the regulations implementing the GLB Act, a financial holding company may engage in additional activities that are financial in nature or incidental or complementary to a financial activity. Those activities include, among other activities, certain insurance and securities activities. Qualifications for becoming a financial holding company include, among other things, meeting certain specified capital standards and achieving certain management ratings in examinations. Under the Dodd-Frank Act, BHCs and their subsidiaries must be well-capitalized and well-managed in order for the BHC and its nonbank affiliates to engage in the expanded financial activities permissible only for a financial holding company. BankUnited, Inc. is not a financial holding company. 

In addition, as a general matter, the establishment or acquisition by BankUnited, Inc. of a depository institution or, in certain cases, a non-bank entity, requires prior regulatory approval. 

Regulatory Capital Requirements and Capital Adequacy 

The federal bank regulators view capital levels as important indicators of an institution's financial soundness. As a general matter, FDIC-insured depository institutions and their holding companies are required to maintain minimum capital relative to the amount and types of assets they hold. The final supervisory determination on an institution's capital adequacy is based on 

the regulator's assessment of numerous factors. Both BankUnited, Inc. and BankUnited are subject to regulatory capital requirements. 

The Federal Reserve Board has established risk-based and leverage capital guidelines for BHCs, including BankUnited, Inc. The OCC has established substantially similar risk-based and leverage capital guidelines applicable to national banks, including BankUnited. The risk-based capital guidelines in place prior to January 1, 2015, commonly referred to as Basel I, were based upon the 1988 capital accord of the International Basel Committee on Banking Supervision ("Basel Committee"), a committee of central banks and bank supervisors, as implemented by the U.S. federal banking agencies. Revised capital guidelines became effective on January 1, 2015, based on the final framework for strengthening international capital and liquidity regulation, released by the Basel Committee in 2010, referred to as "Basel III." The Basel III calibration and phase-in arrangements were subject to individual adoption by member nations, including the United States. 

In July 2013, the federal banking agencies published final rules implementing the Basel III framework and certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act (the "Basel III Capital Rules"). While some provisions are tailored to larger institutions, the Basel III Capital Rules generally apply to all U.S. banking organizations, including BankUnited, Inc. and BankUnited. 

Among other things, the Basel III Capital Rules: (i) introduce a new capital measure entitled "Common Equity Tier 1" ("CET1"); (ii) specify that tier 1 capital consist of CET1 and additional instruments satisfying specified requirements that permit inclusion in tier 1 capital; (iii) define CET1 narrowly by requiring that most deductions or adjustments to regulatory capital measures be made to CET1 and not to the other components of capital; and (iv) expand the scope of the deductions or adjustments from capital as compared to the existing regulations. 

Under the Basel III Capital Rules, banking organizations that do not meet the definition of an advanced approaches institution were provided a one-time option in their initial regulatory financial report filed after January 1, 2015 to remove certain components of accumulated other comprehensive income from the computation of common equity regulatory capital. BankUnited, Inc. and BankUnited made such elections. 

The Basel III Capital Rules also implement stricter eligibility requirements for regulatory capital instruments intended to disallow the inclusion of all non-exempt issuances of trust preferred securities and cumulative perpetual preferred stock from tier 1 capital. The Basel III Capital Rules provide additional constraints on the inclusion of minority interests, mortgage servicing assets, deferred tax assets and certain investments in the capital of unconsolidated financial institutions in tier 1 capital, as well as applying stricter risk weighting rules to these assets. 

The Basel III Capital Rules provide for the following minimum capital to risk-weighted assets ratios: 

(i) 

4.5% based upon CET1; 

(ii) 

6.0% based upon tier 1 capital; and 

(iii) 

8.0% based upon total regulatory capital. 

A minimum leverage ratio (tier 1 capital as a percentage of average total assets) of 4.0% is also required under the Basel III Capital Rules. The Basel III Capital Rules additionally require institutions to retain a capital conservation buffer of 2.5% above these required minimum capital ratio levels, to be phased in at annual increments of 0.625% beginning in 2016. Banking organizations that fail to maintain the minimum required capital conservation buffer could face restrictions on capital distributions or discretionary bonus payments to executive officers, with distributions and discretionary bonus payments being completely prohibited if no capital conservation buffer exists, or in the event of the following: (i) the banking organization's capital conservation buffer was below 2.5% (or the minimum amount required) at the beginning of a quarter; and (ii) its cumulative net income for the most recent quarterly period plus the preceding four calendar quarters is less than its cumulative capital distributions (as well as associated tax effects not already reflected in net income) during the same measurement period. 

The Basel III Capital Rules also provide stricter rules related to the risk weighting of past due and certain commercial real estate loans, as well as on some equity investment exposures, and replace the existing credit rating approach for determining the risk weighting of securitization exposures with an alternative approach. 

Finally, the Basel III Capital Rules amend the thresholds under the "prompt corrective action" framework enforced with respect to the Bank by the OCC to reflect both (i) the generally heightened requirements for regulatory capital ratios as well as (ii) the introduction of the CET1 capital measure. 

The enactment of the Basel III Capital Rules increased the required capital levels of BankUnited, Inc. and BankUnited. The Basel III Capital Rules became effective as applied to BankUnited, Inc. and BankUnited on January 1, 2015, with a phase in period from January 1, 2015 through January 1, 2019. 

Liquidity Coverage Ratio 

The Basel III Capital Rules adopted in July 2013 did not address the proposed liquidity coverage ratio ("LCR") called for by the Basel Committee's Basel III framework. On September 3, 2014, the Federal Reserve Board finalized a rule implementing a LCR requirement in the United States for larger banking organizations. Neither BankUnited, Inc. nor BankUnited are subject to the LCR requirement. 

Dodd-Frank Act Capital Changes 

Under the Dodd-Frank Act, the Federal Reserve Board may increase the capital buffer for SIFIs. The purpose of these new capital requirements is to ensure financial institutions are better capitalized to withstand periods of unfavorable financial and economic conditions. The Dodd-Frank Act also requires the establishment of more stringent prudential standards for SIFIs, which include requiring the federal banking agencies to adopt capital and liquidity requirements which address the risks that the activities of an institution pose to the institution and the public and private stakeholders, including risks arising from certain enumerated activities. We have not been deemed to be a SIFI. 

Prompt Corrective Action 

Under the FDIA, the federal bank regulatory agencies must take "prompt corrective action" against undercapitalized U.S. depository institutions. U.S. depository institutions are assigned one of five capital categories: "well capitalized," "adequately capitalized," "undercapitalized," "significantly undercapitalized," and "critically undercapitalized," and are subjected to differential regulation corresponding to the capital category within which the institution falls. As of December 31, 2015 , a depository institution was deemed to be "well capitalized" if the banking institution had a total risk-based capital ratio of 10.0% or greater, a tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 8.0% or greater, a common equity tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 6.5% and a leverage ratio of 5.0% or greater, and the institution was not subject to an order, written agreement, capital directive, or prompt corrective action directive to meet and maintain a specific level for any capital measure. Under certain circumstances, a well-capitalized, adequately-capitalized or undercapitalized institution may be treated as if the institution were in the next lower capital category. A banking institution that is undercapitalized is required to submit a capital restoration plan. Failure to meet capital guidelines could subject the institution to a variety of enforcement remedies by federal bank regulatory agencies, including: termination of deposit insurance by the FDIC, restrictions on certain business activities, and appointment of the FDIC as conservator or receiver. As of December 31, 2015 , BankUnited, Inc. and BankUnited were well capitalized. 

Regulatory Limits on Dividends and Distributions 

Federal law currently imposes limitations upon certain capital distributions by national banks, such as certain cash dividends, payments to repurchase or otherwise acquire its shares, payments to stockholders of another institution in a cash-out merger and other distributions charged against capital. The Federal Reserve Board and OCC regulate all capital distributions by BankUnited directly or indirectly to BankUnited, Inc., including dividend payments. 

BankUnited may not pay dividends to BankUnited, Inc. if, after paying those dividends, it would fail to meet the required minimum levels under risk-based capital guidelines and the minimum leverage capital ratio requirements, or in the event the OCC notified BankUnited that it was in need of more than normal supervision. Under the FDIA, an insured depository institution such as BankUnited is prohibited from making capital distributions, including the payment of dividends, if, after making such distribution, the institution would become "undercapitalized." Payment of dividends by BankUnited also may be restricted at any time at the discretion of the appropriate regulator if it deems the payment to constitute an unsafe and unsound banking practice. 

In addition, BankUnited is subject to supervisory limits on its ability to declare or pay a dividend or reduce its capital unless certain conditions are satisfied. 

Reserve Requirements 

Pursuant to regulations of the Federal Reserve Board, all banking organizations are required to maintain average daily reserves at mandated ratios against their transaction accounts. In addition, reserves must be maintained on certain non-personal time deposits. These reserves must be maintained in the form of vault cash or in an account at a Federal Reserve Bank. 

Limits on Transactions with Affiliates and Insiders 

Insured depository institutions are subject to restrictions on their ability to conduct transactions with affiliates and other related parties. Section 23A of the Federal Reserve Act imposes quantitative limits, qualitative requirements, and collateral requirements on certain transactions by an insured depository institution with, or for the benefit of, its affiliates. Transactions 

covered by Section 23A include loans, extensions of credit, investment in securities issued by an affiliate, and acquisitions of assets from an affiliate. Section 23B of the Federal Reserve Act requires that most types of transactions by an insured depository institution with, or for the benefit of, an affiliate be on terms at least as favorable to the insured depository institution as if the transaction were conducted with an unaffiliated third party. 

As noted above, the Dodd-Frank Act generally enhances the restrictions on transactions with affiliates under Section 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act, including an expansion of the definition of "covered transactions" and a clarification regarding the amount of time for which collateral requirements regarding covered credit transactions must be satisfied. The ability of the Federal Reserve Board to grant exemptions from these restrictions is also narrowed by the Dodd-Frank Act, including by requiring coordination with other bank regulators. 

The Federal Reserve Board's Regulation O and OCC regulations impose restrictions and procedural requirements in connection with the extension of credit by an insured depository institution to directors, executive officers, principal stockholders and their related interests. 

Examination Fees 

The OCC currently charges fees to recover the costs of examining national banks, processing applications and other filings, and covering direct and indirect expenses in regulating national banks. The Dodd-Frank Act provides various agencies with the authority to assess additional supervision fees. 

Deposit Insurance Assessments 

FDIC-insured depository institutions are required to pay deposit insurance assessments to the FDIC. The amount of a particular institution's deposit insurance assessment is based on that institution's risk classification under an FDIC risk-based assessment system. An institution's risk classification is assigned based on its capital levels and the level of supervisory concern the institution poses to the regulators. Deposit insurance assessments fund the DIF. As noted above, the Dodd-Frank Act changed the way an insured depository institution's deposit insurance premiums are calculated and increased the minimum for the DIF reserve ratio from 1.15% to 1.35% . The Dodd-Frank Act also made banks with $10 billion or more in total assets responsible for the increase. Future changes to our risk classification or to the method for calculating premiums generally may impact assessment rates, which could impact the profitability of our operations. 

Depositor Preference 

The FDIA provides that, in the event of the "liquidation or other resolution" of an insured depository institution, the claims of depositors of the institution (including the claims of the FDIC as subrogee of insured depositors) and certain claims for administrative expenses of the FDIC as a receiver will have priority over other general unsecured claims against the institution. If we invest in or acquire an insured depository institution that fails, insured and uninsured depositors, along with the FDIC, will have priority in payment ahead of unsecured, non-deposit creditors, including us, with respect to any extensions of credit they have made to such insured depository institution. 

Federal Reserve System and Federal Home Loan Bank System 

As a national bank, BankUnited is required to hold shares of capital stock in a Federal Reserve Bank. BankUnited holds capital stock in the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta. As a member of the Federal Reserve System, BankUnited has access to the Federal Reserve discount window lending and payment clearing systems. 

BankUnited is a member of the Federal Home Loan Bank of Atlanta. Each FHLB provides a central credit facility primarily for its member institutions as well as other entities involved in home mortgage lending. Any advances from a FHLB must be secured by specified types of collateral. As a member of the FHLB, BankUnited is required to acquire and hold shares of capital stock in the FHLB of Atlanta. BankUnited is in compliance with this requirement. 

Anti-Money Laundering and OFAC 

Under federal law, financial institutions must maintain anti-money laundering programs that include established internal policies, procedures, and controls; a designated compliance officer; an ongoing employee training program; and testing of the program by an independent audit function. Financial institutions are also prohibited from entering into specified financial transactions and account relationships and must meet enhanced standards for due diligence and customer identification in their dealings with non-U.S. financial institutions and non-U.S. customers. Financial institutions must take reasonable steps to conduct enhanced scrutiny of account relationships to guard against money laundering and to report any suspicious transactions, and law enforcement authorities have been granted increased access to financial information maintained by 

financial institutions. Bank regulators routinely examine institutions for compliance with these obligations and they must consider an institution's compliance in connection with the regulatory review of applications, including applications for banking mergers and acquisitions. The regulatory authorities have imposed "cease and desist" orders and civil money penalty sanctions against institutions found to be violating these obligations. 

The U.S. Department of the Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control, or "OFAC," is responsible for helping to insure that U.S. entities do not engage in transactions with certain prohibited parties, as defined by various Executive Orders and Acts of Congress. OFAC publishes lists of persons, organizations, and countries suspected of aiding, harboring or engaging in terrorist acts, known as Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons. If BankUnited, Inc. or BankUnited finds a name on any transaction, account or wire transfer that is on an OFAC list, BankUnited, Inc. or BankUnited must freeze or block such account or transaction, file a suspicious activity report and notify the appropriate authorities. 

Consumer Laws and Regulations 

Banking organizations are subject to numerous laws and regulations intended to protect consumers. These laws include, among others: 

&#8226; 

Truth in Lending Act; 

&#8226; 

Truth in Savings Act; 

&#8226; 

Electronic Funds Transfer Act; 

&#8226; 

Expedited Funds Availability Act; 

&#8226; 

Equal Credit Opportunity Act; 

&#8226; 

Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act; 

&#8226; 

Fair Housing Act; 

&#8226; 

Fair Credit Reporting Act; 

&#8226; 

Fair Debt Collection Act; 

&#8226; 

Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act; 

&#8226; 

Home Mortgage Disclosure Act; 

&#8226; 

Right to Financial Privacy Act; 

&#8226; 

Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act; 

&#8226; 

laws regarding unfair and deceptive acts and practices; and 

&#8226; 

usury laws. 

Many states and local jurisdictions have consumer protection laws analogous, and in addition to, those listed above. These federal, state and local laws regulate the manner in which financial institutions deal with customers when taking deposits, making loans, or conducting other types of transactions. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations could give rise to regulatory sanctions, customer rescission rights, action by state and local attorneys general, and civil or criminal liability. The creation of the CFPB by the Dodd-Frank Act has led to enhanced enforcement of consumer financial protection laws. 

The Community Reinvestment Act 

The Community Reinvestment Act, or "CRA," is intended to encourage banks to help meet the credit needs of their service areas, including low and moderate-income neighborhoods, consistent with safe and sound operations. The bank regulators examine and assign each bank a public CRA rating. 

The CRA then requires bank regulators to take into account the bank's record in meeting the needs of its service area when considering an application by a bank to establish or relocate a branch or to conduct certain mergers or acquisitions. The Federal Reserve Board is required to consider the CRA records of a BHC's controlled banks when considering an application by the BHC to acquire a banking organization or to merge with another BHC. When BankUnited, Inc. or BankUnited applies for regulatory approval to make certain investments, the regulators will consider the CRA record of target institutions and BankUnited, Inc.'s depository institution subsidiaries. An unsatisfactory CRA record could substantially delay approval or 

result in denial of an application. The regulatory agency's assessment of the institution's record is made available to the public. Following its most recent CRA examination in October 2012, BankUnited received an overall rating of "Satisfactory." 

Employees 

At December 31, 2015 , we employed 1,641 full-time employees and 100 part-time employees. None of our employees are parties to a collective bargaining agreement. We believe that our relations with our employees are good. 

Available Information 

Our website address is www.bankunited.com. Our electronic filings with the SEC (including all Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and if applicable, amendments to those reports) are available free of charge on the website as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. The information posted on our website is not incorporated into this Annual Report. In addition, the SEC maintains a website that contains reports and other information filed with the SEC. The website can be accessed at http://www.sec.gov. 

