 ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

General Development of Business 

West Bancorporation, Inc. (the Company or West Bancorporation) is an Iowa corporation and a bank holding company registered under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (BHCA). The Company was formed in 1984 to own West Des Moines State Bank, an Iowa-chartered bank headquartered in West Des Moines, Iowa. West Des Moines State Bank is now known as West Bank. West Bank is a business-focused community bank that was organized in 1893. The Company's primary activity during 2015 &#32;was the ownership of West Bank. The Company's and West Bank's only business is banking, and therefore, no segment information is presented in this report. 

The Company operates in three markets: central Iowa, which is generally the greater Des Moines metropolitan area; eastern Iowa, which is the area including and surrounding Iowa City and Coralville, Iowa; and the Rochester, Minnesota, area. 

The Company's vision is to achieve and sustain a position of industry envy and admiration. Our financial performance goal is to be in the top quartile of our benchmarking peer group, which in 2015 &#32;consisted of 16 Midwestern, publicly traded financial institutions. The fiscal year ended December 31, 2015 &#32;was a great year for the Company and West Bank as measured by the following four key metrics: 

&#32;&#32;&#32;&#32; l 

Return on average assets: 

1.30 

% 

l 

Return on average equity: 

14.88 

% 

l 

Efficiency ratio: 

46.30 

% 

l 

Texas ratio: 

0.87 

% 

Based on peer group analysis using September 30, 2015 &#32;data, Company results and ratios through the third quarter of 2015 &#32;were better than those of each member of our defined peer group for each of the measures shown above. We currently believe our fiscal year 2015 &#32;results will remain in the top quartile once comparable peer results are available. 

In early 2015, Raymond James &#38; Associates, Inc. included West Bank on its Community Bankers Cup awards listing of the top 10 percent of community banks in the United States. The awards were based on profitability, operational efficiency and balance sheet metrics. The pool of 306 community banks considered for recognition were all publicly traded domestic banks with assets between $500 million and $10 billion as of December 31, 2014. The Company was ranked number four out of the 306 banks across America and was the only Iowa bank and one of very few from the Midwest. 

The Company was named a "Sm-All Star" for the fourth year in a row by the investment banking firm Sandler O&#8217;Neill + Partners, L.P. This list is composed of top-performing, publicly traded, small-cap banks and thrifts in the United States. For purposes of this analysis, small-cap companies were those with a market value between $25 million and $2.5 billion. Out of 435 comparable banks across America, only 34 were named as 2015 Sm-All Stars. The Company was the only bank or thrift on the list in 2015 to receive the honor for the fourth consecutive year and was the only Iowa or Minnesota bank holding company to be recognized. The criteria used to determine the 2015 Sm-All Stars concentrated on growth, profitability, credit quality and capital strength. Additional criteria included having a net charge-off ratio over the prior 12 months of less than 0.25 percent and a tangible common equity ratio above 7.00 percent as of June 30, 2015. 

The Company continued to grow in 2015 , as loans outstanding at the end of 2015 &#32;totaled $1.25 billion compared to $1.18 billion at the end of 2014 , an increase of 5.3 percent. Total deposits grew 13.4 percent during 2015 &#32;from the balances as of December 31, 2014 . We believe the pipeline for new business is good as we continue to focus efforts on sales through strengthening existing relationships and developing new relationships. 

The Company's Rochester, Minnesota, office, which opened in March 2013, again experienced strong growth in 2015 . After almost three years of operations, this location had approximately $87 million of loans outstanding as of December 31, 2015 . It is expected that this office will continue to have a strong growth rate in 2016. In October 2015, the Company broke ground on a new permanent office in Rochester. The new facility is expected to open in the third quarter of 2016. Once completed, the lease for the current office space will be terminated. The Company believes that southeastern Minnesota is a desirable market and an economic bedrock due to the strength and projected growth of the Mayo Clinic. 

The Company's new eastern Iowa main office, located at 401 10 th &#32;Avenue in Coralville, opened on January 21, 2015. Our investment in this new facility signifies our belief in the strength of that market. As a result of the opening of our new office, we vacated our former office in Iowa City effective January 15, 2015. 

&#160; 

One of the keys to our 2015 &#32;operating success was an improvement in net interest income as a result of an increase in the average volume of interest-earning assets and reductions in interest rates on deposits. Also contributing to our higher 2015 &#32;earnings was the continued improvement in credit quality. As of December 31, 2015 , total nonperforming assets declined to $1.5 million, or 0.08 percent of total assets, compared to $4.2 million, or 0.26 percent of total assets, as of December 31, 2014 . The lower level of nonperforming assets allowed for resources to be focused on business development rather than managing nonearning assets. In addition, the reduction in nonperforming assets, specifically the elimination of all other real estate owned, resulted in much lower expense related to other real estate owned. We also had one nonrecurring item in the fourth quarter of 2015. West Bank has had an ownership interest in SmartyPig, LLC for several years. On November 30, 2015, SmartyPig, LLC was sold. The Company recognized an after-tax gain of approximately $0.5 million. 

The Company declared and paid common stock dividends totaling $ 0.62 &#32;per share in 2015 &#32;and declared a $0.16 dividend on January 27, 2016 payable on February 24, 2016 to stockholders of record on February 10, 2016. The Company expects to continue paying regular quarterly dividends in the future. The capital position of the Company was strong at December 31, 2015 . The Company's tangible common equity ratio at December 31, 2015 &#32;was 8.71 percent . 

Description of the Company's Business 

West Bank provides full-service community banking and trust services to customers located primarily in the Des Moines and Iowa City, Iowa, and the Rochester, Minnesota, metropolitan areas. West Bank has eight offices in the Des Moines area, one office in Iowa City, one office in Coralville and one office in Rochester, Minnesota. West Bank offers all basic types of credit to its customers, including commercial, real estate and consumer loans. West Bank offers trust services, including the administration of estates, conservatorships, personal trusts and agency accounts. 

West Bank offers a full range of deposit services, including checking, savings, money market accounts and time certificates of deposit. West Bank also offers internet, mobile banking and treasury management services, which help to meet the banking needs of its customers and communities. Treasury management services offered to business customers include cash management, client-generated automated clearing house transactions, remote deposit and fraud protection services. Also offered are merchant credit card processing and corporate credit cards. 

West Bank's business strategy emphasizes strong business and personal relationships between West Bank and its customers and the delivery of products and services that meet the individualized needs of those customers. West Bank also emphasizes strong cost controls, while striving to achieve an above average return on equity and return on assets. To accomplish these goals, West Bank focuses on small- to medium-sized businesses in the local markets that traditionally wish to develop an exclusive relationship with a single bank. West Bank has the size to provide the personal attention required by local business owners and the financial expertise and entrepreneurial attitude to help businesses meet their financial service needs. 

The market areas served by West Bank are highly competitive with respect to both loans and deposits. West Bank competes with other commercial banks, many of which are subsidiaries of other bank holding companies, credit unions, mortgage companies and other financial service providers. According to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation's (FDIC) Summary of Deposits, as of June 30, 2015, there were 35 banks operating within Polk County, Iowa, where seven of West Bank's offices are located. As of the same date, West Bank ranked fourth based on total deposits of all banking offices in Polk County. As of June 30, 2015, there were 18 banks within Johnson County, Iowa, which includes Iowa City and Coralville. Two West Bank offices were located in Johnson County as of June 30, 2015. As of the same date, West Bank ranked fourth based on total deposits of all banking offices in Johnson County. West Bank also has one office located in Dallas County, Iowa. For the entire state of Iowa, West Bank ranked eighth in terms of deposit size as of June 30, 2015. West Bank also has one office located in Rochester, Minnesota. 

Some of West Bank's competitors are locally controlled, while others are regional, national or international companies. The larger national or regional banks have certain competitive advantages due to their ability to undertake substantial advertising campaigns and allocate their investment assets to out-of-market geographic regions with potentially higher returns. Such banks also offer certain services, for example, international and conduit financing transactions, which are not offered directly by West Bank. These larger banking organizations also have much higher legal lending limits than West Bank, and therefore, may be better able to service large regional, national and global commercial customers. 

In order to compete to the fullest extent possible with the other financial institutions in its primary market areas, West Bank uses the flexibility and knowledge of its local management, Board of Directors and community advisors. West Bank seeks to capitalize on customers' desire to do business with a local institution. This includes emphasizing specialized services, local promotional activities, and personal contacts by West Bank's officers, directors and employees. In particular, West Bank competes for loans primarily by offering competitive interest rates, experienced lending personnel with local decision-making authority, flexible loan arrangements, quality products and services, and proactive relationship management. West Bank competes for deposits principally by offering depositors a variety of deposit programs, convenient office locations and hours and other personalized services. 

West Bank also competes with the general financial markets for funds. Yields on corporate and government debt securities and commercial paper affect West Bank's ability to attract and hold deposits. West Bank also competes for funds with money market accounts and similar investment vehicles offered by brokerage firms, mutual fund companies, internet banks and others. The competition for these funds is based almost exclusively on yields to customers. 

The Company and West Bank had approximately 174 full-time equivalent employees as of December 31, 2015 . 

Supervision and Regulation 

General 

FDIC-insured institutions, their holding companies and their affiliates are extensively regulated under federal and state law. As a result, our growth and earnings performance may be affected not only by management decisions and general economic conditions, but also by the requirements of federal and state statutes and by the regulations and policies of various bank regulatory agencies, including the Iowa Superintendent of Banking (the Iowa Superintendent), the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Federal Reserve), the FDIC and the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection (CFPB). Furthermore, taxation laws administered by the Internal Revenue Service and state taxing authorities, accounting rules developed by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, securities laws administered by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and state securities authorities, and anti-money laundering laws enforced by the U.S. Department of the Treasury (Treasury) have an impact on our business. The effect of these statutes, regulations, regulatory policies and accounting rules are significant to our operations and results, and the nature and extent of future legislative, regulatory or other changes affecting banking organizations are impossible to predict with any certainty. 

Federal and state banking laws impose a comprehensive system of supervision, regulation and enforcement on the operations of FDIC-insured institutions, their holding companies and affiliates that is intended primarily for the protection of the FDIC-insured deposits and depositors of banks, rather than stockholders. These federal and state laws, and the regulations of the bank regulatory agencies issued under them, affect, among other things, the scope of our business; the kinds and amounts of investments we may make; reserve requirements; capital levels relative to our assets; the nature and amount of collateral for loans; the establishment of branches; our ability to merge, consolidate and acquire; dealings with our insiders and affiliates; and our payment of dividends. In the last several years, we have experienced heightened regulatory requirements and scrutiny following the global financial crisis and as a result of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Dodd-Frank Act). Although the reforms primarily targeted systemically important financial service providers, their influence filtered down in varying degrees to community banks over time and the reforms have caused our compliance and risk management processes, and the costs thereof, to increase. 

This supervisory and regulatory framework subjects banks and bank holding companies to regular examination by their respective regulatory agencies, which results in examination reports and ratings that are not publicly available and that can impact the conduct and growth of their business. These examinations consider not only compliance with applicable laws and regulations, but also capital levels, asset quality and risk, management ability and performance, earnings, liquidity and various other factors. The regulatory agencies generally have broad discretion to impose restrictions and limitations on the operations of a regulated entity where the agencies determine, among other things, that such operations are unsafe or unsound, fail to comply with applicable laws or are otherwise inconsistent with laws and regulations or with the supervisory policies of these agencies. 

The following is a summary of the material elements of the supervisory and regulatory framework applicable to the Company and West Bank, beginning with a discussion of the continuing regulatory emphasis on our capital levels. It does not describe all of the statutes, regulations and regulatory policies that apply, nor does it restate all of the requirements of those that are described. The descriptions are qualified in their entirety by reference to the particular statutory and regulatory provision. 

Regulatory Emphasis on Capital 

Regulatory capital represents the net assets of a banking organization available to absorb losses. Because of the risks attendant to their business, FDIC-insured institutions are generally required to hold more capital than other businesses, which directly affects our earnings capabilities. While capital has historically been one of the key measures of the financial health of both bank holding companies and banks, its role became fundamentally more important in the wake of the global financial crisis, as the banking regulators recognized that the amount and quality of capital held by some banks prior to the crisis was insufficient to absorb losses during periods of severe stress. Certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act and Basel III, discussed below, establish strengthened capital standards for banks and bank holding companies, require more capital to be held in the form of common stock and disallow certain funds from being included in capital determinations. These standards represent regulatory capital requirements that are meaningfully more stringent than those in place previously. 

Minimum Required Capital Levels. &#32;&#32;Bank holding companies have historically had to comply with less stringent capital standards than their bank subsidiaries and have been able to raise capital with hybrid instruments such as trust preferred securities. The Dodd-Frank Act mandated the Federal Reserve to establish minimum capital levels for holding companies on a consolidated basis as stringent as those required for FDIC-insured institutions. As a consequence, the components of holding company permanent capital known as &#8220;Tier 1 Capital&#8221; were restricted to those capital instruments that are considered to be Tier 1 Capital for FDIC-insured institutions. A result of this change is that the proceeds of hybrid instruments, such as trust preferred securities, are being excluded from Tier 1 Capital over a phase-out period. However, if such securities were issued prior to May 19, 2010 by bank holding companies with less than $15 billion of assets, they may be retained, subject to certain restrictions. Because we have assets of less than $15 billion, we are able to maintain our trust preferred proceeds as Tier 1 Capital, but we have to comply with new capital mandates in other respects and will not be able to raise Tier 1 Capital in the future through the issuance of trust preferred securities. 

The capital standards for the Company and West Bank changed on January 1, 2015 to add the requirements of Basel III discussed below. The minimum capital standards effective prior to and including December 31, 2014 were: 

&#8226; 

A leverage requirement, consisting of a minimum ratio of Tier 1 Capital to total adjusted average quarterly assets of 3 percent for the most highly rated banks, with a minimum requirement of at least 4 percent for all others, and 

&#8226; 

A risk-based capital requirement, consisting of a minimum ratio of Total Capital to total risk-weighted assets of 8 percent and a minimum ratio of Tier 1 Capital to total risk-weighted assets of 4 percent. 

For these purposes, Tier 1 Capital consists primarily of common stock, noncumulative perpetual preferred stock and related surplus less intangible assets (other than certain loan servicing rights and purchased credit card relationships). Total Capital consists primarily of Tier 1 Capital plus &#8220;Tier 2 Capital,&#8221; which includes other non-permanent capital items, such as certain other debt and equity instruments that do not qualify as Tier 1 Capital, and West Bank&#8217;s allowance for loan losses, subject to a limitation of 1.25 percent of risk-weighted assets. Further, risk-weighted assets for the purpose of the risk-weighted ratio calculations are balance sheet assets and off-balance sheet exposures to which required risk weightings of 0 percent to 1,250 percent are applied. 

The Basel International Capital Accords. &#32;The risk-based capital guidelines described above are based upon the 1988 capital accord known as &#8220;Basel I&#8221; adopted by the international Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, a committee of central banks and bank supervisors, as implemented by the U.S. federal banking regulators on an interagency basis. In 2008, the banking agencies collaboratively began to phase-in capital standards based on a second capital accord, referred to as &#8220;Basel II,&#8221; for large or &#8220;core&#8221; international banks (generally defined for U.S. purposes as having total assets of $250 billion or more, or consolidated foreign exposures of $10 billion or more). On September 12, 2010, the Group of Governors and Heads of Supervision, the oversight body of the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, announced agreement on a strengthened set of capital requirements for banking organizations around the world, known as Basel III, to address deficiencies recognized in connection with the global financial crisis. Because of Dodd-Frank Act requirements, Basel III essentially layers a new set of capital standards on the previously existing Basel I standards. 

The Basel III Rule. &#32;&#32;In July of 2013, the U.S. federal banking agencies approved the implementation of the Basel III regulatory capital reforms in pertinent part, and, at the same time, promulgated rules effecting certain changes required by the Dodd-Frank Act (the Basel III Rule). In contrast to capital requirements historically, which were in the form of guidelines, Basel III was released in the form of regulations by each of the regulatory agencies. The Basel III Rule is applicable to all banking organizations that are subject to minimum capital requirements, including federal and state banks and savings and loan associations, as well as to bank and savings and loan holding companies other than &#8220;small bank holding companies&#8221; (generally bank holding companies with consolidated assets of less than $1 billion). 

The Basel III Rule not only increased most of the required minimum capital ratios effective January 1, 2015, but it also introduced the concept of Common Equity Tier 1 Capital, which consists primarily of common stock, related surplus (net of Treasury stock), retained earnings, and Common Equity Tier 1 minority interests subject to certain regulatory adjustments. The Basel III Rule also expanded the definition of capital by establishing more stringent criteria that instruments must meet to be considered Additional Tier 1 Capital (Tier 1 Capital in addition to Common Equity) and Tier 2 Capital. A number of instruments that qualified as Tier 1 Capital do not qualify, or their qualifications changed. For example, noncumulative perpetual preferred stock, which qualified as simple Tier 1 Capital, does not qualify as Common Equity Tier 1 Capital, but qualifies as Additional Tier 1 Capital. The Basel III Rule also constrained the inclusion of minority interests, mortgage-servicing assets, and deferred tax assets in capital and required deductions from Common Equity Tier 1 Capital in the event that such assets exceed a certain percentage of a banking institution&#8217;s Common Equity Tier 1 Capital. 

The Basel III Rule requires minimum capital ratios beginning January 1, 2015, as follows: 

&#8226; 

A new ratio of minimum Common Equity Tier 1 equal to 4.5 percent of risk-weighted assets; 

&#8226; 

An increase in the minimum required amount of Tier 1 Capital to 6 percent of risk-weighted assets; 

&#8226; 

A continuation of the current minimum required amount of Total Capital (Tier 1 plus Tier 2) at 8 percent of risk-weighted assets; and 

&#8226; 

A minimum leverage ratio of Tier 1 Capital to total quarterly average assets equal to 4 percent in all circumstances. 

In addition, institutions that seek the freedom to make capital distributions (including for dividends and repurchases of stock) and pay discretionary bonuses to executive officers without restriction must also maintain 2.5 percent in Common Equity Tier 1 attributable to a capital conservation buffer to be phased in over three years beginning in 2016. The purpose of the conservation buffer is to ensure that banking institutions maintain a buffer of capital that can be used to absorb losses during periods of financial and economic stress. Factoring in the fully phased-in conservation buffer increases the minimum ratios depicted above to 7 percent for Common Equity Tier 1, 8.5 percent for Tier 1 Capital and 10.5 percent for Total Capital. 

Not only did the capital requirements change but the risk weightings (or their methodologies) for bank assets that are used to determine the capital ratios changed as well. For nearly every class of assets, the Basel III Rule requires a more complex, detailed and calibrated assessment of credit risk and calculation of risk weightings. 

Banking organizations (except for large, internationally active banking organizations) became subject to the new rules on January 1, 2015. However, there are separate phase-in/phase-out periods for: (i) the capital conservation buffer; (ii) regulatory capital adjustments and deductions; (iii) nonqualifying capital instruments; and (iv) changes to the prompt corrective action rules discussed below. The phase-in periods commenced on January 1, 2016 and extend until 2019. 

Well-Capitalized Requirements. The ratios described above are minimum standards in order for banking organizations to be considered &#8220;adequately capitalized.&#8221; Bank regulatory agencies uniformly encourage banks and bank holding companies to hold more capital and be &#8220;well-capitalized&#8221; and, to that end, federal law and regulations provide various incentives for banking organizations to maintain regulatory capital at levels in excess of minimum regulatory requirements. For example, a banking organization that is well-capitalized may: (i) qualify for exemptions from prior notice or application requirements otherwise applicable to certain types of activities; (ii) qualify for expedited processing of other required notices or applications; and (iii) accept, roll-over or renew brokered deposits. Higher capital levels could also be required if warranted by the particular circumstances or risk profiles of individual banking organizations. For example, the Federal Reserve&#8217;s capital guidelines contemplate that additional capital may be required to take adequate account of, among other things, interest rate risk, or the risks posed by concentrations of credit, nontraditional activities or securities trading activities. Further, any banking organization experiencing or anticipating significant growth would be expected to maintain capital ratios, including tangible capital positions ( i.e. , Tier 1 Capital less all intangible assets), well above the minimum levels. 

Under the capital regulations of the FDIC and Federal Reserve, in order to be well-capitalized, a banking organization must maintain: 

&#8226; 

A new Common Equity Tier 1 Capital ratio to risk-weighted assets of 6.5 percent or more; 

&#8226; 

A minimum ratio of Tier 1 Capital to total risk-weighted assets of 8 percent (6 percent under Basel I); 

&#8226; 

A minimum ratio of Total Capital to total risk-weighted assets of 10 percent (the same as Basel I); and 

&#8226; 

A leverage ratio of Tier 1 Capital to total adjusted average quarterly assets of 5 percent or greater. 

It is possible under the Basel III Rule to be well-capitalized while remaining out of compliance with the capital conservation buffer discussed above. 

As of December 31, 2015: (i) West Bank was not subject to a directive from the FDIC to increase its capital, and (ii) West Bank was well-capitalized, as defined by FDIC regulations. As of December 31, 2015, the Company had regulatory capital in excess of the Federal Reserve&#8217;s requirements and met the Basel III Rule requirements to be well-capitalized. 

Prompt Corrective Action . An FDIC-insured institution&#8217;s capital plays an important role in connection with regulatory enforcement as well. Federal law provides the federal banking regulators with broad power to take prompt corrective action to resolve the problems of undercapitalized institutions. The extent of the regulators&#8217; powers depends on whether the institution in question is &#8220;adequately capitalized,&#8221; &#8220;undercapitalized,&#8221; &#8220;significantly undercapitalized&#8221; or &#8220;critically undercapitalized,&#8221; in each case as defined by regulation. Depending upon the capital category to which an institution is assigned, the regulators&#8217; corrective powers include: (i) requiring the institution to submit a capital restoration plan; (ii) limiting the institution&#8217;s asset growth and restricting its activities; (iii) requiring the institution to issue additional capital stock (including additional voting stock) or to sell itself; (iv) restricting transactions between the institution and its affiliates; (v) restricting the interest rates that the institution may pay on deposits; (vi) ordering a new election of directors of the institution; (vii) requiring that senior executive officers or directors be dismissed; (viii) prohibiting the institution from accepting deposits from correspondent banks; (ix) requiring the institution to divest certain subsidiaries; (x) prohibiting the payment of principal or interest on subordinated debt; and (xi) ultimately, appointing a receiver for the institution. 

Regulation and Supervision of the Company 

General. &#32;&#32;The Company, as the sole stockholder of West Bank, is a bank holding company. As a bank holding company, we are registered with, and subject to regulation by, the Federal Reserve under the BHCA. We are legally obligated to act as a source of financial and managerial strength to West Bank and to commit resources to support West Bank in circumstances where we might not otherwise do so. Under the BHCA, we are subject to periodic examination by the Federal Reserve and are required to file with the Federal Reserve periodic reports of our operations and such additional information regarding us and West Bank as the Federal Reserve may require. 

Acquisitions, Activities and Change in Control . The primary purpose of a bank holding company is to control and manage banks. &#32; &#32;The BHCA generally requires the prior approval of the Federal Reserve for any merger involving a bank holding company or any acquisition by a bank holding company of another bank or bank holding company. Subject to certain conditions (including deposit concentration limits established by the BHCA), the Federal Reserve may allow a bank holding company to acquire banks located in any state of the United States. In approving interstate acquisitions, the Federal Reserve is required to give effect to applicable state law limitations on the aggregate amount of deposits that may be held by the acquiring bank holding company and its FDIC-insured institution affiliates in the state in which the target bank is located (provided that those limits do not discriminate against out-of-state institutions or their holding companies) and state laws that require that the target bank have been in existence for a minimum period of time (not to exceed five years) before being acquired by an out-of-state bank holding company. Furthermore, in accordance with the Dodd-Frank Act, bank holding companies must be well-capitalized and well-managed in order to effect interstate mergers or acquisitions. For a discussion of the capital requirements, see &#8220;&#8212;Regulatory Emphasis on Capital&#8221; above. 

The BHCA generally prohibits the Company from acquiring direct or indirect ownership or control of more than five percent of the voting shares of any company that is not a bank and from engaging in any business other than that of banking, managing and controlling banks or furnishing services to banks and their subsidiaries. This general prohibition is subject to a number of exceptions. The principal exception allows bank holding companies to engage in, and to own shares of companies engaged in, certain businesses found by the Federal Reserve prior to November 11, 1999 to be &#8220;so closely related to banking ... as to be a proper incident thereto.&#8221; This authority would permit us to engage in a variety of banking-related businesses, including the ownership and operation of a savings association, or any entity engaged in consumer finance, equipment leasing, the operation of a computer service bureau (including software development) and mortgage banking and brokerage services. The BHCA does not place territorial restrictions on the domestic activities of nonbank subsidiaries of bank holding companies. 

Additionally, bank holding companies that meet certain eligibility requirements prescribed by the BHCA and elect to operate as financial holding companies may engage in, or own shares in companies engaged in, a wider range of nonbank activities, including securities and insurance underwriting and sales, merchant banking and any other activity that the Federal Reserve, in consultation with the Secretary of the Treasury, determines by regulation or order is financial in nature or incidental to any such financial activity or that the Federal Reserve determines by order to be complementary to any such financial activity and does not pose a substantial risk to the safety or soundness of FDIC-insured institutions or the financial system generally. We have not elected to operate as a financial holding company. 

Federal law also prohibits any person or company from acquiring &#8220;control&#8221; of an FDIC-insured depository institution or its holding company without prior notice to the appropriate federal bank regulator. Control is conclusively presumed to exist upon the acquisition of 25 percent or more of the outstanding voting securities of a bank or bank holding company, but may arise under certain circumstances between 10 percent and 24.99 percent ownership. 

Capital Requirements. &#32;&#32;Bank holding companies are required to maintain capital in accordance with Federal Reserve capital adequacy requirements, as affected by the Dodd-Frank Act and Basel III. For a discussion of capital requirements, see &#8220;&#8212;Regulatory Emphasis on Capital&#8221; above. 

Dividend Payments. &#32;&#32; Our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders may be affected by both general corporate law considerations and policies of the Federal Reserve applicable to bank holding companies . &#32;&#32;As an Iowa corporation, we are subject to the limitations of Iowa law, which allows us to pay dividends unless, after such dividend, (i) we would not be able to pay our debts as they become due in the usual course of business, or (ii) our total assets would be less than the sum of our total liabilities plus any amount that would be needed if we were to be dissolved at the time of the dividend payment, to satisfy the preferential rights upon dissolution of stockholders whose rights are superior to the rights of the stockholders receiving the distribution. 

As a general matter, the Federal Reserve has indicated that the board of directors of a bank holding company should eliminate, defer or significantly reduce dividends to stockholders if: (i) the company&#8217;s net income available to stockholders for the past four quarters, net of dividends previously paid during that period, is not sufficient to fully fund the dividends; (ii) the prospective rate of earnings retention is inconsistent with the company&#8217;s capital needs and overall current and prospective financial condition; or (iii) the company will not meet, or is in danger of not meeting, its minimum regulatory capital adequacy ratios. The Federal Reserve also possesses enforcement powers over bank holding companies and their nonbank subsidiaries to prevent or remedy actions that represent unsafe or unsound practices or violations of applicable statutes and regulations. Among these powers is the ability to proscribe the payment of dividends by banks and bank holding companies. In addition, under the Basel III Rule, institutions that seek the freedom to pay dividends will have to maintain 2.5 percent in Common Equity Tier 1 attributable to the capital conservation buffer to be phased in over three years beginning in 2016. See &#8220;&#8212;Regulatory Emphasis on Capital&#8221; above. 

Monetary Policy. The monetary policy of the Federal Reserve has a significant effect on the operating results of financial or bank holding companies and their subsidiaries. Among the tools available to the Federal Reserve to affect the money supply are open market transactions in U.S. government securities, changes in the discount rate on member bank borrowings and changes in reserve requirements against bank deposits. These means are used in varying combinations to influence overall growth and distribution of bank loans, investments and deposits, and their use may affect interest rates charged on loans or paid on deposits. 

Federal Securities Regulation. &#32;&#32; Our common stock is registered with the SEC under the Exchange Act. Consequently, we are subject to the information, proxy solicitation, insider trading and other restrictions and requirements of the SEC under the Exchange Act. 

Corporate Governance . &#32;&#32;The Dodd-Frank Act addressed many investor protection, corporate governance and executive compensation matters that will affect most U.S. publicly traded companies. The Dodd-Frank Act increased stockholder influence over boards of directors by requiring companies to give stockholders a nonbinding vote on executive compensation and so-called &#8220;golden parachute&#8221; payments, and authorizing the SEC to promulgate rules that would allow stockholders to nominate and solicit voters for their own candidates using a company&#8217;s proxy materials. The legislation also directed the Federal Reserve to promulgate rules prohibiting excessive compensation paid to executives of bank holding companies, regardless of whether such companies are publicly traded. 

Regulation and Supervision of West Bank 

General. &#32;&#32;West Bank is an Iowa-chartered bank. The deposit accounts of West Bank are insured by the FDIC&#8217;s Deposit Insurance Fund (DIF) to the maximum extent provided under federal law and FDIC regulations. As an Iowa-chartered FDIC-insured bank, West Bank is subject to the examination, supervision, reporting and enforcement requirements of the Iowa Superintendent, the chartering authority for Iowa banks, and the FDIC, designated by federal law as the primary federal regulator of insured state banks that, like West Bank, are not members of the Federal Reserve System (nonmember banks). 

Deposit Insurance . &#32;&#32;As an FDIC-insured institution, West Bank is required to pay deposit insurance premium assessments to the FDIC. The FDIC has adopted a risk-based assessment system whereby FDIC-insured institutions pay insurance premiums at rates based on their risk classification. An institution&#8217;s risk classification is assigned based on its capital levels and the level of supervisory concern the institution poses to the regulators. For deposit insurance assessment purposes, an FDIC-insured institution is placed in one of four risk categories each quarter. An institution&#8217;s assessment is determined by multiplying its assessment rate by its assessment base. The total base assessment rates range from 2.5 basis points to 45 basis points. The assessment base is calculated using average consolidated total assets minus average tangible equity. At least semi-annually, the FDIC will update its loss and income projections for the DIF and, if needed, will increase or decrease the assessment rates, following notice and comment on proposed rulemaking. 

Amendments to the Federal Deposit Insurance Act revised the assessment base against which an FDIC-insured institution&#8217;s deposit insurance premiums paid to the DIF are calculated to be its average consolidated total assets less its average tangible equity. This change shifted the burden of deposit insurance premiums toward those large depository institutions that rely on funding sources other than U.S. deposits. Additionally, the Dodd-Frank Act altered the minimum designated reserve ratio of the DIF, increasing the minimum from 1.15 percent to 1.35 percent of the estimated amount of total insured deposits, and eliminating the requirement that the FDIC pay dividends to FDIC-insured institutions when the reserve ratio exceeds certain thresholds. The FDIC has until September 3, 2020 to meet the 1.35 percent reserve ratio target. In lieu of dividends, the FDIC has adopted progressively lower assessment rate schedules that will take effect when the reserve ratio exceeds 1.15 percent, 2 percent and 2.5 percent. As a consequence, premiums will generally decrease once the 1.15 percent threshold is exceeded. In June 2015 and January 2016, the FDIC approved a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking on refinements to the deposit insurance assessment for small insured depository institutions (generally those institutions with less than $10 billion in total assets). Several of these provisions could increase West Bank&#8217;s FDIC deposit insurance premiums. &#32;&#32; 

The Dodd-Frank Act permanently established the maximum amount of deposit insurance for banks, savings institutions and credit unions to $250,000 per insured depositor. 

FICO Assessments . &#32; In addition to paying basic deposit insurance assessments, FDIC-insured institutions must pay Financing Corporation (FICO) assessments. FICO is a mixed-ownership governmental corporation chartered by the former Federal Home Loan Bank Board pursuant to the Competitive Equality Banking Act of 1987 to function as a financing vehicle for the recapitalization of the former Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation. FICO issued 30-year noncallable bonds of approximately $8.1 billion that mature in 2017 through 2019. FICO&#8217;s authority to issue bonds ended on December 12, 1991. Since 1996, federal legislation has required that all FDIC-insured institutions pay assessments to cover interest payments on FICO&#8217;s outstanding obligations. The FICO assessment rate is adjusted quarterly and for the fourth quarter of 2015 was 0.60 basis points (60 cents per $100 of assessable deposits). 

Supervisory Assessments . All Iowa banks are required to pay supervisory assessments to the Iowa Superintendent to fund the operations of that agency. The amount of the assessment is calculated on the basis of West Bank&#8217;s total assets. During the year ended December 31, 2015, West Bank paid supervisory assessments to the Iowa Superintendent totaling approximately $111,000. 

Capital Requirements. &#32;&#32;Banks are generally required to maintain capital levels in excess of other businesses. For a discussion of capital requirements, see &#8220;&#8212;Regulatory Emphasis on Capital&#8221; above. 

Liquidity Requirements. &#32;Liquidity is a measure of the ability and ease with which bank assets may be converted to cash. Liquid assets are those that can be converted to cash quickly if needed to meet financial obligations. To remain viable, FDIC-insured institutions must have enough liquid assets to meet their near-term obligations, such as withdrawals by depositors. In addition to liquidity guidelines already in place, the U.S. bank regulatory agencies implemented the Basel III Liquidity Coverage Ratios (LCR) in September 2014, which requires large financial firms to hold levels of liquid assets sufficient to protect against constraints on their funding during times of financial turmoil. While the LCR only applies to the largest banking organizations in the country, certain elements are expected to filter down to all FDIC-insured institutions. 

Stress Testing. A stress test is an analysis or simulation designed to determine the ability of a given FDIC-insured institution to deal with an economic crisis. In October 2012, U.S. bank regulators unveiled new rules mandated by the Dodd-Frank Act that require the largest U.S. banks to undergo stress tests twice per year, once internally and once conducted by the regulators, and began recommending portfolio stress testing as a sound risk management practice for community banks. While stress tests are not officially required for banks with less than $10 billion in assets, they have become part of annual regulatory exams even for banks small enough to be officially exempted from the process. The FDIC now recommends stress testing as a means to identify and quantify loan portfolio risk, and West Bank is conducting quarterly commercial real estate portfolio stress testing. 

Dividend Payments. &#32;&#32;The primary source of funds for the Company is dividends from West Bank. Under the Iowa Banking Act, Iowa-chartered banks generally may pay dividends only out of undivided profits. The Iowa Superintendent may restrict the declaration or payment of a dividend by an Iowa-chartered bank, such as West Bank. The payment of dividends by any FDIC-insured institution is affected by the requirement to maintain adequate capital pursuant to applicable capital adequacy guidelines and regulations, and an FDIC-insured institution generally is prohibited from paying any dividends if, following payment thereof, the institution would be undercapitalized. As described above, West Bank exceeded its capital requirements under applicable guidelines as of December 31, 2015. Notwithstanding the availability of funds for dividends, however, the FDIC and the Iowa Superintendent may prohibit the payment of dividends by West Bank if either or both determine such payment would constitute an unsafe or unsound practice. In addition, under the Basel III Rule, institutions that seek the freedom to pay dividends will have to maintain 2.5 percent in Common Equity Tier 1 attributable to the capital conservation buffer to be phased in over three years beginning in 2016. See &#8220;&#8212;Regulatory Emphasis on Capital&#8221; above. 

State Bank Investments and Activities. &#32;&#32;West Bank is permitted to make investments and engage in activities directly or through subsidiaries as authorized by Iowa law. However, under federal law and FDIC regulations, FDIC-insured state banks are prohibited, subject to certain exceptions, from making or retaining equity investments of a type, or in an amount, that are not permissible for a national bank. Federal law and FDIC regulations also prohibit FDIC-insured state banks and their subsidiaries, subject to certain exceptions, from engaging as principal in any activity that is not permitted for a national bank unless West Bank meets, and continues to meet, its minimum regulatory capital requirements and the FDIC determines that the activity would not pose a significant risk to the DIF. These restrictions have not had, and are not currently expected to have, a material impact on the operations of West Bank. 

Insider Transactions. &#32;&#32;West Bank is subject to certain restrictions imposed by federal law on &#8220;covered transactions&#8221; between West Bank and its &#8220;affiliates.&#8221; The Company is an affiliate of West Bank for purposes of these restrictions, and covered transactions subject to the restrictions include extensions of credit to the Company, investments in the stock or other securities of the Company and the acceptance of the stock or other securities of the Company as collateral for loans made by West Bank. The Dodd-Frank Act enhanced the requirements for certain transactions with affiliates, including an expansion of the definition of covered transactions and an increase in the amount of time for which collateral requirements regarding covered transactions must be maintained. 

Certain limitations and reporting requirements are also placed on extensions of credit by West Bank to its directors and officers, to directors and officers of the Company and its subsidiaries, to principal stockholders of the Company and to &#8220;related interests&#8221; of such directors, officers and principal stockholders. In addition, federal law and regulations may affect the terms upon which any person who is a director or officer of the Company or West Bank, or a principal stockholder of the Company, may obtain credit from banks with which West Bank maintains a correspondent relationship. 

Safety and Soundness Standards/Risk Management. &#32;&#32;The federal banking agencies have adopted guidelines that establish operational and managerial standards to promote the safety and soundness of FDIC-insured institutions. The guidelines set forth standards for internal controls, information systems, internal audit systems, loan documentation, credit underwriting, interest rate exposure, asset growth, compensation, fees and benefits, asset quality and earnings. 

In general, the safety and soundness guidelines prescribe the goals to be achieved in each area, and each institution is responsible for establishing its own procedures to achieve those goals. If an institution fails to comply with any of the standards set forth in the guidelines, the FDIC-insured institution&#8217;s primary federal regulator may require the institution to submit a plan for achieving and maintaining compliance. If an FDIC-insured institution fails to submit an acceptable compliance plan, or fails in any material respect to implement a compliance plan that has been accepted by its primary federal regulator, the regulator is required to issue an order directing the institution to cure the deficiency. Until the deficiency cited in the regulator&#8217;s order is cured, the regulator may restrict the FDIC-insured institution&#8217;s rate of growth, require the FDIC-insured institution to increase its capital, restrict the rates the institution pays on deposits, or require the institution to take any action the regulator deems appropriate under the circumstances. Noncompliance with the standards established by the safety and soundness guidelines may also constitute grounds for other enforcement action by the federal bank regulatory agencies, including cease and desist orders and civil money penalty assessments. 

During the past decade, the bank regulatory agencies have increasingly emphasized the importance of sound risk management processes and strong internal controls when evaluating the activities of the FDIC-insured institutions they supervise. Properly managing risks has been identified as critical to the conduct of safe and sound banking activities and has become even more important as new technologies, product innovation, and the size and speed of financial transactions have changed the nature of banking markets. The agencies have identified a spectrum of risks facing a banking institution including, but not limited to, credit, market, liquidity, operational, legal and reputational risk. In particular, recent regulatory pronouncements have focused on operational risk, which arises from the potential that inadequate information systems, operational problems, breaches in internal controls, fraud or unforeseen catastrophes will result in unexpected losses. New products and services, third-party risk management and cybersecurity are critical sources of operational risk that FDIC-insured institutions are expected to address in the current environment. West Bank is expected to have active Board and senior management oversight; adequate policies, procedures and limits; adequate risk measurement, monitoring and management information systems; and comprehensive internal controls. 

Branching Authority . &#32; &#32;Iowa banks, such as West Bank, have the authority under Iowa law to establish branches anywhere in the State of Iowa, subject to receipt of all required regulatory approvals. Federal law permits state and national banks to merge with banks in other states subject to: (i) regulatory approval; (ii) federal and state deposit concentration limits; and (iii) state law limitations requiring the merging bank to have been in existence for a minimum period of time (not to exceed five years) prior to the merger. The establishment of new interstate branches has historically been permitted only in those states the laws of which expressly authorize such expansion. The Dodd-Frank Act permits well-capitalized and well-managed banks to establish new interstate branches or the acquisition of individual branches of a bank in another state (rather than the acquisition of an out-of-state bank in its entirety) without impediments. 

Transaction Account Reserves. &#32;&#32;Federal Reserve regulations require FDIC-insured institutions to maintain reserves against their transaction accounts (primarily NOW and regular checking accounts). For 2016 the first $15.2 million of otherwise reservable balances are exempt from reserves and have no reserve requirement; for transaction accounts aggregating more than $15.2 million to $110.2 million, the reserve requirement is 3 percent of total transaction accounts; and for net transaction accounts in excess of $110.2 million, the reserve requirement is 3 percent up to $110.2 million plus 10 percent of the aggregate amount of total transaction accounts in excess of $110.2 million. These reserve requirements are subject to annual adjustment by the Federal Reserve. 

Community Reinvestment Act Requirements. &#32;&#32;The Community Reinvestment Act requires West Bank to have a continuing and affirmative obligation in a safe and sound manner to help meet the credit needs of its entire community, including low- and moderate-income neighborhoods. Federal regulators regularly assess West Bank&#8217;s record of meeting the credit needs of its communities. Applications for acquisitions would be affected by the evaluation of West Bank&#8217;s effectiveness in meeting its Community Reinvestment Act requirements. 

Anti-Money Laundering. &#32;&#32;The Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism Act of 2001 (the Patriot Act) is designed to deny terrorists and criminals the ability to obtain access to the U.S. financial system and has significant implications for FDIC-insured institutions, brokers, dealers and other businesses involved in the transfer of money. The Patriot Act mandates financial services companies to have policies and procedures with respect to measures designed to address any or all of the following matters: (i) customer identification programs; (ii) money laundering; (iii) terrorist financing; (iv) identifying and reporting suspicious activities and currency transactions; (v) currency crimes; and (vi) cooperation between FDIC-insured institutions and law enforcement authorities. 

Concentrations in Commercial Real Estate. &#32;&#32;Concentration risk exists when FDIC-insured institutions deploy too many assets to any one industry or segment. A concentration in commercial real estate is one example of regulatory concern. The interagency Concentrations in Commercial Real Estate Lending, Sound Risk Management Practices guidance (CRE Guidance) provides supervisory criteria, including the following numerical indicators, to assist bank examiners in identifying banks with potentially significant commercial real estate loan concentrations that may warrant greater supervisory scrutiny: (i) commercial real estate loans exceeding 300 percent of capital and increasing 50 percent or more in the preceding three years or (ii) construction and land development loans exceeding 100 percent of capital. The CRE Guidance does not limit banks&#8217; levels of commercial real estate lending activities, but rather guides institutions in developing risk management practices and levels of capital that are commensurate with the level and nature of their commercial real estate concentrations. On December 18, 2015, the federal banking agencies issued a statement to reinforce prudent risk-management practices related to CRE lending, having observed substantial growth in many CRE asset and lending markets, increased competitive pressures, rising CRE concentrations in banks, and an easing of CRE underwriting standards. The federal bank agencies reminded FDIC-insured institutions to maintain underwriting discipline and exercise prudent risk-management practices to identify, measure, monitor and manage the risks arising from CRE lending. In addition, FDIC-insured institutions must maintain capital commensurate with the level and nature of their CRE concentration risk. 

Based on West Bank&#8217;s loan portfolio as of December 31, 2015, it exceeded the 300 percent guideline for commercial real estate loans. Additional monitoring processes have been implemented to manage this increased risk. 

Consumer Financial Services. The historical structure of federal consumer protection regulation applicable to all providers of consumer financial products and services changed significantly on July 21, 2011, when the CFPB commenced operations to supervise and enforce consumer protection laws. The CFPB has broad rulemaking authority for a wide range of consumer protection laws that apply to all providers of consumer products and services, including West Bank, as well as the authority to prohibit &#8220;unfair, deceptive or abusive&#8221; acts and practices. The CFPB has examination and enforcement authority over providers with more than $10 billion in assets. FDIC-insured institutions with $10 billion or less in assets, like West Bank, continue to be examined by their applicable bank regulators. 

Because abuses in connection with residential mortgages were a significant factor contributing to the global financial crisis, many new rules issued by the CFPB and required by the Dodd-Frank Act address mortgage and mortgage-related products, their underwriting, origination, servicing and sales. The Dodd-Frank Act significantly expanded underwriting requirements applicable to loans secured by 1-4 family residential real property and augmented federal law combating predatory lending practices. In addition to numerous disclosure requirements, the Dodd-Frank Act imposed new standards for mortgage loan originations on all lenders, including all FDIC-insured institutions, in an effort to strongly encourage lenders to verify a borrower&#8217;s "ability to repay," while also establishing a presumption of compliance for certain &#8220;qualified mortgages.&#8221; In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act generally required lenders or securitizers to retain an economic interest in the credit risk relating to loans that the lender sells, and other asset-backed securities that the securitizer issues, if the loans have not complied with the ability-to-repay standards. We do not currently expect the CFPB&#8217;s rules to have a significant impact on our operations, except for higher compliance costs. 

ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 

The principal executive offices of the Company are located at 1601 22 nd &#32;Street, West Des Moines, Iowa 50266. The Company's telephone number is (515) 222-2300, and the internet address is www.westbankstrong.com. Copies of the Company's annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments thereto are available for viewing or downloading free of charge from the Investor Relations section of the Company's website as soon as reasonably practicable after the documents are filed or furnished to the SEC. Copies of the Company's filings with the SEC are also available from the SEC's website (www.sec.gov) free of charge. 

