 ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

Company Overview 

Haemonetics is a global healthcare company dedicated to providing innovative products to customers involved in the processing, handling and analysis of blood. We offer a comprehensive portfolio of integrated devices and information management tools with the goal of helping improve clinical outcomes and reduce costs for blood and plasma collectors, hospitals, and patients around the world. When used in this report, the terms &#8220;we,&#8221; &#8220;us,&#8221; &#8220;our&#8221; and &#8220;the Company&#8221; mean Haemonetics. 

Haemonetics was founded in 1971 as a medical device company &#8212; a pioneer and market leader in developing and manufacturing automated blood component collection devices and surgical blood salvage devices. In May 1991, we completed an initial public offering and to this day remain an independent company. 

Blood and its components (plasma, platelets, and red cells) have many vital - and frequently life-saving - clinical applications. Plasma is used for patients with major blood loss and is manufactured into pharmaceuticals to treat a variety of illnesses and hereditary disorders such as hemophilia. Red cells treat trauma patients or patients undergoing surgery with high blood loss, such as open heart surgery or organ transplant. Platelets treat cancer patients undergoing chemotherapy. Blood is essential to a modern healthcare system. 

Haemonetics develops and markets a wide range of devices and solutions to serve our customers. We provide plasma collection systems and software which enable plasma fractionators to make life saving pharmaceuticals. We provide analytical devices for measuring hemostasis which enable healthcare providers to better manage their patients&#8217; bleeding risk. Haemonetics makes blood processing systems and software which make blood donation more efficient and track life giving blood components. Finally, Haemonetics supplies systems and software which facilitate blood transfusions and cell processing. 

Market and Products 

Product Lines 

We recently undertook a global strategic review of our business portfolio to identify which end markets and product franchises have the strongest growth opportunities. As a result of that review, we organized our current products into four franchises for purposes of evaluating their growth potential: Plasma, Hemostasis Management, Donor and Cell Processing. In that review, &#8220;Plasma&#8221; included plasma collection devices and disposables, plasma donor management software and anticoagulant and saline sold to plasma customers. &#8220;Hemostasis Management&#8221; included devices and methodologies for measuring coagulation characteristics of blood, such as our TEG&#174; Hemostasis Analyzer. &#8220;Donor&#8221; included blood collection and processing devices and disposables for red cells, platelets and whole blood as well as related donor management software. &#8220;Cell Processing&#8221; included surgical blood salvage systems, specialized blood cell processing systems, disposables and blood transfusion management software. 

In connection with this strategic review, we concluded that Plasma and Hemostasis Management have the greatest growth potential, while Cell Processing innovation offers an opportunity to increase market share and expand into new segments. Donor is competing in challenging markets which require us to manage the business differently, including reducing costs and the scope of the current product line. In recognition of these conclusions, we have begun to implement an operating model that will streamline the management structure and rationalize our cost structure, with an aim to bring about sustainable productivity improvement across the organization. Overall, we expect implementation of our new direction will require multiple changes and will extend beyond fiscal 2017. 

To provide continuity while we are implementing these changes to our business approach, we are reporting our results consistent with how management viewed the business in fiscal 2016 and prior periods. In those periods, we viewed our company as serving three customer groups: manufacturers of plasma derived pharmaceuticals, blood collectors, and hospitals. In fiscal 2016 and previous periods included within this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we have reported revenues for multiple product lines under four global product categories: Plasma , Blood Center , Hospital , and Software Solutions . 

In these results, &#8220;Plasma&#8221; includes plasma collection devices and disposables. &#8220;Blood Center&#8221; includes blood collection and processing devices and disposables. &#8220;Hospital&#8221; includes surgical blood salvage and blood demand diagnostic devices and disposables. &#8220;Software Solutions&#8221; includes information technology platforms and consulting services provided to all three markets. Although we address our customers' needs through multiple product lines, we manage our business as five operating segments based primarily on geography: (a) North America Plasma, (b) Americas Blood Center and Hospital, (c) Europe, Middle East and Africa (collectively "EMEA"), (d) Asia Pacific and (e) Japan. The North America Plasma reporting unit is a separate operating segment with dedicated segment management due the size and scale of the plasma business. 

For financial reporting purposes, we aggregate our five operating segments into four reportable segments which include: 

&#8226; 

Japan 

&#8226; 

EMEA 

&#8226; 

North America Plasma 

&#8226; 

All Other 

We have aggregated the following two operating segments into the All Other reportable segment based upon their similar operational and economic characteristics, including similarity of operating margin: 

&#8226; 

Americas Blood Center and Hospital 

&#8226; 

Asia - Pacific 

Segment Assets 

Our assets by segment are set forth below: 

(In thousands) 

April 2, 2016 

&#160; 

March 28, 2015 

&#160; 

March 29, 2014 

Japan 

$ 

129,551 

&#160; 

$ 

146,765 

&#160; 

$ 

159,227 

EMEA 

249,504 

&#160; 

305,540 

&#160; 

329,316 

North America Plasma 

453,212 

&#160; 

467,249 

&#160; 

421,706 

All Other 

486,861 

&#160; 

565,863 

&#160; 

603,929 

Total assets 

$ 

1,319,128 

&#160; 

$ 

1,485,417 

&#160; 

$ 

1,514,178 

The financial information required for segments is included herein in Note 14, Segment Information, to our consolidated financial statements contained in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

&#8226; 

Plasma 

The Plasma Collection Market for Fractionation &#8212; &#32; Human plasma is collected and processed by bio-pharmaceutical companies into therapeutic and diagnostic products that aid in the treatment of immune diseases and coagulation disorders. While plasma is also used to aid patients with extreme blood loss, such as trauma victims, bio-pharmaceutical companies solely focus on plasma's pharmaceutical uses. Automated plasma collection technology allows for the safe and efficient collection of plasma. We manufacture and market automated plasma collection devices and respective disposables, but do not make plasma-derived pharmaceuticals. 

Many bio-pharmaceutical companies are vertically integrated in all components of their business and thus are now collecting and fractionating the plasma required to manufacture pharmaceuticals. This vertical integration paved the way for highly efficient plasma supply chain management and the plasma industry leverages information technology to manage operations from the point of plasma donation to fractionation to the production of the final product. 

Haemonetics' Plasma Products &#8212; Our portfolio of products and services is designed to support multiple facets of plasma collector operations. We have a long-standing commitment to understanding our customers' collection and fractionation processes. As a result, we deliver product quality and reliability; design equipment that is durable, dependable, and easy to use; comprehensive training and support, and strong business continuity practices. 

Historically, plasma for fractionation was collected manually, which was time-consuming, labor-intensive, produced relatively poor yields, and posed risk to donors. Today, the vast majority of plasma collections worldwide are performed using automated collection technology because it is safer and more cost-effective. With our PCS &#174; &#32;brand automated plasma collection technology, more plasma can be collected during any one donation event because the other blood components are returned to the donor through the sterile disposable sets used for the plasma donation procedure. 

We offer &#8220;one stop shopping&#8221; to our plasma collection customers, enabling them to source from us the full range of products necessary for plasma collection and storage, including PCS &#174; &#32;brand plasma collection equipment and disposables, plasma collection containers, and intravenous solutions such as saline. We also offer a robust portfolio of integrated information technology platforms for plasma customers to manage their donors, operations, and supply chain. Our products automate the donor interview and qualification process; streamline the workflow process in the plasma center; provide the controls necessary to evaluate donor suitability; determine the ability to release units collected; and manage unit distribution. With our software solutions, plasma collectors can manage processes across the plasma supply chain, react quickly to business changes, and identify opportunities to reduce costs. 

Our plasma disposables product line represented 38.4% , 35.1% , and 31.1% &#32;of our total revenue in fiscal 2016 , 2015 &#32;and 2014 , respectively. 

&#8226; 

Blood Center 

The Blood Collection Market for Transfusion &#32;&#8212; There are millions of blood donations throughout the world every year that produce blood products for transfusion to surgical, trauma, or chronically ill patients. Patients typically receive only the blood components necessary to treat a particular clinical condition: for example, red cells to surgical patients, platelets to cancer patients, and plasma to trauma victims. 

Platelet therapy is frequently used to alleviate the effects of chemotherapy and help patients with bleeding disorders. Red cells are often transfused to patients to replace blood lost during surgery. Red cells are also transfused to patients with blood disorders, such as sickle cell anemia or aplastic anemia. Plasma, in addition to its role in creating life-saving pharmaceuticals, is frequently transfused to trauma victims and to replace blood volume lost during surgery. 

The demand for blood components varies across the world. While overall we expect total demand to remain stable, demand in individual markets can vary greatly. Highly populated emerging market countries are seeing demand growth as they expand healthcare coverage. As greater numbers of people gain access to more advanced medical treatment, demand for blood components, plasma-derived drugs, and surgical procedures increases. In more mature markets, the development of less invasive, lower blood loss procedures and better blood management has offset the demand increases from aging populations. This is particularly true in the United States, where we saw collections decline by approximately 10% in fiscal 2015 and 7% in fiscal 2016 . We expect further declines in fiscal 2017 . 

Most donations worldwide are manual whole blood donations. In this process, whole blood is collected from the donor and then transported to a laboratory where it is separated into its components: red cells, platelets and/or plasma. 

In addition to manual collections, there is a significant market for automated component blood collections. In this procedure, the blood separation process is automated and occurs in &#8220;real-time&#8221; while a person is donating blood. In this separation method, only the specific blood component targeted is collected, and the remaining components are returned to the blood donor. Automated blood component collection allows significantly more of the targeted blood component to be collected during a donation event, especially red cells where our automated system supports collection of two units from eligible donors. 

Haemonetics&#8217; Blood Center Products &#32; &#8212; &#32; Today, Haemonetics offers automated blood component and manual whole blood collection systems to blood collection centers to collect blood products efficiently and cost effectively. 

We market the MCS &#174; &#32;(Multicomponent Collection System) brand apheresis equipment which is designed to collect specific blood components integrated from the donor. Utilizing the MCS &#174; &#32;automated platelet collection protocols, blood centers collect one or more therapeutic &#8220;doses&#8221; of platelets during a single donation. The MCS &#174; &#32;two-unit protocol or double red cell collection device helps blood collectors optimize the collection of red cells by automating the blood separation function, eliminating the need for laboratory processing, and enabling the collection of two units of red cells from a single donor thus maximizing the amount of red cells collected per eligible donor and helping to mitigate red cell shortages in countries where this problem exists. Blood collectors can also use the MCS &#174; system to collect one unit of red cells and a "jumbo" (double) unit of plasma, or one unit of red cells and one unit of platelets from a single donor. The MCS &#174; &#32;plasma protocol, which provides the possibility of collecting 600-800ml of plasma for either transfusion to patients or for use by the pharmaceutical industry, completes the comprehensive portfolio of different blood component collection options on this device. 

Haemonetics also offers a portfolio of products for manual whole blood collection and processing. Haemonetics' portfolio of disposable whole blood collection and component storage sets offer flexibility in collecting a unit of whole 

blood and the subsequent production and storage of the red blood cell, platelet, and/or plasma products, including options for in-line or dockable filters for leukoreduction of any blood component. 

With the ACP &#174; &#32;(Automated Cell Processor) brand, Haemonetics offers a solution to automate the washing and freezing of red cell components. The automated red cell washing procedure removes plasma proteins within the red cell units to provide a safer product for transfusion to frequently transfused patients, neonates, or patients with a history of transfusion reactions. The automated glycerolization and deglycerolization steps are required to prepare red cells for frozen storage. Freezing the red cell units can expand the shelf life of these products up to 10 years. Customers utilize this technology to implement strategic red cell inventories for catastrophe cases, storage of rare blood types, or enhanced inventory management. 

Our blood center disposables product line represented 34.2% , 37.3% , and 41.5% &#32;of our total revenue in fiscal 2016 , 2015 &#32;and 2014 , respectively. 

&#8226; 

Hospital 

The Transfusion Market for Hospitals &#8212; Loss of blood is common in many surgical procedures, including open heart, trauma, transplant, vascular, and orthopedic procedures, and the need for transfusion of oxygen-carrying red cells to make up for lost blood volume is routine. Patients commonly receive donor blood, referred to as &#8220;allogeneic blood,&#8221; which carries various risks including risk of transfusion with the wrong blood type; risk of transfusion reactions including death, but more commonly chills, fevers or other side effects that can prolong a patient&#8217;s recovery; and risk of transfusion of blood with a blood-borne disease or infectious agent. 

An alternative to allogeneic blood is surgical cell salvage, also known as autotransfusion, which reduces or eliminates a patient&#8217;s need for blood donated from others and ensures that the patient receives the freshest and safest blood possible &#8212; his or her own. Surgical cell salvage involves the collection of a patient&#8217;s own blood during and after surgery, for reinfusion of red cells to that patient. Blood is suctioned from the surgical site or collected from a wound or chest drain, processed and washed through a centrifuge-based system that yields concentrated red cells available for transfusion back to the patient. This process occurs in a sterile, closed-circuit, single-use consumable set that is fitted into an electromechanical device. We market our surgical blood salvage products to surgical specialists, primarily cardiovascular, orthopedic, and trauma surgeons, and to surgical suite service providers. 

Blood loss also has profound implications for a patient&#8217;s hemostasis or ability to effectively produce clots without causing thrombosis. Hemostasis management plays a role in various medical procedures including: liver transplant, cardiovascular procedures, trauma and percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI). By understanding a patient&#8217;s clotting ability, clinicians can better plan for the patient&#8217;s care, deciding in advance whether to start or discontinue use of certain drugs or, determine the likelihood of the patient's need for a transfusion and which blood components will be most effective in stopping bleeding. Such planning supports better care, which can lead to lower hospital costs through a reduction in unnecessary donor blood transfusions, reduced adverse transfusion reactions, and shorter intensive care unit and hospital stays. We market our hemostasis analyzers to hospitals and laboratories as an alternative to less comprehensive blood tests. 

Haemonetics&#8217; Hospital Products &#8212; Haemonetics offers a range of blood management solutions that improve a hospital's systems for acquiring blood, storing it in the hospital, and dispensing it efficiently and correctly. Over the last few years, hospitals have become increasingly aware of their need to control costs and improve patient safety by managing blood more effectively. Our products and integrated solution platforms help hospitals optimize performance of blood acquisition, storage, and distribution. 

The TEG &#174; &#32;Thrombelastograph Hemostasis Analyzer system is a blood diagnostic instrument that measures a patient's hemostasis, the ability to form and maintain blood clots. Haemonetics acquired Haemoscope Corporation and the TEG 5000 technology in 2007 and now exclusively licenses the TEG 6s technology in the hospital and labs market from Cora Healthcare, Inc., a company established by the founders of Haemoscope. We have launched the TEG 6s in certain markets in Europe and Asia. During fiscal 2016, the TEG 6s received final 510(k) clearance from the FDA in North America, our largest market for TEG, for the indications of cardiovascular surgery and cardiology procedures allowing us to launch the product in those markets. 

The Cell Saver &#174; &#32;system is a surgical blood salvage system targeted to procedures that involve rapid, high-volume blood loss, such as cardiovascular surgeries. It has become the standard of care for high blood-loss surgeries. In fiscal 2012, we launched the Cell Saver &#174; &#32;Elite &#174; &#32;system, which is our most advanced autotransfusion option to minimize allogeneic blood use for surgeries with medium to high blood loss. 

The OrthoPAT &#174; &#32;surgical blood salvage system is targeted to orthopedic procedures, such as hip and knee replacements, which involve slower, lower volume blood loss that often occurs well after surgery. The system is designed to remain with the patient following surgery, to recover blood and produce a washed red cell product for autotransfusion. 

Our hospital disposables product line represented 13.7% , 13.7% , and 13.3% &#32;of our total revenue in fiscal 2016 , 2015 &#32;and 2014 , respectively. 

&#8226; 

Software Solutions 

Haemonetics' Software Products and Services &#32;&#8212; We have a suite of integrated software solutions for improving efficiencies and helping ensure donor and patient safety. This includes solutions for blood drive planning, donor recruitment and retention, blood collection, component manufacturing and distribution, transfusion management, and remote blood allocation. For our plasma customers, we also provide information technology platforms for managing donors and information associated with the collection of plasma products and their processing within fractionation facilities. 

For our Hospital customers, our software products help hospitals track and safely deliver stored blood products. SafeTrace Tx &#174; is our software solution that helps manage blood product inventory, perform patient cross-matching, and manage transfusions. In addition, our BloodTrack &#174; &#32;suite of solutions manages tracking and control of blood products from the hospital blood center through to transfusion to the patient. &#8220;Smart&#8221; refrigerators located in or near operating suites, emergency rooms, and other parts of the hospital dispense blood units with secure control and automated traceability for efficient documentation. 

For Blood Center customers, our software solutions span blood center operations and automate and track operations from the recruitment of the blood donor to the disposition of the blood product. Combined, our solutions help blood collectors improve the safety, regulatory compliance, and efficiency of blood collection and supply. 

Our software solutions product line represented 8.0% , 7.9% , and 7.5% &#32;of our total revenue in fiscal 2016 , 2015 &#32;and 2014 , respectively. 

Marketing/Sales/Distribution 

We market and sell our products to bio-pharmaceutical companies, blood collection groups and independent blood centers, hospitals and hospital service providers, group purchasing organizations and national health organizations through our own direct sales force (including full-time sales representatives and clinical specialists) as well as independent distributors. Sales representatives target the primary decision-makers within each of those organizations. 

United States 

In fiscal 2016 , 2015 &#32;and 2014 &#32; 57.1% , 54.4% , and 53.4% , respectively, of consolidated net revenues were generated in the U.S., where we primarily use a direct sales force to sell our products. See Note 14, Segment Information , to our consolidated financial statements contained in Item 8 for additional information. 

Outside the United States 

In fiscal 2016 , 2015 &#32;and 2014 &#32; 42.9% , 45.6% , and 46.6% , respectively, of consolidated net revenues were generated through sales to non-U.S. customers. Outside the United States, we use a combination of direct sales force and distributors. See Note 14, Segment Information , to our consolidated financial statement contained in Item 8 for additional information. 

Research and Development 

Our research and development centers in the United States and Switzerland ensure that protocol variations are incorporated to closely match local customer requirements. In addition, Haemonetics maintains software development operations in Canada and France. 

Customer collaborations are also an important part of our technical strength and competitive advantage. These collaborations with customers and transfusion experts provide us with ideas for new products and applications, enhanced protocols, and potential test sites as well as objective evaluations and expert opinions regarding technical and performance issues. 

The development of blood component separation products and extracorporeal blood typing and screening systems has required us to maintain technical expertise in various engineering disciplines, including mechanical, electrical, software, and biomedical engineering and material science. Innovations resulting from these various engineering efforts enable us to develop systems that are faster, smaller, and more user-friendly, or that incorporate additional features important to our customer base. 

Research and development expense was $45.0 million &#32;in fiscal 2016 , $54.2 million &#32;in fiscal 2015 &#32;and $54.2 million &#32;in fiscal 2014 , representing approximately 5.0% - 6.0% &#32;of our net sales each year. 

In fiscal 2016 , research and development resources were allocated to supporting next generation plasma collection and software systems, a new TEG &#174; &#32;Thrombelastograph Hemostasis Analyzer, and several other enhancements to our legacy product portfolios. 

Manufacturing 

Our principal manufacturing operations are located in the United States, Mexico, and Malaysia. 

In fiscal 2016, we completed our Value Creation and Capture (&#8220;VCC&#8221;) opportunities initiative. This initiative included (i) discontinuation of manufacturing activities at our Ascoli-Piceno, Italy and Braintree, Massachusetts facilities, (ii) expansion of our current facility in Tijuana, Mexico, (iii) transfer of all equipment production to our contract manufacturer, Sanmina Corporation, and (iv) consolidation of the manufacturing of product formerly produced in the U.S. and Italy to our new manufacturing facility in Penang, Malaysia. We continue to manufacture in Bothwell, Scotland. Refer to &#32;Liquidity and Capital Resources &#32;within our Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contained in Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further discussion of the costs of these activities. 

As part of our global strategic review, we continue to evaluate our manufacturing operations. Accordingly, we may make further changes to our manufacturing footprint based on future business conditions. 

In general, our production activities occur in controlled settings or &#8220;clean room&#8221; environments. Each step of the manufacturing and assembly process is quality checked, qualified, and validated. Critical process steps and materials are documented to ensure that every unit is produced consistently and meets performance requirements. Our equipment and disposable manufacturing sites are certified to the ISO 13485 standard and to the Medical Device Directive allowing placement of the CE mark of conformity. 

Plastics are the principal component of our disposable products. Contracts with our suppliers help mitigate some of the short-term effects of price volatility in this market. However, increases in the price of petroleum derivatives could result in corresponding increases in our costs to procure plastic raw materials. 

Contractors manufacture some component sets and equipment according to our specifications. We maintain important relationships with two Japanese manufacturers that produce finished disposables in Singapore, Japan, and Thailand. We have also engaged Sanmina Corporation to be the sole manufacturer of certain equipment. &#32; Certain parts and components are purchased from sole source vendors. We believe that if necessary, alternative sources of supply are available in most cases, and could be secured within a relatively short period of time. Nevertheless, an interruption in supply could temporarily interfere with production schedules and affect our operations. 

Our equipment is designed in-house and assembled by us or our contracted manufacturers from components that are manufactured to our specifications. The completed instruments are programmed, calibrated, and tested to ensure compliance with our engineering and quality assurance specifications. Inspection checks are conducted throughout the manufacturing process to verify proper assembly and functionality. When mechanical and electronic components are sourced from outside vendors, those vendors must meet detailed qualification and process control requirements. 

Intellectual Property 

We consider our intellectual property rights to be important to our business. We rely on patent, trademark, copyright, and trade secret laws, as well as provisions in our agreements with third parties, to protect our intellectual property rights. We hold patents in the United States and many international jurisdictions on some of our machines, processes, disposables and related technologies. These patents cover certain elements of our systems, including protocols employed in our equipment and certain aspects of our processing chambers and disposables. Our patents may cover current products, products in markets we plan to enter, or products in markets we plan to license, or the patents may be defensive in that they are directed to technologies not currently embodied in our current products. We may also license patent rights from third parties that cover technologies that we plan to use in our business. To maintain our competitive position, we rely on the technical expertise and know-how of our personnel and on our patent rights. We pursue an active and formal program of invention disclosure and patent application in both the United States and foreign jurisdictions. We own various trademarks that have been registered in the United States and certain other countries. 

Our policy is to obtain patent and trademark rights in the U.S. and foreign countries where such rights are available and we believe it is commercially advantageous to do so. However, the standards for international protection of intellectual property 

vary widely. We cannot assure that pending patent and trademark applications will result in issued patents and registered trademarks, that patents issued to or licensed by us will not be challenged or circumvented by competitors, or that our patents will not be determined invalid. 

Competition 

To remain competitive, we must continue to develop and acquire new cost-effective products, information technology platforms, and business services. We believe that our ability to maintain a competitive advantage will continue to depend on a combination of factors. Some factors are largely within our control such as: (i) maintenance of a positive reputation among our customers, (ii) development of new products which meet our customer's needs, (iii) obtaining regulatory approvals for our products in key markets, (iv) obtaining patents which protect our innovations, (v) development and protection of proprietary know-how in important technological areas, (vi) product quality, safety and cost effectiveness and (vii) continual and rigorous documentation of clinical performance. Other factors are outside of our control. We could see changes in regulatory standards or clinical practice which favor a competitor's technology or reduce revenues in key areas of our business. 

In addition, we face competition from several large, global companies with product offerings similar to ours, such as Terumo BCT, LivaNova Plc and Fresenius SE &#38; Co. KGaA. Terumo and Fresenius, in particular, have significantly greater financial and other resources than we do and are strong competitors in a number of our businesses. The following provides an overview of the key competitors in each of our four global product enterprises. 

&#8226; 

Plasma 

In the automated plasma collection market, we principally compete with the Kabi division of Fresenius, which acquired Fenwal, Inc. in November 2012, on the basis of quality, reliability, ease of use, services and technical features of the collection systems, and on the long-term cost-effectiveness of equipment and disposables. In China, the market is populated by local producers of a product that is intended to be similar to ours. Recently, those competitors have expanded to markets beyond China, into European and South American countries. In the field of Plasma related software, MAK Systems is the primary commercial competitor along with applications developed internally by our customers. 

&#8226; 

Blood Center 

We have several competitors in the Blood Center product lines, some of which compete across all blood components and others that are more specialized. 

Terumo BCT, and Fresenius are our major competitors in platelet collection. In platelet collections, there are two areas of competition - automated collection and pooled random donor. In the automated collection area, competition is based on continual performance improvement, as measured by the time and efficiency of platelet collection and the quality of the platelets collected. Each of these companies has taken a different technological approach in designing their systems for automated platelet collection. In addition to automated platelet collection offerings, we now also compete in the pooled random donor platelet segment from whole blood collections from which pooled platelets are derived with the Acrodose product or buffy coat pooling sets. 

Terumo BCT and Fresenius are also competitors in the automated red cell collection market. However, it is important to note that most double red cell collection is done in the U.S. and less than 10% of the red cells collected in the U.S. annually are collected via automation. Therefore, we also compete with the traditional method of collecting red cells from the manual collection of whole blood. We compete on the basis of total cost, type-specific collection, process control, product quality, and inventory management. 

Our whole blood business faces intense competition on the basis of quality and price. In North America, Europe and Asia-Pacific our main competitors are Fresenius, MacoPharma and Terumo BCT. We do not have significant whole blood revenues in Japan today. 

In Donor software, Sunquest Information Systems is a competitor along with systems developed internally by our customers. 

The competition for processing cells for storage is based on the level of automation, labor-intensiveness, and system type (open versus closed). Open systems may be weaker in good manufacturing process compliance. Moreover, blood processed through open systems has a 24-hour shelf life. With the ACP &#174; &#32;(automated cell processor) brand, Haemonetics offers a closed system cell processor which gives blood processed through it, a 14-day shelf life. We compete with Terumo BCT's open systems in this market. 

&#8226; 

Hospital 

The TEG Thrombelastograph Hemostasis Analyzer is used primarily in surgical applications. ROTEM is a direct competitor in Europe and in the United States. Other competitive technologies include standard coagulation tests and platelet function testing. The TEG analyzer competes with other laboratory tests based on its ability to provide a complete picture of a patient's hemostasis at a single point in time, and the ability to measure the clinically relevant platelet function for an individual patient. 

In the intraoperative surgical blood salvage market, competition is based on reliability, ease of use, service, support, and price. For high-volume platforms, each manufacturer's technology is similar, and our Cell Saver technology competes principally with LivaNova Plc, Medtronic, and Fresenius. 

In the perioperative surgical blood salvage market, our OrthoPAT system competes primarily against (i) non-automated processing systems whose end product is an unwashed red blood cell unit for transfusion to the patient, (ii) transfusions of donated blood and (iii) coagulation therapies such as tranexamic acid. 

&#8226; 

Software Solution 

In the software market, we compete with MAK Systems, Mediware, Sunquest Information Systems and applications developed internally by our customers. These companies provide software to blood and plasma collectors and to hospitals for managing donors, collections, and blood units. None of these companies competes with Haemonetics' non-software products. 

Our technical staff is highly skilled, but certain competitors have substantially greater financial resources and larger technical staffing at their disposal. There can be no assurance that competitors will not direct substantial efforts and resources toward the development and marketing of products competitive with those of Haemonetics. 

Significant Customers 

There were no customers that accounted for greater than 10% of our net revenues in fiscal 2016 , fiscal 2015 , or fiscal 2014 . 

Government Regulation 

Medical Device Regulation 

The products we manufacture and market are subject to regulation by the Center of Biologics Evaluation and Research (&#8220;CBER&#8221;), Center for Devices and Radiological Health (&#8220;CDRH&#8221;) and the Center for Drug Evaluation and Research ("CDER") of the United States Food and Drug Administration (&#8220;FDA&#8221;), and other non-United States regulatory bodies. 

All medical devices introduced to the United States market since 1976 are required by the FDA, as a condition of marketing, to secure either a 510(k) pre-market notification clearance or an approved premarket approval application (&#8220;PMA&#8221;). In the United States, software used to automate blood center operations and blood collections and to track those components through the system are considered by the FDA to be medical devices, subject to 510(k) pre-market notification. Intravenous solutions (blood anticoagulants and solutions for storage of red blood cells) marketed by us for use with our manual collection and automated systems requires us to obtain an approved New Drug Application (&#8220;NDA&#8221;) or Abbreviated New Drug Application (&#8220;ANDA&#8221;) from CBER or CDER. A 510(k) pre-market clearance indicates the FDA&#8217;s agreement with an applicant&#8217;s determination that the product for which clearance is sought is substantially equivalent to another legally marketed medical device. The process of obtaining a 510(k) clearance may involve the submission of clinical data and supporting information. The process of obtaining an NDA approval for solutions is likely to take much longer than 510(k) clearances because the FDA review process is more complicated. 

The FDA&#8217;s Quality System regulations sets forth standards for our product design and manufacturing processes, requires the maintenance of certain records and provides for inspections of our facilities. There are also certain requirements of state, local and foreign governments that must be complied with in the manufacturing and marketing of our products. We maintain customer complaint files, record all lot numbers of disposable products, and conduct periodic audits to assure compliance with all regulations. We place special emphasis on customer training and advise all customers that device operation should be undertaken only by qualified personnel. 

The FDA can ban certain medical devices; detain or seize adulterated or misbranded medical devices; order repair, replacement or refund of these devices; and require notification of health professionals and others with regard to medical devices that present unreasonable risks of substantial harm to the public health. The FDA may also enjoin and restrain certain violations of 

the Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act and the Safe Medical Devices Act pertaining to medical devices, or initiate action for criminal prosecution of such violations. 

We are also subject to regulation in the countries outside the United States in which we market our products. The member states of the European Union (EU) have adopted the European Medical Device Directive, which creates a single set of medical device regulations for all EU member countries. These regulations require companies that wish to manufacture and distribute medical devices in EU member countries to obtain CE Marking for their products. Outside of the EU, many of the regulations applicable to our products are similar to those of the FDA. However, the national health or social security organizations of certain countries require our products to be registered by those countries before they can be marketed in those countries. 

We have complied with these regulations and have obtained such registrations where we market our products. Federal, state and foreign regulations regarding the manufacture and sale of products such as ours are subject to change. We cannot predict what impact, if any, such changes might have on our business. 

Conflict Minerals 

The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act imposes disclosure requirements regarding the use of "Conflict Minerals" mined from the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries in products, whether or not these products are manufactured by third parties. The conflict minerals include tin, tantalum, tungsten and gold, and their derivatives. These requirements could affect the pricing, sourcing and availability of minerals used in the manufacture of our products. There will be additional costs associated with complying with the disclosure requirements, such as costs related to determining the source of any conflict minerals used in our products. Our supply chain is complex and we may be unable to verify the origins for all metals used in our products. 

Other Regulation 

We are also subject to various environmental, health and general safety laws, directives and regulations both in the U.S. and abroad. Our operations, like those of other medical device companies, involve the use of substances regulated under environmental laws, primarily in manufacturing and sterilization processes. We believe that sound environmental, health and safety performance contributes to our competitive strength while benefiting our customers, shareholders and employees. 

Environmental Matters 

Failure to comply with international, federal and local environmental protection laws or regulations could have an adverse impact on our business or could require material capital expenditures. We continue to monitor changes in U.S. and international environmental regulations that may present a significant risk to the business, including laws or regulations relating to the manufacture or sale of products using plastics. 

Employees 

As of April 2, 2016 , we employed the full-time equivalent of 3,225 persons assigned to the following functional areas: manufacturing, 1,845 ; sales and marketing, 688 ; general and administrative, 258 ; research and development, 186 ; and quality control and field service, 248 . 

Availability of Reports and Other Information 

All of our corporate governance materials, including the Principles of Corporate Governance, the Business Conduct Policy and the charters of the Audit, Compensation, and Nominating and Governance Committees are published on the Investor Relations section of our website at http://phx.corporate-ir.net/phoenix.zhtml?c=72118&#38;p=irol-IRHome . On this web site the public can also access, free of charge, our annual, quarterly and current reports and other documents filed or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. 

Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Information 

Statements contained in this report, as well as oral statements we make which are prefaced with the words &#8220;may,&#8221; &#8220;will,&#8221; &#8220;expect,&#8221; &#8220;anticipate,&#8221; &#8220;continue,&#8221; &#8220;estimate,&#8221; &#8220;project,&#8221; &#8220;intend,&#8221; &#8220;designed,&#8221; and similar expressions, are intended to identify forward looking statements regarding events, conditions, and financial trends that may affect our future plans of operations, business strategy, results of operations, and financial position. These statements are based on our current expectations and estimates as to prospective events and circumstances about which we can give no firm assurance. Further, any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date on which such statement is made, and we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances after the date on which such statement is made. As it is not possible to 

predict every new factor that may emerge, forward-looking statements should not be relied upon as a prediction of our actual future financial condition or results. 

These forward-looking statements, like any forward-looking statements, involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected or anticipated, including: the effects of disruption from the manufacturing transformation making it more difficult to maintain relationships with employees and timely deliver high quality products, changes in executive management, changes in operations as a result of our global strategic review, asset revaluations to reflect current business conditions, technological advances in the medical field and standards for transfusion medicine and our ability to successfully implement products that incorporate such advances and standards, demand for whole blood and blood components, product quality, market acceptance, regulatory uncertainties, including the receipt or timing of regulatory approvals, the effect of economic and political conditions, the impact of competitive products and pricing, blood product reimbursement policies and practices, foreign currency exchange rates, changes in customers&#8217; ordering patterns including single-source tenders, the effect of industry consolidation as seen in the plasma and blood center markets, the effect of communicable diseases and the effect of uncertainties in markets outside the U.S. (including Europe and Asia) in which we operate and other risks detailed under Item 1A. Risk Factors included in this report. The foregoing list should not be construed as exhaustive. 

