 ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

BUSINESS 

Overview 

We are an animal health company focused on developing and commercializing first-in-class gastrointestinal products for companion and production animals and horses. Canalevia is our lead prescription drug product candidate for the treatment of various forms of diarrhea in dogs. We achieved statistically significant results in a canine proof-of-concept study completed in February 2015, suggesting that Canalevia treatment is superior to placebo, with 91% of the Canalevia-treated dogs achieving a formed stool during the study versus 50% of the placebo-treated dogs. In December 2015 we initiated a pivotal trial to evaluate the safety and effectiveness of Canalevia for the treatment of acute diarrhea in dogs. Additionally, we are seeking a first to market introduction of Canalevia with a conditional approval for the indication of CID. In June 2015 we completed a multi-site pilot safety study involving the anticipated commercial formulation of Canalevia for CID, and in August 2015 we completed submission of all required major technical sections for a conditional approval new drug application, or CNADA, for Chemotherapy-Induced Diarrhea (CID) to the FDA for a phased review. Canalevia is a canine-specific formulation of crofelemer, an active pharmaceutical ingredient isolated and purified from the Croton lechleri tree. A human-specific formulation of crofelemer, Fulyzaq, was approved by the FDA in 2012 for 

the symptomatic relief of noninfectious diarrhea in adults with HIV/AIDS on antiretroviral therapy. Members of our management team developed crofelemer, while at Napo Pharmaceuticals, Inc., which was Jaguar's parent company until May 13, 2015. Neonorm is our lead non-prescription product to support gut health thereby normalizing fecal formation in animals suffering from watery diarrhea, or scours. We launched Neonorm in the United States at the end of 2014 for preweaned dairy calves under the brand name Neonorm Calf, and in 2015 we launched Neonorm in the United States for foals under the brand name Neonorm Foal. We expect to launch additional formulations of Neonorm in the next years. As of March 1, 2016, we have shipped $638,000 of Neonorm Calf to distributors. Neonorm is a standardized botanical extract also derived from the Croton lechleri tree. Canalevia and Neonorm are distinct products that are formulated to address specific species and market channels. We have submitted nine active investigational new animal drug applications, or INADs, to the FDA and intend to develop species-specific formulations of Neonorm in six additional target species. 

We intend to develop a species-specific formulation of crofelemer to treat diarrhea associated with acute colitis in horses. We believe colitis affects thousands of horses in the United States each year, and in December 2015 we completed a pilot safety study to evaluate crofelemer in adult horses, the first step in the development program for acute colitis. Acute colitis can cause sudden, massive fluid loss and severe electrolyte imbalances that can result in death in a matter of hours. 

We are also developing a formulation of a Croton lechleri product for the treatment of ulcers in horses. In January 2016 we announced positive topline results from the proof-of-concept study we initiated in November 2015 to evaluate the safety and effectiveness of this investigational new animal drug, currently referred to as SB-300, for the treatment of gastrointestinal ulcers in horses. SB-300 contains ingredients isolated and purified from the Croton lechleri tree. 

Ulcers are lesions of the lining of the digestive tract and are very common in horses used for many competitive activities. We believe that because Croton lechleri -derived products have been shown to act locally in the gut and have traditional use and rodent model benefit for ulcers, SB-300 has the potential to address ulcers in horses, as well as diarrhea. We are initially developing this product for the indication of equine gastric ulcer syndrome (EGUS), and we plan to investigate the possible efficacy of this product candidate for treatment of colonic ulcers in horses as a potential follow on indication following the anticipated launch of SB-300. Both colonic and gastric ulcers can negatively impact the performance of horses which are expected to perform at peak efficiency, including show horses and race horses. We believe a significant market exists for a product that treats both ulcers in horses without altering stomach pH. According to a 2005 study, 54% of performance horses have both colonic and gastric ulcers and 97% of performance horses have either a gastric (87%) or a colonic (63%) ulcer. Data from the American Horse Council states that there are currently 9.2 million horses in the U.S., a population that includes 844,531 race horses, more than 2.7 million show horses, and more than 3.9 million recreational horses. Data from the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations indicate that there were approximately 5.7 million horses in Europe in 2013 and nearly 60 million horses in 2013 worldwide. Our goal is to see SB-300 serve as an important tool in the standard of care for equine ulcers. 

Diarrhea is one of the most common reasons for veterinary office visits for dogs and is the second most common reason for visits to the veterinary emergency room, yet there are no FDA-approved anti-secretory products for the treatment of diarrhea in animals. We estimate that in the United States, veterinarians see approximately six million annual cases of acute and chronic watery diarrhea in dogs, approximately two-thirds of which are acute diarrhea. We believe that Canalevia will be effective in treating acute diarrhea because it acts at the last physiological step, conserved across mammalian species, in the manifestation of acute diarrhea, regardless of cause, by normalizing ion and water flow in the intestinal lumen. We have received MUMS designation for Canalevia for the treatment of CID in dogs which provides an opportunity to shorten the timeframe to commercialization. If we receive conditional approval pursuant to MUMS designation, we expect to commercialize Canalevia for CID in dogs in the second half of 2016. We completed a canine proof-of-concept study in February 2015, with statistically 

significant results, in support of protocol concurrence discussions with the FDA regarding expansion of labeled indications of watery diarrhea beyond CID, to include acute diarrhea as a secondary indication. We plan to market Canalevia, if approved, through our focused direct sales force and to complement our relationships with distribution partners. 

According to the Dairy 2007 study conducted by the USDA, almost one in four preweaned dairy heifer, or female, calves suffers from diarrhea or other digestive problems. The preweaning period is generally the first 60 days after birth. Scours, diarrhea or other digestive problems are responsible for more than half of all preweaned heifer calf deaths, and result in impaired weight gain and long-term reduction in milk production. We believe that the incidence rate of scours and its corresponding financial impact represent a health and business opportunity and that Neonorm Calf has the potential to effectively meet this need. 

A challenge clinical study was completed in May 2014 by researchers from Cornell, and published in 2015 in the official journal of the American Dairy Science Association, Journal of Dairy Science . The results of this study suggest that Neonorm Calf can significantly increase the fecal dry matter of neonatal calves with experimentally-induced enterotoxigenic E. coli diarrhea, and suggest a potential benefit of Neonorm Calf in supporting weight gain in calves. 

A further analysis, completed in October 2015, of the above-referenced Cornell study supports a benefit of Neonorm Calf on the optimization of the intestinal microbiome profile in preweaned dairy calves, a potential prebiotic benefit. The microbiome is a community of microorganisms that live normally in the gut and are vital to maintenance of gut health. 

We recently initiated a placebo-controlled study in conjunction with researchers from Cornell to evaluate the efficacy of the prophylactic use of a second-generation formulation of Neonorm Calf administered in liquid on naturally occurring diarrhea in preweaned dairy calves and investigate the possible prebiotic benefit of the product. This double-blinded, randomized study will involve 40 Holstein bull calves affected with naturally occurring diarrhea. This study will generate data that we expect will enlighten the mechanism by which the prophylactic use of the second-generation formulation of Neonorm Calf may support the gut health of preweaned calves herd-wide during naturally occurring diarrhea. Additionally, characterization of the fecal microbiome throughout the preweaning period will allow us to demonstrate that, under natural conditions, the product may positively alter the intestinal microbiome to the benefit of the host. The possible beneficial prebiotic mechanism of Neonorm Calf would supplement and is potentially synergistic with the anti-secretory and weight gain benefits of the product. We expect results from this study to be available in 2016. 

In November 2015 we completed an initial proof-of-concept study (NEO101) of Neonorm Foal that involved 60 foals. The objective of this randomized, multi-site, blinded, placebo-controlled study was to evaluate the safety and performance of the product for treatment of foals suffering from secretory diarrhea, and the treated animals received Neonorm Foal in combination with a third-party probiotic. In December 2015 we announced positive results for an exploratory, investigator-initiated follow-up study (ARG102) which assessed the safety and performance of Neonorm Foal, without inclusion of a probiotic, in preweaned foals with watery diarrhea. The results of a meta-analysis between the two studies demonstrated a significantly higher percentage of foals with clinical response and resolution of diarrhea for Neonorm Foal, from either ARG102 or NEO101, compared with the placebo group in NEO101. 

During the 72-hour administration period, 35% of foals receiving the placebo in NEO101 were identified as clinical responders, compared with 85% of foals treated with Neonorm Foal in ARG102. For the purposes of both studies, clinical responders were defined as foals that achieved a formed stool by the end of the reported period. 

During the 72-hour administration period, resolution of diarrhea was observed in 41% of placebo-treated foals in NEO101 compared with 85% of foals receiving Neonorm Foal in ARG102. For the 

purposes of both studies, resolution of diarrhea was defined as a foal that produced a formed stool at any point during the reported period. 

We expect the ongoing launch of Neonorm Calf promoting normal fecal formation and reducing fluid loss in preweaned calves and Neonorm Foal to drive awareness among veterinarians regarding the utility of our first-in-class anti-secretory Croton lechleri -derived products, including our prescription product, Canalevia. 

We have an exclusive worldwide license to Napo's intellectual property rights and technology related to our products and product candidates, including rights to its library of over 2,300 medicinal plants, for all veterinary treatment uses and indications for all species of animals. This includes rights to Neonorm, Canalevia, and other distinct prescription drug product candidates in our pipeline along with the corresponding existing preclinical and clinical data packages. We also recently expanded our intellectual property portfolio to include combinations of our proprietary anti-secretory product lines, Canalevia and Neonorm, with the non-absorbed antibiotic, rifaximin, for gastrointestinal indications in all animals. 

Our management team has significant experience in gastrointestinal and animal health product development. This experience includes the development of crofelemer for human use, from discovery and preclinical and clinical toxicity studies, including the existing animal studies to be used for Canalevia regulatory approvals, through human clinical development. Our team also includes individuals who have prior animal health experience at major pharmaceutical companies including SmithKline Beecham Corporation, now GlaxoSmithKline LLC, Zoetis Inc., V&#233;toquinol S.A., Merial Inc., the animal health division of Sanofi S.A., Morris Animal Foundation, Virbac Animal Health, and Merck Animal Health, as well as management experience at major veterinary hospital institutions and experience at the FDA's Center for Veterinary Medicine. 

Product Pipeline 

We are developing a pipeline of prescription drug product candidates and non-prescription (non-drug) products to address unmet needs in animal health. Our pipeline currently includes prescription drug product candidates for nine indications across multiple species, and non-prescription products targeting seven species. 

Prescription Drug Product Candidates 

Product Candidates 

&#160; Species &#160; Indication &#160; Recent Developments &#160; Anticipated Near-Term Milestones Canalevia &#160; Dogs &#160; CID &#160; &#149; 

Completed safety study with commercial formulation in June 2015 &#160; &#149; 

Possible conditional approval filed in second half of 2016 &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#149; 

Submitted all required major technical sections of new animal drug application (NADA) in August 2015 &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; Dogs &#160; Acute diarrhea &#160; &#149; 

Product development meeting with FDA in 2015 &#149; 

Initiated pivotal trial to evaluate safety and effectiveness in December 2015 &#160; &#149; 

Complete clinical development program fourth quarter of 2016 &#149; 

Initiate NADA in 2016 

Product Candidates 

&#160; Species &#160; Indication &#160; Recent Developments &#160; Anticipated Near-Term Milestones Species-specific formulations of crofelemer &#160; Horses &#160; Diarrhea associated with acute colitis &#160; &#149; 

Completed pilot safety study in December 2015 &#160; &#149; 

Product development meeting with FDA first half of 2016 &#149; 

Commence clinical development program under CVM concurred protocols first half of 2016 &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; Horses &#160; Ulcers &#160; &#149; 

INAD opened in October 2015 &#149; 

Proof-of-concept safety and effectiveness results in January 2016 &#160; &#149; 

Product development meeting with FDA in first half of 2016 &#149; 

Commence clinical development program under CVM concurred protocols second half of 2016 &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; Cats &#160; Acute diarrhea &#160; &#149; 

INAD opened in 2014 &#160; &#149; 

Safety and proof-of-concept results first half of 2016 &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; Virend (topical) &#160; Cats &#160; Herpes virus &#160; &#149; 

INAD opened in 2014 &#160; &#149; 

Safety and proof-of-concept results in 2016 &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; Species-specific formulations of NP-500 &#160; Dogs &#160; Obesity-related metabolic dysfunction &#160; &#149; 

INAD opened in 2014 &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; Horses &#160; Metabolic syndrome &#160; &#149; 

INAD opened in 2014 &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; Cats &#160; Type II diabetes &#160; &#149; 

INAD opened in 2014 &#160; &#160; 

Non-Prescription Products 

Products 

&#160; Species &#160; Use &#160; Recent Developments &#160; Anticipated Near-Term Milestones Neonorm Calf &#160; Dairy calves &#160; Supports gut health and normalizing fecal formation in preweaned dairy calves with scours &#160; &#149; 

Initiated study in December, 2015 to investigate possible prophylactic and prebiotic benefits &#149; 

South American distribution agreement signed in first quarter of 2015 &#149; 

Shipped $638,000 of product to distributors since commercial launch &#149; 

Analysis completed in October 2015 supports prebiotic effect &#149; 

Field study completed in September 2015 supports beneficial effect of on prewean weight gain &#160; &#149; 

Launch second generation formulation for administration in liquid &#149; 

Commercial launch in South America &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; Species-specific formulations of Neonorm &#160; Horse foals &#160; Supports gut health normalizing fecal formation &#160; &#149; 

Completed proof-of-concept study in November 2015 &#149; 

Soft-launched product in December 2015 &#149; 

Shipped $25,000 of product to distributors since commercial launch &#160; &#149; 

Commercial launch in first quarter of 2016 &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; Other farm/production animals &#160; Supports gut health normalizing fecal formation &#160; &#149; 

Conducted market research in 2015 which was initiated in New Zealand and China in 2014 for global market opportunities &#160; &#149; 

Initiate proof-of-concept studies and partnering discussions based on market research within the next 12 months 

Canalevia is our lead prescription drug product candidate for CID and general watery diarrhea in dogs. Neonorm Calf and Neonorm Foal are our lead non-prescription products to improve gut health and normalize stool formation for preweaned dairy calves with scours, and to promote normal fecal formation and reduce fluid loss in foals, respectively. Both Canalevia and Neonorm are derived from the Croton lechleri tree and act at the same last step in a physiological pathway generally present in mammals. However, they are distinct products based on species-specific formulations of such derivatives and have distinct chemical compositions as well as different levels of purification. Canalevia is a canine-specific formulation of crofelemer, an active pharmaceutical ingredient that is an isolated and purified compound. Neonorm is a formulation of a standardized botanical extract that is less refined than crofelemer and includes other chemical constituents. 

We are developing Canalevia as a prescription drug product and Neonorm as a non-prescription product due to differences between the companion and production animal markets. Companion animal owners generally visit veterinarians, who prescribe a product to treat a disease or condition. We believe the ability to make a disease treatment claim is important in this market, and such a claim is only possible with FDA approval as a prescription product. In contrast, dairy farmers and other production animal owners generally make purchasing decisions based on a product's ability to demonstrate an economic benefit from health endpoints, such as weight gain. 

We are initially pursuing conditional FDA approval for Canalevia for CID in dogs pursuant to MUMS designation, and are conducting studies to broaden the Canalevia label to include acute diarrhea in dogs as a secondary indication. A MUMS designation is a status similar to the orphan drug designation in humans. In the case of major animal species such as dogs, cats and horses, MUMS designations are typically limited to drugs that are used to treat a small number of animals each year. For dogs and cats that number is no more than 70,000 and 120,000 animals, respectively. MUMS designation can potentially expedite the process of product approval and therefore availability to the patient. A sponsor of a MUMS drug can apply for conditional approval, which allows the sponsor to make the drug commercially available before collecting all necessary effectiveness data, but after proving the drug is safe and showing that there is a reasonable expectation of effectiveness. 

We also plan to expand our gastrointestinal product line to other animals by developing species-specific formulations, including formulations of Neonorm for sheep and other farm animals. We are seeking protocol concurrences with the FDA where appropriate. For example, we are planning a trial to develop a formulation of crofelemer for acute diarrhea in cats, and in December 2015 we completed a pilot safety study to evaluate the safety of crofelemer in adult horses, the first step in a planned development program for diarrhea associated with acute colitis. 

A protocol concurrence in animal drug development means that the FDA agrees that the design and analyses proposed in a protocol are acceptable to support regulatory approval of the product candidate with respect to effectiveness of the indication studied and will not change its view of these matters, unless public or animal health concerns arise that were not recognized at the time of concurrence or we change the protocol. We plan to seek concurrence on all major regulatory trials. 

We have licensed intellectual property from Napo to develop prescription drug product candidates for diabetes and metabolic syndrome for dogs, cats and horses, as well as a topical herpes product for cats. Similar to our lead prescription drug product candidate, these products were tested in animals for safety to support their development for use in humans. We recently expanded our gastrointestinal product line to include combinations of our proprietary anti-secretory products derived from Croton lechleri with the non-absorbed antibiotic, rifaximin, a human approved product, for gastrointestinal indications in all animals. We are leveraging the data and knowledge gained during the development of human therapeutics into veterinary applications. 

Business Strategy 

Our goal is to become a leading animal health company with first-in-class products that address unmet medical needs in both the companion and production animal markets, and the horse market. To accomplish this goal, we plan to: 

Leverage our significant gastrointestinal knowledge, experience and intellectual property portfolio to develop a line of Croton lechleri -derived products for production and companion animals, and horses. 

Our management team collectively has more than 100 years of experience in the development of gastrointestinal prescription drug and non-prescription products. This experience covers all aspects of product development, including discovery, preclinical and clinical development and regulatory strategy. 

In addition to our near-term development efforts advancing Canalevia for dogs, Neonorm Calf for preweaned dairy calves, and Neonorm Foal for young horses, we are developing formulations of Canalevia and Neonorm to address the unmet medical need for the treatment of acute diarrhea and to improve gut health and normalize fecal formation across multiple animal species and market channels. The development of a full suite of products to support and improve gastrointestinal health in adult horses is one of our core focus areas. Gastrointestinal conditions such as acute diarrhea, ulcers and diarrhea associated with acute colitis can be extremely debilitating for horses, and present a significant economic and emotional burden for veterinarians and horse owners around the world. Our products are designed with a thorough understanding of not only species-specific health issues, but also market practices, the economics of current treatment strategies, competitive dynamics, government initiatives such as concern for extensive antibiotic usage, and effective channels for new product introductions. Many of our products are being formulated into separate and distinct gastrointestinal products accounting for multiple specific species, markets and regulatory dynamics. 

Establish commercial capabilities, including third-party sales and distribution networks and our own targeted commercial efforts, through the launch of Neonorm Calf and Neonorm Foal. 

In 2014 we launched Neonorm in the United States under the brand name Neonorm Calf, and in December 2015 we conducted the soft launch of Neonorm Foal. We intend to establish a focused direct sales force, initially for the production animal markets, and have hired our first sales representatives. We will direct our sales and marketing efforts on educational activities and outreach to key opinion leaders and decision makers at targeted regional and global accounts and also plan to continue to partner with leading distributors to commercialize our products. We expect that our current and future distribution partners will have the presence, name recognition, reputation and reach in the veterinary markets and in both key urban and rural centers, as appropriate. We believe this overall approach is scalable and transferable as we expand our commercialization efforts to companion animals, as well as when we expand internationally. 

Launch Canalevia and our other product candidates for companion animals, if approved, leveraging the commercial capabilities and brand awareness we are currently building. 

We expect to receive FDA acknowledgment of the completion of all required technical sections in support of conditional approval of Canalevia in 2016 for CID in dogs, leveraging the sales and marketing capabilities established from our launch of Neonorm Calf and Neonorm Foal. As our focus shifts to companion animals and in anticipation of crofelemer development and registration for acute diarrhea in dogs and cats, our direct sales force will also increasingly target high-prescribing veterinarians for companion animals with relevant indications. We believe the third-party sales and distribution networks we establish in connection with our launch of Neonorm Calf and Neonorm Foal will be highly relevant for the companion animal market as well. In addition, while we believe Neonorm Calf and Neonorm Foal address smaller market opportunities than our companion animal product candidates, these are first-in-class products with the same novel mechanism of action as Canalevia. As such, Neonorm Calf and Neonorm Foal provide a scientific and promotional foundation that we believe we can leverage for our companion animal prescription product development and launch events. 

Expand to international markets. 

We intend to leverage our proprietary product development in the United States to international markets, with meaningful partnerships to address international requirements for product development, registration, and access to commercialization in relevant markets for each of our prescription and non-prescription products. As an example, in February 2015 we signed a distribution agreement with Biogenesis Bag&#243;, a large veterinary biotechnology company in Latin America, a region that contained approximately 401 million dairy and beef cattle in 2009 and produces approximately 11% of the world's 

milk supply. The distribution agreement provides Biogenesis Bag&#243; with exclusive distribution rights for Neonorm Calf in Argentina, Brazil, Paraguay, Uruguay, and Bolivia. Further, certain markets, such as high performance horses, have strong international synergies benefiting market awareness and demand. We may also enter into partnerships that include payment of upfront licensing fees for our products and product candidates for markets outside the United States where appropriate. 

Identify market needs that can be readily accessed and develop species-specific products by leveraging our broad intellectual property portfolio, deep pipeline and extensive botanical library. 

In addition to our anti-secretory gastrointestinal product development efforts, we have expanded the depth of our gastrointestinal pipeline product candidates to include combinations of our proprietary anti-secretory products derived from Croton lechleri with the non-absorbed antibiotic, rifaximin, a human approved product, for gastrointestinal indications in all animals. We are also developing products such as Virend for feline herpes and NP-500 for Type II diabetes and metabolic syndrome. Both of these product candidates have been through Phase 2 human clinical testing. In addition, we have exclusive worldwide rights to Napo's library of over 2,300 medicinal plants for veterinary use in all species. We believe we have the product candidates and expertise to address many unmet animal health needs for both companion and production animals. We believe our extensive library of medicinal plants will enable us to develop first-in-class products that address significant health issues and concerns of many markets and geographies. 

Products in Development 

Market Background&#151;Acute Diarrhea 

We believe there is an unmet medical need for the treatment of acute diarrhea. The devastating dehydration that often occurs as a result of acute diarrhea in animals, including dogs, horses and preweaned dairy calves, can manifest quickly, have long-term health implications and result in death. Other than the FDA-approved human formulation of crofelemer, there are currently no approved anti-secretory agents we are aware of that directly address the water loss associated with acute diarrhea. Current treatments for acute diarrhea include oral rehydration solution, or ORS, anti-motility agents, absorbents and antibiotics. However, each of these approaches has known limitations. While ORS replaces the water loss associated with diarrhea, it can often extend the duration and severity of diarrhea. Anti-motility agents work by the mechanism of constipation, or temporarily paralyzing normal intestinal contractions, or peristaltic activity. These agents are contraindicated for chronic use and are therefore inappropriate for certain conditions, such as chronic CID. Anti-motility agents can also cause pain, cramping, and rebound diarrhea. Absorbents simply attempt to absorb the toxin in the gut, often causing additional pain and cramping, and do not directly address the water loss. Antibiotics attempt to treat the infectious agent releasing the toxin, but do not directly address water loss and carry a risk of altering gut flora, which alteration itself can cause diarrhea. Systemic antibiotic usage has also come under increased scrutiny by the FDA due to problems associated with antibiotic resistance. 

We believe that an ideal treatment for acute diarrhea would directly address water loss without causing constipation, affecting normal peristaltic activity or altering normal body absorption of other drugs or normal physiological function of the gut. We believe addressing water loss associated with acute diarrhea will improve the quality of life of dogs and provide attendant benefits to the dog owner, improve the health and productivity of dairy cattle and provide similar health and economic benefits in multiple other species. Our gastrointestinal products and product candidates act by normalizing the flow of ions and water in the intestinal lumen, the dysregulation of which is the last step common to the manifestation of acute diarrhea. As a result, we believe that our products and product candidates may be effective in addressing acute diarrhea, regardless of cause. In addition, the channels that regulate this ion and water flow, including channels known as CFTR and CaCC (the sites of action of our gastrointestinal products), are generally present in mammals. We therefore expect that the clinical benefit shown in humans, preweaned dairy calves, foals, and dogs will be confirmed in multiple other species, including cats and 

adult horses. Accordingly, we believe we can bring to market multiple products among multiple species that are first-in-class and effective in preventing the debilitating and devastating ramifications of acute diarrhea in animals. 

The following diagram illustrates the mechanism of action of our gastrointestinal products, which normalize chloride and water flow and transit time of fluids within the intestinal lumen. 

Canalevia&#151;Chemotherapy-Induced Diarrhea in Dogs 

Overview 

Canalevia is a three day, twice daily formulation of crofelemer that we are developing for the treatment of CID in dogs. Canalevia is enteric coated for targeted release of crofelemer, the active pharmaceutical ingredient, or API, in Canalevia, in the intestine. We have received MUMS designation for Canalevia for the treatment of CID in dogs which provides an opportunity to shorten the timeframe to commercialization. In June 2015 we completed a multi-site pilot safety study involving the anticipated commercial formulation of Canalevia for CID, and in August 2015 we completed submission of all required major technical sections for the NADA for CID to the FDA for phased review. We expect to receive FDA acknowledgment of the completion of all required technical sections in support of conditional approval of Canalevia in 2016 for CID in dogs. Under MUMS designation, we would be required to initiate a pivotal study in the five years following conditional approval to generate the data required for full approval. We expect to meet this requirement with data generated concurrent with our ongoing clinical development program for the expanded indication of acute diarrhea in dogs. Canalevia achieved statistically significant results in a canine proof-of-concept study completed in February 2015, supporting the conclusion that Canalevia treatment is superior to placebo, with 91% of the Canalevia treated dogs achieving a formed stool during the study versus 50% of the placebo-treated dogs. 

Market Opportunity 

We believe there is a significant unmet medical need for the treatment of CID in dogs. There is currently no FDA-approved anti-secretory product that we are aware of to treat CID in dogs. We estimate that there are over 230,000 dogs receiving chemotherapy treatment for cancer each year in the United States, with over 25% suffering from CID. Severe diarrhea is a frequent side effect of the most commonly administered chemotherapy drugs. Similar to the effects in humans, we believe that if left untreated, CID in dogs can result in: 

&#149; fluid and electrolyte losses, which can cause dehydration, electrolyte imbalance and renal insufficiency; &#149; nutritional deficiencies from alteration of gastrointestinal transit and digestion; and &#149; increased risk of infectious complication. 10 

Efficacy of the underlying cancer treatment may also be jeopardized if CID severity requires reductions in the absorption, frequency and/or dosage of chemotherapy. From the dog owner's perspective, there are significant practical implications of CID in dogs that may affect living arrangements, as well as the cost, time and attention required to clean and care for the dog and its surroundings on a daily basis. Veterinarians sometimes prescribe human drugs in an effort to treat CID in dogs, but do not have the benefit of clinical support with respect to efficacy or dosing. In addition, administering a potentially unpalatable human formulation is often difficult and may lead to further uncertainty of the amount actually ingested by the dog. 

Our Solution 

We believe that Canalevia is an ideal treatment for CID in dogs because of its demonstrated novel anti-secretory mechanism of action. Canalevia acts locally in the gut and is minimally absorbed systemically. It does not alter gastrointestinal motility, has no significant effects on normally functioning intestinal ion channels and electrolyte or fluid transport, and has no side effects different from placebo. These features are further augmented by its lack of effects on the absorption and/or metabolism of co-administered chemotherapy drugs, orally or by other routes of administration. Canalevia acts by normalizing the flow of excess ions and water in the intestinal lumen. The flow of excess ions and water into the intestinal lumen is the last step common to the manifestation of acute diarrhea. As a result, we believe Canalevia may be effective in the treatment of acute diarrhea, regardless of cause, including CID. 

Human formulations of crofelemer have been studied and found effective in human patients with various types of watery diarrhea, including traveler's diarrhea, HIV-related diarrhea and other acute infectious diarrheas, including cholera. Crofelemer has been clinically demonstrated to have a safety profile not different from placebo in humans and several animal species, including dogs. 

Clinical Data 

Canalevia is a canine-specific formulation of crofelemer. A human-specific formulation of crofelemer, Fulyzaq, was approved by the FDA in 2012 for the symptomatic relief of noninfectious diarrhea in adults with HIV/AIDS on antiretroviral therapy. A number of clinical studies of crofelemer were conducted by Napo in dogs in support of this approval that included dose toxicity studies. Safety was established by conducting a series of toxicity studies involving a total of 32 dogs six months of age and older. Dosage levels varied within and across the studies: two single dose acute toxicity studies were conducted on four dogs each; two seven-day repeat administration studies were conducted on four dogs each; one 30-day repeat administration study was conducted on four dogs; and one nine-month repeat administration study on eight dogs. The toxicology studies in dogs showed minimal to no adverse effects following dosing up to approximately 50 times the anticipated efficacious dose. The clinical studies previously conducted in dogs also included multiple dose studies. We believe these studies will meet FDA requirements for a pivotal safety package and will support our anticipated dosing of Canalevia in dogs with CID. We expect to conduct safety studies in dogs as young as eight weeks of age to expand the labelled indication of Canalevia to include acute diarrhea. 

In multiple third-party human clinical trials involving approximately 2,400 patients, enteric-coated crofelemer showed statistically significant results relative to placebo in normalizing stool formation and improvements in other endpoints related to treating watery diarrhea. In these trials, the "p" values were statistical calculations to determine whether the effects of crofelemer were significant in comparison to placebo based on pre-specified statistical targets. Depending on the trial design, we specified that any result less than p=0.05 would be significant. In a pivotal trial in support of approval for human use, crofelemer demonstrated significant benefit in the chronic indication of diarrhea in adults with HIV/AIDS on anti-retroviral therapy, achieving highly significant results (p=0.0096) in the primary endpoint measuring frequency of diarrhea. 

In addition to the pivotal trial in HIV/AIDS associated diarrhea, human clinical trials included double-blind, placebo-controlled chronic and acute studies, across different human patient populations, and included safety studies in pediatric patients as young as three months of age. For example, in a 3-day treatment study of approximately 100 adult human patients with acute watery diarrhea of multiple and/or unknown etiologies, crofelemer achieved clinical success in 79% of the patients, compared to 28% receiving placebo (p&#60;0.05). Clinical success was defined as the complete cessation of diarrhea for 12 hours or two consecutive normal stools within 48 hours of first dose. Crofelemer also achieved statistical significance across each of the seven other endpoints measured in that study, including a 96% reduction in watery stools from baseline, compared to 54% for placebo (p&#60;0.05) and an 89% reduction in urgency compared to 43% for placebo (p&#60;0.05). Across the diseases and human patient populations studied to date with crofelemer, there have been no drug related serious adverse events or safety profile different from placebo. 

In June 2015 we completed a pilot safety study involving the anticipated commercial formulation of Canalevia in dogs suffering from CID. The objective of the multi-site study was to determine the safety and tolerability of enteric-coated crofelemer tablets in dogs with CID when administered orally twice daily for six treatments at the recommended dose range of 2-4mg/kg. The eight dogs that participated in the study were enrolled based on current or historical episodes of diarrhea correlating to chemotherapy treatment. The study was a safety assessment as requested by the FDA, and diarrhea or unformed stool consistency was not an eligibility criteria. However, 25% of the dogs entered the study with unformed stools and responded during the treatment with formed or amorphous stools or no stool. None of the remaining dogs progressed to unformed stools. 

Next Steps and Commercialization Plans 

We have received MUMS designation for Canalevia for the treatment of CID in dogs which provides an opportunity to shorten the timeframe to commercialization. We are relying on previously conducted toxicology studies in dogs that were required for FDA approval of the human formulation of crofelemer to provide required safety data. We have established a safety database that we believe meets the qualifications for MUMS designation. We had meetings with the FDA in October and June 2014 to reach agreement on the timing for submissions of the technical sections of an NADA filing. In August 2015 we completed submission of all required major technical sections for the NADA for CID to the FDA for phased review. We expect to receive FDA acknowledgment of the completion of all required technical sections in support of conditional approval of Canalevia in 2016 for CID in dogs. With conditional approval under MUMS designation, we would be required to initiate a pivotal study in the five years following such conditional approval to generate the data required for full FDA approval. We expect to meet this requirement with data generated concurrent with our ongoing clinical development program for the expanded indication of acute diarrhea in dogs. 

We plan to market Canalevia, if conditionally approved by the FDA, through a focused direct sales force and to complement our relationships with distribution partners. 

Canalevia&#151;Expansion to Acute Diarrhea in Dogs 

Overview 

We are also developing Canalevia for acute diarrhea in dogs, regardless of cause. In December 2015 we initiated a pivotal field study to evaluate the safety and effectiveness of Canalevia for the treatment of acute diarrhea in dogs. According to the American Veterinary Medical Association, there were approximately 70.0 million dogs in the United States in 2012. In February 2015 we completed a randomized, blind, multicenter proof-of-concept study of Canalevia in dogs, with statistically significant results. Crofelemer, the API in Canalevia, demonstrated efficacy in numerous human clinical trials of acute watery diarrhea induced by various infectious pathogens, including E. coli , V. cholera and non-specific pathogens ( e.g. , Traveler's). Following oral dosing for two or three days, crofelemer, together with ORS, 

produced significant reduction in watery diarrhea, as demonstrated by the reduction of watery stool passage as well as reduced duration of diarrhea, urgency and dehydration. 

Market Opportunity 

Diarrhea is one of the most common reasons for veterinary office visits for dogs and the second most common reason for visits to the veterinary emergency room, yet there are currently no FDA-approved anti-secretory agents we are aware of to treat the indication. We estimate that veterinarians see approximately six million annual cases of acute and chronic diarrhea in dogs in the United States, approximately two-thirds of which are acute diarrhea. 

Veterinarians typically treat acute diarrhea in dogs with antibiotics, probiotics, dietary restrictions and products approved and formulated for humans, such as Imodium and other anti-motility agents, as well as binding agents that absorb water such as Kaopectate and Pepto-Bismol. None of these treatment options address the water loss associated with acute diarrhea. Further, because none of the human products are FDA approved for animal use, veterinarians do not have the benefit of clinical support with respect to efficacy or dosing. Moreover, administering a potentially unpalatable human formulation is often difficult and may lead to further uncertainty of the amount actually ingested by the dog. 

We believe that Canalevia is an ideal treatment for acute diarrhea in dogs because of its demonstrated novel anti-secretory mechanism of action. If approved for use in acute diarrhea in dogs, we believe Canalevia will be the only FDA-approved anti-secretory agent to treat diarrhea in dogs. 

Clinical Data 

Overview. Canalevia demonstrated a statistically significant clinical response and resolution of diarrhea in a randomized, blind, multicenter study, which assessed the clinical efficacy in alleviating clinical signs associated with watery diarrhea in dogs. The five-month trial was completed in February 2015. This was a proof of concept study with the goal of defining endpoint assessments and statistical analyses to inform a trial design to FDA for a pivotal regulatory dog Canalevia study for the more general watery diarrhea indications. 

Study Protocol. The goal of the study was to investigate the treatment group differences in change from baseline fecal consistency and frequency in dogs with watery diarrhea during a three-day exposure to either Canalevia or placebo. Veterinarians or trained veterinary technicians conducted this blinded, randomized, placebo-controlled, proof-of-concept study over a five-month period using animals obtained through rescue organizations, shelters and from client owners. There were 39 dogs enrolled in the study based on a score of stool formation (described in the chart below). Dogs were enrolled in the trial if they were determined to have a baseline fecal score of 4 or 5. Dogs with bloody diarrhea ( i.e., fecal score of 6) and/or suspicion of parvovirus were excluded. Subsequent to enrollment, the dog was confined and treatment was administered at the beginning of the score confirmation. 

Fecal Scoring Chart&#151;Purina Dog Scale 

Score 

&#160; Description 1 &#160; Well-formed, moist stools 2 &#160; Soft, moist, amorphous 3 &#160; Viscous liquid with some particulate matter 4 &#160; Watery, liquid stool with little particulate matter 5 &#160; Severe watery diarrhea; no particulate matter visible 6 &#160; Hemorrhagic diarrhea 

Dogs were randomly allocated in a 1:1 ratio to one of two treatments. The treatments were Canalevia (crofelemer) ~2 mg/kg BID (actually dosed at 40 mg packet for animals weighing 2 - 20 kg and two 40 mg 

packets for dogs 20 - 40 kg) and placebo. Each dog was treated twice a day for three days so that six doses of test article were received. For the shelters, it was planned that six assessments of fecal scores would be taken per day for each of the three treatment days and one additional follow-up day. For dogs enrolled at clinics, there could be less data because animals can be released after four treatments if the diarrhea had resolved. Treatment was assigned as A and B, but statistical analyses were blinded as to whether the treatment assignments correspond to Canalevia or placebo. 

Fecal scoring endpoints were defined using the chart above. 

Fecal Score Analysis. A total of 39 dogs were analyzed: 23 on Canalevia and 16 on placebo. The mean baseline fecal score in both treatment groups is 4.2. The proportion of dogs with alleviated signs of acute watery diarrhea was analyzed. Resolution of diarrhea was defined as a fecal score of 1 or 2 at any post-baseline time. Dogs that did not have a score of 1 or 2 recorded were considered not resolved. 

Resolution of Diarrhea. Using a definition of diarrhea resolution being a fecal score of 1 or 2 at any post-baseline time, 21 of 23 (91.3%) dogs on Canalevia responded. This contrasts with placebo, where 8 of 16 (50.0%) dogs responded. These response rates support the conclusion that a larger proportion of dogs on Canalevia respond as compared to placebo. The two-sided p-value from Fisher's Exact test is 0.0073. 

Clinical Responder Evaluation. Under the framework of the endpoint definitions, each dog was coded as a responder or nonresponder on each day. As seen in the table below, response in the Canalevia arm is greater than placebo on all days by at least 10%. A responder is a dog who had formed stools with no follow up unformed stool, day by day. 

A Cochran-Mantel-Haenszel test stratified by day provides evidence that the clinical response in Canalevia is greater than placebo (p=0.013). 

Using a Fisher's Exact test a significant difference occurs after the treatment period, on Day 4 (p=0.046). 

Clinical Response by Day 

The protocol for this study is based on our experience and success in previous human and dairy calf studies evaluating Croton lechleri derivatives and their effect on acute diarrhea. Based on the results, we are seeking protocol concurrence from the FDA and anticipate completing the pivotal trial to evaluate the safety and effectiveness of Canalevia for the indication of acute diarrhea in dogs in 2016. In December 2015 we initiated this pivotal trial. The prospective, blinded, randomized, placebo-controlled study will be conducted on an inpatient basis at private veterinary practices, animal shelters and animal rescues across the U.S. A single protocol will be followed at all sites, and enrolled dogs will remain on-site and be individually housed for the duration of the study. The study will enroll at least 150 dogs exhibiting secretory, or watery, diarrhea. Participating dogs will be randomized to receive either Canalevia or a placebo orally twice daily for three days. The study's primary endpoint will be to demonstrate a resolution of diarrhea. The study period will be divided into three 24-hour treatment periods followed by a 24-hour observation period, and fecal assessments will be completed at least six times daily. Study completion testing will include a physical examination, clinical pathology testing and a final fecal assessment. 

Equine Product Candidates 

Jaguar is developing a full suite of products to support and improve gastrointestinal health in foals and adult horses. Gastrointestinal conditions such as acute diarrhea, ulcers and diarrhea associated with acute colitis can be extremely debilitating for horses, and present a significant economic and emotional burden for veterinarians and owners around the world. 

We intend to develop a species-specific formulation of crofelemer to treat diarrhea associated with acute colitis in horses. We believe colitis affects thousands of horses in the United States each year, and in December 2015 we completed a pilot safety study in conjunction with Louisiana State University to evaluate crofelemer in adult horses, the first step in the development program for acute colitis. The study involved three healthy horses treated with three consecutive, three-day cycles of escalating dose levels (up to approximately eight times the proposed dosage in horses) of an oral crofelemer paste. Clinical observations, vital signs, biochemical changes (complete blood count, serum chemistry and urinalysis) and adverse events were evaluated for dose-limiting toxicity after each dose level. The study concluded that dose-limiting toxicities were not observed at any of the three dose levels. 

We are also developing a formulation of a Croton lechleri product for the treatment of ulcers in horses. Ulcers are lesions of the lining of the digestive tract and are very common in horses used for many competitive activities including racing, dressage, show jumping, endurance events, and western performance. Diarrhea is often a coincident problem. We believe that because Croton lechleri -derived products have been shown to act locally in the gut and have traditional use and rodent model benefit for ulcers, this equine formulation of a Croton lechleri -derived product has the potential to address ulcers in horses, as well as diarrhea. Data from the American Horse Council states that there are currently 9.2 million horses in the U.S., a population that includes 844,531 race horses, more than 2.7 million show horses, and more than 3.9 million recreational horses. Data from the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations indicate that there were approximately 5.7 million horses in Europe in 2013 and nearly 60 million horses in 2013 worldwide. We believe that many owners give their horses daily doses of omeprazole and/or sucralfate to treat and prevent ulcers, which practice can cost up to $50 per day. 

In January 2016 we announced positive topline results from the proof-of-concept study we initiated in November 2015 to evaluate the safety and effectiveness of our investigational new animal drug, currently referred to as SB-300 for the treatment of EGUS (DEFINE) in horses. 

In this prospective, blinded, randomized, negative controlled study, Standardbred or Thoroughbred racehorses were randomized to one of three groups (10 horses per group) and treated for 28 days: horses in the placebo group received water-filled syringes every 6 hours; those in the TRT5 group received 5 grams of SB-300 divided into 2 doses per day; and those in the TRT40 group received 40 grams of SB-300 divided into 4 doses per day. Strict enrollment criteria required patients to have both squamous (non-glandular) and glandular gastric ulcerations. All horses were examined by gastroscopy (stomach 

endoscope) by blinded equine investigators on Day 0 (prior to treatment; baseline), and on Day 14 (mid-study), Day 28 (last day of treatment) and Day 35 (7 days after last treatment). Treatment-related adverse events were not observed. 

With respect to glandular ulcerations, a statistically significantly greater number of horses in both the TRT40 (89%) and the TRT5 (78%) group had an improvement or a resolution of glandular ulcerations, compared with the placebo (25%) group as soon as Day 14. By Day 35, all of the SB-300 treated horses had experienced improvement or resolution, whereas 25% of horses in the placebo group still had not improved or resolved during the study. 

With respect to squamous ulcerations, a non-statistically significant dose-dependent effect was observed with 40% and 33% of horses achieving an improvement or a resolution by Day 14 in the TRT40 and TRT5 groups, respectively, compared with 11% of placebo horses. By Day 35, numerically more horses in the TRT40 (60%) and TRT5 (55%) groups had achieved an improvement or a resolution compared with 33% of placebo horses. 

In February 2016 we announced that further analysis of the study results indicates that SB-300 did not alter gastric pH during the trial, or for 7 days after therapy. Gastric pH during therapy was observed to be similar to baseline gastric pH at all measured study time points. Whereas other ulcer treatments (e.g. proton pump inhibitors like omeprazole) rely on a mechanism of action that blocks gastric acid secretion for the treatment and prevention of equine gastric ulcer syndrome (EGUS), our preliminary data indicate that SB-300 may have advantages. Treatments for EGUS that do not alter gastric pH are important because maintaining low gastric pH is essential for digestion, for gut immunity and first line defense against pathogens, for the absorption of vitamins and minerals, and for potentially other downstream effects. 

SB-300 may offer horse owners an additional advantage over omeprazole in the competition horse world, where the requirement exists for equine athletes to compete free from the effect of any drugs. International screening limits for horse racing state that omeprazole has a 72-hour detection time. Detection time is defined as the first observed time point at which urine and/or plasma samples collected from a horse are negative for the presence of a specified drug. Because SB-300 acts locally in the gut and is minimally absorbed, it is unlikely that use of this drug product candidate will present any issues related to detection time. We intend to demonstrate that SB-300 is not systemically absorbed in horses, thereby providing a treatment regimen that can continue without mandatory withdrawal prior to competition. Moreover, we also aim to demonstrate that SB-300 can be administered in the presence of feed, another constraint of omeprazole administration. 

Following the late stage development toward anticipated FDA approval of SB-300, Jaguar plans to focus initial promotional efforts on the segment of the equine market that is most likely to seek treatment for EGUS: owners and caregivers of high-value horses, equine athletes, and horses that are insured. According to the American Veterinary Medical Association, an estimated 9% of horse owners in the U.S. have insurance for the animals. 

The U.S. patent for use of omeprazole to treat equine ulcers expired in 2015. 

Until recently, treatment recommendations for equine ulcers have not differentiated between squamous and glandular disease. However, a series of recent third-party studies indicate considerably lower healing rates for glandular ulcers with standard of care (e.g. omeprazole). Subclinically, these lesions can compromise athletic performance. 

It is clear that development of a natural alternative treatment for EGUS that maintains stomach health without altering stomach pH is desirable. We are planning to initiate a dose determination study in the second quarter of this year to determine the minimum effective dose of SB-300 for the treatment of EGUS and to support development of the optimal commercial formulation. We also plan to initiate a field study for SB-300 later in 2016, timed to take place during horse racing off-season, when race horses are available to participate. 

Our goal is to see SB-300 serve as an important tool in the standard of care of horses with all types of ulcers. Additionally, we believe a significant market exists for a product that treats both gastric and colonic ulcers in horses without altering stomach pH. According to a 2005 study, 54% of performance horses have both colonic and gastric ulcers and 97% of performance horses have either a gastric (87%) or a colonic (63%) ulcer. While we are initially developing SB-300 for the indiction of EGUS, we plan to investigate the possible efficacy of this product candidate for treatment of colonic ulcers as a follow on indication in horses following the anticipated launch of SB-300. 

Crofelemer&#151;Cats 

According to the American Veterinary Medical Association, there were approximately 74.0 million cats in the United States in 2012. We estimate that veterinarians see approximately 2.9 million annual cases of general watery diarrhea in cats. Veterinarians typically treat watery diarrhea in cats with the same treatments used for dogs, namely antibiotics, probiotics, dietary restrictions and products approved and formulated for humans, such as Imodium and other anti-motility agents, as well as binding agents that absorb water such as Kaopectate and Pepto-Bismol. 

We are currently developing a species-specific formulation of crofelemer, Felevia, for cats. We intend to conduct proof-of-concept and pivotal studies in cats in 2016. If data is positive, we anticipate initiating NADA filing in 2017. 

Neonorm Calf&#151;Improve Gut Health in Preweaned Dairy Calves with Scours 

Overview 

This formulation of Neonorm is an enteric-coated tablet designed to be orally administered to preweaned dairy calves twice daily for three days. In our clinical study completed in May 2014, Neonorm demonstrated a statistically significant reduction in morbidity, as well as reduced mortality and improved weight gain as compared to placebo in newborn dairy calves with scours. We recently launched Neonorm for preweaned dairy calves in the United States under the brand name Neonorm Calf. We do not believe that Neonorm Calf fits within the FDA's definition of an animal drug, food or feed additive. Thus, we do not believe that it is regulated by the FDA at this time. The FDA previously regulated a human-specific formulation as a dietary supplement, rather than as a drug. To support the commercial launch, we completed field studies of Neonorm Calf involving approximately 400 preweaned dairy calves in total with Cornell University and in collaboration with our distributor, Animart. 

Scours Market Opportunity 

Scours refers to watery diarrhea in production animals, including dairy calves, which results from infectious agents that cause the secretion of ions and water into the intestinal lumen. Animals with scours may experience severe dehydration and electrolyte imbalance, which can lead to renal insufficiency, nutritional deficiencies, lower production in dairy cattle and even death. Current therapy include fluid and electrolyte replacement, continuous milk feeding, antibiotics (for calves with systemic involvement ( e.g. , fever) with an increased risk of bacteremia), non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug therapy and vaccines. 

According to the USDA, there are approximately 9.2 million lactating dairy cows in the United States. We estimate from USDA sources that there were over 11.0 million dairy calves born in 2013. Dairy cows are continuously bred, both to maintain lactation and to produce dairy calves to maintain the herd. Dairy calves are separated from their mothers shortly after birth and raised on commercial milk replacers until weaned at about 60 days of age. Almost one in four, or 23.9%, of dairy heifer calves had diarrhea or other digestive problems according to the USDA Dairy 2007 study. Scours, diarrhea or other digestive problems are responsible for more than half of all preweaned calf deaths, and result in supportive care and treatment costs, impaired weight gain and long-term reduction in milk production. Of dairy farm 

operations surveyed in the Dairy 2007 study, 62.1% used antibiotics for diarrhea or other digestive problems, including preweaned heifer calves not reporting diseases or disorders. Of preweaned calves that were affected by diarrhea or other digestive problems, almost three-fourths, or 74.5%, were treated with an antibiotic. 

Our Solution 

We believe Neonorm Calf is an ideal solution to improve gut health and normalize stool formation in dairy calves suffering from scours. Neonorm Calf has been formulated and clinically tested to improve gut health by specifically addressing the normalization of stool formation and ion and water flow in the intestinal lumen of newborn dairy calves with scours. Like Canalevia, Neonorm Calf acts locally in the gut and is minimally absorbed systemically. It does not alter gastrointestinal motility, has no significant effects on normally functioning intestinal ion channels and electrolyte or fluid transport, and has no side effects different from placebo. As a result, stool formation is normalized in a short period of time, weight loss is mitigated, supportive care costs and rehydration therapies such as ORS are reduced, and the risk of mortality is minimized. 

Clinical Data 

A challenge clinical study was completed in May 2014 by researchers from Cornell, and published in 2015 in the official journal of the American Dairy Science Association, Journal of Dairy Science . The results of this study suggest that Neonorm Calf can significantly increase the fecal dry matter of neonatal calves with experimentally-induced enterotoxigenic E. coli diarrhea, and suggest a potential benefit of Neonorm Calf in supporting weight gain in calves. 

A further analysis, completed in October 2015, of the above-referenced Cornell study supports a benefit of Neonorm Calf on the optimization of the intestinal microbiome profile in preweaned dairy calves, a potential prebiotic benefit. The microbiome is a community of microorganisms that live normally in the gut and are vital to maintenance of gut health. 

We recently initiated a placebo-controlled study in conjunction with researchers from Cornell to evaluate the efficacy of the prophylactic use of a second-generation formulation of Neonorm Calf administered in liquid on naturally occurring diarrhea in preweaned dairy calves and investigate the possible prebiotic benefit of the product. This double-blinded, randomized study will involve 40 Holstein bull calves affected with naturally occurring diarrhea. This study will generate significant amounts of data that we expect will enlighten the mechanism by which the prophylactic use of the second-generation formulation of Neonorm Calf may support the gut health of preweaned calves herd-wide during naturally occurring diarrhea. Additionally, characterization of the fecal microbiome throughout the preweaning period will allow us to demonstrate that, under natural conditions, the product may positively alter the intestinal microbiome to the benefit of the host. The possible beneficial prebiotic mechanism of Neonorm Calf would supplement and is potentially synergistic with the anti-secretory and weight gain benefits of the product. We expect results from this study to be available in 2016. 

Neonorm Line Extensions 

We believe that due to Neonorm Calf's mechanism of action and our data in preweaned dairy calves, we will be able to develop and commercialize species-specific formulations of Neonorm for the estimated approximately 22.0 million beef calves in the United States, and multiple other animal species, such as horses, goats and sheep. Published sources indicate that approximately 2.4% of beef calves younger than three weeks old suffer from diarrhea. We believe that there is an opportunity to target large-scale commercial livestock operations, first in the United States, and later, internationally. In less developed nations, where not only dairy and beef cattle but also buffalo, goat and sheep provide livelihoods for local populations, reducing losses related to diarrhea can provide significant monetary, social and health 

benefits. Today, these groups are already accessed by distributors with whom we intend to work to extend the reach of Neonorm Calf and line extension products. 

In December 2015 we conducted the soft launch of Neonorm Foal, our lead non-drug product to promote normal fecal formation and reduce fluid loss in foals. We are planning studies of an equine formulation of Neonorm for adult horses with episodic diarrhea. Published studies estimate that there were 9.2 million horses in the United States in 2005. Diarrhea is among the most common clinical complaints in foals. Often, diarrhea occurs in the first 30 days of the foal's life, both from infections and non-infectious causes, such as lactose intolerance and overfeeding. Some cases are severe and life threatening. A majority of foals will exhibit diarrhea at some point within the first two months of life. In adult horses, episodic diarrhea is mostly associated with diseases of the large intestine and damage to the colon or disturbance of colonic function. Typically, diarrhea in horses is treated with fluid replenishment and electrolytes, deworming agents and antibiotics, and intestinal protectants and absorbents, as well as anti-motility agents. To our knowledge there are currently no anti-secretory products approved by the FDA for veterinary use. 

In December 2015 we announced positive results for an exploratory, investigator-initiated follow-up study which assessed the safety and performance of Neonorm Foal, without inclusion of a probiotic, in pre-weaned foals with watery diarrhea. This six-day, multi-site study (ARG102) involved 20 foals suffering from secretory, or watery, diarrhea, all of which were placed into one treatment group. During the treatment period, which lasted 72 hours, Neonorm Foal was administered orally, in paste formulation, twice daily for six treatments. In this study, a non-enteric form of Neonorm Foal was used. The treatment period was followed by a 72-hour observation period. Fecal scoring was conducted every six hours during both the treatment and observation periods. The study took place in Argentina, during the southern hemisphere foaling season. 

In November 2015 we completed an initial proof-of-concept study (NEO101) of Neonorm Foal in Argentina that involved 60 foals. The objective of this earlier, randomized, multi-site, blinded, placebo-controlled study was to evaluate the safety and performance of the product for treatment of foals suffering from secretory diarrhea, and the treated animals received Neonorm Foal in combination with a third-party probiotic. The results of a meta-analysis between the two studies demonstrated a significantly higher percentage of foals with clinical response and resolution of diarrhea for Neonorm Foal, from either ARG102 or NEO101, compared with the placebo group in NEO101. 

During the 72-hour treatment period, 35% of placebo-treated foals in NEO101 were identified as clinical responders, compared with 85% of foals treated with Neonorm Foal in ARG102. For the purposes of both studies, clinical responders were defined as foals that achieved a formed stool by the end of the reported period. 

During the 72-hour treatment period, resolution of diarrhea was observed in 41% of placebo-treated foals in NEO101 compared with 85% of foals treated with Neonorm Foal in ARG102. For the purposes of both studies, resolution of diarrhea was defined as a foal that produced a formed stool at any point during the reported period. 

Other Product Candidates and Development 

We have planned multiple clinical studies over the next 12 to 18 months, to expand Canalevia and Neonorm to additional species. We believe that we will be successful because: 

&#149; we have existing safety and efficacy data for our products and product candidates in dogs, dairy calves and/or humans; &#149; each of these products works through the normalization of ion and water flow into the intestinal lumen; and 19 

&#149; this physiological pathway is generally present in mammals. Additionally, we plan to initiate clinical studies for Virend and NP-500 in 2016 and beyond, both of which have been through Phase 2 human clinical testing by third parties and studies with combinations of rifaximin and Croton lechleri derived products. NP-500 is isolated and purified from a plant indigenous to the southwestern United States, and in traditional medicine, the plant was brewed as a tea and used for the treatment of diabetes and other various illnesses. We are currently developing species-specific formulations of NP-500 to treat obesity-related metabolic dysfunction in dogs, Type II diabetes in cats and metabolic syndrome in horses, and have filed three INADs for these indications. 

According to a 2013 national survey of veterinarians, approximately 17% of dogs in the United States are obese. Studies show that obesity is more common in elderly dogs, as well as in neutered dogs. Obesity-related metabolic dysfunction manifests in altered lipid profiles, insulin resistance and mild hypertension, which could decrease a dog's lifespan. There are currently no FDA-approved products for the treatment of metabolic syndrome or insulin resistance in dogs. In cats, the prevalence of obesity-related diabetes or Type II diabetes is high and increasing. In horses, insulin resistance is associated with an equine metabolic syndrome characterized by obesity, regional adiposity and hypertriglyceridaemia. It is also known to be a risk factor for laminitis. Various studies report the prevalence of insulin resistance as 10% and 28% in horses and ponies, respectively. There are also currently no FDA-approved products for the treatment of metabolic syndrome in horses. 

We anticipate that our development activities will benefit from centralized activities, including shared use of the manufacturing and regulatory documentation for chemistry, manufacturing and controls, or CMC. We also anticipate being able to enter into combined clinical research agreements and activities with companion animal clinical trial sites for dogs and cats. 

Sales and Distribution 

In September 2014, we launched Neonorm for preweaned dairy calves under the brand name Neonorm Calf in the Upper Midwest region, and expanded the launch nationwide in early 2015. In December 2015 we conducted the soft launch of Neonorm Foal, our non-prescription product, to promote normal fecal formation and reduce fluid loss in foals. We expect to launch Canalevia in 2016. We intend to establish a focused direct sales force for both the production and companion animal markets, and we have already hired our first sales representatives for Neonorm Calf. We will focus our sales and marketing efforts on educational activities and outreach to key opinion leaders and decision makers at key regional and global accounts for production animals and high prescriber veterinarians for companion animals. In August 2014, we entered into our first regional distribution agreement for the Upper Midwest region, and in September 2014, entered into an agreement with a national master distributor, who also distributes prescription products for the companion animal market. In February 2015, we entered into a five-year distribution agreement with Biogenesis Bag&#243; for sale and distribution of Neonorm Calf in South America. Biogenesis Bag&#243; is the largest veterinary biotechnology company in Latin America, a region that contained approximately 401 million dairy and beef cattle in 2009 and produces approximately 11% of the world's milk supply. Biogenesis Bag&#243; recently won "Best Animal Health Company in Latin/South America," awarded by a publication called Animal Pharm. Our distribution agreement provides Biogenesis Bag&#243; with exclusive distribution rights for Neonorm Calf in Argentina, Brazil, Paraguay, Uruguay, and Bolivia. Under the terms of the distribution agreement, we can terminate the agreement if Biogenesis Bag&#243; fails to meet annual sales goals for each year of the five-year agreement, and we may revoke exclusivity if Biogenesis Bag&#243; fails to meet guaranteed minimum sales. We also agreed to additional incentive payments if stretch goals are exceeded. 

We plan to partner with other leading distributors to deliver our products to customers both in the United States and internationally, and may also explore entering into partnerships that include payment of upfront licensing fees for our products and product candidates for markets outside the United States 

where appropriate. For example, in March 2015 we entered into a non-binding letter of intent with Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC, pursuant to which we agreed to negotiate a licensing agreement for rights to commercialize our leading prescription drug product candidate, Canalevia, for dogs in the European Union. We expect that our current and future partners will have the presence, name recognition, reputation and reach in the veterinary markets and in both key urban and rural centers, as appropriate. We believe this overall approach is scalable and transferable as we expand our commercialization efforts, as well as when we further expand internationally including to resource-constrained countries where food safety issues are emerging global challenges. 

Manufacturing 

The plant material used to manufacture Canalevia, Neonorm and related products is crude plant latex, or CPL, extracted and purified from Croton lechleri , a widespread and naturally regenerating tree in the rainforest that is managed as part of sustainable harvesting programs. The tree is found in several South American countries and has been the focus of long-term sustainable harvesting research and development work. Our collaborating suppliers obtain CPL and arrange for the shipment of CPL to our third party contract manufacturer. CPL will also be shipped to us for manufacturing after we establish our own API manufacturing capability. 

Our third-party contract manufacturer will process CPL into both crofelemer, the API in Canalevia, and the botanical extract used in both Neonorm Calf and Neonorm Foal. This manufacturing process uses exclusive Napo intellectual property licensed pursuant to the Napo License Agreement. Canalevia will be manufactured by the same process used to manufacture the API that was used in the animal safety studies and the human studies in support of the approval of Fulyzaq. Napo has also licensed this intellectual property to third parties in connection with its licenses related to the development and commercialization of crofelemer for human use. While we believe these third parties have developed their own proprietary manufacturing specifications pursuant to their license agreements, such third-party intellectual property is unknown to us, is not licensed to us pursuant to the Napo License Agreement, and is not part of the intellectual property that we intend to use for the manufacture of API in our licensed field of use. Similarly, the manufacture of Neonorm depends only on technology licensed from Napo. The license grant specifically excludes intellectual property rights developed pursuant to a prior collaboration agreement between Napo and Glenmark Pharmaceuticals, Ltd., or Glenmark, the manufacturer of the API in Fulyzaq. In May 2014 and June 2014, and as amended in February 2015, we entered into binding memorandums of understanding with Indena S.p.A. to negotiate a definitive commercial supply agreement for the manufacture of the API in Canalevia and the botanical extract in Neonorm. We have furnished equipment to Indena S.p.A. for use in a facility that will be dedicated to the manufacture of crofelemer and the botanical extract. 

In December 2015, Indena delivered 360 kilos of the standardized botanical extract to us. We currently own enough of the Neonorm standardized botanical extract to formulate a combination of approximately one million treatments of Neonorm Calf or Neonorm Foal. Indena S.p.A. has agreed to supply us with two pilot lots (approximately 60 kg) of botanical extract, as well as the API in Canalevia (approximately 3 kg) and data to support our anticipated regulatory filings. 

Pursuant to the memorandums of understanding as amended, we agreed to pay Indena S.p.A. the following fees in connection with the establishment of our manufacturing arrangement: 

&#149; a start-up fee equal to &#8364;500,000, payable in two equal installments, both of which were paid in May 2015; &#149; fees associated with the technology transfer and manufacturing process adaptation equal to &#8364;620,000 for API which was paid in May and July 2015; 21 

&#149; fees for the design and set up of a dedicated suite qualified for pharmaceutical and veterinary products equal to &#8364;170,000 which was paid in May 2015; &#149; deliverables fees equal to &#8364;500,000, &#8364;250,000 of which was paid in December 2015, and &#8364;250,000 of which is payable by the end of March 2016, with the understanding that these fees will be credited against payments agreed to under the future commercial supply agreement; and &#149; a &#8364;300,000 bonus fee payable in two equal installments, the first of which was paid in March 2015, with the remainder paid by the end of March 2016. In March 2015, Indena S.p.A. agreed to delay payment of the fees payable by the end of March 2015 until the earlier of April 30, 2015 or the completion of our initial public offering. In July 2015 and December 2015 Indena S.p.A agreed to delay payment of certain fees payable until March 2016. As of December 2015 we owe Indena S.p.A &#8364;400,000 or $440,000 converted at $1.10 per Euro. In June 2014, as contemplated by the memorandums of understanding, we also issued Indena S.p.A. a warrant to acquire 16,666 shares our common stock at an exercise price per share equal to 90% of the initial public offering price, which expires in June 2019. 

In September, 2015 we entered into a distribution agreement with Glenmark Pharmaceuticals Ltd., or Glenmark. With the execution of the agreement, we intend to use Glenmark as our primary manufacturer of crofelemer for animal health use. Our agreement with Glenmark supplements our previously announced manufacturing agreement with Indena S.p.A for the standardized botanical extract in Neonorm Calf and Neonorm Foal. We intend to eventually use Indena as an alternative supplier for crofelemer. 

In October 2015, we announced that we signed a crofelemer formulation development and manufacturing contract with Patheon Pharmaceuticals Inc., or Patheon, a leading global provider of drug development and delivery solutions to the global pharmaceutical and biopharma industries. Under the terms of the contract, Patheon will provide enteric-coated crofelemer tablets for Jaguar for use in animals. The tablets will be used in our pivotal efficacy trial for Canalevia, which began in the fourth quarter of 2015. We expect to use safety and effectiveness data from this trial in support of the initiation of the filing of a NADA with the FDA for Canalevia in 2016 for the indication of acute diarrhea in dogs. 

Patheon is the manufacturer of Fulyzag, a human-specific, enteric-coated formulation of crofelemer that was approved by the FDA in 2012 for the symptomatic relief of noninfectious diarrhea in adults with HIV/AIDS on antiretroviral therapy. Members of our management team developed crofelemer while working at Napo where the drug was initially developed. 

We also plan to enter into agreements with third parties for the formulation of the API and botanical extracts into finished products to be used for planned studies and commercialization. 

The facilities of our third-party contract manufacturers that will manufacture our API and botanical extract, as well as formulate our finished products, comply with cGMP and other relevant manufacturing requirements. 

Competition 

The animal health industry is dominated by large independent companies such as Zoetis Inc., a standalone animal health company that was spun out from Pfizer, Inc. in 2013, as well as subsidiaries of large pharmaceutical companies, including Novartis Animal Health Inc., a subsidiary of Novartis International AG., Merck Animal Health, the animal health division of Merck &#38; Co., Inc., Merial Inc., the animal health division of Sanofi S.A., Elanco Animal Health, the animal health division of Eli Lilly and Company, Bayer Animal Health GmbH, a subsidiary of Bayer AG, and Boehringer Ingelheim Animal Health, the animal health division of Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH. There are also animal health companies based in Europe, including V&#233;toquinol S.A., Virbac S.A., Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC and Ceva Animal Health S.A. 

Additionally, smaller animal health companies, such as Aratana Therapeutics, Inc., Kindred Biosciences, Inc., Phibro Animal Health Corporation, Nexvet Biopharma and Parnell Pharmaceuticals Holdings Ltd, recently completed initial public offerings of their stock in the United States and may choose to develop competitive products. We believe that the large human pharmaceutical companies may also decide to spin out their animal health subsidiaries into standalone companies. 

Although, to our knowledge, there are currently no FDA-approved anti-secretory products to treat acute diarrhea in dogs, we anticipate that Canalevia, if approved, will face competition from various products, including products approved for use in humans that are used extra-label in animals. We are aware that veterinarians typically treat acute diarrhea in dogs with antibiotics, probiotics, dietary restrictions and products approved and formulated for humans, such as Imodium and other anti-motility agents, as well as binding agents that absorb water, such as Kaopectate and Pepto-Bismol. None of these treatment options address the water loss associated with acute diarrhea. We are not aware of any veterinarians prescribing Fulyzaq extra-label for use in dogs, and the indication of Fulyzaq is for a disease that does not occur in dogs. Further, because none of the human products are FDA approved for animal use, veterinarians, although allowed to dispense human products for animal use, do not have the benefit of clinical support with respect to efficacy or dosing. Moreover, administering a potentially unpalatable human formulation is often difficult and may lead to further uncertainty of the amount actually ingested by the dog. However, this practice may continue and Canalevia may face competition from these products. Canalevia could also potentially face competition from Fulyzaq were veterinarians to prescribe it extra-label. Extra-label use is the use of an approved drug outside of its cleared or approved indications in the animal context. All of our potential products could also face competition from new products in development. These and other potential competing products may benefit from greater brand recognition and brand loyalty than our products and product candidates may achieve. 

Intellectual Property 

Napo License Agreement 

In January 2014, we entered into the Napo License Agreement, which we amended and restated in August 2014 and further amended in January 2015, pursuant to which we acquired an exclusive, sublicensable, transferable, worldwide license to certain intellectual property rights of Napo and its affiliates to research, develop, formulate, make, have made, use, have used, market, offer for sale, sell, have sold, and import, and to otherwise exploit products of Napo and its other affiliates for all veterinary treatment uses and indications for all species of animals. The license grant specifically excludes intellectual property rights developed pursuant to a prior collaboration agreement between Napo and Glenmark Pharmaceuticals, Ltd., the manufacturer of the API in Fulyzaq. Under the Napo License Agreement, Napo also assigned to us certain raw materials and equipment and granted us a right of reference to the entirety of the information included in the human approved new drug application of crofelemer. 

Under the terms of the Napo License Agreement, we are responsible for, and shall ensure, the development and commercialization of products that contain or are derived from the licensed Napo technology (collectively referred to herein as the Products) worldwide in the field of veterinary treatment uses and indications for all species of animals. 

In consideration for the license, we are obligated to pay a one-time non-refundable license fee of $1.75 million, less the option fee of $100,000 paid in July 2013 pursuant to a term sheet we signed with Napo. We paid $25,000 to Napo towards the license fee in December 2014 and in January 2015, agreed 

that the remaining license fee payment will be paid in cash, or, if mutually agreed with Napo, in shares of our common stock according to the following schedule: 

Payment Date 

&#160; License Fee Amount &#160; Amendment Date &#160; $ 25,000 &#160; March 31, 2015 &#160; $ 25,000 &#160; June 30, 2015 &#160; $ 150,000 &#160; September 30, 2015 &#160; $ 500,000 &#160; December 31, 2015 &#160; $ 500,000 &#160; March 31, 2016 &#160; $ 425,000 &#160; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; Total &#160; $ 1,625,000 &#160; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; &#8203; 

In 2015, we paid $1.2 million in accordance with the agreement and owe $425,000 as of December 31, 2015. 

Pursuant to the Napo License Agreement,, we will owe Napo a 2% royalty on annual net sales of all Products that are prescription drugs (such as Canalevia and any line extensions) approved by the FDA or the equivalent regulatory agency in another country, and a 1% royalty of annual net sales of non-prescription products (such as Neonorm and any line extensions) that do not require pre-marketing approval from the FDA or the equivalent regulatory agency in another country. Upon agreement with Napo, we may elect to remit any milestone payments and/or royalties in the form of our common stock. 

The royalty term expires on a country-by-country and Product-by-Product basis on the later of: (i) 10 years from the first sale of a Product in such country, on an animal by animal basis; and (ii) the first date on which there is no longer (A) a valid claim within the licensed patent rights covering the use, manufacture or sale of such Product, or (B) any data exclusivity with respect to such Product in such country conferred by the applicable regulatory authority, and in each case of (A) and (B), a competitive product has been introduced into the market in such country. The royalties payable to Napo are subject to reduction, capped at a specified percentage, for any third-party payments made to obtain a license or other rights to issued patents that might present a commercial obstacle to the development, manufacture, use, or sale of a Product in a country. Additionally, if the royalty term for a Product is ongoing post-expiration of the last valid claim within the licensed patent rights that covers such product in any given country, then the royalties we owe Napo will be reduced by a specified percentage until expiration of the royalty term for such Product in such country. Upon the expiration of each royalty term, on a country-by-country and Product-by-Product basis, the license grants shall be fully paid up and we will have perpetual non-exclusive licenses for such Products in such countries. At any time during the term of the agreement, if Napo sells all of its assets relating to the use, production or exploitation of Croton lechleri derivative products to a third party, all of the rights granted to us relating to Croton lechleri derivative products under the license shall become exclusive in the field of veterinary treatment uses and indications for all species of animals, perpetual, fully paid-up, royalty-free and irrevocable, with the right to grant sublicenses. 

Under the terms of the Napo License Agreement, we own all rights, title and interest in our intellectual property and any joint intellectual property developed under the license. We granted Napo a non-exclusive, paid-up, irrevocable worldwide license to our intellectual property developed under the Napo License Agreement for use outside the veterinary field, and an exclusive, paid-up worldwide license to any joint intellectual property developed under the Napo License Agreement outside the veterinary field. We agreed to defend, indemnify and hold Napo, its affiliates, and its officers, directors, employees, consultants and contractors harmless from and against any losses, costs, damages, liabilities, fees and expenses arising out of any third-party claim related to our gross negligence or willful misconduct, breach of our representations, warranties or covenants or the manufacture, sale or use of the Product or Products, in each case, unless such third-party claim is subject to indemnification by Napo. Napo agreed to defend, 

indemnify and hold us, our affiliates, and our officers, directors, employees, consultants and contractors harmless from and against any losses, costs, damages, liabilities, fees and expenses arising out of any third-party claim related to Napo's, its affiliate's or its licensees' (except for us) gross negligence or willful misconduct, or Napo's breach of its representations, warranties or covenants. 

We may terminate the Napo License Agreement upon Napo's uncured material breach, bankruptcy or at will after certain notification periods. Napo may terminate the Napo License Agreement upon our uncured material breach or bankruptcy after certain notification periods. 

Jaguar and Napo are also engaged in preliminary exploratory discussions to review a potential merger and/or other ways to cooperate with their respective business endeavors. 

Patent Portfolio 

Under the Napo License Agreement, we have exclusive rights in the veterinary field to an international patent family related to International Patent Application WO1998/16111. The patents and patent applications in this family are directed to enteric protected formulations of proanthocyanidin polymers isolated from Croton spp or Calophyllum spp. (such as crofelemer and Neonorm), and methods of treating watery diarrhea using the enteric protected formulations for both human and veterinary uses. As such, the patents and patent applications of this family cover certain formulations of crofelemer, including Canalevia, as well as the standardized botanical extract in Neonorm, and methods of treating diarrhea using these formulations. There are three U.S. patents and a pending U.S. patent application in this family, including, US 7,323,195, which has a term until at least June 7, 2018, US 7,341,744, which has a term until at least January 11, 2018, and US 8,574,634, which has a term until at least January 11, 2018. The term of one of US 7,323,195 or US 7,341,744 may be extended to June 2021 and December 2020, respectively, to account for regulatory delay in obtaining human marketing approval for crofelemer (such potential extensions have been filed for and only one of the patents can be extended). Patent protection for enteric protected formulations of crofelemer and methods of use has also been obtained outside the United States, including in Europe, Australia, Canada, India, Japan, Korea, Mexico, New Zealand and Taiwan, with terms extending until at least October 14, 2017 in these jurisdictions. In particular, European patent EP 0 935 417 and Japanese patent no. 4195728 provide protection for enteric protected formulations of crofelemer and the standardized botanical extract in Neonorm in Europe and Japan, respectively, with terms that extend until at least October 14, 2017. 

The patents and patent applications we licensed from Napo, or the Napo Patents, are also licensed by Napo to Salix Pharmaceuticals, Inc., or Salix, for certain fields of human use. Under the terms of the collaboration agreement between Salix and Napo, or the Salix Collaboration Agreement, Napo and Salix have agreed on who has the first right and responsibility to file, prosecute and maintain the Napo Patents. As a result, under the Napo License Agreement, we only have the right to maintain any issued patents within the Napo Patents that are not maintained in accordance with the rights and responsibilities of the parties under the Salix Collaboration Agreement. US 7,323,195; US 7,341,744; and US 8,574,634 are issued Napo Patents. Salix has licensed rights only to human use in certain territories and for certain indications, and currently markets crofelemer (Fulyzaq) for human use and has listed US 7,323,195; US 7,341,744; and US 8,574,634 (along with US 8,962,680, covering treatment of diarrhea in HIV positive subjects) in the FDA's Orange Book for Fulyzaq. We rely on these issued Napo Patents as intellectual property protection for our veterinary prescription drug product candidates and non-drug products. Pending patent applications within Napo Patents either may not be relevant to veterinary indications and/or may not issue as patents. Similarly, under the Salix Collaboration Agreement, Napo and Salix agreed on who has the first right to enforce the Napo Patents against potential infringers, even in our field of use. In addition, as between Napo and us, Napo has the first right to enforce the Napo Patents against potential infringers. If we are not the party who enforces the Napo Patents, we will receive no proceeds from such enforcement action. In each case, such proceeds are subject to reimbursement of costs and expenses incurred by the other party in connection with such action. 

We have filed and have currently pending three applications under the PCT, one U.S. non-provisional patent application and eight provisional patent applications relating to veterinary uses of Croton proanthocyanidin polymer compositions, including crofelemer, Neonorm and Canalevia, and product combinations under development. These applications are directed to treatment of watery diarrhea in newborn and young animals, including methods of improving mortality and weight gain in newborn animals, treatment of stress-induced diarrhea in animals, and treatment of watery diarrhea caused by salmonella in animals. These applications also focus on the treatment of diarrhea in companion animals such as dogs and cats. In addition, an application has been submitted for the treatment of ulcers and related symptoms in animals with an emphasis on ulcers in horses. An application has also been filed on a surprising prebiotic effect of crofelemer in bovine and other animal species based on unexpected research findings that indicate a prebiotic enhancement of the gut bacteria in animals. One other patent application has been filed combining crofelemer with rifaximin, a non-absorbed antibiotic for the treatment of bacteria induced diarrhea in multiple animal species. Patents that may issue based upon applications filed claiming benefit of these provisional patent applications should have terms that extend until at least May 2035. 

In October 2015 we announced that the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO) issued Notices of Allowance in two pending patent applications, one of which has issued a U.S. patent, licensed exclusively from Napo to Jaguar for veterinary use, covering NP-500 and its use. NP-500 is the API in Jaguar's drug product candidates to treat and manage diseases related to insulin-resistance, such as obesity-related metabolic dysfunction in dogs and cats, diabetes mellitus, and potentially equine laminitis. The two NP-500 pending patent applications claim benefit to a provisional application submitted to the USPTO by Napo in April 2011. Per the terms of the license agreement between Napo and us, we have an exclusive license to these intellectual property for all veterinary treatment uses and indications for all species of animals except humans. 

Trademarks 

We plan to market our products under a trademark or trademarks we select and we will own all rights, title and interest, including all goodwill, associated with such trademarks. 

Government Regulation 

The development, approval and sale of animal health products are governed by the laws and regulations of each country in which we intend to seek approval, where necessary, to market and subsequently sell our prescription drug and non-drug products. To comply with these regulatory requirements, we are establishing processes and resources to provide oversight of the development, approval processes and launch of our products and to position those products in order to gain market share in each respective market. 

United States 

Certain federal regulatory agencies are charged with oversight and regulatory authority of animal health products in the United States. These agencies, depending on the product and its intended use may include the FDA, the USDA and the Environmental Protection Agency. In addition, the Drug Enforcement Administration regulates animal therapeutics that are classified as controlled substances. In addition, the Federal Trade Commission may in the case of non-drug products, regulate the marketing and advertising claims being made. 

The approval of prescription drugs intended for animal use is regulated by the FDA's Center for Veterinary Medicine, or CVM. The CVM consists of six offices that work together to, in part, approve new drugs for commercialization and thereafter monitor those commercialized drugs once in the market. The Office of New Animal Drug Evaluation, or ONADE, is the lead office for reviewing novel drug candidates. We, as the sponsor of a novel drug candidate, commence the development and approval process by 

initiating communication with the ONADE and opening an INAD file. As part of this process, we will also schedule a discussion of the novel drug's development plan in order to obtain agreement from the CVM for the number, type and design of studies needed to obtain FDA approval of the novel drug. 

As required by the FDA, new animal drug products must obtain marketing approval through the NADA process. Under the Administrative New Animal Drug Application, or Administrative NADA, process, a sponsor can engage in a phased submission of the required technical sections of an NADA, known as a rolling NADA, as opposed to submitting the entire application at once with a standard NADA. The requirements for all NADAs are the same regardless of whether a sponsor chooses the rolling NADA or the standard NADA submission. Under the phased review, once all technical sections have been submitted and reviewed, the sponsor submits an Administrative NADA to reflect that all technical sections of the NADA have been submitted and reviewed, each such technical section meets the requirements for approval and the CVM has issued technical section complete letters for each technical section. The phased review and Administrative NADA allow a drug sponsor to engage with the FDA as to each technical section to ensure that each section meets all requirements prior to submission of the application for approval. Phasing of NADA submissions is a voluntary process. 

Once the tasks set forth in the development plan have been completed, including the clinical work as well as the chemistry and manufacturing work (feasibility, validation and stability of the drug inclusive), we, as the novel drug sponsor will need to provide to the FDA through the application process, information as to the safety and efficacy of the drug candidate, and, if needed, human food safety studies. These food safety studies are only required for drugs intended for use in production animals, and we currently have no plans to develop drugs for production animals. Additionally, the application will contain a module on CMC, which describes the plan for manufacturing the drug including the API, the final formulation, where it will be made, how it will be made, how the drug will be packaged, how it can be stored, the conditions required for storage and how long it can be stored before expiry. A major part of the CMC section is the analysis we employ to ensure that the manufactured drug is of a high quality, is consistently manufactured under cGMP and is stable. Other significant components to the application we have to complete before receiving drug approval includes a draft label that will list specific information such as dosing information, intended use, warnings, directions for use, and other information as required by the regulations. The package insert that will contain information on studies, warnings, drug interactions, intended use and dosing is considered part of the label in addition to that which is adhering to the container itself. The CVM ensures that the labeling provides all the necessary information to use the drug safely and effectively, and that it clearly discloses the risks associated with the drug. 

MUMS Designation 

The Minor Use and Minor Species Animal Health Act, or MUMS Act, became effective in August 2004. The purpose of the MUMS Act was twofold: first, to encourage the development and availability of more animal drugs that are intended to be used in a major species defined as dogs, cats, cattle, horses, chickens, turkeys and pigs to treat diseases which occur infrequently or in limited geographic areas, therefore having an impact on a smaller number of animals on a yearly basis; and second, to encourage the development and availability of animal drugs for use in minor species (defined as all animals other than humans that are not one of the major species). The drug sponsor may seek conditional approval of the drug product provided the Office of Minor Use Minor Species, or "OMUMS" acknowledges that the intended use fits within a small number of animals treated per annum. A drug does not have to be designated to be eligible for conditional approval, however if OMUMS designates a MUMS drug, certain incentives and exclusivities are available to the sponsor. The MUMS designation is modeled on the orphan drug designation for human drug development and has certain financial incentives available to encourage MUMS drug development such as the availability of grants to help with the cost of the MUMS drug development. Also, drug developers of MUMS drugs are eligible to apply for a waiver of the user fees once the MUMS designation has been given by OMUMS. We believe that we qualify for MUMS designation for 

Canalevia as a minor use in a major species because the estimated total number of dogs in the United States affected by CID is less than 70,000. To obtain conditional approval of a MUMS drug, the company must submit CMC and safety data similar to that required for an NADA, as well as data suggesting a reasonable expectation of effectiveness. After the submission and the review of the application, the FDA through the CVM can then grant a conditional approval (CA-1). This approval allows for a commercialization of the product, while the sponsor continues to collect the substantial evidence of effectiveness required for a full NADA approval. The sponsor has up to five years to demonstrate substantial evidence of effectiveness for a previously conditionally approved drug. Ideally, MUMS designation helps move the product forward in development; however it may not shorten the time to full commercialization. A sponsor that gains approval or conditional approval for a MUMS designated drug receives seven years of marketing exclusivity. 

Protocol Concurrence 

We pursued protocol concurrence from the FDA for the pivotal trial of Canalevia that we initiated in December 2015 for acute diarrhea in dogs, and plan to pursue protocol concurrences from the FDA for future pivotal trials in this and other indications. Under this process, a protocol is submitted to the FDA voluntarily by a drug sponsor. The FDA review of the protocol for a pivotal study makes it more likely that the study will generate information the sponsor needs to demonstrate whether the drug is safe and effective for its intended use. It creates an expectation by the sponsor that the FDA will not later alter its perspectives on these issues unless public or animal health concerns appear that were not recognized at the time of protocol assessment. Even if FDA issues a protocol concurrence, ultimate approval of an NADA by the FDA is not guaranteed because a final determination that the agreed-upon protocol satisfies a specific objective, such as the demonstration of efficacy, or supports an approval decision, will be based on a complete review of all the data submitted to the FDA. Even if we were to obtain protocol concurrence, such concurrence does not guarantee that the results of the study will support a particular finding or approval of the new drug. 

Marketing Exclusivity 

We are currently planning on seeking MUMS designation for some of our prescription drug products and if we receive such a designation, we will be entitled to a seven-year marketing exclusivity, which means that we will face no competition from another sponsor marketing the same drug in the same dosage form for the same intended use. If we were to lose such designation or not receive such designation but our application as a new animal drug is found to be a new chemical entity that meets the criteria described by the FDA, we would be entitled to a five-year marketing exclusivity. In order to receive this five-year exclusivity, the FDA would have to find in its approval of our application that our NADA contains an API not previously approved in another application, that the application itself is an original application, not a supplemental application, and that our application included the following studies: one or more investigations to demonstrate substantial evidence of effectiveness of the drug for which we are seeking approval; animal safety studies and human food safety studies (where applicable). If the NADA is seeking approval of a drug for which we have received conditional approval, we, upon approval would still be entitled to a five-year marketing exclusivity provided it meets the criteria as set forth above. If however, our NADA is for a drug for which the FDA has determined that the drug contains an API that has previously been approved, regardless of whether the original approval was for use in humans or not, we may only be entitled to a three-year marketing exclusivity provided that the NADA is an original, not supplemental, application and contains both safety and efficacy studies demonstrating the safety and efficacy of the drug which is the subject of the application. 

European Union 

The European Union, or EU, definition of a veterinary medicinal product closely matches the definition of an animal drug in the United States. In the EU, a company can market a veterinary medicinal product only after a marketing authorization has been issued by an EU member state, ( i.e. , approval on a country-by-country basis) or by the EU Commission through the European Medicines Agency, or the EMA. Before the EU member state or the EU Commission issues marketing authorization, we must submit a marketing authorization application, known as the dossier. The dossier includes data from studies showing the product's quality, safety, and efficacy and is similar to an NADA filed with the FDA. 

For an animal drug, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Veterinary Use, or CVMP, is responsible for the scientific evaluation. Experts from all EU member states are on the CVMP. The Rapporteur, or lead reviewer on the dossier, prepares an overview of the committee's scientific evaluation, called the CVMP Assessment Report. 

The CVMP Assessment Report: 

&#149; summarizes the data submitted by the company on the product's quality, safety, and efficacy; &#149; explains the assessment done by the CVMP to support the committee's recommendation to the EU Commission to issue a marketing authorization; and &#149; is the basis for the European Public Assessment Report published on the EMA's website. Labeling 

The FDA plays a significant role in regulating the labeling, advertising and promotion of animal drugs. This is also true of regulatory agencies in the EU and other territories. In addition, advertising and promotion of animal health products is controlled by regulations in many countries. These rules generally restrict advertising and promotion to those claims and uses that have been reviewed and approved by the applicable agency. We will conduct a review of advertising and promotional material for compliance with the local and regional requirements in the markets where we eventually may sell our product candidates. 

Our non-prescription products will be labeled in accordance with the health guidelines outlined by the National Animal Supplements Council, an industry organization that sets industry standards for certain non-prescription animal products, including but not limited to product labeling. 

Other Regulatory Considerations 

We believe regulatory rules relating to human food safety, food additives, or drug residues in food will not apply to the products we currently are developing because our prescription drug product candidates are not intended for use in production animals, with the exception of horses, which qualify as food animals in Europe and Canada; and our non-prescription products are not regulated by section 201(g) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, which the FDA is authorized to administer. 

Our prescription drug product candidates currently in development, if approved, may eventually face generic competition in the United States and in the EU after the period of exclusivity has expired. In the United States, a generic animal drug may be approved pursuant to an abbreviated new animal drug application, or ANADA. With an ANADA, a generic applicant is not subject to the submission of new clinical and safety data but instead must only show that the proposed generic product is a copy of the novel drug product, and bioequivalent to the approved novel product. However, if our product candidates are the first approved by the FDA or the EMA as applicable for use in animals, they will be eligible for a five-year marketing exclusivity in the United States and 10 years in the EU thereby prohibiting generic entry into the market. If the product has MUMS designation it has a seven-year marketing exclusivity. 

We do not believe that our non-prescription products are currently subject to regulation in the United States. The FDA's Center for Veterinary Medicine only regulates those animal supplements that fall within the FDA's definition of an animal drug, food or feed additive. The Federal Food Drug and Cosmetic Act defines food as "articles used for food or drink for man or other animals and articles used as components of any such article." Animal foods are not subject to pre-market approval and are designed to provide a nutritive purpose to the animals that receive them. Feed additives are defined as those articles that are added to an animal's feed or water as illustrated by the guidance documents. Our non-prescription products are not added to food, are not ingredients in food nor are they added to any animal's drinking water. Therefore, our non-prescription products do not fall within the definition of a food or feed additive. The FDA seeks to regulate such supplements as food or food additives depending on the intended use of the product. The intended use is demonstrated by how the article is included in a food, or added to the animals' intake ( i.e., through its drinking water). If the intended use of the product does not fall within the proscribed use making the product a food, it cannot be regulated as a food. There is no intent to make our non-prescription products a component of an animal food, either directly or indirectly. A feed additive is a product that is added to a feed for any reason including the top dressing of an already prepared feed. Some additives, such as certain forage, are deemed to be Generally Recognized as Safe, or GRAS, and therefore, not subject to a feed Additive Petition approval prior to use. However, the substances deemed GRAS are generally those that are recognized as providing nutrients as a food does. We do not believe that our non-prescription products fit within this framework either. Finally, a new animal drug refers to drugs intended for use in the diagnosis, cure, mitigation, treatment, or prevention of disease in animals. Our non-prescription products are not intended to diagnose, cure, mitigate, treat or prevent disease and therefore, do not fit within the definition of an animal drug. Our non-prescription products are intended to support a healthy gut and normalize stool formation in animals suffering from scours. Additionally, because a previously marketed human formulation of the botanical extract in our non-prescription products was considered a dietary supplement subject to the Dietary Supplement Health and Education Act of 1994 (and not regulated as a drug by the FDA), we do not believe that the FDA would regulate the animal formulation used in our non-prescription products in a different manner. We do not believe that our non-prescription products fit the definition of an animal drug, food or food additive and therefore are not regulated by the FDA at this time. 

In addition to the foregoing, we may be subject to state, federal and foreign healthcare and/or veterinary medicine laws, including but not limited to anti-kickback laws, as we may from time to time enter consulting and other financial arrangements with veterinarians, who may prescribe or recommend our products. If our financial relationships with veterinarians are found to be in violation of such laws that apply to us, we may be subject to penalties. 

Employees 

As of March 1, 2016, we had 24 employees. Of our employees, seven hold D.V.M. or Ph.D. degrees and ten of our employees are engaged in research and development activities. None of our employees are represented by labor unions or covered by collective bargaining agreements. 

Description of Properties 

Our corporate headquarters are located in San Francisco, California, where we sublease 6,008 rentable square feet of office space from SeeChange Health Management Company, Inc. Our sublease agreement expires on August 31, 2018. We believe that our existing facilities are adequate for our near-term needs. We believe that suitable additional or alternative space would be available if required in the future on commercially reasonable terms if we are not able to convert our current sublease to a lease by August 31, 2018 on commercially reasonable terms. 

