 ITEM 1. BUSINESS. 

&#160; 

Overview and History &#160; 

BG Staffing, Inc. (&#8220;BG Staffing&#8221;, &#8220;we&#8221;, or the &#8220;Company&#8221;) is a leading national provider of temporary staffing services that operates, along with its wholly owned subsidiaries BG Staffing, LLC, B G Staff Services, Inc., BG Personnel, LP, and BG Finance and Accounting, Inc., within the U.S. in three industry segments: Commercial, Multifamily, and Professional. We provide temporary workers to a variety of customers that are seeking to match their workforce requirements to their business needs. Our customers operate across a diverse set of industries. 

We employ a diverse operating model, both from a skill set and a geographic standpoint, which we believe mitigates revenue risk. 

Our temporary staffing services consist of on-demand or short-term staffing assignments, contract staffing, and on-site management administration. Short-term staffing services assist employers in dealing with employee demands caused by such factors as seasonality, fluctuations in customer demand, vacations, illnesses, parental leave, and special projects without incurring the ongoing expense and administrative responsibilities associated with recruiting, hiring and retaining permanent employees. As more and more companies focus on effectively managing variable costs and reducing fixed overhead, the use of short-term staffing services allows companies to utilize the &#8220;just-in-time&#8221; approach for their personnel needs, thereby converting a portion of their fixed personnel costs to a variable expense. 

Our contract staffing services place temporary employees with customers for time-periods of more than three months or for an indefinite time period. This type of arrangement often involves outsourcing an entire department in a large corporation or providing the workforce for a large project. 

In an on-site management arrangement, we place an experienced manager on-site at a customer&#8217;s place of business. The manager is responsible for conducting all recruiting, employee screening, interviewing, drug testing, hiring and employee placement functions at the customer&#8217;s facility for a long-term or indefinite period. 

Management believes that the staffing industry and the employees performing these temporary staffing functions are, and will remain, an integral part of the labor market in local, regional and national economies in which we operate. 

BG Staffing, Inc. is the successor by conversion to LTN Staffing, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company that was formed on August 27, 2007. LTN Staffing, LLC converted into a Delaware corporation, BG Staffing, Inc., following the merger of LTN Acquisition, LLC (the former parent of LTN Staffing, LLC) with and into LTN Staffing, LLC. The conversion was completed on November 3, 2013. 

We commenced operations on October 17, 2007 and since 2009 new leadership has led an on-going growth and diversification initiative. Since 2010, we have acquired and successfully integrated seven businesses: 

&#8226; 

In June 2010, we purchased the interests of BG Personnel Services, LP and BG Personnel, LP, and purchased the common stock of B G Staff Services, Inc. Shortly after the purchase, we relocated our corporate headquarters to Dallas, Texas. In 2011, we began doing business as BG Staffing. 

&#8226; 

In December 2010, we purchased substantially all of the assets of JNA Staffing Inc., which specialized in providing temporary staffing services within the state of Wisconsin. These operations were rolled into our existing operations in Milwaukee, Wisconsin. 

&#8226; 

In December 2011, we purchased substantially all of the assets of Extrinsic, LLC, which specialized in providing information technology staffing services to customers within the U.S. We continue to operate under the Extrinsic trade name. 

&#8226; 

In December 2012, we acquired substantially all of the assets of American Partners, Inc., which specialized in providing information technology staffing services to customers within the U.S. We continue to operate under the American Partners trade name. 

&#8226; 

In June 2013, we acquired substantially all of the assets of InStaff Holding Corporation and InStaff Personnel, LLC, a wholly owned subsidiary of InStaff Holding Corporation (collectively, &#8220;InStaff&#8221;). This acquisition has allowed us to strengthen and expand our operations in our Commercial segment. We continue to operate under the InStaff trade name. 

&#8226; 

In March 2015, we acquired substantially all of the assets of D&#38;W Talent, LLC ("D&#38;W"), which specialized in providing temporary and full-time staffing services of accounting and finance personnel and secretarial and administrative personnel to customers in Texas and Louisiana. We continue to operate under the Donovan &#38; Watkins trade name. 

&#8226; 

In October 2015, we acquired substantially all of the assets and assumed certain liabilities of Vision Technology Services, Inc., Vision Technology Services, LLC, and VTS-VM, LLC (collectively, &#8220;VTS&#8221;), which provided information technology ("IT") temporary staffing talent and project management services. We continue to operate under the Vision Technology Services trade name. 

We have 36 branch offices and 16 on-site locations in 16 states within the U.S. We do not currently have any foreign operations. 

Our Industry 

The temporary staffing industry supplies temporary staffing services to customers to help them minimize the cost and effort of workforce planning. These services also enable the customer to rapidly respond to changes in business conditions, and in some cases to convert fixed labor costs to variable costs. Temporary staffing companies act as intermediaries in matching available temporary workers to customer assignments. The demand for a flexible workforce continues to grow with competitive and economic pressures to reduce costs and respond to changing market conditions. 

The temporary staffing market is subject to volatility based on overall economic conditions. Historically, in periods of economic growth, the number of companies providing temporary staffing services has increased due to low barriers to entry. During recessionary periods, the number of companies has decreased through consolidation, bankruptcies, or other events. The temporary staffing industry is experiencing increased demand in relation to total job growth as customers have placed a greater priority on maintaining a more flexible workforce. 

The temporary staffing industry is large and highly fragmented with many competing companies. Staffing companies compete both to recruit and retain a supply of temporary workers and to attract and retain customers to use these workers. Customer demand for temporary staffing services is dependent on the overall strength of the labor market and trends toward greater workforce flexibility. The temporary staffing industry includes a number of markets focusing on business needs that vary widely in duration of assignment and level of technical specialization. 

Our Operations 

We have diversified our operations to provide temporary workers within distinct segments of the industry. We refer to these segments as Commercial, Multifamily and Professional. 

We operate branches within each segment as separate profit centers and provide managers considerable operational autonomy and financial incentives. Managers focus on business opportunities within their geographical markets and are provided centralized support to achieve success in those markets. We believe this structure allows us to recruit and retain highly motivated managers who have demonstrated the ability to succeed in a competitive environment. This structure also allows managers and staff to focus on market development while relying on centralized services for support in back-office operations, such as risk management programs and unemployment insurance, credit, collections, accounting, advice on legal and regulatory matters, and quality standards. 

Our Segments 

Our operations are organized into three business segments: Commercial, Multifamily, and Professional. 

Commercial Segment 

Our Commercial segment provides temporary workers to primarily distribution and logistics customers needing a flexible workforce. We currently have 11 branch offices and 16 on-site locations in four states. Our Commercial segment temporary workers perform services in a variety of skilled and unskilled positions. The workers we assign to our Commercial customers are our temporary workers, although our customers provide on-the-job direction, control and supervision. 

Multifamily Segment 

Our Multifamily segment is a leading provider of front office and maintenance personnel to the multifamily housing industry. We currently have 22 branch offices in 12 states. The Multifamily division utilizes a centralized recruiting model from recruiting centers in Dallas, Houston, and Austin, Texas, and also is developing a recruiting operation in the Charlotte, North Carolina area. All open positions nationally are recruited from one of these regional recruiting centers. The workers we assign to our multifamily customers are our temporary workers, although our customers provide on-the-job direction, control and supervision. 

Professional Segment 

Our Professional segment provides highly skilled IT professionals with expertise in SAP Workday, Olik View, Hyperion, Oracle, project management and other IT staffing skills to customers on a national basis. Our customers include large Fortune 500 companies and consulting firms engaged in systems integration projects. We operate our national coverage of the IT market from our offices in North Carolina and Rhode Island, and Maryland. Additionally, we provide finance, accounting and related support personnel in Texas and Louisiana through our Texas based Donovan &#38; Watkins group. 

Financial Information about Segments 

Refer to Note 17 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 15 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, which is incorporated by reference. 

Financial Information about Geographic Areas 

Refer to Note 1 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 15 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, which is incorporated by reference. 

Our Recruiting 

We believe a key component of our success is the ability to recruit and maintain a pool of qualified temporary workers and regularly place them into desirable and appropriate positions. We use comprehensive methods to identify, assess, select and, when appropriate, measure the skills of our temporary workers and permanent placement candidates to meet the needs of our customers. 

Our Customers 

We currently service small and medium-sized companies as well as divisions of Fortune 500 companies. As is common in the staffing industry, our engagements to provide temporary services to our customers are generally of a non-exclusive, short-term nature and subject to termination by the customer with little or no notice. No customer accounted for more than 10% of our revenues in 2015 or 2014. 

Growth Strategy 

We are committed to growing our operations. Revenues have grown from $35 million in 2009 to $217.5 million &#32;in 2015 , by using a growth strategy reliant upon both acquisitions and organic growth. 

We will continue to evaluate acquisition opportunities utilizing our proven approach to the assessment, valuation, and integration of acquisitions. Additionally, we are committed to continue to grow our operations in our current markets, as well as expand into new markets within the segments and industries that we currently serve. 

We are organized to handle many of the administrative functions at our corporate location such that our branches can focus on business development and the effective recruiting and assignment of temporary workers. 

We will continue to invest in technology and process improvements, as necessary, to ensure that we are operating at optimal productivity and performance. 

Competition 

The staffing services market is highly competitive with limited barriers to entry. We compete in national, regional and local markets with full-service and specialized temporary staffing companies. Some of our competitors have significantly more marketing and financial resources than we do. Price competition in the staffing industry is intense, particularly for the provision of office clerical and commercial personnel. We expect that the level of competition will remain high, which could limit our ability to maintain or increase our market share or profitability. 

The principal competitive factors in attracting qualified candidates for temporary assignments are pay rates, availability of assignments, duration of assignments and responsiveness to requests for placement. We believe that many potential candidates seeking temporary assignments through us may also be pursuing assignments through other means. Therefore, the speed at which we place prospective temporary workers and the availability of appropriate assignments are important factors in our ability to complete assignments of qualified temporary workers. In addition to having high quality temporary workers to assign in a timely manner, the principal competitive factors in obtaining and retaining customers in the temporary staffing industry are properly assessing the customers&#8217; specific job requirements, the appropriateness of the temporary worker assigned to the customer, the price of services and the monitoring of customer satisfaction. Although we believe we compete favorably with respect to these factors, we expect competition to continue to increase. 

Seasonality 

Our business experiences seasonal fluctuations. Our quarterly operating results are affected by the number of billing days in a quarter, as well as the seasonality of our customers&#8217; business. Demand for our Commercial staffing services increases during the second and third quarters of the year and peaks in the fourth quarter. Demand for our Commercial staffing services is lower during the first quarter, in part due to customer shutdowns and adverse weather conditions in the winter months. Demand for our Multifamily staffing services is higher during the second and third quarters of the year due to the increased turns in multifamily units during the summer months when schools are not in session. In addition, our cost of services typically increases in the first quarter primarily due to the reset of payroll taxes. 

The staffing industry has historically been cyclical, often acting as an indicator of both economic downturns and upswings. Staffing customers tend to use temporary staffing to supplement their existing workforces and generally hire direct workers when long-term demand is expected to increase. As a consequence, our revenues tend to increase quickly when the economy begins to grow and, conversely, our revenues can also decrease quickly when the economy begins to weaken. 

Employees and Temporary Workers 

&#160; 

As of February 29, 2016 , we had 240 staff employees at our corporate and branch offices. During the 2015 &#32;fiscal year, we assigned approximately 26,600 temporary workers and had working, on average, approximately 4,800 temporary workers during the fourth quarter of 2015 . 

&#160; 

None of our staff employees or temporary workers is represented by a labor union, and we are not aware of any current efforts or plans to organize any of our staff employees or temporary workers. To date we have not experienced any material labor disruptions. 

Intellectual Property 

We own or have rights to various copyrights, trademarks, service marks, trade names and domain names used in our business, including, but not limited to, BG Staffing, BG Staffing Group, BG Personnel Services, Extrinsic, American Partners, InStaff, BG Temporary Staffing, Triance, Donovan &#38; Watkins, D&#38;W Talent, Vision Technology Services, bgstaffing.com, bgstaffinggroup.com, bgpersonnel.com, bgstaffing.net, ltnstaffing.com, milwaukeetemps.com, milwaukeetmepsinc.com, extrinsicllc.com, extrinsicgroup.com, extrinsicresources.com, jnastaffing.com, bgcompanies.net, bgpersonnel.net, bgmail.com, therightpeoplerightnow.com, rightpeoplerightnow.com, americanpartnersinc.com, instaff.com, donwat.com and vistechs.com. Our trade names are valuable assets that reinforce the distinctiveness of our brands. 

Regulation 

We are subject to regulation by numerous federal, state and local regulatory agencies, including but not limited to the U.S. Department of Labor, which sets employment practice standards for workers, and similar state and local agencies. We are subject to the laws and regulations of the jurisdictions within which we operate. While the specific laws and regulations vary among these jurisdictions, some require some form of licensing and often have statutory requirements for workplace safety and notice of change in obligation of workers&#8217; compensation coverage in the event of contract termination. Although compliance with these requirements imposes some additional financial risk on us, particularly with respect to those clients who breach their payment obligation to us, such compliance has not had a material adverse effect on our business to date. Any inability or failure to comply with government regulation could materially harm our business. Increased government regulation of the workplace or of the employer-employee relationship, or judicial or administrative proceedings related to such regulation, could also materially harm our business. 

Available Information 

We file electronically with the SEC, our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Our website address is www.bgstaffing.com. The information included on our website is not included as a part of, or incorporated by reference into, this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We will make available through our website our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after we have filed or furnished such material to the SEC. You may read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC&#8217;s Public Reference room at 100 F Street, NW, Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC also maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and formation statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at www.sec.gov. Furthermore, we will provide electronic or paper copies of filings free of charge upon written request to our Chief Financial Officer. 

