 Item 1. &#160; &#160; &#160; Business 

Our Company

Overview

We are a medical technology company dedicated to developing and commercializing innovative products for the treatment and diagnosis of serious dermatological disorders. In June 2015 we completed the acquisition, or the Acquisition, of the XTRAC&#174; Excimer Laser and the VTRAC&#174; excimer lamp businesses from PhotoMedex, Inc. The XTRAC and VTRAC products are devices cleared by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, for the treatment of psoriasis, vitiligo and other skin disorders. The purchase price was $42.5 million plus the assumption of certain business-related liabilities. These products generated $30.6 million in revenues in 2014 and achieved year-over-year growth of 41% with a gross margin of 60.1%. We believe that these businesses acquired create a platform on which to transform STRATA into a leading medical dermatology company. We are also the developers of the

- 1 -

MelaFind&#174; system, or MelaFind, a device for aiding dermatologists in the evaluation of clinically atypical pigmented skin lesions, when a dermatologist chooses to obtain additional information before making a final decision to biopsy in order to rule out melanoma. The successful commercialization of MelaFind is dependent on a number of factors, including, the establishment of reimbursement policies that include the use of MelaFind's capabilities to assist in the biopsy decision. We anticipate that it may require several years of continued effort before insurance companies establish such policies.

XTRAC&#174; Systems and VTRAC Systems

XTRAC is an ultraviolet (UV) light, excimer laser technology that emits highly concentrated UV light to treat dermatological skin disorders. It received FDA clearance in 2000 and has since become a widely recognized treatment for psoriasis, vitiligo and other skin diseases. Psoriasis and vitiligo alone, affect up to 10.5 million people in the U.S. and 190 million people worldwide. VTRAC is a UV light, excimer lamp system that works in much the same way as the XTRAC. It received FDA clearance in August 2005 and CE mark approval in January 2006 and has been marketed exclusively in international markets.

Present in natural sunlight, UVB is an accepted psoriasis treatment that penetrates the skin to slow the growth of damaged skin cells thereby placing the disease into remission for a period of time. Studies have shown that the remission time can last 3 to 6 months or longer. In our XTRAC system, our targeted therapy approach delivers optimum amounts of UVB light directly to skin lesions, sparing healthy tissue. Many peer reviewed studies have proven that the XTRAC can clear psoriasis faster and produce longer remissions than other UVB modalities, resulting in fewer treatments to produce the desired result.

We market two XTRAC excimer models: the XTRAC Velocity is our most advanced technology which allows clinicians to treat greater surface areas of psoriatic disease in a shorter period of time than other technologies. The XTRAC Ultra Plus is also a highly effective model marketed primarily in certain international markets. Both the Velocity and the Ultra plus are capable of treating mild, moderate and severe psoriasis, vitiligo, atopic dermatitis and leukoderma.

The XTRAC is marketed in the U.S. mainly under a recurring revenue model; in which we place the system in the physician's office for no upfront charge and generate our revenue on a per-use basis. We estimate that there are roughly 1,000 XTRAC lasers in use in the U.S., of which 718 systems were, as of December 31, 2015, included in the recurring revenue model. The target U.S. audience for XTRAC lasers comprises approximately 3,500 dermatologists who perform disease management. In markets outside the U.S., the XTRAC laser is marketed primarily as a capital sale through a master international distributor to distributors in twenty-five countries. The VTRAC is marketed exclusively in international markets.

Studies have concluded that XTRAC treatment lead to significant improvement in psoriasis area and severity scores in as little as 6 to 10 treatments. Treatment protocols recommend that patients receive two treatments per week with a minimum of 48 hours between treatments. Our data shows that XTRAC has an 89% efficacy rate and produces only minimal side effects. In support of its clinical effect, the XTRAC Excimer lasers have been cited in over 45 clinical studies and research programs, with findings published in peer-reviewed medical journals around the world. The products have also been endorsed by the National Psoriasis Foundation, and their use for psoriasis is covered by nearly all major insurance companies, including Medicare.

XTRAC is a reimbursable procedure for psoriasis under three Current Procedural Terminology ("CPT") codes. There are three applicable CPT codes that differ based on area of treatment only. Insurance Reimbursement to physicians varies based upon insurance company and geography. The national CPT code reimbursement established by the Center for Medicaid Services (CMS) which forms the basis for most insurance companies' reimbursement levels ranges for the three codes between $150 per treatment to $240 per treatment.

- 2 -

Psoriasis Treatment Options

There are essentially three main types of psoriasis treatments, as listed below.

&#160;

Topical therapies:

These can include corticosteroids, vitamin D3 derivatives, coal tar, anthralin and retinoids, among others, that are sold as a cream, gel, liquid, spray, or ointment. The efficacy of topical agents varies from person to person, although these products are commonly associated with a loss of potency over time as people develop resistance.

&#160;

&#160;

&#160;

&#160;

Phototherapy:

This is the area in which we operate. Our XTRAC Excimer Systems are FDA-cleared, reimbursed by insurance, and exhibit none of the significant side-effects associated with some alternative therapies.

&#160;

&#160;

&#160;

&#160;

Systemic medications:

There are a number of prescription medications available for psoriasis, which are given either by mouth or as an injection. Generally, these drugs are administered only after both topical treatments and phototherapy have failed, or for people who have severe disease or active psoriatic arthritis.

&#160;

The XTRAC Excimer Lasers are particularly significant and beneficial for moderate and severe psoriasis patients who prefer a noninvasive treatment approach without the side effects of invasive, systemic agents, or to patients who have developed a resistance to topical agents. In many cases, patients treated with topical or systemic therapies are also candidates for phototherapy.

Using the XTRAC Excimer Lasers to Treat Vitiligo and Other Skin Diseases

UV light therapy is considered to be an effective and safe treatment for many skin disorders beyond psoriasis. To this effect, the XTRAC technology is FDA cleared for the treatment of not only psoriasis but also vitiligo (a skin pigment deficiency), atopic dermatitis (eczema) and leukoderma, which is a localized loss of skin pigmentation that occurs after an inflammatory skin condition, such as a burn, intralesional steroid injection, or post dermabrasion.

XTRAC technology for vitiligo patients typically requires more therapy sessions than for psoriasis, but is dependent on the severity of the disease. In the treatment of vitiligo, the XTRAC functions to reactivate the skin's melanocytes (the cells that produce melanin), which causes pigment to return. To date, there is not sufficient data to confirm how long patients can expect their vitiligo to be in remission after XTRAC therapy. Based on anecdotal reports, we believe that re-pigmentation may last for several years.

Historically, vitiligo treatments had been considered cosmetic procedures by insurance companies, and as such were not reimbursed. However, over the past several years, there has been a significant increase in insurance coverage for these procedures, and we estimate that currently approximately 50% of insurers consider XTRAC treatments to be medically necessary for the treatment of vitiligo and therefore provide coverage.

We believe that awareness of the positive effects of XTRAC treatments is the greatest limiting factor in making XTRAC treatments available to those who suffer from psoriasis and vitiligo. Therefore, we have a direct to patient advertising campaign aimed at motivating psoriasis and vitiligo patients to seek out XTRAC treatments from our physician customers. Specific advertisements encourage prospective patients to contact the Company's patient advocacy center through telephone or web site whereby we provide information on the treatment, insurance coverage and ultimately schedule an appointment for the prospective patient to be evaluated by a physician within our customer network, convenient to their location, to determine if they would benefit from XTRAC treatments.

- 3 -

The MelaFind System

In November 2011, we received a Pre-Market Approval, or PMA, from the FDA for MelaFind, a non-invasive, point-of-care (i.e. in the doctor's office) instrument to aid in the detection of melanoma, having already received in September 2011 Conformit&#233; Europ&#233;enne ("CE") Mark approval. On March 7, 2012, we installed the first commercial MelaFind System. We designed MelaFind to aid in the evaluation of clinically atypical pigmented skin lesions, when a dermatologist chooses to obtain additional information before making a final decision to biopsy in order to rule out melanoma. MelaFind acquires and displays multi-spectral (from blue to near infrared) and dermoscopic Red Green Blue ("RGB") digital data from pigmented skin lesions. It uses automatic data analysis and statistical pattern recognition to help identify lesions to be considered for biopsy to rule out melanoma. We believe that with the assistance provided by MelaFind, dermatologists may diagnose more melanomas at the most curable stages.

The Melanoma Market Opportunity

Cancer of the skin (non-melanoma and melanoma skin cancers combined) is the most common of all cancers, with over 3.5 million skin cancers in over 2 million people diagnosed annually in the U.S. It is estimated to account for almost 50% of all cancers. According to the Skin Cancer Foundation, each year there are more new cases of skin cancer than the combined incidence of cancers of the breast, prostate, lung and colon. Melanoma is responsible for approximately 75% of skin cancer mortality (death). More than 137,310 new cases of melanoma were diagnosed in the U.S. in 2014 - 63,770 non-invasive ( in situ ) and 76,100 invasive. There are three main forms of skin cancer: basal cell, accounting for approximately 75% of skin cancer cases; squamous cell, accounting for approximately 19% of skin cancer cases; and melanoma, accounting for an estimated 4% of skin cancer cases with other rare forms accounting for 2%. Melanoma places a significant burden on the healthcare system as the cost to diagnose and treat melanoma in the U.S. was estimated at $2.36 billion (in 2010 dollars) based on a study sponsored by the National Cancer Institute.

Limitations of Current Melanoma Diagnosis

Melanoma is mainly diagnosed by dermatologists and primary care physicians using visual clinical evaluation. This subjective interpretation relies on physician experience and skill. To aid the dermatologist, MelaFind delivers an objective assessment based on numerical scores assigned to the clinically atypical skin lesion under evaluation. Furthermore, clinical examination is typically limited to the surface appearance of the clinically atypical pigmented skin lesion, and MelaFind provides information derived from up to 2.5 mm below the skin surface. Dermatologists who specialize in the management of pigmented skin lesions may also use dermoscopy, a method of viewing lesions under magnification.

MelaFind Product Description

The MelaFind system consists of a hand-held imager, which is comprised of an illuminator that shines light of 10 different specific wavelengths, including near infra-red bands; a lens system that focuses the light reflected from the lesions; and a processor employing proprietary algorithms to extract many discrete characteristics or features from the lesions.

As with many diagnostic systems, the diagnostic performance of MelaFind is characterized using two measures: (1) sensitivity - the ability to detect disease when it is present; and (2) specificity - the ability to exclude disease when it is not present. Since sensitivity and specificity are typically trade-offs, meaning that as one parameter increases the other decreases, the MelaFind lesion classifier is developed and trained with the intention of detecting melanoma with the highest possible specificity.

Post-Approval Study

In November 2011, we received written approval from the FDA for the MelaFind system PMA. In connection with the approval, we committed to conduct a Post-Approval Study ("PAS") of MelaFind. Agreement on the study protocol was reached with the FDA and the study was initiated during 2012.

In February 2014, we submitted a protocol revision request to the FDA in an attempt to clarify information with respect to the study's enrollment rate and to submit an updated enrollment plan and schedule. The protocol revisions were approved by the FDA on October 22, 2014.

- 4 -

On September 19, 2014, FDA responded to our PMA supplement for a change in the MelaFind output. The FDA requested that we conduct a reader study with a primary objective that would be identical to our PAS, which is to assess the lesion management decisions of dermatologists based on the MelaFind output.

Because of the overlap between the reader study and the PAS, when we submitted our 36 month progress report on the PAS on July 30, 2015, we requested that the PAS be terminated. On September 28, 2015, FDA denied our request to terminate the PAS, but stated when it reviewed the reader study data, the agency would consider the need to continue the PAS. We developed the reader study protocol in conjunction with the FDA, and the final protocol was complete on September 21, 2015. The reader study was held on October 1, 2015, and we submitted the reader study results to FDA on November 2, 2015. On December 14, 2015, the Agency informed us that it reconsidered our request to terminate the PAS and determined that we could submit our next PAS report as our final report and thus terminate the PAS early. On February 2, 2016, the FDA determined our PMA supplement on the MelaFind output was approvable.

Our MelaFind Reimbursement Strategy

The CPT Editorial Panel of the American Medical Association accepted the addition of Category III codes 0400T and 0401T to report multi-spectral digital skin lesion analysis of atypical cutaneous lesions, which applies to our MelaFind System. These codes were posted to the AMA CPT website on July 1, 2015 and were effective January 1, 2016. The codes will provide the initial basis for pursuing third party and CMS insurance coverage for MelaFind.

A favorable reimbursement environment may have a significant impact on MelaFind's adoption and commercial success. However, even if a procedure is eligible for reimbursement, the level of reimbursement may be inadequate to promote the use of the device. In addition, third-party payers may deny reimbursement if they determine that the device used in the treatment was not cost-effective or was used for a non-approved indication. While we cannot control all of the variables that may affect MelaFind's adoption and commercial use, we are developing strategies that are intended to minimize or mitigate these risks.

Competition

Our XTRAC product line competes with pharmaceutical compounds and methodologies used to treat an array of skin conditions. Such alternative treatments may be in the form of topical products, systemic medications, and phototherapies from both large pharmaceutical and smaller devices companies. Currently, our XTRAC system is believed to be a competitive therapy to alternative treatments on the basis of its recognized clinical effect, cost-effectiveness and reimbursement.

In connection with the MelaFind system, a number of techniques and products for visualization and assessment of pigmented skin lesions are in use or in development. These include clinical (naked eye) examination, whole body mole mapping systems, dermoscopes (also known as "dermatoscopes"), spectrophotometric intercutaneous analysis, confocal microscopy, spectrophotometric (color) analysis and several newly identified light-based approaches. These systems rely on physician experience and expertise in recognizing patterns that are associated with melanoma and non-melanoma in order to render an interpretation and diagnosis.

Manufacturing

We manufacture our XTRAC products at our 28,000 sq. ft. facility in Carlsbad, California. Our California facility is ISO 13485 certified. ISO 13485 is an International standardization written by the International Organization for Standardization, which publishes requirements for a comprehensive quality management system for the design and manufacture of medical devices. Certification to the standard is awarded by accredited third parties. We believe that our present manufacturing capacity at these facilities is sufficient to meet foreseeable demand for our products.

We are currently working to lower the cost of production of the MelaFind system by reducing labor and material costs through redesign, optimizing testing efficiencies, incorporating product improvements and utilizing where available more efficient, value-added component suppliers.

- 5 -

While we continue with our strategy to commercialize MelaFind we believe that we have sufficient inventory on hand to meet demand for the foreseeable future. As a result, we have terminated our contract with Askion GmbH in Germany, and plan to relocate the manufacture of the handheld components of the system to the U.S. in time to meet future demand.

Research and Development Efforts

Our research and development team, including engineers, consists of approximately eleven employees. We conduct research and development activities at our facilities located in Carlsbad, California and Irvington, New York. We are in the process of closing down the Irvington operation and consolidating the work performed there in our other facilities. Currently, our research and development efforts are focused on the application of our XTRAC system to the treatment of inflammatory skin disorders. In addition, we continue to refine and improve MelaFind's hardware and software applications. Several improvements are currently in development, mostly focused on cost reductions in order to enhance the market's receptivity to the system.

Intellectual Property

Our policy is to protect our intellectual property by obtaining U.S. and foreign patents to protect technology, inventions and improvements important to the development of our business. As of December 31, 2015, 28 issued U.S. patents are in force, and many of these patents have foreign counterparts issued and pending. Of those issued, 10 U.S. patents and one German patent relate to the XTRAC and VTRAC product lines and eighteen U.S. patents, eight Australian patents and one Japanese patent relate to various aspects of MelaFind technology. We have not granted any significant licenses with respect to our intellectual property other than licenses granted in connection with our DIFOTI product on which development was discontinued in 2005.

We also rely on trade secrets and technical know-how in the manufacture and marketing of our products. We require our employees, consultants and contractors to execute confidentiality agreements with respect to our proprietary information.

We believe that our patented methods and apparatus, together with proprietary trade-secret technology and registered trademarks, give us a competitive advantage; however, whether a patent is infringed or is valid, or whether a patent application should be granted, are all complex matters of science and law, and therefore, we cannot be certain that, if challenged, our patented methods and apparatus and/or trade-secret technology would be upheld. If one or more of our patented methods, patented apparatus or trade-secret technology rights, or our trademark rights, are invalidated, rejected or found unenforceable, that could reduce or eliminate any competitive advantage we might otherwise have had.

Government Regulation

Regulations Relating to Products and Manufacturing

Our products and research and development activities are regulated by numerous governmental authorities, principally the FDA and corresponding state and foreign regulatory agencies. Any medical device or cosmetic we manufacture and/or distribute will be subject to pervasive and continuing regulation by the FDA. The U.S. Food, Drug and Cosmetics Act, or FD&#38;C Act, and other federal and state laws and regulations govern the pre-clinical and clinical testing, design, manufacture, use, labeling and promotion of medical devices, including our XTRAC, VTRAC and MelaFind systems Product development and approval for medical devices within this regulatory framework takes a number of years and involves the expenditure of substantial resources.

In the U.S., medical devices are classified into three different classes, Class I, II and III, on the basis of controls deemed necessary to provide a reasonable assurance of the safety and effectiveness of the device. Class I devices are subject to general controls, such as facility registration, medical device listing, labeling requirements, premarket notification (unless the medical device has been specifically exempted from this requirement), adherence to the FDA's Quality System Regulation, and requirements concerning the submission of device-related adverse event reports to the FDA. Class II devices are subject to general and special controls, such as performance standards, pre-market notification (510(k) clearance), post-market surveillance, and FDA Quality System Regulations. Generally, Class III devices are those that must receive premarket approval by the FDA to provide a reasonable assurance of their safety and effectiveness, such as life-sustaining, life-supporting and implantable devices, or new devices that have been found not to be substantially equivalent to existing legally marketed devices.

- 6 -

With limited exceptions, before a new medical device can be distributed in the U.S., marketing authorization typically must be obtained from the FDA through a premarket notification under Section 510(k) of the FDA Act, or through a premarket approval application under Section 515 of the FDA Act. The FDA will typically grant a 510(k) clearance if it can be established that the device is substantially equivalent to a predicate device that is a legally marketed Class I or II device (or to pre-amendments Class III devices for which the FDA has yet to call for premarket approvals). We have received FDA 510(k) clearance to market our XTRAC and VTRAC systems for the treatment of psoriasis, vitiligo, atopic dermatitis and leukoderma. The FDA granted these clearances under Section 510(k) on the basis of substantial equivalence to other technologies that had received prior clearances.

For any devices that are cleared through the 510(k) process, modifications or enhancements that could significantly affect the safety or effectiveness of the device, or that constitute a major change in the intended use of the device, will require a new 510(k) submission. In August 2003, the FDA granted 510(k) clearance for a significantly modified version of our XTRAC laser, which we have marketed as the XTRAC XL Plus Excimer Laser System. In October 2004, the FDA granted clearance for the XTRAC Ultra (AL 8000) Excimer Laser System and, in March 2008, we received 510(k) clearance for the XTRAC Velocity (AL 10000) Excimer Laser System. These approvals were originally granted to PhotoMedex, Inc. and acquired by us in the June 2015 asset acquisition transaction described above.

We were required to secure premarket approval for the MelaFind system. A premarket approval application may be required for a Class II device if it is not substantially equivalent to an existing legally marketed Class I or II device (or a pre-amendments Class III device for which the FDA has yet to call for premarket approval) or if the device is a Class III premarket approval device by regulation. A premarket approval application must be supported by valid scientific evidence to demonstrate a reasonable assurance of safety and effectiveness of the device, typically including the results of clinical trials, bench tests and possibly animal studies. In addition, the submission must include, among other things, the proposed labeling. The premarket approval process can be expensive, uncertain and lengthy and a number of devices for which FDA approval has been sought by other companies have never been approved for marketing.

We are subject to routine inspection by the FDA and, as noted above, must comply with a number of regulatory requirements applicable to firms that manufacture medical devices and other FDA-regulated products for distribution within the U.S., including requirements related to device labeling (including prohibitions against promoting products for unapproved or off-label uses), facility registration, medical device listing, labeling requirements, adherence to the FDA's Quality System Regulation, good manufacturing processes and requirements for the submission of reports regarding certain device-related adverse events to the FDA.

We are also subject to the radiological health provisions of the FDA Act and the general and laser-specific radiation safety regulations administered by the Center for Devices and Radiological Health, or CDRH, of the FDA. These regulations require laser manufacturers to file initial, new product, supplemental and annual reports, to maintain quality control, product testing and sales records, to incorporate certain design and operating features (depending on the class of product) in lasers sold to end users pursuant to a performance standard and to certify and appropriately label each laser sold as belonging to one of four classes, based on the level of radiation from the laser that is accessible to users. Moreover, we are obligated to repair, replace, or refund the cost of certain electronic products that are found to fail to comply with applicable federal standards or otherwise are found to be defective. The CDRH is empowered to seek fines and other remedies for violations of the regulatory requirements. To date, we have filed the documentation with the CDRH for our laser products requiring such filing and have not experienced any difficulties or incurred significant costs in complying with such regulations.

We are approved by the European Union to affix the CE Mark to our XTRAC laser, VTRAC lamp and MelaFind systems. This certification is a mandatory conformity mark for products placed on the market in the European Economic Area, which is evidence that they meet all European Community, or EC, quality assurance standards and compliance with applicable European medical device directives for the production of medical devices. This will enable us to market our approved products in all of the member countries that accept the CE Mark. We also will be required to comply with additional individual national requirements that are in addition to those required by these nations. Our products have also met the requirements for marketing in various other countries.

- 7 -

Failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements can result in fines, injunctions, civil penalties, recalls or seizures of products, total or partial suspensions of production, refusals by the U.S and foreign governments to permit product sales and criminal prosecution.

We are or may become subject to various other federal, state, local and foreign laws, regulations and policies relating to, among other things, safe working conditions, good laboratory practices and the use and disposal of hazardous or potentially hazardous substances used in connection with research and development.

Fraud and Abuse Laws

Because of the significant federal funding involved in Medicare and Medicaid, Congress and the states have enacted, and actively enforce, a number of laws whose purpose is to eliminate fraud and abuse in federal health care programs. Our business is subject to compliance with these laws.

Anti-Kickback Laws

In the U.S., there are federal and state anti-kickback laws that generally prohibit the payment or receipt of kickbacks, bribes or other remuneration in exchange for the referral of patients or other health-related business. The U.S. federal healthcare programs' Anti-Kickback Statute makes it unlawful for individuals or entities knowingly and willfully to solicit, offer, receive or pay any kickback, bribe or other remuneration, directly or indirectly, in exchange for or to induce the purchase, lease or order, or arranging for or recommending purchasing, leasing, or ordering, any good, facility, service, or item for which payment may be made in whole or in part under a federal healthcare program such as Medicare or Medicaid. The Anti-Kickback Statute covers "any remuneration," which has been broadly interpreted to include anything of value, including for example gifts, certain discounts, the furnishing of free supplies, equipment or services, credit arrangements, payments of cash and waivers of payments. Several courts have interpreted the statute's intent requirement to mean that if any one purpose of an arrangement involving remuneration is to induce referrals of federal healthcare covered business, the arrangement can be found to violate the statute. Penalties for violations include criminal penalties and civil sanctions such as fines, imprisonment and possible exclusion from Medicare, Medicaid and other federal healthcare programs. In addition, several courts have permitted kickback cases brought under the Federal False Claims Act to proceed, as discussed in more detail below.

The reach of the Anti-Kickback Statute was broadened by the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010 (the "ACA"), which, among other things, amends the intent requirement of the federal Anti-Kickback Statute. Pursuant to the statutory amendment, a person or entity no longer needs to have actual knowledge of this statute or specific intent to violate it in order to have committed a violation. In addition, the ACA provides that the government may assert that a claim including items or services resulting from a violation of the federal Anti-Kickback Statute constitutes a false or fraudulent claim for purposes of the civil False Claims Act (discussed below) or the civil monetary penalties statute, which imposes penalties against any person who is determined to have presented or caused to be presented a claim to a federal health program that the person knows or should know is for an item or service that was not provided as claimed or is false or fraudulent.

Because the Anti-Kickback Statute is broadly written and encompasses many harmless or efficient arrangements, Congress authorized the Office of Inspector General of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, or OIG, to issue a series of regulations, known as "safe harbors." For example, there are regulatory safe harbors for payments to bona fide employees, properly reported discounts and rebates, and for certain investment interests. Although an arrangement that fits into one or more of these exceptions or safe harbors is immune from prosecution, arrangements that do not fit squarely within an exception or safe harbor do not necessarily violate the statute. The failure of a transaction or arrangement to fit precisely within one or more of the exceptions or safe harbors does not necessarily mean that it is illegal or that prosecution will be pursued. However, conduct and business arrangements that arguably implicate the Anti-Kickback Statute but do not fully satisfy all the elements of an exception or safe harbor may be subject to increased scrutiny by government enforcement authorities such as the OIG.

Many states have laws that implicate anti-kickback restrictions similar to the Anti-Kickback Statute. Some of these state prohibitions apply, regardless of whether federal health care program business is involved, to arrangements such as for self-pay or private-pay patients.

- 8 -

Government officials have focused their enforcement efforts on marketing of healthcare services and products, among other activities, and recently have brought cases against companies, and certain sales, marketing and executive personnel, for allegedly offering unlawful inducements to potential or existing customers in an attempt to procure their business.

Federal Civil False Claims Act and State False Claims Laws

The federal civil False Claims Act imposes liability on any person or entity who, among other things, knowingly and willfully presents, or causes to be presented, a false or fraudulent claim for payment by a federal healthcare program, including Medicare and Medicaid. The "qui tam," or "whistleblower" provisions of the False Claims Act allow a private individual to bring actions on behalf of the federal government alleging that the defendant has submitted a false claim to the federal government, and to share in any monetary recovery. In recent years, the number of suits brought against healthcare providers by private individuals has increased dramatically. Medical device companies, like us, can be held liable under false claims laws, even if they do not submit claims to the government, when they are deemed to have caused submission of false claims by, among other things, providing incorrect coding or billing advice about their products to customers that file claims, or by engaging in kickback arrangements with customers that file claims.

The False Claims Act also has been used to assert liability on the basis of misrepresentations with respect to the services rendered and in connection with alleged off-label promotion of products. Our future activities relating to the manner in which we sell our products and document our prices, such as the reporting of discount and rebate information and other information affecting federal, state and third-party reimbursement of our products, and the sale and marketing of our products, may be subject to scrutiny under these laws.

When an entity is determined to have violated the False Claims Act, it may be required to pay up to three times the actual damages sustained by the government, plus civil penalties of $5,500 to $11,000 for each separate false claim. There are many potential bases for liability under the False Claims Act. A number of states have enacted false claim laws analogous to the federal civil False Claims Act and many of these state laws apply where a claim is submitted to any state or private third-party payor. In this environment, our engagement of physician consultants in product development and product training and education could subject us to similar scrutiny. We are unable to predict whether we would be subject to actions under the False Claims Act or a similar state law, or the impact of such actions. However, the costs of defending such claims, as well as any sanctions imposed, could significantly affect our financial performance.

HIPAA Fraud and Other Regulations

The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, created a class of federal crimes known as the "federal health care offenses," including healthcare fraud and false statements relating to healthcare matters. The HIPAA health care fraud statute prohibits, among other things, knowingly and willfully executing, or attempting to execute, a scheme or artifice to defraud any healthcare benefit program, or to obtain by means of false of fraudulent pretenses, any money under the control of any health care benefit program, including private payors. A violation of this statute is a felony and may result in fines, imprisonment and/or exclusion from government-sponsored programs. The HIPAA false statements statute prohibits, among other things, knowingly and willfully falsifying, concealing or covering up a material fact or making any materially false, fictitious or fraudulent statement or representation in connection with the delivery of or payment for healthcare benefits, items or services. A violation of this statute is a felony and may result in fines and/or imprisonment. Entities that are found to have aided or abetted in a violation of the HIPAA federal health care offenses are deemed by statute to have committed the offense and are punishable as a principal.

We are also subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar anti-bribery laws applicable in non-U.S. jurisdictions that generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to non-U.S. government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Because of the predominance of government-sponsored healthcare systems around the world, most of our customer relationships outside of the U.S. will be with governmental entities and therefore subject to such anti-bribery laws.

- 9 -

HIPAA and Other Privacy Regulations

The regulations that implement HIPAA also establish uniform standards governing the conduct of certain electronic healthcare transactions and protecting the security and privacy of individually identifiable health information maintained or transmitted by healthcare providers, health plans and healthcare clearinghouses, which are referred to as "covered entities." Several regulations have been promulgated under HIPAA's regulations including: the Standards for Privacy of Individually Identifiable Health Information, or the Privacy Rule, which restricts the use and disclosure of certain individually identifiable health information; the Standards for Electronic Transactions, or the Transactions Rule, which establishes standards for common healthcare transactions, such as claims information, plan eligibility, payment information and the use of electronic signatures; and the Security Standards for the Protection of Electronic Protected Health Information, or the Security Rule, which requires covered entities to implement and maintain certain security measures to safeguard certain electronic health information. Although we do not believe we are a covered entity and therefore are not currently directly subject to these standards, we expect that our customers generally will be covered entities and may ask us to contractually comply with certain aspects of these standards by entering into requisite business associate agreements. While the government intended this legislation to reduce administrative expenses and burdens for the healthcare industry, our compliance with certain provisions of these standards entails significant costs for us.

The Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act, or the HITECH Act, which was enacted in February 2009, strengthens and expands the HIPAA Privacy and Security Rules and the restrictions on use and disclosure of patient identifiable health information. HITECH also fundamentally changed a business associate's obligations by imposing a number of Privacy Rule requirements and a majority of Security Rule provisions directly on business associates that were previously only directly applicable to covered entities. HITECH includes, but is not limited to, prohibitions on exchanging patient identifiable health information for remuneration, restrictions on marketing to individuals, and obligations to agree to provide individuals an accounting of virtually all disclosures of their health information. Moreover, HITECH requires covered entities to report any unauthorized use or disclosure of patient identifiable health information, known as a breach, to the affected individuals, the United States Department of Health and Human Services, or HHS, and, depending on the size of any such breach, the media for the affected market. Business associates are similarly required to notify covered entities of a breach. Most of the HITECH provisions became effective in February 2010. HHS has already issued regulations governing breach notification which were effective in September 2009.

HITECH has increased civil penalty amounts for violations of HIPAA by either covered entities or business associates up to an annual maximum of $1.5 million for uncorrected violations based on willful neglect. Imposition of these penalties is more likely now because HITECH significantly strengthens enforcement. It requires HHS to conduct periodic audits to confirm compliance and to investigate any violation that involves willful neglect which carries mandatory penalties. Additionally, state attorneys general are authorized to bring civil actions seeking either injunctions or damages in response to violations of HIPAA Privacy and Security Rules that threaten the privacy of state residents.

In addition to federal regulations issued under HIPAA, some states have enacted privacy and security statutes or regulations that, in some cases, are more stringent than those issued under HIPAA. In those cases, it may be necessary to modify our planned operations and procedures to comply with the more stringent state laws. If we fail to comply with applicable state laws and regulations, we could be subject to additional sanctions.

Federal and state consumer protection laws are being applied increasingly by the United States Federal Trade Commission, or FTC, and state attorneys general to regulate the collection, use, storage and disclosure of personal or patient information, through websites or otherwise, and to regulate the presentation of web site content. Courts may also adopt the standards for fair information practices promulgated by the FTC, which concern consumer notice, choice, security and access. Numerous other countries have or are developing laws governing the collection, use, disclosure and transmission of personal or patient information.

HIPAA as well as other federal and state laws apply to our receipt of patient identifiable health information in connection with research and clinical trials. We collaborate with other individuals and entities in conducting research and all involved parties must comply with applicable laws. Therefore, the compliance of the physicians, hospitals or other providers or entities with whom we collaborate also impacts our business.

- 10 -

Third-Party Reimbursement

Our ability to market our phototherapy products successfully depends in large part on the extent to which various third parties are willing to reimburse patients or providers for the cost of medical procedures utilizing our treatment products. These third parties include government authorities, private health insurers and other organizations, such as health maintenance organizations. Third-party payors are systematically challenging the prices charged for medical products and services. They may deny reimbursement if they determine that a prescribed device is not used in accordance with cost-effective treatment methods as determined by the payor, or is experimental, unnecessary or inappropriate. Accordingly, if less costly drugs or other treatments are available, third-party payors may not authorize, or may limit, reimbursement for the use of our products, even if our products are safer or more effective than the alternatives. Additionally, they may require changes to our pricing structure and revenue model before authorizing reimbursement.

Reimbursement systems in international markets vary significantly by country and by region within some countries, and reimbursement approvals must be obtained on a country-by-country basis. Many international markets have government-managed healthcare systems that control reimbursement for new devices and procedures. In most markets, there are private insurance systems, as well as government-managed systems. Our XTRAC products remain substantially without approval for reimbursement in many international markets under either government or private reimbursement systems.

Many private plans key their reimbursement rates to rates set by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) under three distinct Current Procedural Terminology (CPT) codes based on the total skin surface area being treated.

As of March 11, 2016, the national rates were as follows:

&#160;

&#9679;

96920 - designated for: the total area less than 250 square centimeters. CMS assigned a 2015 national payment of approximately $157.18 per treatment;

&#160;

&#9679;

96921 - designated for: the total area 250 to 500 square centimeters. CMS assigned a 2015 national payment of approximately $172.93 per treatment; and

&#160;

&#9679;

96922 - designated for: the total area over 500 square centimeters. CMS assigned a 2015 national payment of approximately $239.89 per treatment.

The national rates are adjusted by overhead factors applicable to each state.

In connection with reimbursement for MelaFind usage, the CPT Editorial Panel of the American Medical Association accepted the addition of Category III codes 0400T and 0401T to report multi-spectral digital skin lesion analysis of atypical cutaneous lesions, which applies to our MelaFind System. These codes were posted to the AMA CPT website on July 1, 2015 and were effective January 1, 2016. The codes may provide the initial basis for pursuing third party and CMS insurance coverage for MelaFind.

Employees

As of March 11, 2016, we had 106 full-time employees, which consisted of two executive officers, 6 senior managers, 48 sales and marketing staff, 14 people engaged in manufacturing of lasers, 16 customer-field service personnel, 11 engaged in research and development, including seven engineers, and 9 finance and administration staff.

Financial Information about Geographic Areas

See Note 17 to the consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this filing.

- 11 -

Available Information

STRATA Skin Sciences' website is www.strataskincsciences.com. Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are available on our website at www.strataskinsciences.com as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such reports with, or furnish them to, the Commission. The information on the Company's website is not a part of this Report.

