 ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties relating to future events and the future performance of Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc. ("Regeneron," "Company," "we," "us," and "our"), and actual events or results may differ materially from these forward-looking statements. Words such as "anticipate," "expect," "intend," "plan," "believe," "seek," "estimate," variations of such words, and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements, although not all forward-looking statements contain these identifying words. These statements concern, and these risks and uncertainties include, among others, the nature, timing, and possible success and therapeutic applications of our products, product candidates, and research and clinical programs now underway or planned, including without limitation sarilumab, dupilumab, fasinumab, and REGN2222; the likelihood and timing of achieving any of our anticipated clinical development milestones; unforeseen safety issues resulting from the administration of products and product candidates in patients, including serious complications or side effects in connection with the use of our product candidates in clinical trials; the likelihood and timing of possible regulatory approval and commercial launch of our late-stage product candidates and new indications for marketed products, including without limitation Praluent &#174; &#32;(alirocumab) Injection, sarilumab, dupilumab, fasinumab, and REGN2222; ongoing regulatory obligations and oversight impacting our marketed products (such as EYLEA &#174; &#32;(aflibercept) Injection and Praluent), research and clinical programs, and business, including those relating to patient privacy; determinations by regulatory and administrative governmental authorities which may delay or restrict our ability to continue to develop or commercialize our products and product candidates; competing drugs and product candidates that may be superior to our products and product candidates; uncertainty of market acceptance and commercial success of our products and product candidates; our ability to manufacture and manage supply chains for multiple products and product candidates; coverage and reimbursement determinations by third-party payers, including Medicare and Medicaid; unanticipated expenses; the costs of developing, producing, and selling products; our ability to meet any of our sales or other financial projections or guidance, including without limitation capital expenditures and income tax obligations, and changes to the assumptions underlying those projections or guidance; the potential for any license or collaboration agreement, including our agreements with Sanofi and Bayer HealthCare LLC, to be cancelled or terminated without any further product success; and risks associated with intellectual property of other parties and pending or future litigation relating thereto. These statements are made based on management's current beliefs and judgment, and the reader is cautioned not to rely on any such statements. In evaluating such statements, shareholders and potential investors should specifically consider the various factors identified under Part I, Item 1A. "Risk Factors," which could cause actual events and results to differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements. We do not undertake any obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. 

General 

Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc. is a fully integrated biopharmaceutical company that discovers, invents, develops, manufactures, and commercializes medicines for the treatment of serious medical conditions. We commercialize medicines for eye diseases, high low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol, and a rare inflammatory condition and have product candidates in development in other areas of high unmet medical need, including oncology, rheumatoid arthritis (RA), asthma, atopic dermatitis, pain, and infectious diseases. 

Our significant 2015 business highlights include: 

&#8226; 

EYLEA (aflibercept) Injection, which is approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for use in retinal indications, delivered net sales growth of 54% over 2014, and is now the market-leading, branded anti-VEGF therapy in the United States. 

&#8226; 

We, along with our partner Sanofi, received regulatory approval in the United States and Europe for Praluent (alirocumab) Injection for the treatment of uncontrolled LDL-cholesterol in certain patients. Praluent has been launched in the United States and certain European countries. 

&#8226; 

We reported positive data from three Phase 3 studies of sarilumab in rheumatoid arthritis and submitted a regulatory application to the FDA. 

&#8226; 

We reported positive, pivotal, Phase 2b data for dupilumab in the asthma indication and completed enrollment of three Phase 3 studies of dupilumab in atopic dermatitis. 

&#8226; 

Two of our antibodies advanced to Phase 3 studies: REGN 2222 for the prevention of Respiratory Syncytial Virus (RSV) infection in infants; and fasinumab, an antibody against nerve growth factor (NGF), for osteoarthritis pain. 

&#8226; 

We entered into significant new research and development collaborations: a collaboration with Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma Corporation for fasinumab in certain Asian countries and a broad immuno-oncology collaboration with Sanofi. 

&#8226; 

Our initiatives in genomics also advanced, enabling us to sequence exomes at the rate of 100,000 per year. 

&#8226; 

From a company growth perspective, we hired our 4,000 th &#32;employee, expanded into two new buildings on our Tarrytown, New York campus, continued to expand our bulk drug product manufacturing operations in Rensselaer, New York, and continued building out and hiring people for our new Limerick, Ireland commercial manufacturing facility. 

&#8226; 

We were named one of the two top employers in the global biopharmaceutical industry by Science , for the fifth consecutive year. 

Our total revenues were $4,103.7 million &#32;in 2015, compared to $2,819.6 million &#32;in 2014 and $2,104.7 million &#32;in 2013. Our net income was $636.1 million , or $5.52 &#32;per diluted share, in 2015, compared to $338.1 million , or $2.98 &#32;per diluted share, in 2014, and $413.7 million , or $3.72 &#32;per diluted share, in 2013. Refer to Part II, Item 7. "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Results of Operations" below for further details of our financial results. 

We currently have three marketed products: 

&#8226; 

EYLEA (aflibercept) Injection , known in the scientific literature as VEGF Trap-Eye, is available in the United States, European Union (EU), Japan, and certain other countries outside the United States for the treatment of neovascular age-related macular degeneration (wet AMD), diabetic macular edema (DME), macular edema following retinal vein occlusion (RVO), which includes macular edema following central retinal vein occlusion (CRVO) and macular edema following branch retinal vein occlusion (BRVO). EYLEA is also available in Japan and the EU for the treatment of myopic choroidal neovascularization (mCNV) and in the United States for the treatment of diabetic retinopathy in patients with DME. Bayer HealthCare has additional regulatory applications for EYLEA for various indications pending in other countries. We are collaborating with Bayer HealthCare on the global development and commercialization of EYLEA outside the United States. 

&#8226; 

Praluent (alirocumab) Injection , which is available in the United States where it is indicated as an adjunct to diet and maximally tolerated statin therapy for the treatment of adults with heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia or clinical atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (ASCVD), who require additional lowering of LDL cholesterol. In September 2015, the European Commission granted marketing authorization of Praluent for the treatment of adult patients with primary hypercholesterolemia (heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (HeFH) and non-familial) or mixed dyslipidemia as an adjunct to diet: (a) in combination with a statin, or statin with other lipid-lowering therapies in patients unable to reach their LDL-cholesterol goals with the maximally-tolerated dose of a statin, or (b) alone or in combination with other lipid-lowering therapies for patients who are statin intolerant, or for whom a statin is contraindicated. The effect of Praluent on cardiovascular morbidity and mortality has not been determined. We are collaborating with Sanofi on the global development and commercialization of Praluent. 

&#8226; 

ARCALYST &#174; &#32;(rilonacept) Injection for Subcutaneous Use , which is available in the United States for the treatment of Cryopyrin-Associated Periodic Syndromes (CAPS), including Familial Cold Auto-inflammatory Syndrome (FCAS) and Muckle-Wells Syndrome (MWS), in adults and children 12 years and older. 

In February 2015, we and Sanofi entered into an amended and restated ZALTRAP &#174; &#32;agreement (Amended ZALTRAP Agreement). Under the terms of the Amended ZALTRAP Agreement, Sanofi is solely responsible for the development and commercialization of ZALTRAP (ziv-aflibercept) Injection for Intravenous Infusion for cancer indications worldwide. Sanofi bears the cost of all development and commercialization activities and reimburses Regeneron for its costs for any such activities. Sanofi pays us a percentage of aggregate net sales of ZALTRAP during each calendar year of between 15% to 30%, depending on the aggregate net sales of ZALTRAP in such calendar year. Refer to "Collaboration Agreements - Collaborations with Sanofi - ZALTRAP" below for further details of the Amended ZALTRAP Agreement. ZALTRAP is currently available in the United States, EU, and certain other countries for treatment, in combination with 5-fluorouracil, leucovorin, irinotecan (FOLFIRI), of patients with metastatic colorectal cancer (mCRC) that is resistant to or has progressed following an oxaliplatin-containing regimen. 

We have 13 &#32;product candidates in clinical development, all of which were discovered in our research laboratories. These consist of a Trap-based clinical program and 12 &#32;fully human monoclonal antibody product candidates, as summarized below. Each of the antibodies in the table below was generated using our VelocImmune &#174; &#32;technology. 

Trap-based Clinical Programs 

EYLEA 

In Phase 3 clinical development for the treatment of Neovascular Glaucoma (NVG) (in Japan) in collaboration with Bayer HealthCare. As described below, aflibercept is also being studied in combination with (i) an antibody to Platelet Derived Growth Factor Receptor Beta (PDGFR-beta), and (ii) an antibody to angiopoietin-2 (Ang2). 

Antibody-based Clinical Programs in Collaboration with Sanofi 

Praluent 

Antibody to PCSK9. In Phase 3 clinical development for LDL cholesterol reduction and for the prevention of cardiovascular events. In July 2015, the FDA approved Praluent as an adjunct to diet and maximally tolerated statin therapy for the treatment of adults with heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia or clinical ASCVD, who require additional lowering of LDL cholesterol. In September 2015, the European Commission granted marketing authorization for Praluent for the treatment of LDL cholesterol in certain adult patients with hypercholesterolemia. The effect of Praluent on cardiovascular morbidity and mortality has not been determined. 

Sarilumab (REGN88) 

Antibody to the interleukin-6 receptor (IL-6R). In clinical development in rheumatoid arthritis (Phase 3) and non-infectious uveitis (Phase 2). 

Dupilumab (REGN668) 

Antibody to the interleukin-4 receptor (IL-4R) alpha subunit. In clinical development in atopic dermatitis in adults (Phase 3), atopic dermatitis in pediatric patients (Phase 2), asthma (Phase 3), nasal polyps in patients who also have chronic sinusitis (NPwCS) (Phase 2), and eosinophilic esophagitis (EoE) (Phase 2). 

REGN2810 

Antibody to programmed cell death protein 1 (PD-1). Phase 1 clinical study in advanced malignancies initiated in the first quarter of 2015. 

Antibody-based Clinical Program in Collaboration with Bayer HealthCare 

REGN2176-3 ** 

Combination product comprised of an antibody to PDGFR-beta co-formulated with aflibercept for intravitreal injection for use in ophthalmology. Phase 2 clinical study for the treatment of wet AMD initiated in the second quarter of 2015. Fast Track designation received from the FDA for the treatment of patients with wet AMD. 

Antibody-based Clinical Program in Collaboration with Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma 

Fasinumab (REGN475) * 

Antibody to Nerve Growth Factor (NGF). Phase 2b/3 study (16-weeks) in pain due to osteoarthritis initiated in the second quarter of 2015. 

Antibody-based Clinical Programs Developing Independently 

REGN2222 * 

Antibody to the Respiratory Syncytial Virus-F (RSV-F) protein. Phase 3 clinical study in RSV initiated in the second quarter of 2015. 

Evinacumab (REGN1500) * 

Antibody to Angptl-3. Phase 2 clinical study for the treatment of dyslipidemia in homozygous familial hypercholesterolemia initiated in the first quarter of 2015. Partial clinical hold that excluded women of childbearing potential was lifted by the FDA in the third quarter of 2015. 

REGN1033 * 

Antibody to myostatin (GDF8). Phase 2 monotherapy clinical development in skeletal muscle disorders completed. Combination therapy plans are in development. In the second quarter of 2015, Sanofi provided notice to Regeneron that it had elected not to continue co-development of REGN1033. 

REGN1908-1909 * 

Antibody to Feld1 in Phase 1/Phase 2 clinical development against allergic disease. 

REGN1979 

Bispecific antibody against CD20 and CD3. In Phase 1 clinical development for Non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma and Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia. 

Nesvacumab/aflibercept (REGN910-3) ** 

Combination product comprised of an antibody to Ang2 co-formulated with aflibercept for intravitreal injection for use in ophthalmology. Phase 1 clinical development for the treatment of wet AMD and DME completed. 

* Sanofi did not opt-in to or elected not to continue to co-develop the product candidate. Under the terms of our agreement, Sanofi is entitled to receive royalties on any future sales of the product candidate. 

** Antibodies targeting the PDGF family of receptors and ligands in ophthalmology and all other indications, and antibodies targeting the Ang2 receptor and ligand in ophthalmology were previously included in our antibody collaboration with Sanofi. Under the terms of our agreements, Sanofi is entitled to receive potential development milestones and royalties on any future sales of the product candidate. 

REGN1400, an antibody to ErbB3, REGN1154, an antibody against an undisclosed target, and REGN1193, an antibody to glucagon receptor (GCGR), each of which were previously in Phase 1 studies, are no longer in clinical development. &#32; 

Our core business strategy is to maintain a strong foundation in basic scientific research and discovery-enabling technologies, and to combine that foundation with our clinical development, manufacturing, and commercial capabilities. We are executing our long-term objective to build a successful, integrated, multi-product biopharmaceutical company that provides patients and medical professionals with innovative options for preventing and treating human diseases. 

We believe that our ability to develop product candidates is enhanced by the application of our VelociSuite &#174; &#32;technology platforms. Our discovery platforms are designed to identify specific proteins of therapeutic interest for a particular disease or cell type and validate these targets through high-throughput production of genetically modified mice using our VelociGene &#174; &#32;technology to understand the role of these proteins in normal physiology, as well as in models of disease. Our human monoclonal antibody technology ( VelocImmune ) and cell line expression technologies ( VelociMab &#174; ) may then be utilized to discover and produce new product candidates directed against the disease target. Our antibody product candidates currently in clinical trials were developed using VelocImmune . We continue to invest in the development of enabling technologies to assist in our efforts to identify, develop, manufacture, and commercialize new product candidates. 

Marketed Products 

EYLEA (aflibercept) Injection 

We commenced sales of EYLEA in the United States for the treatment of wet AMD in 2011, macular edema following CRVO in 2012, DME in the third quarter of 2014, and macular edema following RVO in the fourth quarter of 2014. In addition, in March 2015, the FDA approved EYLEA for the treatment of diabetic retinopathy in patients with DME. Outside the United States, Bayer HealthCare commenced sales of EYLEA for the treatment of wet AMD in 2012, macular edema secondary to CRVO in 2013, visual impairment due to DME in the third quarter of 2014, and mCNV in Japan in the fourth quarter of 2014. In February and June 2015, the European Commission and the Japanese Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare (MHLW), respectively, approved EYLEA for the treatment of macular edema following RVO, which includes macular edema following BRVO. In October 2015, the European Commission approved EYLEA for the treatment of visual impairment due to mCNV. In the fourth quarter of 2014, Bayer HealthCare submitted a regulatory application in China for EYLEA for the treatment of wet AMD. Bayer HealthCare has additional regulatory applications for EYLEA for various indications pending in other countries. 

We are collaborating with Bayer HealthCare on the global development and commercialization of EYLEA outside the United States. Bayer HealthCare markets, and records revenue from sales of EYLEA outside the United States, where, for countries other than Japan, the companies share equally the profits and losses from sales of EYLEA. In Japan, we are entitled to receive a percentage of the sales of EYLEA. We maintain exclusive rights to EYLEA in the United States and are entitled to all profits from such sales. 

Net product sales of EYLEA in the United States were $2,676.0 million &#32;in 2015, compared to $1,736.4 million &#32;in 2014 and $1,408.7 million &#32;in 2013. Bayer HealthCare records revenue from sales of EYLEA outside the United States, which were $1,413.3 million &#32;in 2015, compared to $1,038.5 million &#32;in 2014 and $472.1 million &#32;in 2013. 

Praluent (alirocumab) Injection 

In July 2015, the FDA approved Praluent as an adjunct to diet and maximally tolerated statin therapy for the treatment of adults with heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia or clinical ASCVD, who require additional lowering of LDL cholesterol. In addition, in September 2015, the European Commission granted marketing authorization of Praluent for the treatment of adult patients with primary hypercholesterolemia (HeFH and non-familial) or mixed dyslipidemia as an adjunct to diet: (a) in combination with a statin, or statin with other lipid-lowering therapies in patients unable to reach their LDL-cholesterol goals with the maximally-tolerated dose of a statin, or (b) alone or in combination with other lipid-lowering therapies for patients who are statin intolerant, or for whom a statin is contraindicated. The effect of Praluent on cardiovascular morbidity and mortality has not been determined. We are collaborating with Sanofi on the global development and commercialization of Praluent. Under our collaboration agreement, Sanofi records product sales and cost of sales for commercialized products, and Regeneron has the right to co-promote such products. We have exercised our option to co-promote Praluent in the United States. We and Sanofi share profits and losses from sales of Praluent. 

Net product sales of Praluent were $10.5 million &#32;in 2015. 

ARCALYST (rilonacept) Injection for Subcutaneous Use 

ARCALYST is available in the United States for the treatment of CAPS in adults and children 12 years and older. CAPS are a group of rare, inherited, auto-inflammatory conditions characterized by life-long, recurrent symptoms of rash, fever/chills, joint pain, eye redness/pain, and fatigue. Intermittent, disruptive exacerbations or flares can be triggered at any time by exposure to cooling temperatures, stress, exercise, or other unknown stimuli. 

Net product sales of ARCALYST were $13.5 million &#32;in 2015, $14.4 million &#32;in 2014, and $17.1 million &#32;in 2013. 

Trap-based Clinical Programs 

EYLEA - Ophthalmologic Diseases 

Overview 

Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor (VEGF) is a naturally occurring protein in the body. Its normal role in a healthy organism is to trigger formation of new blood vessels (angiogenesis) supporting the growth of the body's tissues and organs. However, in certain diseases, such as wet AMD, it is also associated with the growth of abnormal new blood vessels in the eye, which exhibit abnormal increased permeability that leads to edema. Scarring and loss of fine-resolution central vision often results. CRVO is caused by obstruction of the central retinal vein that leads to a back-up of blood and fluid in the retina. Release of VEGF contributes to increased vascular permeability in the eye and macular edema. In BRVO, a blockage occurs in the blood vessels branching from the main vein draining the retina, resulting in the release of VEGF and consequent retinal edema. For centrally involved DME, VEGF-mediated leakage of fluid from blood vessels in the eye results in interference with vision. Wet AMD, diabetic retinopathy (which includes DME), and RVO are three of the leading causes of adult blindness in the developed world. In these conditions, severe visual loss is caused by neovascular proliferation and/or retinal edema. 

EYLEA is a recombinant fusion protein, consisting of portions of human VEGF receptors 1 and 2 extracellular domains fused to the Fc portion of human IgG1 and formulated as an iso-osmotic solution for intravitreal administration. EYLEA acts as a soluble decoy receptor that binds VEGF-A and placental growth factor (PlGF) and thereby can inhibit the binding and activation of these cognate VEGF receptors. EYLEA is specially purified and contains iso-osmotic buffer concentrations, allowing for injection into the eye. 

Neovascular Glaucoma 

NVG is a secondary glaucoma triggered by the formation of new blood vessels (neovascularization) on the iris and the anterior chamber angle. Neovascularization restricts aqueous outflow and consequently elevates intraocular pressure (IOP). NVG is a serious condition that may lead to permanent loss of vision, a persistently painful eye, and, especially in the advanced stages, is unlikely to respond to treatment. NVG is caused by eye diseases leading to retinal ischemia, mainly CRVO, proliferative diabetic retinopathy (PDR), and ocular ischemic syndrome (OIS). 

NVG meets the criteria for an orphan indication in Japan where the estimated number of NVG patients is 30,000 to 40,000. In the second quarter of 2015, Bayer HealthCare initiated a Phase 3 study in Japan to assess the efficacy and safety of intravitreal administration of aflibercept in comparison to sham treatment on the change in IOP in patients with NVG. 

Late-Stage Antibody-based Clinical Programs 

Praluent for LDL cholesterol reduction 

Overview 

Elevated LDL cholesterol ("bad cholesterol") level is a validated risk factor leading to cardiovascular disease. Statins are a class of drugs that lower LDL cholesterol (LDL-C) through inhibition of HMG-CoA, an enzyme regulating the early and rate-limiting step in cholesterol biosynthesis that ultimately results in an increase in LDL receptors to increase the uptake of plasma LDL lipoproteins. Similar to statins, PCSK9 impacts the number of available LDL receptors and therefore plays a key role in modulating LDL-C levels in the body. PCSK9 is a secreted protein that binds to and induces the destruction of the LDL receptor, thereby interfering with cellular uptake and increasing circulating levels of LDL cholesterol. In a landmark study published in The &#32; New England Journal of Medicine &#32;in March 2006, patients with lower than normal PCSK9 levels due to a genetic abnormality not only had significantly lower levels of LDL-C, but also a significant reduction in the risk of coronary heart disease (CHD). We used our VelocImmune &#32;technology to generate a fully human monoclonal antibody inhibitor of PCSK9, called Praluent, that is intended to lower LDL cholesterol. 

Clinical Programs 

Phase 3 ODYSSEY Program . We and Sanofi initiated the global Phase 3 ODYSSEY program for Praluent in 2012. The ODYSSEY program consists of more than 25,000 patients, and includes clinical trials evaluating the effect of Praluent, dosed every two weeks, on lowering LDL cholesterol. In addition, the potential of Praluent to demonstrate cardiovascular benefit is being prospectively assessed in the ongoing 18,000-patient ODYSSEY OUTCOMES trial, which is fully enrolled and is expected to be completed in 2017. LDL cholesterol reduction is the primary efficacy endpoint for initial regulatory filings. Additionally, the ODYSSEY program includes two trials of Praluent dosed every four weeks, ODYSSEY CHOICE I and ODYSSEY CHOICE II. Patients in the ODYSSEY CHOICE I trial received Praluent 300 milligrams (mg) (most in combination with statins) every four weeks and patients in the CHOICE II trial received Praluent 150 mg monotherapy and in combination with non-statin lipid lowering therapy every four weeks. 

In 2013, we and Sanofi reported data from the ODYSSEY MONO trial, which evaluated the efficacy and safety of Praluent monotherapy versus ezetimibe monotherapy in patients with primary hypercholesterolemia. In 2014, we and Sanofi reported detailed positive results from nine additional Phase 3 ODYSSEY studies. All ten studies (ODYSSEY MONO, LONG TERM, FH I, FH II, HIGH FH, COMBO I, COMBO II, OPTIONS I, OPTIONS II, and ALTERNATIVE) met their primary efficacy endpoint of a greater percent reduction from baseline in LDL-C at 24 weeks compared to placebo or active comparator. Based on the positive results of these studies, a Biologics License Application (BLA) for U.S. regulatory approval of Praluent was submitted, and accepted by the FDA in January 2015. An FDA rare pediatric disease priority review voucher was utilized in connection with this BLA submission, as a result of which the submission was accepted by the FDA for priority review. In July 2015, the FDA approved Praluent as an adjunct to diet and maximally tolerated statin therapy for the treatment of adults with heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia or clinical ASCVD, who require additional lowering of LDL cholesterol. In addition, in September 2015, the European Commission granted marketing authorization of Praluent for the treatment of adult patients with primary hypercholesterolemia (HeFH and non-familial) or mixed dyslipidemia as an adjunct to diet: (a) in combination with a statin, or statin with other lipid-lowering therapies in patients unable to reach their LDL-cholesterol goals with the maximally-tolerated dose of a statin, or (b) alone or in combination with other lipid-lowering therapies for patients who are statin intolerant, or for whom a statin is contraindicated. The effect of Praluent on cardiovascular morbidity and mortality has not been determined. 

In January 2015, we and Sanofi announced that the ODYSSEY CHOICE I and ODYSSEY CHOICE II studies met their primary efficacy endpoints. The trials compared the reduction from baseline in LDL-C at 24 weeks with Praluent versus placebo in patients with hypercholesterolemia. In these trials dosing every four weeks, the mean percent reduction in LDL-C from baseline was consistent with that seen in previous Phase 3 trials evaluating Praluent in every other week dosing. The most common adverse events (AEs) in the trials (occurring in at least 5% of Praluent-treated patients) were injection site reactions, headache, upper respiratory tract infection, arthralgia, nausea, sinusitis, pain in extremity, and fatigue. Injection site reactions occurred more frequently in the Praluent groups compared to placebo. 

ODYSSEY JAPAN was a trial that evaluated Praluent (n =144) compared to placebo (n =72), both on top of standard care, in Japanese patients with hypercholesterolemia, with either HeFH or at high CV risk, and who could not reach their LDL-C treatment goal as defined by the Japan Atherosclerosis Society (JAS) guidelines despite lipid-lowering treatments that included statins. The mean LDL-C value at baseline was 141.2 mg/dL. Patients were initially randomized to receive either Praluent 75 mg every two weeks administered as a single 1 mL injection, or placebo. Patients in both groups received statins, with or without other lipid-lowering therapies. In July 2015, we and Sanofi announced that the Phase 3 ODYSSEY JAPAN trial met its primary endpoint. At week 24, patients in the Praluent group experienced an average 64% greater reduction from baseline in their LDL-C when added to current standard of care including statins, compared to standard of care alone (p&#60;0.0001). Patients were started on the lower dose of 75 mg, with the option to adjust their dose to 150 mg if they had not achieved their LDL-C goal (as defined by the JAS guidelines) at week 8. At week 24, 97% of patients in the Praluent group reached their LDL-C treatment goal, compared to 10% for placebo (p&#60;0.0001). Ninety-nine percent of Japanese patients who received Praluent at week 8 remained on the initial 75 mg dose, while 1% of patients had their dose adjusted to receive 150 mg every two weeks, also as a single 1 milliliter (mL) injection. The most common adverse events (occurring in at least 5% of patients in the Praluent group) were nasopharyngitis, injection site reaction, and back pain. In July 2015, results were presented at the Annual Scientific Meeting of the JAS in Sendai, Japan. 

Sarilumab (REGN88; IL-6R Antibody) for inflammatory diseases 

Overview 

IL-6 is a key cytokine involved in the pathogenesis of RA, causing inflammation and joint destruction. Sarilumab is a fully human monoclonal antibody to IL-6R generated using our VelocImmune &#32;technology. 

Rheumatoid Arthritis 

Phase 3 Studies . In 2013, we and Sanofi announced that in the 52 week SARIL-RA-MOBILITY Phase 3 clinical trial in adult patients with active RA who were inadequate responders to methotrexate (MTX) therapy, sarilumab treatment in combination with 

MTX improved disease signs and symptoms as well as physical function, and inhibited progression of joint damage. Additional data from the trial were presented at the annual meeting of the European League Against Rheumatism (EULAR) in June 2015. 

In the second quarter of 2015, we and Sanofi announced that in the 24 week SARIL-RA-TARGET Phase 3 clinical trial in adult patients with active RA who were inadequate responders or intolerant of TNF-alpha inhibitors, sarilumab treatment in combination with non-biologic disease modifying anti-rheumatic drugs (DMARD) therapy improved disease signs and symptoms, as well as physical function. Data from this trial were subsequently presented at the annual meeting of the American College of Rheumatology (ACR) in November 2015. A BLA for U.S. regulatory approval of sarilumab was accepted for review by the FDA in December 2015. The target date for an FDA decision on the BLA is October 30, 2016. 

A summary of primary endpoints and most common AEs for the MOBILITY and TARGET trials is as follows: 

Completed Efficacy and Safety Studies * 

Study 

Patient group 

Primary efficacy endpoints ** 

Safety findings 

ACR a 20/50/70 

HAQ-DI b 

mTSS c 

MOBILITY (n=1,197) 

150mg + MTX (n=400) 

Moderate to severe active RA with inadequate response to MTX 

58/37/20 

(p&#60;0.0001 vs. placebo) 

-0.53 

(p&#60;0.0001 vs. placebo) 

0.90 

(p&#60;0.0001 vs. placebo) 

Infections, neutropenia, injection site reactions, and increased transaminases 

200mg + MTX (n=398) 

66/46/25 

(p&#60;0.0001 vs. placebo) 

-0.55 

(p&#60;0.0001 vs. placebo) 

0.25 

(p&#60;0.0001 vs. placebo) 

Placebo + MTX (n=399) 

33/17/7 

-0.29 

2.78 

TARGET (n=546) 

150mg + DMARD &#160; (n=181) 

Moderate to severe active RA with inadequate response to, or intolerant of, one or more tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) inhibitors 

56/37/20 d 

(p&#60;0.0001 vs. placebo for ACR20 and ACR50) 

-0.46 

(p=0.0007 vs. placebo) 

NA 

Infections, neutropenia, injection site reactions, and hypertriglyceridemia 

200mg + DMARD (n=184) 

61/41/16 e 

(p&#60;0.0001 vs. placebo for ACR20 and ACR50) 

-0.47 

(p=0.0004 vs. placebo) 

Placebo + DMARD (n=181) 

34/18/7 

-0.26 

* - represent completed, placebo-controlled, double-blind efficacy studies 

** - in MOBILITY, proportion of patients achieving ACR20 at week 24, change from baseline in HAQ-DI at week 16, and change from baseline mTSS at week 52 were co-primary endpoints. In TARGET, proportion of patients achieving ACR20 at week 24 and change from baseline in HAQ-DI at week 24 were co-primary endpoints 

NA = not applicable 

a. ACR = American College of Rheumatology score 

b. HAQ-DI = the Health Assessment Question-Disability Index 

c. mTSS = van der Heijde modified total Sharp score 

d. p&#60;0.0002 vs. placebo for ACR70 

e. p&#60;0.0056 vs. placebo for ACR70 

Completed Safety Studies 

Study 

Patient group 

Primary endpoint 

Study met primary endpoint? 

ASCERTAIN &#160; (n=202) 

Moderate to severe active RA with inadequate response to, or intolerant of, one or more TNF-alpha inhibitors 

Assess safety of two subcutaneous doses of sarilumab and tocilizumab in combination with DMARDs 

Yes 

EASY &#160; (n=217) 

Completed patients from MOBILITY, TARGET, or ASCERTAIN trials 

Product technical failures 

Yes 

Additional results from the Phase 3 studies will be presented at upcoming medical congresses. 

We and Sanofi have also initiated additional Phase 3 studies, SARIL-RA-ONE, SARIL-RA-MONARCH, and SARIL-RA-KAKEHASI (in Japan). In addition, the SARIL-RA-HARUKA long-term safety trial was initiated in Japan in the first quarter of 2015. In the second quarter of 2015, an open-label, randomized, parallel group, single-dose Phase 1 study to assess the safety of IL-6 receptor blockade with sarilumab or tocilizumab monotherapy in Japanese patients with RA was also initiated. The broad SARIL-RA clinical development program is focused on adult populations with moderate-to-severe RA who are inadequate responders to either MTX or tumor necrosis factor alpha inhibitor therapy. Patients who complete SARIL-RA-MOBILITY, SARIL-RA-TARGET, SARIL-RA-ASCERTAIN, or SARIL-RA-ONE are offered enrollment into the ongoing SARIL-RA-EXTEND, which is an open-label, long-term safety study of sarilumab. 

Non-infectious Uveitis 

Phase 2 SARIL-NIU-SATURN Study . SARIL-NIU-SATURN was a small Phase 2, randomized double-masked, placebo-controlled study (n=58) conducted to assess the effect of sarilumab on non-infectious uveitis of the posterior ocular segment. The primary endpoint of the study was the proportion of patients with a 2-step decrease in vitreous haze (based on a 9-point grading scale) or a steroid dose of less than 10 mg/day at week 16. Results of this study at the pre-specified primary endpoint, week 16, showed that compared with placebo patients, a greater proportion of patients randomized to sarilumab met the primary endpoint; however, this was not statistically significant. Approximately 70% of patients enrolled in the study had a baseline vitreous haze score of less than 2 as judged by the reading center, limiting our ability to interpret the vitreous haze component of the primary endpoint for these patients. Other indications of a positive effect of treatment with sarilumab compared to placebo included decreased average vitreous haze score, reduced macular edema and improved best-corrected visual acuity in patients presenting with more severe baseline ocular inflammation, and associated with improvement of leakage on fluorescein angiography. Overall, safety observations were consistent with the findings in studies of other indications with sarilumab. The study is ongoing and will continue through week 52, when we will discuss next steps with our collaborator Sanofi. 

Dupilumab (REGN668; IL-4R Antibody) for allergic and inflammatory conditions 

Overview 

IL-4R is required for signaling by the cytokines IL-4 and IL-13. Both of these cytokines are critical mediators of immune response, which, in turn, drives the formation of Immunoglobulin E (IgE) antibodies and the development of allergic responses, as well as the atopic state that underlies atopic (allergic) dermatitis, asthma, nasal polyps, and eosinophilic esophagitis. Dupilumab is a fully human monoclonal antibody generated using our VelocImmune &#32;technology that is designed to bind to IL-4R alpha subunit and block signaling from both IL-4 and IL-13. 

Atopic Dermatitis 

Phase 2b Trial . In 2015, results from a Phase 2b dose-ranging study of dupilumab in adult patients with moderate-to-severe atopic dermatitis were published in The Lancet . All doses of dupilumab met the primary endpoint of a greater improvement in Eczema Severe Score Index (EASI) scores from baseline compared to placebo. In the Phase 2b trial, all five subcutaneous doses of dupilumab showed a dose-dependent improvement in the primary endpoint, the mean percent change in EASI score from baseline to week 16. The improvements in EASI score ranged from a high of 74% for patients in the highest dose group, who received 300 mg weekly, to a low of 45% in patients who received the lowest dose of 100 mg monthly, compared to 18% for patients in the placebo group (p&#60;0.0001 for all doses). The most common AE in the Phase 2b study was nasopharyngitis, which was balanced across dupilumab treatment groups (18.5% to 23%) compared to placebo (21%). Injection site reactions were more frequent in the dupilumab group (5% to 9.5%) compared to placebo (3%), as was headache (12% to 15%) compared to placebo (8%). 

Dupilumab-treated patients showed highly statistically significant and dose-dependent improvements in additional key efficacy measures compared to placebo after 16 weeks of treatment: 

&#8226; 

12% to 33% of dupilumab-treated patients achieved clearing or near-clearing of skin lesions, as measured by an Investigator's Global Assessment (IGA) score of 0 or 1, compared to 2% with placebo (p=0.02 to p&#60;0.0001). 

&#8226; 

Dupilumab-treated patients experienced a 16.5% to 47% mean reduction in itching, as measured by the pruritus numerical-rating scale (NRS) score, compared to an increase of 5% in the placebo group (p=0.0005 to p&#60;0.0001). 

This Phase 2b double-blind, placebo-controlled, 16-week, dose-ranging study randomized 380 patients with moderate-to-severe atopic dermatitis, who could not be adequately controlled with topical medication or for whom topical treatment was not advisable. Patients were randomized to receive one of five doses of dupilumab (300 mg weekly, 300 mg every other week, 300 mg monthly, 200 mg every other week, 100 mg monthly) or placebo. Patients in the study had approximately 50% of their skin affected by atopic dermatitis at baseline. In the year preceding enrollment in the study, approximately 35% of patients received an oral 

corticosteroid and approximately 20% received a systemic non-steroid immunosuppressant for atopic dermatitis. Approximately 60% of patients had another allergic condition, including approximately 40% of patients who had a history of asthma. 

Phase 3 Study . In 2015, three Phase 3 trials in atopic dermatitis, LIBERTY AD CHRONOS, LIBERTY AD SOLO 1, and LIBERTY AD SOLO 2, completed enrollment. Patients from these studies were transitioned to either the ongoing LIBERTY CONTINUE or LIBERTY AD Open label Extension trials. The LIBERTY AD Phase 3 clinical program consists of patients with moderate-to-severe atopic dermatitis at sites worldwide. 

In November 2014, the FDA granted Breakthrough Therapy designation to dupilumab for the treatment of adults with moderate-to-severe atopic dermatitis who are not adequately controlled with topical prescription therapy and/or for whom these treatments are not appropriate. This designation is based on positive results from Phase 1 and 2 clinical trials, the determination that atopic dermatitis is a serious disease, and preliminary clinical evidence that indicates that the drug may demonstrate substantial improvement over existing therapies. 

In December 2015, the United Kingdom (UK) Medicines &#38; Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) granted Promising Innovative Medicine (PIM) Designation to dupilumab in the short-term treatment of adult patients with severe atopic dermatitis who have responded inadequately to all available topical prescription treatments and/or systemic ciclosporin, or who are intolerant of or ineligible for such treatments. A PIM Designation is an early indication that a medicinal product is a promising candidate for the Early Access to Medicines Scheme (EAMS), in the treatment, diagnosis, or prevention of life-threatening or seriously debilitating conditions with unmet need. PIM Designation is the first step in a 2-step EAMS process that allows patients to be treated with dupilumab in advance of formal regulatory approval. 

Phase 2 Trial in Pediatric Patients . In March 2015, a Phase 2 pharmacokinetic and safety study in pediatric patients (6-17 years of age) with moderate-to-severe atopic dermatitis was initiated and is fully enrolled. 

Asthma 

Phase 2b Study . In May 2015, we and Sanofi presented positive results from an interim analysis of a pivotal Phase 2b study of dupilumab in adult patients with moderate-to-severe asthma, who are uncontrolled despite treatment with inhaled corticosteroids and long-acting beta agonists (ICS/LABA), at the American Thoracic Society 2015 International Conference. The results of this study demonstrated that dupilumab added to standard-of-care therapy demonstrated fewer exacerbations and improved lung function across both the high and low baseline eosinophil groups of patients. As previously reported in 2014, the study met its primary endpoint of improving lung function in asthma patients with high blood eosinophil counts ((HEos), greater than or equal to 300 eosinophilic cells/microliter). New data presented on secondary endpoints at the American Thoracic Society 2015 International Conference included positive results in study patients with low blood eosinophil counts ((LEos), less than 300 eosinophilic cells/microliter), who are thought to be less likely to suffer from "allergic" asthma and thus less likely to respond to Type 2 helper T-cell (TH2) targeted therapies. Based on discussions with the FDA, this Phase 2b study may be considered one of two pivotal efficacy studies required for a potential dupilumab BLA in asthma. 

The results presented in May 2015 focused on LEos asthma patients. In this population, patients treated every other week with either 200 mg or 300 mg doses of dupilumab showed a greater than 8% improvement in forced expiratory volume over one second ((FEV1), a standard measure of lung function) at week 12 (p&#60;0.001), in comparison to placebo, both in combination with ICS/LABA. Additionally, the 200 mg and 300 mg every other week doses of dupilumab in combination with ICS/LABA showed 68% and 62% reductions, respectively, in adjusted annualized rate of severe exacerbations in the LEos population (p&#60;0.01 and p&#60;0.05), in comparison to placebo in combination with ICS/LABA. These results are consistent with previously reported positive results in HEos asthma patients and the overall patient population, in which the two every other week doses (200 mg and 300 mg) of dupilumab in combination with ICS/LABA demonstrated a statistically significant 12% to 15% improvement in FEV1 over placebo at week 12 and a 64% to 75% improvement in annualized rate of severe exacerbations over placebo. Dupilumab also significantly reduced mean fractional exhaled nitric oxide (FeNO) across both every other week doses tested (200 mg and 300 mg) and the three patient populations (overall, LEos and HEos), in a roughly dose-dependent manner. FeNO is recommended by the American Thoracic Society clinical practice guidelines to assess airway inflammation, since higher-than-normal levels of nitric oxide may be released when a patient has a chronic airway disease, such as asthma. 

The most common AE was injection site reaction, which was more frequent in the dupilumab dose groups (13% to 25%) compared to placebo (12%). Other common AEs in the study included upper respiratory tract infection (10% to 13% dupilumab; 13% placebo), headache (5% to 10% dupilumab; 8% placebo), nasopharyngitis (3% to 10% dupilumab; 6% placebo) and bronchitis (5% to 8% dupilumab; 8% placebo). The incidence of infections was balanced across treatment groups (42% to 45% dupilumab; 46% placebo), as was the incidence of serious AEs (3% to 7% dupilumab; 5% placebo). 

These results were based on a pre-specified interim analysis, which occurred when all patients had reached week 12 of the 24-week treatment period; the average treatment duration at the time of the analysis was 21.4 weeks. The primary endpoint of the study was improvement from baseline in FEV1 at week 12 in the HEos group. 

Phase 3 Study . A Phase 3 trial, LIBERTY ASTHMA QUEST, in patients with uncontrolled persistent asthma was initiated in the second quarter of 2015. LIBERTY ASTHMA QUEST is expected to serve as the second required pivotal efficacy study, since, based on discussions with the FDA, the Phase 2b study will also be considered a pivotal efficacy study. The global, placebo-controlled Phase 3 study is expected to enroll more than 1,600 patients with uncontrolled persistent asthma and will evaluate two doses of dupilumab, 200 mg and 300 mg, subcutaneously administered every other week. 

Nasal Polyposis 

Phase 2 Trial . In 2013, a Phase 2 trial in NPwCS was initiated. In September 2014, we and Sanofi announced positive results from the Phase 2 proof-of-concept study of dupilumab in patients with moderate-to-severe NPwCS who did not respond to intranasal corticosteroids. The randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study enrolled 60 adult patients with moderate-to-severe NPwCS. Patients in the study received 300 mg of dupilumab, following an initial loading dose of 600 mg, or placebo, administered once per week subcutaneously for 16 weeks. All patients in the study also received a standard-of-care nasal corticosteroid spray. Patients were eligible for the study if they continued to have severe NPwCS despite standard treatment for at least one month. Fifty percent of patients in the study had received prior surgery for their condition. Asthma was also present in 58 percent of NPwCS patients in the study. The conditions are often co-morbid and symptoms/exacerbations are frequently interdependent. 

In the study, dupilumab resulted in a statistically-significant decrease in the size of nasal polyps, as measured by endoscopic Nasal Polyp Score (NPS), the primary endpoint of the study. Statistically significant improvements in all secondary efficacy endpoints were also observed, including objective measures of sinusitis by CT scan, nasal air flow, and patient-reported symptoms (sense of smell, congestion, postnasal drip, runny nose and sleep disturbance). In a pre-specified exploratory analysis, dupilumab-treated patients who also had asthma demonstrated significant improvements in asthma control. The safety profile was consistent with previous studies. The most common AEs with dupilumab were injection site reactions, nasopharyngitis, oropharyngeal pain, epistaxis, headache, and dizziness. 

Eosinophilic Esophagitis 

Phase 2 Trial. A Phase 2 trial of dupilumab in eosinophilic esophagitis was initiated in the first quarter of 2015. EoE is a chronic allergic inflammatory disease that is considered a major cause of gastrointestinal illness. Eosinophils are a type of white blood cell that, due to allergens, can accumulate in the esophagus, causing inflammation and tissue injuries that create difficulty swallowing. People with eosinophilic esophagitis may also have allergies, asthma, atopic dermatitis, or chronic respiratory disease. 

REGN2222 (RSV-F Antibody) for RSV 

Overview 

Respiratory Syncytial Virus, or RSV, is a virus that infects the lungs and breathing passages. It is the most common cause of bronchiolitis (inflammation of the small airways) and is the second most common cause of death, globally, in the first year of life. RSV results in a significant healthcare burden, as it is the leading cause of infant hospitalizations in the United States. In addition to hospitalizations, RSV frequently results in emergency department, urgent care, and physicians&#8217; office visits. It is estimated that about half of all children will have an RSV infection by their first birthday. REGN2222 is a fully human monoclonal antibody to the RSV-F protein. REGN2222 was generated using our VelocImmune &#32;technology. 

Clinical Program 

Based on clinical results from a Phase 1 study, a Phase 3 pivotal clinical study of REGN2222 (NURSERY Pre-Term) was initiated in the third quarter of 2015 and is currently enrolling patients. 

In October 2015, the FDA granted Fast Track designation to REGN2222 for the prevention of serious lower respiratory tract disease caused by RSV. 

Fasinumab (REGN475; NGF Antibody) for pain due to osteoarthritis 

Overview 

Persistent osteoarthritic pain represents a growing unmet medical need. Pain is a frequent reason for physician visits, a common reason for taking prescription medications, and a major cause of work disability and impaired quality of life. Targeting NGF is a potential advance in pain management. NGF expression is elevated in many acute and chronic painful conditions and NGF blockade has demonstrated efficacy in various animal models of pain. Fasinumab is a fully human monoclonal antibody to NGF, generated using our VelocImmune &#32;technology. 

Clinical Program 

A Phase 2b/3 clinical study (16-weeks) in patients with pain due to osteoarthritis was initiated in the second quarter of 2015. In the first quarter of 2016, the FDA confirmed that we may proceed with studies of longer than sixteen-week duration. 

Research Programs 

Our preclinical research programs include the areas of oncology/immuno-oncology, angiogenesis, ophthalmology, metabolic and related diseases, muscle diseases and disorders, inflammation and immune diseases, bone and cartilage, pain and neurobiology, cardiovascular diseases, and infectious diseases. 

In September 2015, we and the Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Authority (BARDA) of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) entered into an agreement to develop, test, and manufacture a monoclonal antibody therapy for the treatment of Ebola virus infection. HHS will provide initial funding of approximately $17.0 million to support our preclinical development and antibody manufacturing. HHS also has the option to provide for up to an additional $32.2 million for a Phase 1 study in healthy volunteers, and further manufacturing and development studies. 

Research and Development Technologies 

Many proteins that are either on the surface of or secreted by cells play important roles in biology and disease. One way that a cell communicates with other cells is by releasing specific signaling proteins, either locally or into the bloodstream. These proteins have distinct functions and are classified into different "families" of molecules, such as peptide hormones, growth factors, and cytokines. All of these secreted (or signaling) proteins travel to and are recognized by another set of proteins, called "receptors," which reside on the surface of responding cells. These secreted proteins impact many critical cellular and biological processes, causing diverse effects ranging from the regulation of growth of particular cell types to inflammation mediated by white blood cells. Secreted proteins can at times be overactive and thus result in a variety of diseases. In these disease settings, blocking the action of specific secreted proteins can have clinical benefit. In other cases, proteins on the cell-surface can mediate the interaction between cells, such as the processes that give rise to inflammation and autoimmunity. 

Our scientists have developed two different technologies to design protein therapeutics to block the action of specific cell surface or secreted proteins. The first technology, termed the "Trap" technology, was used to generate EYLEA, ZALTRAP, and ARCALYST. These novel "Traps" are composed of fusions between two distinct receptor components and the constant region of an antibody molecule called the "Fc region," resulting in high affinity product candidates. VelociSuite &#32;is our second technology platform; it is used for discovering, developing, and producing fully human monoclonal antibodies that can address both secreted and cell-surface targets. 

VelociSuite. VelociSuite &#32;consists of VelocImmune, VelociGene, VelociMouse &#174; , and &#32;VelociMab . The VelocImmune &#32;mouse platform is utilized to produce fully human monoclonal antibodies. VelocImmune &#32;was generated by exploiting our VelociGene &#32;technology (see below), in a process in which six megabases of mouse immune gene loci were replaced, or "humanized," with corresponding human immune gene loci. VelocImmune &#32;mice can be used to generate efficiently fully human monoclonal antibodies to targets of therapeutic interest. VelocImmune &#32;and our entire VelociSuite &#32;offer the potential to increase the speed and efficiency through which human monoclonal antibody therapeutics may be discovered and validated, thereby improving the overall efficiency of our early stage drug development activities. We are utilizing the VelocImmune &#32;technology to produce our next generation of drug candidates for preclinical and clinical development. 

Our VelociGene &#32;platform allows custom and precise manipulation of very large sequences of DNA to produce highly customized alterations of a specified target gene, or genes, and accelerates the production of knock-out and transgenic expression models without using either positive/negative selection or isogenic DNA. In producing knock-out models, a color or fluorescent marker may be substituted in place of the actual gene sequence, allowing for high-resolution visualization of precisely where the gene is active in the body during normal body functioning as well as in disease processes. For the optimization of preclinical development and pharmacology programs, VelociGene &#32;offers the opportunity to humanize targets by replacing the mouse gene with the human homolog. Thus, VelociGene &#32;allows scientists to rapidly identify the physical and biological effects of deleting or over-expressing the target gene, as well as to characterize and test potential therapeutic molecules. 

Our VelociMouse &#32;technology platform allows for the direct and immediate generation of genetically altered mice from embryonic stem cells (ES cells), thereby avoiding the lengthy process involved in generating and breeding knockout mice from chimeras. Mice generated through this method are normal and healthy and exhibit a 100% germ-line transmission. Furthermore, mice developed using our VelociMouse &#32;technology are suitable for direct phenotyping or other studies. We have also developed our VelociMab &#32;platform for the rapid screening of antibodies and rapid generation of expression cell lines for our Traps and our VelocImmune &#32;human monoclonal antibodies. 

We have utilized our VelociSuite technologies to develop a class of potential drug candidates, known as bi-specific antibodies. In the area of immunotherapies in oncology, we are exploring the use of bi-specific antibodies that target tumor antigens and the CD3 receptor on T-cells to harness the oncolytic properties of T-cells. Our first such bi-specific antibody, which entered into clinical development in 2014, targets CD20 and CD3. 

Regeneron Genetics Center. &#32; In 2014, &#32; we launched a new human genetics initiative via a wholly owned subsidiary, Regeneron Genetics Center LLC (RGC). RGC leverages de-identified clinical, genomic, and molecular data from human volunteers to identify medically relevant associations in a blinded fashion designed to preserve patients' privacy. The objective of RGC is to expand the use of human genetics for discovering and validating genetic factors that cause or influence a range of diseases where there are major unmet medical needs, with the prospect of improving the drug discovery and development process. RGC is undertaking multiple approaches, including large population-based efforts as well as family- and founder-based approaches. RGC utilizes laboratory automation and innovative approaches to cloud computing to achieve high-quality throughput at a rate that currently exceeds 100,000 unique samples sequenced per year. 

Central to the work of RGC is a collaboration with the Geisinger Health System of Pennsylvania. Geisinger collects samples from consented patient volunteers, while RGC performs sequencing and genotyping to generate de-identified genomic data. In addition, RGC has expanded on its foundational population-based collaboration with Geisinger with a growing number of other institutions worldwide, including Columbia University Medical Center, the Clinic for Special Children, Baylor College of Medicine, and SickKids in Toronto. 

Collaboration Agreements 

Collaborations with Sanofi 

&#32;Antibodies . Since November 2007, we and Sanofi have been parties to a global, strategic collaboration to discover, develop, and commercialize fully human monoclonal antibodies. The collaboration is governed by a Discovery and Preclinical Development Agreement (Antibody Discovery Agreement) and a License and Collaboration Agreement (each as amended), collectively referred to as the Antibody Collaboration. Pursuant to the Antibody Discovery Agreement, as amended, Sanofi was responsible for funding up to $160.0 million per year of our antibody discovery activities over the period from 2010-2017. However, in connection with the companies' July 2015 immuno-oncology collaboration as described below, the 2015-2017 amounts have been revised, and Sanofi is now responsible for funding up to $145.0 million in 2015, and up to $130.0 million in each of 2016 and 2017 to identify and validate potential drug discovery targets and develop fully human monoclonal antibodies against these targets. Our discovery activities to identify and validate potential drug discovery targets in the field of immuno-oncology and develop fully human monoclonal antibodies against these targets will now be funded by Sanofi under the terms of the companies&#8217; new immuno-oncology collaboration. We lead the design and conduct of research activities under the Antibody Discovery Agreement, including target identification and validation, antibody development, research and preclinical activities through filing of an Investigational New Drug application (IND) or its equivalent, toxicology studies, and manufacture of preclinical and clinical supplies. Sanofi has an option to extend certain antibody development and preclinical activities relating to selected program targets for up to an additional three years after 2017. 

For each drug candidate identified through discovery research under the Antibody Discovery Agreement, Sanofi has the option to license rights to the candidate under the License and Collaboration Agreement. If it elects to do so, Sanofi will co-develop the drug candidate with us through product approval. Development costs for the drug candidate are shared between the companies, with Sanofi generally funding these costs as they are incurred by us, except that following receipt of the first positive Phase 3 trial results for a co-developed drug candidate, subsequent Phase 3 trial-related costs for that drug candidate are shared 80% by Sanofi and 20% by us. We are generally responsible for reimbursing Sanofi for half of the total development costs for all collaboration antibody products from our share of profits from commercialization of collaboration products to the extent they are sufficient for this purpose. However, we are not required to apply more than 10% of our share of the profits from collaboration products in any calendar quarter towards reimbursing Sanofi for these development costs. 

Under our collaboration agreement, Sanofi will record product sales and cost of sales for commercialized products, and Regeneron has the right to co-promote such products. We have exercised our option to co-promote Praluent, sarilumab, and dupilumab in the United States. We have not exercised our option to co-promote Praluent outside the United States; however, we retain the right to do so at a future date subject to the terms of the collaboration agreement. We and Sanofi will equally share profits and losses from sales within the United States. We and Sanofi will share profits outside the United States on a sliding scale based on sales starting at 65% (Sanofi)/35% (us) and ending at 55% (Sanofi)/45% (us), and will share losses outside the United States at 55% (Sanofi)/45% (us). In addition to profit sharing, we are entitled to receive up to $250.0 million in sales milestone payments, with milestone payments commencing after aggregate annual sales outside the United States exceed $1.0 billion on a rolling 12-month basis. 

Immuno-Oncology. In July 2015, we and Sanofi entered into a global strategic collaboration to discover, develop, and commercialize antibody-based cancer treatments in the field of immuno-oncology (the IO Collaboration). The IO Collaboration is governed by an Immuno-oncology Discovery and Development Agreement (IO Discovery Agreement), and an Immuno-oncology License and Collaboration Agreement (IO License and Collaboration Agreement). In connection with the IO Discovery Agreement, Sanofi made a $265.0 million non-refundable up-front payment to us. Pursuant to the IO Discovery Agreement, we will spend up to $1,090.0 million (IO Discovery Budget) to identify and validate potential immuno-oncology targets and develop therapeutic antibodies against such targets through clinical proof-of-concept. Sanofi will reimburse us for up to $825.0 million (IO Discovery Funding) of these costs, subject to certain annual limits, which consists of (i) $750.0 million in new funding and (ii) $75.0 million of funding that would have otherwise been available to Regeneron under the existing Antibody Discovery Agreement, as described above. The term of the IO Discovery Agreement will continue through the later of five years from the effective date of the IO Collaboration or the date the IO Discovery Budget is exhausted, subject to Sanofi&#8217;s option to extend it for up to an additional three years for the continued development (and funding) of selected ongoing programs. Pursuant to the IO Discovery Agreement, we will be primarily responsible for the design and conduct of all research activities, including target identification and validation, antibody development, preclinical activities, toxicology studies, manufacture of preclinical and clinical supplies, filing of IND Applications, and clinical development through proof-of-concept. We will reimburse Sanofi for half of the development costs they funded that are attributable to clinical development of antibody product candidates under the IO Discovery Agreement from our share of future profits, if any, from commercialized products to the extent they are sufficient for this purpose. However, we are not required to apply more than 10% of our share of the profits from IO Collaboration products in any calendar quarter towards reimbursing Sanofi for these development costs. With regard to product candidates for which proof-of-concept is established, Sanofi will have the option to license rights to the product candidate pursuant to the IO License and Collaboration Agreement (as further described below). If Sanofi does not exercise its option to license rights to a product candidate, we will retain the exclusive right to develop and commercialize such product candidate and Sanofi will be entitled to receive a royalty on sales. 

In connection with the IO License and Collaboration Agreement, Sanofi made a $375.0 million non-refundable up-front payment to us. If Sanofi exercises its option to license rights to a product candidate thereunder, it will co-develop the drug candidate with us through product approval. Principal control of development of each product candidate that enters development under the IO License and Collaboration Agreement will alternate between us and Sanofi on a candidate-by-candidate basis. Sanofi will fund drug candidate development costs up front for the candidates for which it is the principal controlling party and we will reimburse half of the total development costs for all such candidates from our share of future profits to the extent they are sufficient for this purpose, subject to the same 10% reimbursement limitation described above. In addition, we and Sanofi will share equally, on an ongoing basis, the development costs for the drug candidates for which we are the principal controlling party. The party having principal control over the development of a product candidate will also lead the commercialization activities for such product candidate in the United States. For all products commercialized under the IO License and Collaboration Agreement, Sanofi will lead commercialization activities outside of the United States. Each party will have the right to co-promote licensed products in countries where it is not the lead commercialization party. The parties will share equally in profits and losses in connection with the commercialization of collaboration products. We are obligated to use commercially reasonable efforts to supply clinical requirements of each drug candidate under the IO License and Collaboration Agreement until commercial supplies of that IO drug candidate are being manufactured. 

Under the terms of the IO License and Collaboration Agreement, the parties will also co-develop our antibody product candidate targeting PD-1 (REGN2810). The parties will share equally, on an ongoing basis, development expenses for REGN2810 up to a total of $650.0 million. We will have principal control over the development of REGN2810 and will lead commercialization activities in the United States, subject to Sanofi&#8217;s right to co-promote, while Sanofi will lead commercialization activities outside of the United States and the parties will equally share profits from worldwide sales. We will be entitled to a milestone payment of $375.0 million in the event that sales of all licensed products targeting PD-1 (including REGN2810), together with sales of any other products licensed under the IO License and Collaboration Agreement and sold for use in combination with a licensed product targeting PD-1, equal or exceed $2.0 billion in any consecutive twelve-month period. 

ZALTRAP . From September 2003 to February 2015, we and Sanofi were parties to a global collaboration (ZALTRAP Collaboration Agreement) for the development and commercialization of ZALTRAP. In February 2015, we and Sanofi entered into an Amended ZALTRAP Agreement. Under the terms of the Amended ZALTRAP Agreement, Sanofi is solely responsible for the development and commercialization of ZALTRAP for cancer indications worldwide. Sanofi bears the cost of all development and commercialization activities and reimburses Regeneron for its costs for any such activities. Sanofi pays us a percentage of aggregate net sales of ZALTRAP during each calendar year, which percentage shall be from 15% to 30%, depending on the aggregate net sales of ZALTRAP in such calendar year. We will also be paid for all quantities of ZALTRAP manufactured by us pursuant to a supply agreement through the earlier of 2021 or the date Sanofi receives regulatory approval to manufacture ZALTRAP at one of its facilities or a facility of a third party. In addition, Regeneron no longer has a contingent contractual obligation (which was approximately $461 million at December 31, 2014) to reimburse Sanofi for 50% of the development expenses that Sanofi previously funded for the development of ZALTRAP under the ZALTRAP Collaboration Agreement. 

Collaborations with Bayer HealthCare 

EYLEA outside the United States . Since October 2006, we and Bayer HealthCare have been parties to a license and collaboration agreement for the global development and commercialization outside the United States of EYLEA. Under the agreement, we and Bayer HealthCare collaborate on, and share the costs of, the development of EYLEA through an integrated global plan. Bayer HealthCare markets EYLEA outside the United States, where, for countries other than Japan, the companies share equally in profits and losses from sales of EYLEA. In Japan, we are entitled to receive a tiered percentage of between 33.5% and 40.0% of EYLEA net sales. 

Since inception of the agreement, we have earned $110.0 million of development milestone payments and $165.0 million of sales milestone payments from Bayer HealthCare. During the first quarter of 2015, we earned the final potential milestone payment under our Bayer HealthCare collaboration agreement in connection with EYLEA outside the United States. 

Commencing with the first commercial sale of EYLEA in a major market country outside the United States, we became obligated to reimburse Bayer HealthCare for 50% of the development costs that it has incurred under the agreement from our share of the collaboration profits (including payments to us based on sales in Japan). The reimbursement payment in any quarter will equal 5% of the then outstanding repayment obligation, but never more than our share of the collaboration profits in the quarter unless we elect to reimburse Bayer HealthCare at a faster rate. As a result, we expect that a portion of our share of EYLEA profits outside the United States will be used to reimburse Bayer HealthCare for this repayment obligation. 

Within the United States, we retain exclusive commercialization rights to EYLEA and are entitled to all profits from any such sales. 

PDGFR-beta antibody outside the United States . In January 2014, we entered into an agreement with Bayer HealthCare governing the joint development and commercialization outside the United States of an antibody product candidate to PDGFR-beta, including in combination with EYLEA, for the treatment of ocular diseases or disorders. REGN2176-3, a combination product candidate comprised of an antibody to PDGFR-beta co-formulated with EYLEA, is being developed under the agreement. Under the agreement, we will conduct the initial development of the PDGFR-beta antibody through completion of the first proof-of-concept study, upon which Bayer HealthCare will have a right to opt-in to license and collaborate on further development and commercialization outside the United States. 

In connection with the agreement, Bayer HealthCare made a $25.5 million non-refundable up-front payment to us in January 2014, and is obligated to pay 25% of global development costs and 50% of development costs exclusively for the territory outside the United States under the initial development plan. In addition, Bayer HealthCare is obligated to reimburse us for 50% of development milestone payments to Sanofi related to our acquisition of rights to antibodies targeting the PDGF family of receptors in May 2013. In that regard, Bayer HealthCare made a total of $5.0 million of development milestone payments to us in the 2014, and an additional $5.0 million development milestone payment to us in 2015. We are eligible to receive a $10.0 million additional future development milestone payment from Bayer HealthCare, although this payment could be reduced by half if Bayer HealthCare does not opt-in to the collaboration. 

If Bayer HealthCare exercises its right to opt-in to the collaboration, they will obtain exclusive commercialization rights to the product outside the United States, continue to pay for 25% of global development costs and 50% of development costs exclusively for the territory outside the United States, pay a $20.0 million opt-in payment to us, pay a $20.0 million development milestone to us upon receipt of the first marketing approval in the EU or Japan, share profits and losses from sales outside the United States equally with us, and be responsible for the payment of royalties on sales outside the United States to Sanofi. 

Within the United States, we have exclusive commercialization rights and will retain all of the profits from sales. If Bayer HealthCare does not opt-in to the collaboration, we will have exclusive rights to develop and commercialize PDGFR-beta antibodies (except as a combination product with EYLEA) for use outside the United States. 

We also have the right to opt-out of the collaboration upon completion of the first proof-of-concept study for the PDGFR-beta antibody. If we opt-out of the collaboration and Bayer HealthCare exercises its right to opt-in to the collaboration, Bayer HealthCare will obtain exclusive rights to the PDGFR-beta antibody (except as a combination product with EYLEA) outside of the United States, be responsible for all development costs outside of the United States, be responsible for all royalty and milestone payments to a third party, and will retain all of the profits from sales of the PDGFR-beta antibody outside of the United States. 

Collaboration with Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma 

Fasinumab Asia. &#32;In September 2015, we entered into a collaboration agreement with Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma Corporation (MTPC) providing MTPC with development and commercial rights to fasinumab in Japan, South Korea, Taiwan, Indonesia, Thailand, the Philippines, Malaysia, Singapore, Vietnam, Myanmar, and Sri Lanka (the MTPC Territories). In connection with the agreement, MTPC made a $10.0 million non-refundable up-front payment in 2015, and in the first quarter of 2016, MTPC 

became obligated to make an additional $45.0 million payment to us. We are also entitled to receive up to an aggregate of $170.0 million in development milestone and other contingent payments. 

Under the agreement, we are obligated to manufacture and supply MTPC with clinical and commercial supplies of fasinumab. If fasinumab is commercialized in the MTPC Territories, we will supply the product to MTPC at a tiered purchase price, which ranges from 30% to 50% of net sales of the product (subject to adjustment in certain circumstances), and are eligible for additional payments up to an aggregate of $100.0 million upon the achievement of specified annual net sales amounts starting at $200 million. 

Unless terminated earlier in accordance with its provisions, the agreement will continue to be in effect until such time as MTPC has ceased developing or commercializing fasinumab in the MTPC Territories. 

Manufacturing 

We currently manufacture bulk drug materials at our manufacturing facilities in Rensselaer, New York, which consists of approximately 440,000 &#32;square feet of owned research, manufacturing, office, and warehouse space. We currently have approximately 76,000 liters of cell culture capacity at these facilities. At December 31, 2015, we employed approximately 1,325 people at our Rensselaer facilities. 

In 2014, we acquired a 400,000 square foot facility in Limerick, Ireland. We are renovating this facility to accommodate and support our growth, primarily in connection with expanding our manufacturing capacity to support our global supply chain. 

Certain raw materials or other products necessary for the manufacture and formulation of EYLEA, Praluent, ARCALYST, and our product candidates are provided by single-source unaffiliated third-party suppliers. In addition, we rely on certain third parties to perform packaging, filling, finishing, labeling, distribution, laboratory testing, and other services related to the manufacture of EYLEA, Praluent, ARCALYST, and our product candidates, and to supply various raw materials and other products. See Part I, Item 1A. "Risk Factors - Risks Related to Manufacturing and Supply" for further information. 

Among the conditions for regulatory marketing approval of a medicine is the requirement that the prospective manufacturer's quality control and manufacturing procedures conform to the good manufacturing practice (GMP) regulations of the health authority. In complying with standards set forth in these regulations, manufacturers must continue to expend time, money, and effort in the areas of production and quality control to ensure full technical compliance. Manufacturing establishments, both foreign and domestic, are also subject to inspections by or under the authority of the FDA and by other national, federal, state, and local agencies. We are approved to manufacture our marketed products at our Rensselaer facilities. 

Sales and Marketing 

We have a New Products Marketing and Planning group, a Market Research group, and a Market Access group to evaluate commercial opportunities for our targets and drug candidates, assess the competitive environment, and analyze the commercial potential of our product portfolio, and prepare for market launch of new products. These groups are fully functional to support our product and product candidates that we are independently developing and/or commercializing, and also work closely with our collaborators for co-developed products to develop marketing plans and forecasts and to develop and execute pre-launch market development programs. 

We also have a full-service commercialization group to handle various aspects of our commercial programs. The group includes experienced professionals in the fields of marketing, communications, professional education, patient education and advocacy, reimbursement and market access, trade and distribution, commercial operations, commercial analytics, market research, and forecasting. Moreover, for EYLEA and Praluent, we have hired, trained, and deployed a field-based organization including regional sales directors, medical sales specialists, and reimbursement managers, each typically with a number of years of experience in the biopharmaceutical industry in a variety of therapeutic areas including oncology, ophthalmology, immunology, and inflammation. Hiring has commenced for our U.S. field teams for both sarilumab and dupilumab. We have approximately 70 field-based employees working on EYLEA and 330 field-based employees working on Praluent. We have significantly expanded the commercialization group to support the launch of Praluent in 2015. We outsource the warehousing and distribution of our finished drug products. 

In connection with the sales and marketing of ARCALYST for CAPS, we have a marketing, trade, reimbursement, and distribution group to provide case management and reimbursement services to patients with CAPS and their treating physicians. 

Customers 

We sell EYLEA in the United States to several distributors and specialty pharmacies. We sell ARCALYST in the United States to two specialty pharmacies. Under these distribution models, the distributors and specialty pharmacies generally take physical delivery of product. For EYLEA, the distributors and specialty pharmacies generally sell the product directly to healthcare providers, whereas for ARCALYST, the specialty pharmacies sell the product directly to patients. For the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014, and 2013, we recorded 67% , 73% , and 76% , respectively, of our total gross product revenue from sales to a single distributor, Besse Medical, which is a subsidiary of AmerisourceBergen Corporation. We are also a party to collaboration agreements with Bayer HealthCare and Sanofi, whereby our collaborator is responsible for recording product sales of EYLEA outside the United States and global sales of Praluent, respectively. 

Competition 

We face substantial competition from pharmaceutical, biotechnology, and chemical companies. Our competitors include Genentech (a member of the Roche Group), Roche, Novartis AG, Pfizer Inc., Allergan, Inc., Eli Lilly and Company, AbbVie Inc., Merck &#38; Co., Inc., Amgen Inc., AstraZeneca PLC, Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, Johnson &#38; Johnson, GlaxoSmithKline plc, and others. Many of our competitors have substantially greater research, preclinical, and clinical product development and manufacturing capabilities, and financial, marketing, and human resources than we do. Competition from smaller competitors may also be or become more significant if those competitors acquire or discover patentable inventions, form collaborative arrangements, or merge with large pharmaceutical companies. Even if we are able to commercialize additional product candidates, one or more of our competitors may have brought a competitive product to market earlier than us or may have obtained or obtain patent protection that dominates or adversely affects our activities or products. Our ability to compete depends, to a great extent, on how fast we can develop safe and effective product candidates, complete clinical testing and approval processes, and supply commercial quantities of the product to the market. Competition among product candidates approved for sale is based on efficacy, safety, reliability, availability, price, patent position, and other factors. 

EYLEA. &#32;&#32;The following table provides an overview of the competitive landscape for EYLEA: 

Competitor 

Product/Product 

Candidate 

&#160; 

Commercial or 

Development 

Status 

&#160; 

Competitor 

&#160; 

Indication 

&#160; 

Territory 

Lucentis &#174; (ranibizumab) 

&#160; 

Approved 

&#160; 

Novartis/Genentech 

&#160; 

Wet AMD, DME, macular edema following RVO, choroidal neovascularization secondary to pathologic myopia, diabetic retinopathy in patients with DME, and other eye indications 

&#160; 

Worldwide 

Avastin &#174; &#160;(bevacizumab) 

(off-label) 

&#160; 

Used to treat wet AMD, DME, and macular edema following RVO 

&#160; 

Roche/Genentech 

&#160; 

Wet AMD, DME, and macular edema following RVO 

&#160; 

Worldwide 

Ozurdex &#174; &#160;(dexamethasone intravitreal implant) 

&#160; 

Approved 

&#160; 

Allergan 

&#160; 

DME, RVO 

&#160; 

Worldwide 

Iluvien &#174; &#160;(fluocinolone acetonide intravitreal implant) 

&#160; 

Approved 

&#160; 

Alimera Sciences 

&#160; 

DME 

&#160; 

United States, EU 

Conbercept 

&#160; 

Approved in China for wet AMD 

In development for other eye indications 

&#160; 

Chengdu Kanghong Pharmaceutical Group 

&#160; 

Wet AMD 

&#160; 

China 

Fovista &#174; , an aptamer directed against PDGF-B 

&#160; 

In development (Phase 3 trials initiated in 2013 evaluating multiple combinations of Fovista, including Lucentis + Fovista, Avastin + Fovista, and EYLEA + Fovista ) 

&#160; 

Ophthotech Corporation (in collaboration with Roche/Genentech and Novartis) 

&#160; 

Wet AMD 

&#160; 

&#8212; 

RTH258 (ESBA1008), a single chain antibody fragment directed against VEGF-A 

&#160; 

In development (non-inferiority Phase 3 trial initiated in 2014 comparing RTH258 and EYLEA) 

&#160; 

Novartis 

&#160; 

Wet AMD 

&#160; 

&#8212; 

Abicipar pegol (anti-VEGF-A-DARPin &#174; ) 

&#160; 

In development (non-inferiority Phase 3 trial initiated in 2015 comparing dosing regimens of abicipar pegol and Lucentis) 

&#160; 

Allergan 

&#160; 

Wet AMD and related conditions 

&#160; 

&#8212; 

Bi-specific antibody 

RG7716 

&#160; 

In development (Phase 2) 

&#160; 

Roche/Genentech 

&#160; 

Wet AMD 

&#160; 

&#8212; 

Lucentis &#160; Port Delivery System 

&#160; 

In development (Phase 2) 

&#160; 

Roche/Genentech 

&#160; 

Wet AMD and related conditions 

&#160; 

&#8212; 

PF582, a biosimilar to Lucentis 

&#160; 

In development (Phase 1/2) 

&#160; 

Pfenex Inc. (in collaboration with Pfizer) 

&#160; 

Wet AMD and related conditions 

&#160; 

&#8212; 

FYB201, a biosimilar to Lucentis 

&#160; 

In development (Phase 3) 

&#160; 

Formycon AG (in collaboration with Bioeq GmbH) 

&#160; 

Wet AMD and related conditions 

&#160; 

&#8212; 

LMG324 

&#160; 

In development (Phase 1/2) 

&#160; 

Novartis 

&#160; 

Wet AMD and related conditions 

&#160; 

&#8212; 

The table above is not exhaustive. For additional information regarding the substantial competition EYLEA faces, see Part I, Item 1A. "Risk Factors - Risks Related to Commercialization of EYLEA - The commercial success of EYLEA is subject to strong competition " and Part I, Item 1A. "Risk Factors - Risks Related to Commercialization of Products - Our marketed products are subject to significant competition, and our product candidates or new indications for our marketed products, if any are approved for marketing, may face significant competition. " 

Praluent. &#32;&#32; The following table provides an overview of the competitive landscape for Praluent: 

Competitor Product/Product Candidate 

&#160; 

Commercial or 

Development 

Status 

&#160; 

Competitor 

&#160; 

Indication/Target 

&#160; 

Territory 

Repatha TM &#160;(evolocumab) 

&#160; 

Approved 

&#160; 

Amgen 

&#160; 

PCSK9 inhibitor antibody; adjunct to diet and (i) maximally tolerated statin therapy for the treatment of adults with HeFH or clinical atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease, who require additional lowering of LDL-C or (ii) other LDL-lowering therapies in patients with homozygous familial hypercholesterolemia who require additional lowering of LDL-C 

&#160; 

United States, Canada, EU, Japan 

Bococizumab (RN316 / PF-04950615) 

&#160; 

In development (Phase 3) 

&#160; 

Pfizer 

&#160; 

Antibody against PCSK9 

&#160; 

&#8212; 

LY3015014 

&#160; 

In development (Phase 2) 

&#160; 

Eli Lilly 

&#160; 

Antibody against PCSK9 

&#160; 

&#8212; 

ALN-PCSsc 

&#160; 

In development (Phase 2) 

&#160; 

Alnylam Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (in collaboration with The Medicines Company) 

&#160; 

RNAi molecule against PCSK9 (injectable, small molecule) 

&#160; 

&#8212; 

Anacetrapib 

&#160; 

In development (Phase 3) 

&#160; 

Merck 

&#160; 

CETP-inhibitor (oral, small molecule) 

&#160; 

&#8212; 

AMG-899 (TA-8995) 

&#160; 

In development (Phase 2) 

&#160; 

Amgen 

&#160; 

CETP Inhibitor (oral, small molecule) 

&#160; 

&#8212; 

ETC-1002 (bempedoic acid) 

&#160; 

In development (Phase 2) 

&#160; 

Esperion Therapeutics, Inc. 

&#160; 

ACL-inhibitor 

(oral, small molecule) 

&#160; 

&#8212; 

CAT-2054 

&#160; 

In development (Phase 2) 

&#160; 

Catabasis Pharmaceuticals, Inc. 

&#160; 

SREBP modulator (oral, small molecule) 

&#160; 

&#8212; 

The table above is not exhaustive. For additional information regarding the substantial competition Praluent faces, see Part I, Item 1A. "Risk Factors - Risks Related to Commercialization of Praluent - The commercial success of Praluent is subject to strong competition ." 

Monoclonal Antibodies. &#32;&#32;Our clinical candidates in development are all fully human monoclonal antibodies which were generated using our VelocImmune &#32;technology. Our antibody generation technologies and clinical candidates face competition from many pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies using various technologies. Numerous other companies are developing therapeutic antibody products. Companies such as Pfizer, Johnson &#38; Johnson, AstraZeneca, Amgen, Biogen Idec, Inc., Novartis, Roche/Genentech, Bristol-Myers Squibb, AbbVie, and GlaxoSmithKline have generated therapeutic products that are currently in development or on the market that are derived from recombinant DNA that comprise human antibody sequences. Astellas has licensed our VelocImmune &#32;technology as part of their internal antibody development programs. 

The following table provides an overview of the competitive landscape for our antibody programs that are in late-stage clinical development. 

Regeneron Antibody 

Program 

&#160; 

Competitor 

&#160; 

Competitor 

Product/Product 

Candidate 

&#160; 

Commercial or 

Development 

Status 

&#160; 

Target 

Sarilumab (Phase 3) 

Target: IL-6R 

&#160; 

Roche 

&#160; 

Actemra &#174; (Tocilizumab) 

&#160; 

Approved 

&#160; 

Antibody against IL-6R for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis and systemic juvenile idiopathic arthritis 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Johnson &#38; Johnson (in collaboration with GlaxoSmithKline) 

&#160; 

Sirukumab 

&#160; 

In development (Phase 3) 

&#160; 

Antibody against IL-6 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Alder Biopharmaceuticals, Inc. 

&#160; 

Clazakizumab 

&#160; 

In development (Phase 2) 

&#160; 

Antibody against IL-6 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Ablynx (in collaboration with AbbVie) 

&#160; 

ALX-0061 

&#160; 

In development (Phase 2) 

&#160; 

Antibody against IL-6R 

&#160; 

&#160; 

R-Pharm 

&#160; 

Olokizumab 

&#160; 

In development (Phase 2) 

&#160; 

Antibody against IL-6 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Pfizer 

&#160; 

PF-04236921 

&#160; 

In development (Phase 1/Phase 2) 

&#160; 

Antibody against IL-6 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Roche 

&#160; 

SA 237 

&#160; 

In development (Phase 1/Phase 3) 

&#160; 

Antibody against IL-6R 

&#160; 

&#160; 

RuYi 

&#160; 

Gerilimzumab 

&#160; 

In development (Phase 1) 

&#160; 

Antibody against IL-6 

Dupilumab (Phase 2/Phase 3) 

Target: IL-4R 

&#160; 

GlaxoSmithKline 

&#160; 

Nucala &#174; (mepolizumab) 

&#160; 

Approved 

&#160; 

Antibody against IL-5 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Teva 

&#160; 

Reslizumab 

&#160; 

Submitted for regulatory approval 

&#160; 

Antibody against IL-5 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Roche 

&#160; 

Lebrikizumab 

&#160; 

In development (Phase 3) 

&#160; 

Antibody against IL-13 

&#160; 

&#160; 

AstraZeneca 

&#160; 

Benralizumab 

&#160; 

In development (Phase 3) 

&#160; 

Antibody against IL-5R 

&#160; 

&#160; 

AstraZeneca 

&#160; 

Tralokinumab 

&#160; 

In development (Phase 3) 

&#160; 

Antibody against IL-13 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Novartis 

&#160; 

QBX258 

&#160; 

In development (Phase 2) 

&#160; 

Fixed dose combination of antibodies against IL-4 and IL-13 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Amgen 

&#160; 

AMG-157 

&#160; 

In development (Phase 2) 

&#160; 

Antibody against TSLP 

Fasinumab (Phase 2b/ Phase 3) 

Target: NGF 

&#160; 

Pfizer/Eli Lilly 

&#160; 

Tanezumab 

&#160; 

In development (Phase 3) 

&#160; 

Antibody against NGF 

&#160; 

&#160; 

Johnson &#38; Johnson 

&#160; 

Fulranumab 

&#160; 

In development (Phase 3) 

&#160; 

Antibody against NGF 

REGN2222 (Phase 3) 

Target: RSV-F 

&#160; 

AstraZeneca 

&#160; 

Synagis &#174; (palivizumab) 

&#160; 

Approved 

&#160; 

Antibody against RSV-F protein 

&#160; 

&#160; 

AstraZeneca/AIMM Therapeutics 

&#160; 

MEDI8897 

&#160; 

In development (Phase 2) 

&#160; 

Antibody against RSV-F protein 

The table above is not exhaustive. For additional information regarding our antibody programs and the substantial competition they face, see "Clinical Programs" above and Part I, Item 1A. "Risk Factors - Risks Related to Commercialization of Products - Our marketed products are subject to significant competition, and our product candidates or new indications for our marketed products, if any are approved for marketing, may face significant competition ." 

Other Areas. &#32;&#32; Many pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies are attempting to discover new therapeutics for indications in which we invest substantial time and resources. In these and related areas, intellectual property rights have been sought and certain rights have been granted to competitors and potential competitors of ours, and we may be at a substantial competitive disadvantage in such areas as a result of, among other things, our lack of experience, trained personnel, and expertise. A number of corporate and academic competitors are involved in the discovery and development of novel therapeutics that are the focus of other research or development programs we are now conducting. Many firms and entities are engaged in research and development in the areas of cytokines, interleukins, angiogenesis, and muscle conditions. Some of these competitors are currently conducting advanced preclinical and clinical research programs in these areas. These and other competitors may have established substantial intellectual property and other competitive advantages. 

If any of these or other competitors announces a successful clinical study involving a product that may be competitive with one of our product candidates or the grant of marketing approval by a regulatory agency for a competitive product, such developments may have an adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition, cash flows, or future prospects. 

We also compete with academic institutions, governmental agencies, and other public or private research organizations, which conduct research, seek patent protection, and establish collaborative arrangements for the development and marketing of products that would provide royalties or other consideration for use of their technology. These institutions are becoming more active in seeking patent protection and licensing arrangements to collect royalties or other consideration for use of the technology they have developed. Products developed in this manner may compete directly with products we develop. We also compete with others in acquiring technology from these institutions, agencies, and organizations. 

Patents, Trademarks, and Trade Secrets 

Our success depends, in part, on our ability to obtain patents, maintain trade secret protection, and operate without infringing on the proprietary rights of third parties (see Part I, Item 1A. "Risk Factors - Risks Related to Intellectual Property and Market Exclusivity - We may be restricted in our development, manufacturing, and/or commercialization activities by patents or other proprietary rights of others, and could be subject to damage awards if we are found to have infringed such patents or rights "). Our policy is to file patent applications to protect technology, inventions, and improvements that we consider important to our business and operations. We hold an ownership interest in a number of issued patents in the United States and foreign countries with respect to our products and technologies. In addition, we hold an ownership interest in hundreds of patent applications in the United States and foreign countries. 

Our patent portfolio includes granted patents and pending patent applications covering our VelociSuite &#32;technologies, including our VelocImmune &#32;mouse platform which produces fully human monoclonal antibodies. Our issued patents covering these technologies generally expire between 2020 and 2030. However, we continue to file patent applications directed to improvements to these technology platforms. 

Our patent portfolio also includes issued patents and pending applications relating to commercialized products and our product candidates in clinical development. These patents cover the proteins and DNA encoding the proteins, manufacturing patents, method of use patents, and pharmaceutical compositions, as well as various methods of using the products. For each of EYLEA, Praluent, ARCALYST, and ZALTRAP, these patents generally expire between 2020 and 2029. However, the projected patent terms may be subject to extension based on potential patent term extensions in countries where such extensions are available. 

We also are the nonexclusive licensee of a number of additional patents and patent applications. In 2011, we and Genentech entered into a Non-Exclusive License and Partial Settlement Agreement relating to ophthalmic sales of EYLEA in the United States. Pursuant to this agreement, we received a non-exclusive license to certain patents relating to VEGF receptor proteins, known as the Davis-Smyth patents, and other technology patents. In 2013, we entered into an Amended and Restated Non-Exclusive License and Settlement Agreement with Genentech; under the amended agreement, we received a worldwide non-exclusive license to the Davis-Smyth patents, and certain other patents, owned or co-owned by Genentech for the prevention or treatment of human eye diseases and eye disorders through administration of EYLEA to the eye. Also in 2013, we entered into a Non-Exclusive License and Settlement Agreement with Genentech and Sanofi under which we and Sanofi received a worldwide non-exclusive license to the Davis-Smyth patents, and certain other patents, in all indications for human use other than the prevention or treatment of eye diseases and eye disorders through administration to the eye. 

In 2008 we entered into an Amended and Restated Non-Exclusive License Agreement with Cellectis S.A. pursuant to which we licensed certain patents and patent applications relating to a process for the specific replacement of a copy of a gene in the receiver genome by homologous recombination. 

We also have non-exclusive license agreements with Amgen and other organizations for patent rights related to ARCALYST. 

Patent law relating to the patentability and scope of claims in the biotechnology field is evolving and our patent rights are subject to this additional uncertainty. The degree of patent protection that will be afforded to our products in the United States and 

other important commercial markets is uncertain and is dependent upon the scope of protection decided upon by the patent offices, courts, and governments in these countries. There is no certainty that our existing patents or others, if obtained, will provide us protection from competition or provide commercial benefit. 

Others may independently develop similar products or processes to those developed by us, duplicate any of our products or processes or, if patents are issued to us, design around any products and processes covered by our patents. We expect to continue, when appropriate, to file product and process applications with respect to our inventions. However, we may not file any such applications or, if filed, the patents may not be issued. Patents issued to or licensed by us may be infringed by the products or processes of others. 

Defense and enforcement of our intellectual property rights is expensive and time consuming, even if the outcome is favorable to us. It is possible that patents issued or licensed to us will be successfully challenged, that a court may find that we are infringing validly issued patents of third parties, or that we may have to alter or discontinue the development of our products or pay licensing fees to take into account patent rights of third parties (see Part I, Item 1A. "Risk Factors - Risks Related to Intellectual Property and Market Exclusivity - We may be restricted in our development, manufacturing, and/or commercialization activities by patents or other proprietary rights of others, and could be subject to damage awards if we are found to have infringed such patents or rights "). 

Government Regulation 

Regulation by government authorities in the United States and foreign countries is a significant factor in the research, development, manufacture, and marketing of our products and our product candidates (see Part I, Item 1A. "Risk Factors - Risks Related to Commercialization of EYLEA - We and Bayer HealthCare are subject to significant ongoing regulatory obligations and oversight with respect to EYLEA. If we or Bayer HealthCare fail to maintain regulatory compliance for EYLEA, EYLEA marketing approval may be withdrawn, which would materially harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. "; &#32; "Risks Related to Commercialization of Praluent - We and Sanofi are subject to significant ongoing regulatory obligations and oversight with respect to Praluent. If we or Sanofi fail to maintain regulatory compliance for Praluent, Praluent marketing approval may be withdrawn, which would materially harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition ."; and "Risks Related to Maintaining Approval of Our Marketed Products and the Development and Obtaining Approval of Our Product Candidates and New Indications for Our Marketed Products - If we do not maintain regulatory approval for our marketed products, and obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates or new indications for our marketed products, we will not be able to market or sell them, which would materially and negatively impact our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition." ). All of our product candidates will require regulatory approval before they can be commercialized. In particular, human therapeutic products are subject to rigorous preclinical and clinical trials and other pre-market approval requirements by the FDA and foreign authorities. Many aspects of the structure and substance of the FDA and foreign pharmaceutical regulatory practices have been reformed during recent years, and continued reform is under consideration in a number of jurisdictions. The ultimate outcome and impact of such reforms and potential reforms cannot be predicted. 

The activities required before a product candidate may be marketed in the United States begin with preclinical tests. Preclinical tests include laboratory evaluations and animal studies to assess the potential safety and efficacy of the product candidate and its formulations. The results of these studies must be submitted to the FDA as part of an IND, which must be reviewed by the FDA before proposed clinical testing can begin. Typically, clinical testing involves a three-phase process. In Phase 1, trials are conducted with a small number of subjects to determine the early safety profile of the product candidate. In Phase 2, clinical trials are conducted with subjects afflicted with a specific disease or disorder to provide enough data to evaluate the preliminary safety, tolerability, and efficacy of different potential doses of the product candidate. In Phase 3, large-scale clinical trials are conducted with patients afflicted with the specific disease or disorder in order to provide enough data to understand the efficacy and safety profile of the product candidate, as required by the FDA. The results of the preclinical and clinical testing of a biologic product candidate are then submitted to the FDA in the form of a BLA for evaluation to determine whether the product candidate may be approved for commercial sale. In responding to a BLA, the FDA may grant marketing approval, request additional information, or deny the application. 

Any approval required by the FDA for any of our product candidates may not be obtained on a timely basis, or at all. The designation of a clinical trial as being of a particular phase is not necessarily indicative that such a trial will be sufficient to satisfy the parameters of a particular phase, and a clinical trial may contain elements of more than one phase notwithstanding the designation of the trial as being of a particular phase. The results of preclinical studies or early stage clinical trials may not predict long-term safety or efficacy of our compounds when they are tested or used more broadly in humans. 

Approval of a product candidate by comparable regulatory authorities in foreign countries is generally required prior to commencement of marketing of the product in those countries. The approval procedure varies among countries and may involve additional testing, and the time required to obtain such approval may differ from that required for FDA approval. 

Various federal, state, and foreign statutes and regulations also govern or influence the research, manufacture, safety, labeling, storage, record keeping, marketing, transport, and other aspects of pharmaceutical product candidates. The lengthy process of seeking these approvals and the compliance with applicable statutes and regulations require the expenditure of substantial resources. Any failure by us or our collaborators or licensees to obtain, or any delay in obtaining, regulatory approvals could adversely affect the manufacturing or marketing of our products and our ability to receive product or royalty revenue. 

In addition to the foregoing, our present and future business will be subject to regulation under the United States Atomic Energy Act, the Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act, the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, the National Environmental Policy Act, the Toxic Substances Control Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, national restrictions, and other current and potential future local, state, federal, and foreign regulations. 

Business Segments 

We manage our business as one segment which includes all activities related to the discovery, development, and commercialization of pharmaceutical products for the treatment of serious medical conditions. 

Employees 

As of December 31, 2015, we had approximately 4,300 full-time employees, of whom approximately 650 held a Ph.D. and/or M.D., or PharmD degree. We believe that we have been successful in attracting skilled and experienced personnel in a highly competitive environment; however, competition for these personnel is intense. None of our personnel are covered by collective bargaining agreements and our management considers its relations with our employees to be good. 

Corporate Information 

We were incorporated in the State of New York in 1988 and publicly listed in 1991. Our principal executive offices are located at 777 Old Saw Mill River Road, Tarrytown, New York 10591, and our telephone number at that address is (914) 847-7000. 

We make available free of charge on or through our Internet website ( http://www.regeneron.com ) our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and, if applicable, amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). 

Investors and other interested parties should note that we use our media and investor relations website ( http://newsroom.regeneron.com ) and our social media channels to publish important information about Regeneron, including information that may be deemed material to investors. We encourage investors and other interested parties to review the information we may publish through our media and investor relations website and the social media channels listed on our media and investor relations website, in addition to our SEC filings, press releases, conference calls, and webcasts. 

