 Item 1. Business 

Performance Food Group Company (&#147;we,&#148; &#147;our,&#148; &#147;us,&#148; &#147;the Company,&#148; or &#147;PFG&#148;), through its subsidiaries, markets and distributes approximately 150,000 food and food-related products from 71 distribution centers to over 150,000 customer locations across the United States. We serve a diverse mix of customers, from independent and chain restaurants to schools, business and industry locations, hospitals, vending distributors, office coffee service distributors, big box retailers, and theaters. We source our products from over 5,000 suppliers and serve as an important partner to our suppliers by providing them access to our broad customer base. In addition to the products we offer to our customers, we provide value-added services by allowing our customers to benefit from our industry knowledge, scale, and expertise in the areas of product selection and procurement, menu development, and operational strategy. Our more than 13,000 employees work across three reportable segments: Performance Foodservice, PFG Customized, and Vistar. Performance Food Group Company was incorporated under the laws of the state of Delaware on September 23, 2002. 

References to &#147;Blackstone&#148; refer to certain investment funds affiliated with The Blackstone Group L.P. and references to &#147;Wellspring&#148; are to investment funds affiliated with Wellspring Capital Management LLC.

Customers and Marketing 

We serve different types of customers through each of our three business segments. Our Performance Foodservice segment serves two types of customers&#151;Street customers and Chain customers. Our PFG Customized segment distributes to Chain customers, including family and casual dining, fast casual, and quick serve restaurants. Our Vistar segment distributes to vending and office coffee service distributors, big box retailers, theaters, and hospitality providers, among others. We believe that customers select a distributor based on breadth of product offerings, consistent product quality, timely and accurate delivery of orders, value-added services, and price. In addition, we believe that some of our larger Street and Chain customers gain operational efficiencies by dealing with a limited number of foodservice distributors. No single customer accounted for more than 10% of our total net sales for fiscal 2016, fiscal 2015 or fiscal 2014. 

Street Customers . Our Performance Foodservice segment serves our Street customers, which predominantly include independent restaurants, along with hotels, cafeterias, schools, healthcare facilities, and other institutional customers. We seek to increase the mix of our total sales to Street customers because they typically generate higher gross profit per case that more than offsets the generally higher supply chain costs that we incur in serving these customers. Street customers use more value-added services, particularly in the areas of product selection and procurement, market trends, menu development, and operational strategy. In addition, Street customers also use more of our Performance Brands, which are our highest margin products. Our Performance Foodservice segment supports sales to Street customers with a team of sales and marketing representatives, customer service representatives, and product specialists. Our sales representatives serve customers in person, by telephone, and through the internet, accepting and processing orders, reviewing inventory and account balances, disseminating new product information, and providing business assistance and advice where appropriate. These representatives typically use laptop computers to assist customers by entering orders, checking product availability, and pricing and developing menu-planning ideas on a real-time basis. 

Chain Customers . Both our Performance Foodservice and PFG Customized segments serve Chain customers. Chain customers are multi-unit restaurants with five or more locations and include fine dining, family and casual dining, fast casual, and quick serve restaurants, as well as hotels, healthcare facilities, and other multi-unit institutional customers. Our Performance Foodservice segment Chain customers include various locations of Anthony&#146;s Coal Fired Pizza, Blaze Pizza, Chuy&#146;s, Pollo Tropical, Shake Shack, Subway, and many others. Our PFG Customized segment customers include many of the most recognizable family and casual dining restaurant chains including Bonefish Grill, Carrabba&#146;s Italian Grill, Chili&#146;s, Cracker Barrel, Joe&#146;s Crab Shack, O&#146;Charley&#146;s, 

&#160;

Outback Steakhouse, Ruby Tuesday, and TGI Friday&#146;s. PFG Customized recently began to leverage its distribution platform to serve fast casual chains such as Fuzzy&#146;s Taco Shop and PDQ, as well as quick serve chains including Church&#146;s Chicken and Wendy&#146;s. Sales to Chain customers are typically lower gross margin but have larger deliveries than those to Street customers. Dedicated account representatives are responsible for managing the overall Chain customer relationship, including ensuring complete order fulfillment and customer satisfaction. Members of senior management assist in identifying potential new Chain customers and managing long-term account relationships. 

Vistar Customers . Our Vistar segment distributes candy, snacks, beverages, health &#38; beauty, and other products to a number of distinct channels. Vending operators comprise Vistar&#146;s largest channel. We distribute a broad selection of vending machine products to the operators&#146; depots, from which they distribute products and stock machines. We are a leading distributor of these products to theater chains, and Vistar&#146;s customers include AMC, Cinemark, Galaxy Theaters, Regal Cinemas, and others. We typically deliver our orders directly to individual theater locations. We are a leading distributor to the office coffee service channel. Vistar also distributes to retailers, particularly for candy, snack, and beverage purchases in impulse buying locations. Our customers include retailers such as Dollar Tree, Home Depot, Staples, and others. Vistar distributes to other channels with a heavy concentration of candy, snacks, and beverage products, including hospitality providers, concessionaires, college book stores, hotel and airport gift shops, corrections facilities, and others. The distribution model also includes a &#147;pick and pack&#148; capability, which utilizes third-party carriers and Vistar&#146;s SKU variety to sell to customers whose order sizes are too small to be served effectively by our delivery network. Vistar also operates Merchant&#146;s Marts locations, which are cash-and-carry operators where customers generally pick up orders rather than having them delivered. 

Products and Services 

We distribute more than 150,000 food and food-related products. These products include a full line of frozen foods, such as meats, fully prepared appetizers and entrees, fruits, vegetables, and desserts; a full line of canned and dry foods; fresh meats; dairy products; beverage products; imported specialties; fresh produce; and candy, snack, and other products. We also supply a wide variety of non-food items including paper products such as pizza boxes, disposable napkins, plates and cups; tableware such as china and silverware; cookware such as pots, pans, and utensils; restaurant and kitchen equipment and supplies; and cleaning supplies. We also provide our customers with value-added services, as described below, in the normal course of providing full-service distribution services. 

Performance Brands . We offer our customers an extensive line of proprietary-branded products. We provide umbrella brands for our broadline distribution operation. Ridgecrest provides discerning chefs with the highest levels of quality and consistency. West Creek provides a level of quality, consistency, and value that we believe meets or exceeds national brand offerings. Silver Source provides core products that are value priced while satisfying customers&#146; specifications. We also have a number of specialty brands, such as Braveheart 100% Black Angus beef, Empire&#146;s Treasure seafood, Brilliance premium shortenings and oils, Heritage Ovens baked goods, Village Garden salad dressings, Guest House premium teas and cocoas, Peak Fresh Produce, Allegiance Premium Pork, Ascend Beverages, and others. We also have an extensive line of products for use in the pizzeria and Italian restaurant business under the names Piancone, Roma, Assoluti, and others. We believe that these products are a major source of competitive advantage. We intend to continue to enhance our product offerings based on supplier advice, customer preferences, and data analysis using our data warehouse. Our Performance Brands enable us to offer customers an alternative to comparable national brands across a wide range of products and price points, which we believe also promotes customer loyalty. Our Performance Brands products are manufactured for us according to specifications that have been developed by our quality assurance team. In addition, our quality assurance team certifies the manufacturing and processing plants where these products are packaged, enforces our quality control standards, and identifies supply sources that satisfy our requirements. 

National Brands . We offer our customers a broad selection of national brand products. We believe that these brands are attractive to Chain, Street, and other customers seeking recognized national brands in their operations. 

&#160;

We believe that distributing national brands has strengthened our relationships with many national suppliers who provide us with important sales and marketing support. These sales complement sales of our Performance Brand products. 

Customer Brands . Some of our Chain customers, particularly those with national distribution, develop exclusive SKU specifications directly with suppliers and brand these SKUs. We purchase these SKUs directly from suppliers and receive them into our distribution centers, where they are mixed with other SKUs and delivered to the Chain customers&#146; locations. 

Value-Added Services . We believe that prompt and accurate delivery of orders, close contact with customers, and the ability to provide a full array of products and services to assist customers in their foodservice operations are of primary importance in foodservice distribution. Our operating companies offer multiple deliveries per week to certain customer locations and have the capability of delivering special orders on short notice. Through our sales and marketing representatives and support staff, we monitor the needs of our customers and acquaint them with new products and services. Our operating companies also provide ancillary services relating to foodservice distribution, such as providing customers with electronic order-taking, payment, and other internet based services, various reports and other data, menu planning advice, food safety training, and assistance in inventory control, as well as access to various third-party services designed to add value to our customers&#146; businesses. 

Refer to Note 19. Segment Information of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 for the sales mix for the Company&#146;s principal product and service categories for each of the last three fiscal years. 

Suppliers 

We purchase from over 5,000 suppliers, none of which accounted for more than 4% of our aggregate purchases in fiscal 2016 or fiscal 2015. Many of our suppliers provide products to all three business segments, while others sell to only one segment. Our supplier base consists principally of large corporations that sell their national brands, our Performance Brands, and sometimes both. We also buy from smaller suppliers, particularly on a regional basis, and particularly those that specialize in produce and other perishable commodities. Many of our suppliers provide sales material and sales call support for the products that we purchase. 

Pricing 

Our pricing to customers is either set by contract with the customer or is priced at the time of order. If the price is by contract, then it is either based on a percentage markup over cost or a fixed markup per unit, and the unit may be expressed either in cases or pounds of product. If the pricing is set at time of order, the pricing is agreed to between our sales associate and the customer and is typically based on a product cost that fluctuates weekly or more frequently. 

If contracts are based on a fixed markup per unit or pound, then our customers bear the risk of cost fluctuations during the contract life. In the case of a fixed markup percentage, we typically bear the risk of cost deflation or the benefit of cost inflation. If pricing is set at the time of order, we have the current cost of goods in our inventory and typically pass cost increases or decreases to our customers. We generally do not lock in or otherwise hedge commodity costs or other costs of goods sold except within certain customer contracts where the customer bears the risk of cost fluctuation. We believe that our pricing mechanisms provide us with significant insulation from fluctuations in the cost of goods that we sell. Our inventory turns, on average, approximately every three-and-a-half weeks, which further protects us from cost fluctuations. 

We seek to minimize the effect of higher diesel fuel costs both by reducing fuel usage and by taking action to offset higher fuel prices. We reduce usage by designing more efficient truck routes and by increasing miles per 

&#160;

gallon through on-board computers that monitor and adjust idling time and maximum speeds and through other technologies. In our Performance Foodservice and Vistar segments, we seek to manage fuel prices through diesel fuel surcharges to our customers and through the use of costless collars. As of July 2, 2016, we had collars in place for approximately 17% of the gallons we expect to use over the twelve months following July 2, 2016. These fuel collars do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment for reasons discussed in our financial statement footnotes. Therefore, these collars are recorded at fair value as either an asset or liability on the balance sheet. Any changes in fair value are recorded in the period of the change as unrealized gains or losses on fuel hedging instruments. In our PFG Customized segment, we have limited exposure to fuel costs since our sales contracts largely transfer fuel price volatility to our customers. 

Competition 

The foodservice distribution industry is highly competitive. Certain of our competitors have greater financial and other resources than we do. Furthermore, there are two larger broadline distributors with national footprints. In addition, there are numerous smaller regional, local, and specialty distributors. These smaller distributors often align themselves with other smaller distributors through purchasing cooperatives and marketing groups to enhance their geographic reach, private label offerings, overall purchasing power, cost efficiencies and to assemble delivery networks for national or multi-regional distribution. We often do not have exclusive service agreements with our customers and our customers may switch to other distributors if those distributors can offer lower prices, differentiated products, or customer service that is perceived to be superior. We believe that most purchasing decisions in the foodservice business are based on the quality and price of the product and a distributor&#146;s ability to fill orders completely and accurately and to provide timely deliveries. 

We believe we have a competitive advantage over smaller regional and local broadline distributors through economies of scale in purchasing and procurement, which allow us to offer a broad variety of products (including our proprietary Performance Brands) at competitive prices to our customers. Our customers benefit from our ability to provide them with extensive geographic coverage as they continue to grow. We believe we also benefit from supply chain efficiency, including a growing inbound logistics backhaul network that uses our collective distribution network to deliver inbound products across business segments; best practices in warehousing, transportation, and risk management; the ability to benefit from the scale of our purchases of items not for resale, such as trucks, construction materials, insurance, banking relationships, healthcare, and material handling equipment; and the ability to optimize our networks so that customers are served from the most efficient distribution centers, which minimizes the cost of delivery. We believe these efficiencies and economies of scale will provide opportunities for improvements in our operating margins when combined with incremental fixed-cost advantage. 

Seasonality 

Historically, the food-away-from-home and foodservice distribution industries are seasonal, with lower profit in the first and third quarters of each calendar year. Consequently, we typically experience lower operating profit during our first and third fiscal quarters, depending on the timing of acquisitions. 

Information Systems 

We operate three principal systems that are customized versions of commercial products. These systems span operational functions including procurement, receiving, warehouse and inventory management, and order processing. All three principal systems feed financial systems that differ by segment. These financial systems in turn feed into a single consolidation system for financial and managerial reporting. In addition, we continue to invest into what we believe are &#147;best in breed&#148; systems to optimize our business performance. These systems include our sales force laptops and order entry systems, inbound logistics, and our &#147;pay for performance&#148; systems in warehouse stock replenishment and order selection, delivery loading, routing, driver performance, and sales force productivity. 

&#160;

Employees 

As of July 2, 2016, we had more than 13,000 full-time employees. As of July 2, 2016, unions represented approximately 850 of our employees. We have entered into nine collective bargaining and similar agreements with respect to our unionized employees. We believe that we have good relations with both union and non-union employees and we strive to be well regarded in the communities in which we operate. We have not had any material work stoppages or lockouts in the last five years. Our agreements with our union employees expire at various times to 2025. See &#147;Item 1A.&#151;Risk Factors&#151;Risks Relating to Our Business and Industry&#151;We face risks relating to labor relations and the availability of qualified labor.&#148; 

We have recently made investments to increase the size of our sales force and currently employ over 2,000 sales associates who are dedicated to serving our customers. Our typical sales representative calls on customers in their place of business on a periodic basis, usually weekly, to ascertain customer product needs, to help manage the customer&#146;s inventory, and to discuss new products and other business. These sales representatives are supported by customer services representatives who work in the local market and assist customers in a variety of ways; business development managers, who help sales representatives prospect for new business; and category managers and specialists who asset sales representatives and customers with product specific knowledge. All of our segments have a multi-unit, or Chain, sales force who call on regional and national customers. 

Insurance 

We maintain high-deductible insurance programs covering portions of general and vehicle liability and workers&#146; compensation. The amounts in excess of the deductibles are insured by third-party insurance carriers, subject to certain limitations and exclusions. We also maintain self-funded group medical insurance. In addition, we maintain property, business and casualty insurance that we believe accords with customary foodservice industry practice. We cannot predict whether this insurance will be adequate to cover all potential hazards incidental to our business. 

Regulation 

Our operations are subject to regulation by state and local health departments, the USDA, and the FDA, which generally impose standards for product quality and sanitation and are responsible for the administration of recent bioterrorism legislation affecting the foodservice industry. These government authorities regulate, among other things, the processing, packaging, storage, distribution, advertising, and labeling of our products. In 2010, the FDA Food Safety Modernization Act, or the &#147;FSMA,&#148; was enacted. The FSMA represents a significant expansion of food safety requirements and FDA food safety authorities and, among other things, requires that the FDA impose comprehensive, prevention-based controls across the food supply chain, further regulates food products imported into the United States, and provides the FDA with mandatory recall authority. The FSMA requires the FDA to undertake numerous rulemakings and to issue numerous guidance documents, as well as reports, plans, standards, notices, and other tasks. As a result, implementation of the legislation is ongoing and likely to take several years. Our seafood operations are also specifically regulated by federal and state laws, including those administered by the National Marine Fisheries Service, established for the preservation of certain species of marine life, including fish and shellfish. Our processing and distribution facilities must be registered with the FDA biennially and are subject to periodic government agency inspections. State and/or federal authorities generally inspect our facilities at least annually. The Federal Perishable Agricultural Commodities Act, which specifies standards for the sale, shipment, inspection, and rejection of agricultural products, governs our relationships with our fresh food suppliers with respect to the grading and commercial acceptance of product shipments. We are also subject to regulation by state authorities for the accuracy of our weighing and measuring devices. Our suppliers are also subject to similar regulatory requirements and oversight. 

The failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements could result in, among other things, administrative, civil, or criminal penalties or fines, mandatory or voluntary product recalls, warning or untitled 

&#160;

letters, cease and desist orders against operations that are not in compliance, closure of facilities or operations, the loss, revocation, or modification of any existing licenses, permits, registrations, or approvals, or the failure to obtain additional licenses, permits, registrations, or approvals in new jurisdictions where we intend to do business, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. These laws and regulations may change in the future and we may incur material costs in our efforts to comply with current or future laws and regulations or in any required product recalls. 

Our operations are subject to a variety of federal, state, and local laws and other requirements relating to the protection of the environment and the safety and health of personnel and the public. These include requirements regarding the use, storage, and disposal of solid and hazardous materials and petroleum products, including food processing wastes, the discharge of pollutants into the air and water, and worker safety and health practices and procedures. In order to comply with environmental, health, and safety requirements, we may be required to spend money to monitor, maintain, upgrade, or replace our equipment; plan for certain contingencies; acquire or maintain environmental permits; file periodic reports with regulatory authorities; or investigate and clean up contamination. We operate and maintain vehicle fleets, and some of our distribution centers have regulated underground and aboveground storage tanks for diesel fuel and other petroleum products. Some jurisdictions in which we operate have laws that affect the composition and operation of our truck fleet, such as limits on diesel emissions and engine idling. A number of our facilities have ammonia- or freon-based refrigeration systems, which could cause injury or environmental damage if accidentally released, and many of our distribution centers have propane or battery powered forklifts. Proposed or recently enacted legal requirements, such as those requiring the phase-out of certain ozone-depleting substances and proposals for the regulation of greenhouse gas emissions, may require us to upgrade or replace equipment, or may increase our transportation or other operating costs. To date, our cost of compliance with environmental, health, and safety requirements has not been material. The discovery of contamination for which we are responsible, any accidental release of regulated materials, the enactment of new laws and regulations, or changes in how existing requirements are enforced could require us to incur additional costs or subject us to unexpected liabilities. 

The Surface Transportation Board and the Federal Highway Administration regulate our trucking operations. In addition, interstate motor carrier operations are subject to safety requirements prescribed in the U.S. Department of Transportation and other relevant federal and state agencies. Such matters as weight and dimension of equipment are also subject to federal and state regulations. We believe that we are in substantial compliance with applicable regulatory requirements relating to our motor carrier operations. Failure to comply with the applicable motor carrier regulations could result in substantial fines or revocation of our operating permits. 

Our Segments 

Performance Foodservice . Performance Foodservice is a leading U.S. foodservice distributor with substantial scale along the Eastern Seaboard and in the Southeast. Performance Foodservice operates a network of 25 broadline distribution centers, which supply a &#147;broad line&#148; of products, and 10 Roma distribution centers, which specialize in supplying independent pizzerias and other Italian-themed restaurants. Each of these distribution centers, which we refer to as operating companies or &#147;OpCos,&#148; is run by a business team who understands the local markets and the needs of its particular customers and who is empowered to make decisions on how best to serve them. This segment serves over 85,000 customer locations with over 125,000 food and food-related products. 

We offer our customers a broad product assortment that ranges from &#147;center-of-the-plate&#148; items (such as beef, pork, poultry, and seafood), frozen foods, refrigerated products, and dry groceries to disposables, cleaning and kitchen supplies, and related products used by our customers. In addition to the products we offer, we provide value-added services by enabling our customers to benefit from our industry knowledge, scale, and expertise in the areas of product selection and procurement, menu development, and operational strategy. 

&#160;

We classify our customers under two major categories: &#147;Street&#148; and multi-unit &#147;Chain.&#148; Street customers predominantly consist of independent restaurants. Chain customers are multi-unit restaurants with five or more locations, which include fine dining, family and casual dining, fast casual, and quick serve restaurants, as well as hotels, healthcare facilities, and other multi-unit institutional customers. Street customers utilize more of our value-added services, particularly in the areas of product selection and procurement, market trends, menu development, and operational strategy. Street customer purchases typically generate greater gross profit per case compared to sales to Chain customers. 

Our products consist of our proprietary-branded products, or &#147;Performance Brands,&#148; as well as nationally-branded products and products bearing our customers&#146; brands. Our Performance Brands typically generate higher gross profit per case than other brands. 

PFG Customized . PFG Customized is a leading national distributor to the family and casual dining channel. We serve over 5,000 customer locations across the United States from nine distribution centers that provide tailored supply chain solutions to our customers. Our network of distribution centers was developed around our customers and is strategically positioned to provide an efficient supply chain across both inbound and outbound logistics. PFG Customized&#146;s product offerings are determined by each of our customers&#146; specific menu requirements. We also provide customers with value-added services, such as expertise in fresh product distribution, logistics management, procurement management, and information system interfaces, which enable our customers to run their businesses efficiently. 

We serve many of the most recognizable family and casual dining restaurant chains, including Bonefish Grill, Carrabba&#146;s Italian Grill, Chili&#146;s, Cracker Barrel, Joe&#146;s Crab Shack, O&#146;Charley&#146;s, Outback Steakhouse, Ruby Tuesday, and TGI Friday&#146;s, and we have recently entered into an agreement to begin serving Red Lobster in fiscal 2017. PFG Customized&#146;s five largest family and casual dining customers have been with us for an average of more than 15 years. Cracker Barrel was PFG Customized&#146;s first customer and grew from a substantial regional account served by Performance Foodservice to an account whose needs are best served by customized distribution. PFG Customized recently began to utilize its distribution platform to serve fast casual chains such as Fuzzy&#146;s Taco Shop and PDQ, as well as quick serve chains including Church&#146;s Chicken and Wendy&#146;s. 

Vistar . Vistar is a leading national distributor of candy, snacks, and beverages to vending and office coffee service distributors, big box retailers, theaters, and hospitality providers. The segment provides national distribution of approximately 20,000 different SKUs of candy, snacks, beverages, and other items to approximately 60,000 customer locations from our network of 27 Vistar OpCos and nine Merchant&#146;s Marts locations. Merchant&#146;s Marts are cash-and-carry operators where customers generally pick up orders rather than having them delivered. Vistar&#146;s scale in these channels enhances our ability to procure a broad variety of products for our customers. Vistar OpCos deliver to vending and office coffee service distributors and directly to most theaters and some other locations. The distribution model also includes a &#147;pick and pack&#148; capability, which utilizes third-party carriers and Vistar&#146;s SKU variety to sell to customers whose order sizes are too small to be served effectively by our delivery network. We believe these capabilities, in conjunction with the breadth of our inventory, are differentiating and allow us to serve many distinct customer types. Vistar has successfully built upon our national platform to broaden the channels we serve to include hospitality venues, concessionaires, airport gift shops, college book stores, corrections facilities, and impulse locations in big box retailers such as Home Depot, Dollar Tree, Staples, and others. 

Refer to Note 19. Segment Information of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 for financial information about our segments. 

Available Information 

We file annual, quarterly and special reports and other information with the SEC. Our filings with the SEC are available to the public on the SEC&#146;s website at www.sec.gov. Those filings are also available to the public on, or 

&#160;

accessible through, our website for free via the &#147;Investors&#148; section at www.pfgc.com. The information we file with the SEC or contained on or accessible through our corporate website or any other website that we may maintain is not incorporated by reference herein and is not part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Website and Social Media Disclosure 

We use our website (www.pfgc.com) and our corporate Facebook account as channels of distribution of company information. The information we post through these channels may be deemed material. Accordingly, investors should monitor these channels, in addition to following our press releases, SEC filings and public conference calls and webcasts. In addition, you may automatically receive e-mail alerts and other information about PFG when you enroll your e-mail address by visiting the &#147;Email Alerts&#148; section of our website at investors.pfgc.com. The contents of our website and social media channels are not, however, a part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

