 Item 1. BUSINESS. 

&#160; This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains statements that are not historical facts and are considered forward-looking within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements contain projections of our future results of operations or our financial position or state other forward-looking information. In some cases you can identify these forward-looking statements by words such as "anticipate," "believe," "could," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "may," "should," and "would" or similar words. You should not rely on forward-looking statements because they involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. These risks, uncertainties and other factors may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to differ materially from the anticipated future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. Some of the factors that might cause these differences are described under Item 1A&#151;"Risk Factors." You should carefully review all of these factors, and you should be aware that there may be other factors that could cause these differences. These forward-looking statements were based on information, plans and estimates at the date of this report, and, except as required by law, we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect changes in underlying assumptions or factors, new information, future events or other changes. 

In this Annual Report on Form 10-K, references to "the Company," "Watts Water," "we," "us" or "our" refer to Watts Water Technologies, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries. 

Overview 

Watts Regulator Co. was founded by Joseph E. Watts in 1874 in Lawrence, Massachusetts. Watts Regulator Co. started as a small machine shop supplying parts to the New England textile mills of the 19th century and grew into a global manufacturer of products and systems focused on the control, conservation and quality of water and the comfort and safety of the people using it. Watts Water Technologies, Inc. was incorporated in Delaware in 1985 and became the parent company of Watts Regulator Co. 

Our strategy is to be the preferred supplier of differentiated products and systems that manage and conserve the flow of fluids and energy into, through and out of buildings in the residential and commercial markets of the Americas, EMEA (Europe, Middle East and Africa) and Asia-Pacific. Within this framework, we focus upon three themes: safety &#38; regulation, energy efficiency and water conservation. This strategy enables us to realize our primary business objective&#151;growth of earnings via increased sales, both organic and inorganic, and the systematic reduction of manufacturing costs and operational expenses. 

We intend to continue to expand organically by introducing new products in existing markets, by enhancing our preferred brands, by developing new complementary products, by promoting plumbing code development to drive the need for safety and water quality products and by continually improving merchandising in our wholesale distribution channels. We target selected new product and geographic markets based on growth potential, including our ability to leverage our existing distribution channels. Additionally, we leverage our distribution channels through the introduction of new products, as well as the integration of products of our acquired companies. 

We intend to continue to generate incremental growth by targeting selected acquisitions, both in our core markets as well as new complementary markets. We have completed 22 acquisitions in a little over a decade. Our acquisition strategy focuses on businesses that manufacture preferred brand name products that address our themes of safety &#38; regulation, energy efficiency and water conservation in our primary or related complementary markets. We target businesses that will provide us with one or more of the following: an entry into new markets, an increase in shelf space with existing customers, strong brand names, a new or improved technology or an expansion of the breadth of our product offerings. 

We are committed to reducing our manufacturing and operating costs through a combination of manufacturing in lower-cost countries, using Lean methodologies to drive continuous improvement across all key processes, and consolidating our diverse manufacturing operations and distribution centers in Americas, EMEA and Asia-Pacific. We have a number of manufacturing facilities in lower-cost regions such as Mexico, China, Bulgaria and Tunisia. In recent years, we have announced several global restructuring plans to reduce our manufacturing and distribution footprint in order to reduce our costs and to realize additional operating efficiencies. 

Additionally, a majority of our manufacturing facilities are ISO 9000, 9001 or 9002 certified by the International Organization for Standardization. 

Most of our sales are for products that have been approved under regulatory standards incorporated into state and municipal plumbing, heating, building and fire protection codes in North America and Europe. We have consistently advocated for the development and enforcement of plumbing codes and are committed to providing products to meet these standards, particularly for safety and control valve products. 

Our business is reported in three geographic segments: Americas, EMEA and Asia-Pacific. The contributions of each segment to net sales, operating income and the presentation of certain other financial information by segment are reported in Note 17 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" included elsewhere in this report. 

Products 

We have a broad range of products in terms of design distinction, size and configuration. We classify our many products into four universal product lines. These product lines are: 

&#149; Residential &#38; commercial flow control products&#151;includes products typically sold into plumbing and hot water applications such as backflow preventers, water pressure regulators, temperature and pressure relief valves, and thermostatic mixing valves. Residential &#38; commercial flow control products accounted for approximately 57% of our total sales in 2015, and 61% of our total sales in each of 2014 and 2013. &#149; HVAC &#38; gas products&#151;includes commercial high-efficiency boilers, water heaters and heating solutions, hydronic and electric heating systems for under-floor radiant applications, custom heat and hot water solutions, hydronic pump groups for boiler manufacturers and alternative energy control packages, and flexible stainless steel connectors for natural and liquid propane gas in commercial food service and residential applications. HVAC &#38; gas products accounted for approximately 29% of our total sales in 2015, and 24% of our total sales in each of 2014 and 2013. HVAC is an acronym for heating, ventilation and air conditioning. &#149; Drainage &#38; water re-use products&#151;includes drainage products and engineered rain water harvesting solutions for commercial, industrial, marine and residential applications. Drainage &#38; water re-use products accounted for approximately 9% of our total sales in 2015, and 10% of our total sales in each of 2014 and 2013. &#149; Water quality products&#151;includes point-of-use and point- of-entry water filtration, conditioning and scale prevention systems for both commercial and residential applications. Water quality products accounted for approximately 5% of our total sales in each of 2015, 2014 and 2013. Commercial and Operational Excellence 

We strive to invest in product innovation that meets the wants and needs of our customers and our end markets. Our focus is on differentiated products that will provide greater opportunity to distinguish and defend ourselves in the market place. Conversely, we want to migrate away from commoditized products where we cannot add value. In addition, we want to be a solutions provider, not merely a 

components supplier. We refer to this customer-facing mindset as commercial excellence and we are continually looking for strategic opportunities to invest or divest, where necessary, in order to meet those objectives. In conjunction with this customer-centric focus, we continually review our operations to ensure we can efficiently and effectively produce and deliver products to customers. We call this aspect of our business operational excellence. 

On February 17, 2015, our Board of Directors approved the first phase of a restructuring program relating to the transformation of our Americas and Asia-Pacific businesses, which primarily involves the exit of low-margin, non-core product lines and global sourcing actions. We eliminated approximately $175 million of our combined Americas and Asia-Pacific net sales that primarily sell through our do-it-yourself (DIY) distribution channel. On October 26, 2015, our Board of Directors approved the second phase of our transformation program, which involves reducing the square footage of our North American facilities and is designed to improve the utilization of our remaining facilities, better leverage our cost structure, reduce working capital, and improve execution of customer delivery requirements. Phase one and phase two combined is expected to reduce the Americas net operating footprint by approximately 30%. Refer to Recent Developments in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" for further discussion. 

Customers and Markets 

We sell our products to plumbing, heating and mechanical wholesale distributors and dealers, original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) and major DIY chains. In September 2015, as part of the first phase of our transformation of our Americas and Asia-Pacific business, we divested a substantial portion of our DIY business in the Americas, which will reduce the significance of DIY as a distribution channel for our products in 2016. 

Wholesalers. Approximately 70% of our sales in 2015 and 64% of our sales in both 2014 and 2013 were to wholesale distributors for commercial and residential applications. We rely on commissioned manufacturers' representatives to market our product lines. Additionally, various water quality products are sold to independent dealers throughout the Americas. 

OEMs. Approximately 20% of our sales in 2015 and 23% of our sales in both 2014 and 2013 were to OEMs. In the Americas, our typical OEM customers are water heater manufacturers and equipment and water systems manufacturers needing flow control devices and other products. Our sales to OEMs in EMEA are primarily to boiler manufacturers and radiant system manufacturers. Our sales to OEMs in Asia-Pacific are primarily to boiler, water heaters and bath manufacturers including manufacturers of faucet and shower products. 

DIY Chains. Approximately 10% of our sales in 2015 and 13% of our sales in both 2014 and 2013 were to DIY chains. 

In 2015, 2014 and 2013, no customer accounted for more than 10% of our total net sales. Our top ten customers accounted for approximately $345.6 million, or 24%, of our total net sales in 2015; $380.0 million, or 25%, of our total net sales in 2014; and $321.7 million, or 22%, of our total net sales in 2013. Thousands of other customers constituted the balance of our net sales in each of those years. 

Marketing and Sales 

For product sales, we rely primarily on commissioned manufacturers' representatives, some of which maintain a consigned inventory of our products. These representatives sell primarily to plumbing and heating wholesalers and contractors or service DIY stores in the Americas. We also sell products for the residential construction and home repair and remodeling industries through DIY plumbing retailers, national catalog distribution companies, hardware stores, building material outlets and retail home center chains and through plumbing and heating wholesalers. In addition, we sell products directly to wholesalers, OEMs and private label accounts primarily in EMEA and to a lesser extent in the Americas. 

Manufacturing 

We have integrated and automated manufacturing capabilities, including a state of the art lead free foundry and a traditional brass and bronze foundry, machining, plastic extrusion and injection molding and assembly operations. Our foundry operations include metal pouring systems, automatic core making, and brass and bronze die-castings. Our machining operations feature computer-controlled machine tools, high-speed chucking machines with robotics and automatic screw machines for machining bronze, brass and steel components. We have invested in recent years to expand our manufacturing capabilities to ensure the availability of the most efficient and productive equipment. We are committed to maintaining our manufacturing equipment at a level consistent with current technology in order to maintain high levels of quality and manufacturing efficiencies. 

Capital expenditures and depreciation for each of the last three years were as follows: 

&#160; &#160; Years Ended December 31, &#160; &#160; &#160; 2015 &#160; 2014 &#160; 2013 &#160; &#160; &#160; (in millions) &#160; Capital expenditures &#160; $ 27.7 &#160; $ 23.7 &#160; $ 27.7 &#160; Depreciation &#160; $ 31.6 &#160; $ 32.9 &#160; $ 34.2 &#160; 

Raw Materials 

We require substantial amounts of raw materials to produce our products, including bronze, brass, cast iron, stainless steel, steel, plastic, and components used in products. Substantially all of the raw materials we require are purchased from outside sources. The commodity markets have experienced volatility over the past several years, particularly with respect to copper and stainless steel. Bronze and brass are copper-based alloys. The price of copper has steadily declined over the last three years. The fact that we internationally source a significant amount of raw materials means that several months of raw materials and work in process are moving through our supply chain at any point in time. We are not able to predict whether commodity costs, including copper and stainless steel, will significantly increase or decrease in the future. If commodity costs increase in the future and we are not able to reduce or eliminate the effect of the cost increases by reducing production costs or implementing price increases, our profit margins could decrease. If commodity costs were to decline, we may experience pressures from customers to reduce our selling prices. The timing of any price reductions and decreases in commodity costs may not align. As a result, our margins could be affected. 

With limited exceptions, we have multiple suppliers for our commodities and other raw materials. We believe our relationships with our key suppliers are good and that an interruption in supply from any one supplier would not materially affect our ability to meet our immediate demands while another supplier is qualified. We regularly review our suppliers to evaluate their strengths. If a supplier is unable to meet our demands, we believe that in most cases our inventory of raw materials will allow for sufficient time to identify and obtain the necessary commodities and other raw materials from an alternate source. We believe that the nature of the commodities and other raw materials used in our business are such that multiple sources are generally available in the market. 

Code Compliance 

Products representing a majority of our sales are subject to regulatory standards and code enforcement, which typically require that these products meet stringent performance criteria. Standards are established by such industry test and certification organizations as the American Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME), the America Water Works Association (AWWA), the Canadian Standards Association (CSA), the International Code Council (ICC), the American Society of Sanitary Engineering (ASSE), the American National Standards Institute&#151;Leadership in Energy &#38; Environmental Design (LEED), the University of Southern California Foundation for Cross-Connection Control and Hydraulic Research (USC FCCC &#38; HR), the International Association of Plumbing and 

Mechanical Officials (IAPMO), FM Global (FM), NSF International (NSF) and Underwriters Laboratories (UL). Many of these standards are incorporated into state and municipal plumbing and heating, building and fire protection codes. 

National regulatory standards in Europe vary by country. The major standards and/or guidelines that our products must meet are AFNOR (France), DVGW (Germany), UNI/ICIM (Italy), KIWA (Netherlands), SVGW (Switzerland), SITAC (Sweden), WRAS (United Kingdom) and CEN (Denmark). Further, there are local regulatory standards requiring compliance as well. 

Together with our commissioned manufacturers' representatives, we have consistently advocated for the development and enforcement of plumbing codes. We maintain stringent quality control and testing procedures at each of our manufacturing facilities in order to manufacture products that comply with code requirements. We believe that product-testing capability and investment in plant and equipment is needed to manufacture products that comply with code requirements. Additionally, a majority of our manufacturing facilities are ISO 9000, 9001 or 9002 certified by the International Organization for Standardization. 

New Product Development and Engineering 

We retain our own product development staff, design teams, and testing laboratories in Americas, EMEA and Asia-Pacific that work to enhance our existing products and develop new products. We maintain sophisticated product development and testing laboratories and are committed to investing more in this area. In 2015, we re-engineered our new product development process and have rolled out a uniform global program that we expect should drive innovation to our markets more effectively. Research and development costs included in selling, general, and administrative expense amounted to $23.5 million, $22.5 million and $21.5 million for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. 

Competition 

The domestic and international markets for safety &#38; regulation, energy efficiency and water conservation devices are intensely competitive and require us to compete against some companies possessing greater financial, marketing and other resources than ours. Due to the breadth of our product offerings, the number and identities of our competitors vary by product line and market. We consider quality, brand preference, delivery times, engineering specifications, plumbing code requirements, price, technological expertise and breadth of product offerings to be the primary competitive factors. We believe that new product development and product engineering are also important to success in the water industry and that our position in the industry is attributable in part to our ability to develop new and innovative products quickly and to adapt and enhance existing products. We continue to develop new and innovative products to enhance our market position and are continuing to implement manufacturing and design programs to reduce costs. We cannot be certain that our efforts to develop new products will be successful or that our customers will accept our new products. Although we own certain patents and trademarks that we consider to be of importance, we do not believe that our business and competitiveness as a whole are dependent on any one of our patents or trademarks or on patent or trademark protection generally. 

Backlog 

Backlog was approximately $88.6 million at February 5, 2016 and approximately $91.8 million at February 6, 2015. We do not believe that our backlog at any point in time is indicative of future operating results and we expect our entire current backlog to be converted to sales in 2016. 

Employees 

As of December 31, 2015, we employed approximately 5,000 people worldwide. With the exception of two subsidiaries, one in Canada and the other in New York, none of our employees in North 

America or Asia are covered by collective bargaining agreements. In some European countries, our employees are subject to traditional national collective bargaining agreements. We believe that our employee relations are good. 

Product Liability, Environmental and Other Litigation Matters 

We are subject to a variety of potential liabilities connected with our business operations, including potential liabilities and expenses associated with possible product defects or failures and compliance with environmental laws. We maintain product liability and other insurance coverage, which we believe to be generally in accordance with industry practices. Nonetheless, such insurance coverage may not be adequate to protect us fully against substantial damage claims. 

Contingencies 

Connector Class Actions 

In November and December 2014, Watts Water Technologies, Inc. and Watts Regulator Co. were named as defendants in three separate putative nationwide class action complaints (Meyers v. Watts Water Technologies, Inc., United States District Court for the Southern District of Ohio; Ponzo v. Watts Regulator Co., United States District Court for the District of Massachusetts; Sharp v. Watts Regulator Co., United States District Court for the District of Massachusetts) seeking to recover damages and other relief based on the alleged failure of water heater connectors. On June 26, 2015, plaintiffs in the three actions filed a consolidated amended complaint, under the case captioned Ponzo v. Watts Regulator Co., in the United States District Court for the District of Massachusetts (hereinafter "Ponzo"). WWT was voluntarily dismissed from the Ponzo case. The complaint seeks among other items, damages in an unspecified amount, replacement costs, injunctive relief, declaratory relief, and attorneys' fees and costs. On August 7, 2015, the Company filed a motion to dismiss the complaint, which motion is still pending. 

In February 2015, Watts Regulator Co. was named as a defendant in a putative nationwide class action complaint (Klug v. Watts Water Technologies, Inc., et al., United States District Court for the District of Nebraska) seeking to recover damages and other relief based on the alleged failure of the Company's Floodsafe connectors (hereinafter "Klug"). On June 26, 2015, the Company filed a partial motion to dismiss the complaint. In response, on July 17, 2015, plaintiff filed an amended complaint which added additional named plaintiffs and sought to correct deficiencies in the original complaint, Klug v. Watts Regulator Co., United States District Court for the District of Nebraska. The complaint seeks among other items, damages in an unspecified amount, injunctive relief, declaratory relief, and attorneys' fees and costs. On July 31, 2015, the Company filed a partial motion to dismiss the complaint which was granted in part and denied in part on December 29, 2015. The Company answered the amended complaint on February 2, 2016. No formal discovery has yet been conducted. 

We participated in mediation sessions of the Ponzo and Klug cases in December 2015 and January 2016. On February 16, 2016, we reached an agreement in principle to settle all claims. The proposed total settlement amount is $14 million, of which we expect to pay approximately $4.1 million after insurance proceeds of up to $9.9 million, the receipt of which is also subject to completion of a final written settlement agreement. The settlement is subject to completion of a final written settlement agreement, preliminary court approval and final court approval after a fairness hearing. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that the proposed settlement will be approved in its current form. If the settlement is not approved, we intend to continue to vigorously contest the allegations in this case. 

Trabakoolas et al., v. Watts Water Technologies, Inc., et al., 

On March 8, 2012, Watts Water Technologies, Inc., Watts Regulator Co., and Watts Plumbing Technologies Co., Ltd., among other companies, were named as defendants in a putative nationwide class action complaint filed in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California seeking to recover damages and other relief based on the alleged failure of toilet connectors. 

On December 12, 2013, we reached an agreement in principle that became final on September 4, 2014, to settle all claims. The total settlement amount was $23.0 million, of which we were responsible for $14.0 million after insurance proceeds of $9.0 million. The litigation is now terminated. 

During the fourth quarter of 2013, we recorded a liability of $22.6 million related to the Trabakoolas matter, of which $12.7 million was included in current liabilities and $9.9 million in other noncurrent liabilities. In addition, a $9.0 million receivable was recorded in current assets related to insurance proceeds due under a separate settlement agreement. The liability was reduced by $13.8 million for payments related to notice and claims administration, plaintiff attorneys' fees and partial funding of the settlement amount made during the year ended December 31, 2014. The $9.0 million receivable for insurance proceeds was received as of September 28, 2014. The liability was reduced by $2.3 million for the annual funding installment during the year ended December 31, 2015. The remaining liability of $6.5 million as of December 31, 2015 will be paid in equal annual installments over the next three years. 

Environmental Remediation 

We have been named as a potentially responsible party with respect to a limited number of identified contaminated sites. The levels of contamination vary significantly from site to site as do the related levels of remediation efforts. Environmental liabilities are recorded based on the most probable cost, if known, or on the estimated minimum cost of remediation. Accruals are not discounted to their present value, unless the amount and timing of expenditures are fixed and reliably determinable. We accrue estimated environmental liabilities based on assumptions, which are subject to a number of factors and uncertainties. Circumstances that can affect the reliability and precision of these estimates include identification of additional sites, environmental regulations, level of clean-up required, technologies available, number and financial condition of other contributors to remediation and the time period over which remediation may occur. We recognize changes in estimates as new remediation requirements are defined or as new information becomes available. 

Asbestos Litigation 

We are defending approximately 310 lawsuits in different jurisdictions, alleging injury or death as a result of exposure to asbestos. The complaints in these cases typically name a large number of defendants and do not identify any of our particular products as a source of asbestos exposure. To date, discovery has failed to yield evidence of substantial exposure to any of our products and no judgments have been entered against us. 

Other Litigation 

Other lawsuits and proceedings or claims, arising from the ordinary course of operations, are also pending or threatened against us. 

Available Information 

We maintain a website with the address www.wattswater.com . The information contained on our website is not included as a part of, or incorporated by reference into, this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Other than an investor's own internet access charges, we make available free of charge through our website our Annual Report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to these reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after we have electronically filed such material with, or furnished such material to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). 

Executive Officers and Directors 

Set forth below are the names of our executive officers and directors, their respective ages and positions with our Company and a brief summary of their business experience for at least the past five years: 

Executive Officers 

&#160; Age &#160; Position Robert J. Pagano, Jr. &#160; &#160; 53 &#160; Chief Executive Officer Todd A. Trapp &#160; &#160; 45 &#160; Chief Financial Officer Kenneth R. Lepage &#160; &#160; 45 &#160; General Counsel, Executive Vice President &#38; Secretary Elie Melhem &#160; &#160; 52 &#160; President, Asia-Pacific, the Middle East &#38; Africa Munish Nanda &#160; &#160; 51 &#160; President, Americas &#38; Europe Debra J. Ogston &#160; &#160; 53 &#160; Chief Human Resources Officer Non-Employee Directors 

&#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; &#160; Robert L. Ayers(2)(3) &#160; &#160; 70 &#160; Director Bernard Baert(1)(3) &#160; &#160; 66 &#160; Director Richard J. Cathcart(2)(3) &#160; &#160; 71 &#160; Director Christopher L. Conway(1)(3) &#160; &#160; 60 &#160; Director W. Craig Kissel(2)(3) &#160; &#160; 65 &#160; Chairman of the Board and Director John K. McGillicuddy(1)(3) &#160; &#160; 72 &#160; Director Joseph T. Noonan &#160; &#160; 34 &#160; Director Merilee Raines(1)(3) &#160; &#160; 60 &#160; Director Joseph W. Reitmeier(1)(3) &#160; &#160; 51 &#160; Director 

(1) Member of the Audit Committee (2) Member of the Compensation Committee (3) Member of the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee 

&#160; Robert J. Pagano, Jr. has served as Chief Executive Officer and President of our Company since May 2014. He also served as interim Chief Financial Officer from October 2014 to April 2015. Mr. Pagano previously served as Senior Vice President of ITT Corporation and President, ITT Industrial Process from April 2009 to May 2014. Mr. Pagano originally joined ITT in 1997 and served in several additional management roles during his career at ITT, including as Vice President Finance, Corporate Controller, and President of Industrial Products. ITT Corporation is a diversified manufacturer of highly engineered critical components and customized technology solutions for the energy, transportation and industrial markets. Prior to joining ITT, Mr. Pagano worked at KPMG LLP. Mr. Pagano is a Certified Public Accountant. 

&#160; Todd A. Trapp has served as Chief Financial Officer since April 2015. Mr. Trapp previously served as Vice President of Financial Planning &#38; Analysis of Honeywell International Inc. from August 2013 to April 2015. Mr. Trapp originally joined Honeywell in 2002 and served in several senior financial roles, including as Chief Financial Officer of the Airlines Business Unit from November 2010 to August 2013, Vice President of Business Analysis &#38; Planning for Honeywell's Aerospace Division from 2008 to November 2010, Director of Finance for the Transportation Systems Division from 2006 to 2008, Director of Business Analysis &#38; Planning from 2005 to 2006, Investor Relations Manager from 2003 to 2005 and Senior Financial Analyst from 2002 to 2003. Honeywell is a Fortune 100 diversified technology and manufacturing leader, serving customers worldwide with aerospace products and services; control technologies for buildings, homes and industry; turbochargers; and performance materials. Prior to joining Honeywell, Mr. Trapp worked as Assistant Treasurer at United Business Media Inc. and Manager of Treasury Services and Special Projects at Pearson Inc. 

&#160; Kenneth R. Lepage has served as General Counsel, Executive Vice President and Secretary of the Company since August 2008. He also served as Executive Vice President of Human Resources from 

December 2009 to October 2015. Mr. Lepage originally joined our Company in September 2003 as Assistant General Counsel and Assistant Secretary. Prior to joining our Company, he was a junior partner at the law firm of Hale and Dorr LLP (now Wilmer Cutler Pickering Hale and Dorr LLP). 

&#160; Elie Melhem has served as President, Asia-Pacific, Middle East &#38; Africa since February 2016. Mr. Melhem originally joined our Company in July 2011 as President, Asia-Pacific. Mr. Melhem was previously the Managing Director of China for Ariston Thermo Group, a global manufacturer of heating and hot water products, from 2008 to July 2011. Prior to joining Ariston, Mr. Melhem spent eleven years with ITT Industries in China where he held several management positions, including serving as President of ITT's Residential and Commercial Water Group in China and President of ITT's Water Technology Group in Asia. 

&#160; Munish Nanda has served as President, Americas &#38; Europe since February 2016. Mr. Nanda originally joined our Company in April 2015 as President, Americas. Mr. Nanda previously served as President of Control Technologies for ITT Corporation from April 2011 to March 2015. Mr. Nanda also served as Group Vice President of ITT Corporation's Fluid and Motion Control Group from April 2008 to April 2011. ITT Corporation is a diversified manufacturer of highly engineered critical components and customized technology solutions for the energy, transportation and industrial markets. Prior to joining ITT Corporation, Mr. Nanda held several operating leadership and general management positions with Thermo Fisher Scientific Corporation and Honeywell International Inc. 

&#160; Debra J. Ogston has served as Chief Human Resources Officer since October 2015. Ms. Ogston previously served as Chief People Officer of Schnuck Markets, Inc. from July 2014 to September 2015. Schnuck Markets is a privately-held chain of more than 90 supermarkets in the Midwestern United States. From January 2007 to July 2014, Ms. Ogston served in several senior human resources roles with Johnson Controls, Inc., including as Vice President of Human Resources, Building Efficiency, Global Offerings from September 2013 to June 2014, Vice President of Human Resources, Power Solutions, Asia from September 2012 to September 2013, Vice President and Asia Regional Project Leader, HR Transformation from March 2011 to September 2012, Vice President of Human Resources, Building Efficiency, Global Business Lines and Operations from January 2009 to March 2011 and Executive Director of Human Resources, Power Solutions, Americas from January 2007 to January 2009. Johnson Controls is a global diversified technology and industrial company providing products, services and solutions to optimize energy and operational efficiencies of buildings; lead-acid automotive batteries and advanced batteries for hybrid and electric vehicles; and interior systems for automobiles. Prior to joining Johnson Controls, Ms. Ogston held human resources management positions with E&#38;J Gallo Winery, Inc., Pepsi Bottling Group and Kraft Foods Inc. 

&#160; Robert L. Ayers has served as a director of our Company since October 2006. He was Senior Vice President of ITT Industries and President of ITT Industries' Fluid Technology from October 1999 until September 2005. Mr. Ayers continued to be employed by ITT Industries from September 2005 until his retirement in September 2006, during which time he focused on special projects for the company. Mr. Ayers joined ITT Industries in 1998 as President of ITT Industries' Industrial Pump Group. Before joining ITT Industries, he was President of Sulzer Industrial USA and Chief Executive Officer of Sulzer Bingham, a pump manufacturer. Mr. Ayers served as a director of T-3 Energy Services, Inc. from August 2007 to January 2011. 

&#160; Bernard Baert has served as a director of our Company since August 2011. Mr. Baert served as Senior Vice President and President, Europe and International of PolyOne Corporation from January 2010 until his retirement in April 2012. Mr. Baert served as Senior Vice President and General Manager, Color and Engineered Materials&#151;Europe and China for PolyOne Corporation from 2006 to December 2009 and as Vice President and General Manager, Color and Engineered Materials&#151;Europe and China from 2000 to 2006. From 1995 to September 2000, Mr. Baert was General Manager, Color&#151;Europe for M.A. Hanna Company, the predecessor to PolyOne Corporation. PolyOne Corporation is a worldwide provider of specialty polymer materials, services and solutions. Prior to joining M.A. Hanna, Mr. Baert was General Manager, Europe for Hexcel Corporation and spent 17 years with Owens 

Corning where he served as a plant manager and held various positions in the areas of cost control and production. 

&#160; Richard J. Cathcart has served as a director of our Company since October 2007. He was Vice Chairman and a member of the Board of Directors of Pentair, Inc. from February 2005 until his retirement in September 2007. Pentair is a diversified manufacturing company consisting of four operating segments: Valves &#38; Controls, Flow &#38; Filtration Solutions, Water Quality Systems and Technical Solutions. He was appointed President and Chief Operating Officer of Pentair's Water Technologies Group (now Water Quality Systems) in January 2001 and served in that capacity until his appointment as Vice Chairman in February 2005. He began his career at Pentair in March 1995 as Executive Vice President, Corporate Development, where he identified water as a strategic area of growth. In February 1996, he was named Executive Vice President and President of Pentair's Water Technologies Group. Prior to joining Pentair, he held several management and business development positions during his 20-year career with Honeywell International Inc. He is a director of Fluidra S.A., an international manufacturer of accessories and products for swimming pools, irrigation, and water treatment and purification systems. 

&#160; Christopher L. Conway has served as a director of our Company since June 2015. Mr. Conway is currently President and Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board of CLARCOR Inc. Mr. Conway has been employed by CLARCOR or its affiliates since 2006, when he was named Vice President of Manufacturing of Baldwin Filters, Inc., an affiliate of CLARCOR. In September 2007, Mr. Conway was promoted to the position of President of Facet USA, Inc., another affiliate of CLARCOR. He was then named President of CLARCOR's PECOFacet division in December 2007 and continued in that role until being named as President and Chief Operating Officer of CLARCOR in May 2010. In December 2011, Mr. Conway assumed the position of President and Chief Executive Officer of CLARCOR. CLARCOR is a diversified marketer and manufacturer of mobile, industrial and environmental filtration products sold in domestic and international markets. Prior to joining CLARCOR or its affiliates, Mr. Conway served for two years as the Chief Operating Officer of Cortron Corporation, Inc., a small manufacturing start-up based in Minneapolis, Minnesota. Mr. Conway also served for seven years in various management positions at Pentair, Inc., an international provider of products, services, and solutions for its customers' diverse needs in water and other fluids, thermal management, and equipment protection. 

&#160; W. Craig Kissel has served as a director of our Company since November 2011. Mr. Kissel previously was employed by American Standard Companies Inc. from 1980 until his retirement in September, 2008. American Standard was a leading worldwide supplier of air conditioning and heating systems, vehicle control systems, and bathroom china and faucet-ware. During his time at American Standard, Mr. Kissel served as President of Trane Commercial Systems from 2004 to June, 2008, President of WABCO Vehicle Control Systems from 1998 to 2003, President of the Trane North American Unitary Products Group from 1994 to 1997, Vice President of Trane Marketing of the North American Unitary Products Group from 1992 to 1994 and he held various other management positions at Trane from 1980 to 1991. From 2001 to 2008, Mr. Kissel served as Chairman of American Standard's Corporate Ethics and Integrity Council, which was responsible for developing the company's ethical business standards. Mr. Kissel also served in the U.S. Navy from 1973 to 1978. Mr. Kissel has served as a director of Chicago Bridge &#38; Iron Company since May 2009. Chicago Bridge &#38; Iron Company engineers and constructs some of the world's largest energy infrastructure projects. 

&#160; John K. McGillicuddy has served as a director of our Company since 2003. He was employed by KPMG LLP, a public accounting firm, from 1965 until his retirement in 2000. He was elected into the Partnership at KPMG LLP in June 1975 where he served as Audit Partner, SEC Reviewing Partner, Partner-in-Charge of Professional Practice, Partner-in-Charge of College Recruiting and Partner-in-Charge of Staff Scheduling. He is a director of Brooks Automation, Inc., a worldwide provider of automation, vacuum and instrumentation solutions to the semiconductor and related industries, and Cabot Corporation, a manufacturer of specialty chemicals and performance materials. 

&#160; Joseph T. Noonan has served as a director of our Company since May 2013. Mr. Noonan has served as Chief Executive Officer of Homespun Design, Inc. since November 2013. Homespun Design is a start-up phase online retailer of American-made furniture and design founded by Mr. Noonan. Mr. Noonan previously worked as an independent digital strategy consultant from November 2012 to November 2013. Mr. Noonan was employed by Wayfair LLC from April 2008 to November 2012. During his time at Wayfair, Mr. Noonan served as Senior Director of Wayfair International from June 2011 to November 2012, Director of Category Management and Merchandising from February 2009 to June 2011 and Manager of Wayfair's Business-to-Business Division from April 2008 to February 2009. Wayfair is an online retailer of home furnishings, d&#233;cor and home improvement products. Prior to joining Wayfair, Mr. Noonan worked as a venture capitalist at Polaris Partners and as an investment banker at Cowen &#38; Company. 

&#160; Merilee Raines has served as a director of our Company since February 2011. Ms. Raines served as Chief Financial Officer of IDEXX Laboratories, Inc. from October 2003 until her retirement in May 2013. Prior to becoming Chief Financial Officer, Ms. Raines held several management positions with IDEXX Laboratories, including Corporate Vice President of Finance, Vice President and Treasurer of Finance, Director of Finance, and Controller. IDEXX Laboratories develops, manufactures and distributes diagnostic and information technology-based products and services for companion animals, livestock, poultry, water quality and food safety, and human point-of-care diagnostics. Ms. Raines is a director of Aratana Therapeutics, Inc., a pet therapies company focused on the licensing or acquisition, development and commercialization of innovative biopharmaceutical products for cats, dogs and other companion animals. Ms. Raines is also a director of Affymetrix, Inc., a provider of life science and molecular diagnostic products that enable analysis of biological systems at the gene, protein and cell level. 

&#160; Joseph W. Reitmeier has served as a director of our Company since February 2016. Mr. Reitmeier has served as Executive Vice President &#38; Chief Financial Officer of Lennox International Inc. since July 2012. Mr. Reitmeier had served as Vice President of Finance for the LII Commercial business segment of Lennox International from 2007 to July 2012 and as Director of Internal Audit from 2005 to 2007. Lennox International is a leading global provider of climate control solutions and designs, manufactures and markets a broad range of products for the heating, ventilation, air conditioning and refrigeration markets. Before joining Lennox International, Mr. Reitmeier held financial leadership roles at Cummins Inc. and PolyOne Corporation. 

