 Item 1. Business Our Business 

Since its start in 1996, Gaiam has grown to become a leader in the markets for yoga, fitness and wellness products and conscious content. Gaiam brands include Gaiam, focused on yoga and fitness; Gaiam Restore, focused on wellness; SPRI by Gaiam, focused on fitness; and Gaia, our global digital video subscription service. 

We develop and market yoga and fitness accessories, apparel, and media under Gaiam&#146;s brands. These products are sold primarily through major national retailers in the United States, Canada, Europe, and other countries, with placement in over 38,000 retail doors worldwide. We also sell our products through our digital partners, websites and e-commerce channels. Our products and services are targeted to all levels of yoga and fitness enthusiasts, including professionals. We believe that consumers are attracted to our products because of their design, functional characteristics, and our unique brand heritage. Our accessories include yoga mats, bags, straps and blocks, media content including digital media and apps, restorative and massage accessories such as rollers, resistance cords and balance balls, and various other offerings. Our comprehensive line of apparel includes pants, shorts, tops and jackets designed around yoga. 

Gaia (formerly Gaiam TV), our digital subscription service, provides our members access to approximately 7,000 video titles, 90% of which are available exclusively to subscribers for digital streaming on most Internet-connected devices anytime, anywhere. 

Recent Developments 

Our wholly-owned subsidiary Gaia, Inc. (&#147;Gaia&#148;) filed a registration statement on Form 10 in connection with the previously announced proposed separation of the Gaia segment from the Gaiam Brand segment into two separate publicly traded companies. The proposed tax-free spin-off is expected to occur through a distribution to Gaiam, Inc.&#146;s shareholders of all the stock of Gaia. Gaia will hold all of the assets and liabilities of the Gaia segment, provided the spin-off happens. The Gaiam Brand segment will remain with Gaiam, Inc. after the distribution. The completion of the separation is subject to satisfaction of several conditions. Furthermore, our board of directors has the right and ability, in its sole discretion, to abandon the proposed separation at any time before the distribution date. As a result, there can be no assurance that the separation will occur. Gaia filed the final amendment to its Form 10 on February 17, 2016. Prior to consummating the proposed tax-free spin-off of the subscription business, our board of directors believes it is appropriate to review possible funding structures, enhancements and alternatives for its two primary business units and its eco-travel subsidiary, to maximize shareholder value. The board of directors expects to complete the review process by the end of March, while Gaia finalizes its NASDAQ trading arrangements. The Company does not plan to comment further regarding the review process unless disclosure is legally required. 

Our Heritage 

Our heritage dates back to 1984 when our founder and Chairman, Jirka Rysavy, emigrated from Czechoslovakia to Boulder, CO and founded natural-food store concept Crystal Market (later Wild Oats), recycled-office products company Corporate Express (which was sold with $4.5 billion in revenues, and is now Staples), and Gaiam. 

Gaiam has developed a reputation for quality and innovation that has helped elevate the practice and visibility of yoga, fitness and wellness and positively changed the way consumers interact and look at the world. Our long history and experience gives us a unique authenticity in the market. 

Our Values 

Gaiam adheres to values that are aligned with our customers. This creates loyalty to our brands, above and beyond their appreciation for the quality, design and effectiveness of our products. Authenticity and commitment to our core values are at the center of what we strive to achieve. 

We also have a strong sense of corporate citizenship and contribution to our communities. We strive to respect our environment, to promote diversity and fulfillment among our employees, to coach talent and support those in need when and where we are able to. 

&#160;

Our Brands 

Our brands reflect our commitment to designing innovative, high quality and affordable products that enhance our customers&#146; enjoyment of their yoga, fitness and wellness practices. 

Gaiam is our main brand for yoga, fitness and wellness accessories, apparel, and media. Launched with our company&#146;s founding, Gaiam started with yoga videos in the late 1990s, and has since expanded to include a full line of apparel, yoga mats, yoga mat bags, yoga blocks and straps, yoga and fitness props, balance balls, bags, and various other accessories. The brand addresses the needs of all levels of yoga practitioners with a high-quality and stylish product assortment. We have successfully leveraged the brand&#146;s authenticity and heritage into wellness and active sitting products, including our balance ball chair, and fitness kits. We actively research and test new product concepts under the Gaiam brand, and have the ability to create new sub-brands like Gaiam Restore when the opportunity is significant. 

Gaiam Restore is about empowering tools to get our customers back to their healthiest, most flexible selves. We launched the Restore sub-brand in 2012 when we recognized growing consumer interest in self-care. The Restore line helps enhance athletic performance, improve flexibility, boost range of motion and combat muscle soreness. The product line consists of foam rollers, foot rollers, massage kits, stretch cords and straps, pressure point massagers, hand and grip therapy accessories, trigger point massagers and various other products and accessories. Our substantial Restore product set enables us to provide a complete store-within-store experience to our retail partners, giving their customers a trusted source for both general and condition-specific wellness products. 

SPRI by Gaiam is a leading manufacturer and distributor of professional fitness accessories, which we acquired in 2008. Founded over 30 years ago, SPRI first pioneered rubber resistance exercise products and has since expanded into many other categories of fitness equipment. Through its network of fitness professionals and advisors, SPRI has remained on the cutting edge of today&#146;s exercise trends including our recent release of SPRI CrossTrain, a line of accessories for functional cross training. We are expanding our educational content through the recently redesigned website SPRI.com, in addition to growing live course programming. These efforts support and educate the market on the effective use of our products, in addition to influencing new trends. Historically, we marketed SPRI products through professional channels, trainers and gyms, and through specialty fitness retail stores. In 2012, we began to market the products through our extensive network of sporting goods and select mass market retailers. 

Gaia is a global subscription video streaming service with approximately 7,000 titles focused on yoga, health and longevity, seeking truth, spiritual growth and conscious films &#38; series. Its content caters to a unique and underserved subscriber base and is available to our subscribers across most Internet connected devices anytime, anywhere, commercial free. The subscription also allows downloading and viewing of files from the library without being actively connected to the internet. Subscribers have unlimited access to a vast library of inspiring films, personal growth related content, cutting edge documentaries, interviews, yoga classes, and more &#150; 90% of which is available exclusively for streaming to our subscribers. 

Our Products 

We have a long history of technical innovation and product development, with over 22 patents and 2 patents pending and hundreds of new product introductions since our start in 1996. Our employees&#146; passion and intimacy with yoga, fitness and wellness provides a significant advantage that we believe will help drive our Company to new levels. 

&#160;

Examples of our products include: 

&#160;

&#160;

Our Strategy 

We seek to generate sustainable and profitable growth by leveraging our leadership position and brand awareness to expand our business in the following ways: 

Streamline and Focus Our Business &#150; During 2013, we sold our non-Gaiam branded entertainment media distribution operations, discontinued our direct response television marketing operations, and sold virtually all our investment in Real Goods Solar, Inc. (&#147;RGSE&#148;) in order to restructure our business around our yoga, fitness, and wellness products as well as Gaia. We believe that maintaining focus and discipline will be critical as we seek to grow our leadership position and brands within these markets. 

Extend Our Brand Into New Categories &#150; Gaiam enjoys strong national brand awareness, and we believe that we have successfully demonstrated our ability to move into complementary and adjacent product categories. For example, our Gaiam Restore product line represented a step toward wellness, and has grown considerably since its launch in 2012. Similarly, our SPRI CrossTrain product line was a natural evolution of the SPRI brand, and is now carried in major retailers in the US. 

In 2015, we launched a line of Gaiam branded yoga apparel that has provided access to the large and growing athletic apparel market. We believe that our brand combined with a favorable competitive environment in this segment of the market will become a significant part of our growth in the coming years. 

Additionally, we are increasing our presence in the home and office with active sitting products. The Gaiam balance ball chair is a widely recognized product and forms the base of our active sitting strategy. With the continued success of our balance ball chair and the recent news coverage on the health issues associated with sitting for extended periods of time, we are designing a line of active sitting products that will further extend our brand. 

Attract New Demographics &#150; We believe that the growing interest in yoga, fitness, and wellness has created an opportunity for us to use our core brand assets to attract men and youth to these disciplines. Historically underrepresented in our disciplines and our customer base, both demographics are now a focus for our marketing and product development efforts. We plan to utilize our expertise in product development, merchandising, and content creation to develop unified sets of product and media content that appeal to men and children, and to sell these products through our existing wide retail distribution network and website. 

Extend Our International Distribution Footprint &#150; We believe that Gaiam has the ability to be the global brand for yoga, fitness and wellness by actively pursuing international expansion. International sales represented approximately 4% of our revenues in 2015 and we believe there is significant opportunity to address the yoga, fitness, and wellness market abroad and to do so as successfully as we have addressed it in the United States. 

Grow our Retail Footprint &#150; We currently have 19,000 branded stores-within-store presentations and believe the product category and demographic expansion strategies above will help us to grow our sales with existing customers and to enter new retail channels including department stores, grocery and drug stores. We believe that many retailers recognize an opportunity in the health and wellness lifestyle market, and are expanding their product mix in order to capitalize on this trend. Additionally, we launched our SPRI brand in retail during 2012, and are continuing to expand its penetration. As of December 31, 2015, SPRI was represented in approximately 4,500 U.S. retail doors. 

Connect With Our Customers &#150; Our business and customers continue to evolve and so will the way we engage with them. We are evolving our e-commerce experience to focus on engaging our target consumers through digital content and social and mobile marketing. As part of this strategy, in 2014, we acquired the Yoga Studio app, a highly rated and successful yoga instruction app, which we will continue to develop and leverage as a point of brand engagement. As of the end of 2015, Yoga Studio was the leading yoga app with over 1 million downloads. Expanding our reach into wellness, we created and launched Meditation Studio, an iOS app offering original guided meditations in 2015. 

We recently launched the GaiamPro.com website, which enables us to better connect with the yoga and fitness studio and practitioner market &#150; a key step in growing our brand presence within these highly influential channels. We have also completely redesigned our Gaiam.com and SPRI.com websites to focus on brand engagement across various devices, including tablet and mobile. 

These efforts are all grounded in our belief that consumers increasingly seek direct brand interactions, through engaging content and digital interactions. We will continue to develop and evolve better ways to connect with our consumers through our consumer channels and our retail partners. 

Build Gaia &#150; Our core Gaia strategy is to grow our subscriber base domestically and internationally by expanding our unique and exclusive content library, enhancing our user interface and extending our streaming service to new Internet-connected devices as they are developed. 

&#160;

Our content is focused on yoga, health and longevity, seeking truth, spiritual growth and conscious films &#38; series. This media content is specifically targeted to a unique customer base which is interested in alternatives to the content provided by mainstream media. We have been able to grow these content options both organically through our own productions and through strategic acquisitions. In addition, through our investments in our streaming video technology and our user interface, we have been able to expand the many ways our subscription customer base can access our unique library of media titles. 

Complement our Existing Business with Selective Strategic Acquisitions &#150; Our growth strategy is not dependent on acquisitions. However, we will consider acquiring complementary branded businesses that strengthen our market position by expanding our product offerings, geographical reach or channel distribution. We often retain acquired company&#146;s management to drive front-end business functions, such as creative presentation and marketing, while consolidating operational functions under our existing infrastructure where we can realize economies of scale. 

Our Operations 

Sales Channels, Product Development and Sourcing 

We sell our branded products across various sales channels. We use our direct-to-consumer channel to test products before we distribute them through our retail channel. Because we use a multi-channel approach to our business, we are able to leverage product development costs across all channels of our business. 

Our proprietary offerings are designed by our development team and sourced both domestically and internationally. We utilize third- party suppliers that produce our products to our specifications. We design our products to promote and support our customers&#146; healthy lifestyles. We also screen the environmental and social responsibility of our suppliers. In order to minimize risk, we often identify an alternate supplier for our products in a separate location. 

Established Infrastructure 

We have a distribution center centrally located near Cincinnati, Ohio. This distribution center provides fulfillment for much of our current domestic business needs and has the capacity to support the growth of our business. The center&#146;s central U.S. location allows us to achieve shipping cost efficiencies to most locations. The center is also located within 30 minutes of several major shipping company hubs. We use a supply chain management system that supports our entire operation, including fulfillment, inventory management, and customer service. 

Our Reporting Segments 

We have two reportable segments: the Gaiam Brand segment, and the Gaia segment. The Gaiam Brand segment includes all of our yoga, fitness, and wellness product and media distributed through our website, apps, retail network, and catalogs, and also includes our eco-travel business. The Gaia segment includes our global digital video subscription service. During 2015, the Gaiam Brand and the Gaia segments represented 92.8% and 7.2% of our net revenues, respectively. 

Our Gaiam Brand segment is dependent upon a few major customers for a significant portion of its revenues. The following Gaiam Brand segment customers make up 10% or more of our total revenues. No other customer accounted for 10% or more of our total net revenue. The loss of either of these customers would have a material adverse effect on our business. 

&#160;

&#160; &#160; 2015 &#160; &#160; 2014 &#160; &#160; 2013 &#160; Target

&#160; &#160; 21.8 % &#160; &#160; 29.3 % &#160; &#160; 32.1 % Kohl&#146;s

&#160; &#160; 18.1 % &#160; &#160; 4.0 % &#160; &#160; &#151; &#160; See further information about our reporting segments in Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Our Competition 

Our business and brands are benefiting from the convergence of function and fashion in the yoga and fitness apparel, and equipment space. We believe consumer purchase decisions are driven by a need for solution-oriented products and a desire to create a particular lifestyle perception through distinctive aesthetics. A number of highly successful brands including Lululemon, Under Armour, and Nike have recognized and capitalized on this convergence. Primary growth drivers in our business include products that provide a high level of performance or comfort, that exhibit consistent, attractive design characteristics, and are affordable. 

&#160;

The markets for our products are highly competitive. In each of our geographic markets, we face significant competition from numerous competitors, some of which are larger than us and have greater financial, marketing and operational resources with which to compete, and others that are smaller with fewer resources, but that may be deeply entrenched in local markets or have established themselves as niche category leaders. Some of our large wholesale customers also market competitive yoga, fitness and wellness apparel, accessories and equipment under their own private labels. In addition, our direct-to-consumer channels expose us to branded competitors who operate retail stores, as well as competitors who sell product online. 

In addition to competing for end-consumer and wholesale market share, we also compete for manufacturing capacity of independent factory groups, primarily in Asia; and for experienced management, staff and suppliers to lead, operate and support our global business processes. Each of these areas of competition requires distinct operational and relational capabilities and expertise in order to create and maintain long-term competitive advantages. 

Competitive Advantage 

We believe our primary competitive advantages are: 

&#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Brand awareness &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Product design and innovation &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Product quality &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Management experience &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Exclusive content library &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Technical platform for continuity &#160;

&#160; &#149; &#160; Full onsite content production facilities We believe our brand is recognized as a leader in our industry. With a long history in the yoga, fitness and wellness market, our reputation and longevity make us the first choice for many consumers. Our expertise enables us to produce and market unique and innovative products under our core brands using materials and designs that take advantage of the newest health trends. Our employees leverage their own expertise and that of an external network of experts and advisors to continually research the trends in all of our markets, allowing us to continuously address the evolving needs of our consumers. 

Discontinued Operations 

In the fourth quarter of 2013, we sold our non-Gaiam-branded entertainment media distribution operations (&#147;GVE&#148;) and discontinued our direct response television marketing operations (&#147;DRTV&#148;). We now report these businesses as discontinued operations, and, accordingly, we have reclassified their financial results for all periods presented to reflect them as such. Unless otherwise noted, discussions in this Form 10-K pertain to our continuing operations. 

Our Employees 

As of March 9, 2016, we employed approximately 286 full-time and 10 part-time or seasonal individuals. None of our employees are covered by a collective bargaining agreement. 

Regulatory Matters 

A number of existing and proposed laws restrict disclosure of consumers&#146; personal information, which may make it more difficult for us to generate additional names for our direct marketing, and restrict our ability to send unsolicited electronic mail or printed materials. Although we believe we are generally in compliance with current laws and regulations and that these laws and regulations have not had a significant impact on our business to date, it is possible that existing or future regulatory requirements will impose a significant burden on us. 

We generally collect sales taxes only on sales to residents of states in which we have nexus. Currently, we collect sales taxes on certain sales to residents of California, Colorado, Illinois, New York, New Jersey, Ohio, and Texas. A number of legislative proposals have been made at the federal, state and local level, and by foreign governments, that would impose additional taxes on the sale of goods and services over the Internet, and certain states have taken measures to tax Internet-related activities. If legislation is enacted that requires us to collect sales taxes on sales to residents of other states or jurisdictions, our direct to consumer sales channels may be adversely affected. Our business is also subject to a number of other governmental regulations, including the Mail or Telephone Order Merchandise Rule and related regulations of the Federal Trade Commission. These regulations prohibit unfair methods of competition and unfair or deceptive acts or practices in connection with mail and telephone order sales and require sellers of mail and telephone order merchandise to conform to certain rules of conduct with respect to shipping dates and shipping delays. We are also subject to regulations of the U.S. Postal Service and various state and local consumer protection agencies relating to matters such as advertising, order solicitation, shipment deadlines and customer refunds and returns. In addition, merchandise that we import is subject to import and customs duties and, in some cases, import quotas. 

&#160;

Seasonality 

See the &#147;Quarterly and Seasonal Fluctuations&#148; section of Item 7, Management&#146;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, for information pertaining to the seasonal aspects of our business. 

Website and Available Information 

Our corporate website at gaiam.com provides information about us, our history, goals and philosophy, as well as certain financial reports and corporate press releases. Our gaiam.com website also features a library of information and articles on personal development and healthy lifestyles, along with an extensive offering of products, services and media. We believe our website provides us with an opportunity to deepen our relationships with our customers and investors, educate them on a variety of issues, and improve our service. As part of this commitment, we have a link on our corporate website to our Securities and Exchange Commission filings, including our reports on Form 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K and amendments thereto. We make those reports available through our website, free of charge, as soon as reasonably practicable after these reports are filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. 

Additional information about our products and services can be found at SPRI.com and Gaia.com. We have included our website addresses only as inactive textual reference, and the information contained on our website is not incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K. 

&#160;

