 ITEM 1. 

BUSINESS 

FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS 

This Annual Report on Form 10-K includes "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. These statements are based on current expectations, estimates, forecasts and projections about the industry in which we operate, management’s beliefs and assumptions. Words such as "may," "will," "expect," "intend," "estimate," "anticipate," "believe," or "continue" or the negative thereof or variations of such words and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions, which are difficult to predict. Therefore, actual outcomes and results may differ materially from what is expressed or forecasted in such forward-looking statements. We disclaim any duty to update or revise any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. See "Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—&#8216;Safe Harbor’ Statement Under Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995." 

Introduction 

Warner Music Group Corp. (the "Company") was formed on November 21, 2003. We are the direct parent of WMG Holdings Corp. ("Holdings"), which is the direct parent of WMG Acquisition Corp. ("Acquisition Corp."). Acquisition Corp. is one of the world’s major music-based content companies. 

Acquisition of Warner Music Group by Access Industries 

Pursuant to the Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of May 6, 2011 (the "Merger Agreement"), by and among the Company, AI Entertainment Holdings LLC (formerly Airplanes Music LLC), a Delaware limited liability company ("Parent") and an affiliate of Access Industries, Inc. ("Access"), and Airplanes Merger Sub, Inc., a Delaware corporation and a wholly owned subsidiary of Parent ("Merger Sub"), on July 20, 2011 (the "Merger Closing Date"), Merger Sub merged with and into the Company with the Company surviving as a wholly owned subsidiary of Parent (the "Merger"). In connection with the Merger, the Company delisted its common stock from the NYSE. The Company continues to voluntarily file with the SEC current and periodic reports that would be required to be filed with the SEC pursuant to Section 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act") as provided for in certain covenants contained in the instruments covering its outstanding indebtedness. All of the Company’s common stock is owned by affiliates of Access Industries, Inc.

PLG Acquisition 

On July 1, 2013, the Company completed its acquisition (the "PLG Acquisition") of Parlophone Label Group ("PLG"). See "Company History" and "Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" for a further discussion of the PLG Acquisition. 

Our Company 

We are one of the world’s major music-based content companies. Our company is composed of two businesses: Recorded Music and Music Publishing. We believe we are the world’s third-largest recorded music company and also the world’s third-largest music publishing company. We are a global company, generating over half of our revenues in more than 50 countries outside of the United States. We generated revenues of $3.246 billion during the fiscal year ended September 30, 2016. 

Our Recorded Music business produces revenue primarily through the marketing, sale and licensing of recorded music in various physical (such as CDs, Vinyl and DVDs) and digital (such as streaming and downloads) formats. We have one of the world’s largest and most diverse recorded music catalogs. Our Recorded Music business also benefits from additional revenue streams associated with artists, including merchandising, fan clubs, sponsorships, concert promotions and artist management, among other areas. We often refer to these rights as "artist services and expanded-rights" and to the recording agreements which provide us with participations in such rights as "expanded-rights deals" or "360&#176; deals." Prior to intersegment eliminations, our Recorded Music business generated revenues of $2.736 billion during the fiscal year ended September 30, 2016. 

Our Music Publishing business owns and acquires rights to musical compositions, exploits and markets these compositions, and receives royalties or fees for their use. We publish music across a broad range of musical styles and hold rights in over one million copyrights from over 70,000 songwriters and composers. Prior to intersegment eliminations, our Music Publishing business generated revenues of $524 million during the fiscal year ended September 30, 2016. 

Company History 

Our history dates back to 1929, when Jack Warner, president of Warner Bros. Pictures, founded Music Publishers Holding Company ("MPHC") to acquire music copyrights as a means of providing inexpensive music for films. Encouraged by the success of MPHC, Warner Bros. extended its presence in the music industry with the founding of Warner Bros. Records in 1958 as a means of distributing movie soundtracks and further utilizing actors’ contracts. For over 50 years, Warner Bros. Records has led the industry both creatively and financially with the discovery of many of the world’s biggest recording artists. Warner Bros. Records acquired Frank Sinatra’s Reprise Records in 1963. Our Atlantic Records label was launched in 1947 by Ahmet Ertegun and Herb Abramson as a small New York-based label focused on jazz and R&amp;B and Elektra Records was founded in 1950 by Jac Holzman as a folk music label. Atlantic Records and Elektra Records were consolidated in 2004 to form the Atlantic Records Group. Since 1970, our international Recorded Music business has been responsible for the sale and marketing of our U.S. recording artists abroad as well as the discovery and development of international recording artists. 

Chappell &amp; Intersong Music Group, including Chappell &amp; Co., a company whose history dates back to 1811, was acquired in 1987, expanding our Music Publishing business. We continue to diversify our presence through acquisitions and joint ventures with various labels, such as our acquisition of Ryko in 2006, our acquisition of a majority interest in Roadrunner Music Group B.V. ("Roadrunner") in 2007 (we also acquired the remaining interest in Roadrunner in 2010) and the acquisition of music publishing catalogs and businesses, such as the Non-Stop Music production music catalog in 2007 and Southside Independent Music Publishing in 2011. 

On July 20, 2011, we completed the Merger with an affiliate of Access pursuant to which Access became the beneficial owner of 100% of our equity and our controlling shareholder. 

On July 1, 2013, we completed the acquisition of PLG from Universal Music Group. PLG included a broad range of some of the world’s best-known recordings and classic and contemporary artists spanning a wide array of musical genres. PLG was comprised of the historic Parlophone label and Chrysalis and Ensign labels in the U.K., as well as EMI Classics and Virgin Classics, and EMI’s recorded music operations in Belgium, Czech Republic, Denmark, France, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Slovakia, Spain and Sweden. PLG’s artists included Air, Alain Souchon, Camille, Coldplay, Daft Punk, Danger Mouse, David Bowie, David Guetta, Deep Purple, Duran Duran, Eliza Doolittle, Gorillaz, Iron Maiden, Jean-Louis Aubert, Jethro Tull, Julien Clerc, Kylie Minogue, M. Pokora, Magic System, Pablo Albor&#225;n, Pink Floyd, Roxette, Tina Turner and Tinie Tempah, as well as many developing and up-and-coming artists. PLG’s EMI Classics and Virgin Classics brand names were not included with the PLG Acquisition. WMG has rebranded these businesses, respectively, as Warner Classics and Erato. 

Warner Music Group is today home to a collection of record labels, including Asylum, Atlantic, Big Beat, Canvasback, Eastwest, Elektra, Erato, FFRR, Fueled by Ramen, Nonesuch, Parlophone, Reprise, Rhino, Roadrunner, Sire, Warner Bros., Warner Classics and Warner Music Nashville, as well as Warner/Chappell Music, one of the world’s leading music publishers. 

Our Business Strengths 

We believe the following competitive strengths will enable us to grow our revenue and increase our margins and cash flow and to continue to generate recurring revenue through our diverse base of Recorded Music and Music Publishing assets: 

Evergreen Catalog of Recorded Music and Music Publishing Content and Vibrant Roster of Recording Artists and Songwriters. We believe the depth and quality of our Recorded Music and Music Publishing catalogs stand out, with a collection of owned and controlled evergreen recordings and songs that generate steady cash flows. We believe these assets demonstrate our historical success in developing talent and will help to attract future talent in order to enable our continued success. We have been able to consistently attract, develop and retain successful recording artists and songwriters. Our talented artist and repertoire ("A&amp;R") teams are focused on finding and nurturing future successful recording artists and songwriters, as evidenced by our roster of recording artists and songwriters and our recent successes in our Recorded Music and Music Publishing businesses. With the acquisition of PLG, we added a stable Recorded Music catalog with an attractive roster with strong new release potential. We believe our relative size, the strength and experience of our management team, our ability to respond to industry and consumer trends and challenges, our diverse array of genres, our large catalog of hit recordings and songs and our A&amp;R skills will help us continue to generate steady cash flows. 

Highly Diversified Revenue Base. Our revenue base is derived largely from recurring sources such as our Recorded Music and Music Publishing catalogs and new recordings and songs from our roster of recording artists and songwriters. In any given year, only a small percentage of our total revenue depends on recording artists and songwriters without an established track record and our revenue base does not depend on any single recording artist, songwriter, recording or song. We have built a large and diverse catalog of recordings and songs that covers a wide breadth of musical styles, including pop, rock, jazz, classical, country, R&amp;B, hip-hop, rap, reggae, Latin, alternative, folk, blues, gospel and other Christian music. We are a significant player in each of our major geographic regions. In addition, our acquisition of PLG increased our capacity in local repertoire in Europe. Continuing to enter into additional expanded-rights deals will further diversify the revenue base of our Recorded Music business. 

Flexible Cost Structure with Low Capital Expenditure Requirements. We have a highly variable cost structure, with substantial discretionary spending and minimal capital requirements beyond improving our IT infrastructure. We have contractual flexibility with regard to the timing and amounts of advances paid to recording artists and songwriters as well as discretion regarding future investment in new recording artists and songwriters, which allows us to respond to changing industry conditions. Our significant discretion with regard to the timing and expenditure of variable costs provides us with considerable flexibility in managing our expenses. In addition, our capital expenditure maintenance requirements are predictable. In order to improve operating efficiency, in 2013 we began a long-term capital expenditure plan to upgrade our IT systems. We expect to continue to make investments to upgrade our IT systems. In both fiscal years 2014 and 2015, we also incurred expenditures related to the relocation of our corporate headquarters and we expect to incur expenditures in fiscal year 2017 in connection with the consolidation of our West Coast operations. We also continue to focus on cost control by seeking sensible opportunities to convert fixed costs to variable costs, to enhance our effectiveness, flexibility, structure and performance by reducing and realigning long-term costs and continuing to implement changes to better align our workforce with the changing nature of the music industry by continuing to shift resources from our physical sales channels to efforts focused on digital distribution and emerging technologies and other new revenue streams. 

Continued Transition to Higher-Margin Digital Platforms. We derive revenue from different digital business models and products, including digital streaming of both audio and video content and digital downloads of single tracks and albums. We have established ourselves as a leader in the music industry’s transition to the digital era by expanding our distribution channels through strong partnerships and developing innovative products and services to further leverage our content and rights. For the fiscal year ended September 30, 2016, digital revenue represented approximately 46% of our total revenue versus 42% for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2015 and in fiscal year 2016 digital streaming was our largest source of Recorded Music revenue. 

We have integrated the development of innovative digital products and strategies throughout our business and have established a culture of product innovation. Through our digital initiatives we have established strong relationships with our customers and have become a leader in the expanding worldwide digital music business. Due to the absence of certain costs associated with physical products, such as manufacturing, distribution, inventory and returns, we continue to experience higher margins on our digital product offerings than our physical product offerings. 

Strong Management Team and Strategic Investor. Our management team has continued to successfully implement our business strategy, including delivering strong results in our digital business and continuing to diversify our revenue mix. At the same time, management has remained vigilant in managing costs and maintaining financial flexibility. During fiscal year 2013, our management team successfully completed the PLG Acquisition and related financing. During fiscal years 2012 to 2016, management completed several refinancings of our debt, lowering interest expenses. In addition, since our acquisition by Access Industries in July 2011, we have benefited from our partnership with Access, which has provided us with strategic direction and planning support to help us manage the ongoing transition in the recorded music industry. 

Our Strategy 

We expect to increase revenues and cash flow through the following business strategies: 

Attract, Develop and Retain Established and Emerging Recording Artists and Songwriters. A critical element of our strategy is to produce a consistent flow of new music by finding, developing and retaining recording artists and songwriters who achieve long-term success. We expect to enhance the value of our assets by continuing to attract and develop new recording artists and songwriters with staying power and market potential. Our A&amp;R teams seek to sign talented recording artists who will generate a meaningful level of revenues and increase the enduring value of our catalog on an ongoing basis. We also work to identify promising songwriters who write musical compositions that will augment the lasting value and stability of our music publishing catalog. We regularly evaluate our recording artist and songwriter rosters to ensure that we remain focused on developing the most promising and profitable talent and are committed to maintaining financial discipline in evaluating agreements with artists. We will also continue to evaluate opportunities to add to our catalog or acquire or make investments in companies engaged in businesses that are similar or complementary to ours on a selective basis. 

Maximize the Value of Our Music Assets. Our relationships with recording artists and songwriters, along with our recorded music and music publishing catalogs are our most valuable assets. We intend to continue to exploit the value of these assets through a variety of distribution channels, formats and products to generate significant cash flow from our music-based content. We believe that the ability to monetize our music-based content will improve over time as we drive users and engagement across current and emerging distribution channels. We will seek to exploit the potential of previously under-monetized content in new channels, formats and product offerings. We will also continue to work with our partners to explore creative approaches and develop new deal structures and product offerings to take advantage of new distribution channels. We also intend to continue to expand our global footprint through strategic acquisitions, partnerships and organic growth in markets where we see opportunities to grow revenues. 

Capitalize on Digital Distribution. The growth of digital formats will continue to produce new means for the distribution, exploitation and monetization of the assets of our Recorded Music and Music Publishing businesses. We believe that the continued development of legitimate online and mobile channels for the consumption of music-based content and increasing access to digital music services present significant promise and opportunity for the music industry. Legitimate digital music services offer ease of use, discovery, quality, portability and seamlessness relative to illegal alternatives. The latest annual survey conducted by MusicWatch in calendar year 2015 shows that legitimate digital music offerings have attracted large numbers of consumers. According to MusicWatch, a projected 42 million U.S. consumers age 13 and over bought digital music downloads in calendar year 2015, while a projected 156 million consumers age 13 and over streamed music online, through ad-supported services or paid subscriptions, over the same period. 

We intend to continue to extend our global reach by executing deals with new partners and developing optimal business models that will enable us to monetize our content across various platforms, services and devices. In the twelve months ending on September 30, 2016, our Recorded Music digital revenue exceeded physical revenue. Research conducted by MusicWatch covering full calendar year 2015 activity shows that more than 40% of all U.S. Internet consumers age 13 and over used ad-supported Internet radio services like the free version of Pandora during 2015 and over half used online video services like YouTube to watch or listen to music videos; more than one in every five listened to music via ad-supported iterations of dedicated on-demand audio streaming services like Spotify, while usage of paid subscription versions of Internet radio and on-demand music streaming services approached the 10% mark during the period. In addition, with the number of total smartphones in use around the world expected to reach 4.7 billion by 2020 according to forecasts from PricewaterhouseCoopers, we expect that mobile will continue to represent significant opportunity for music-based content. Figures from comScore’s July 2016 MobiLens Plus data release show that the uptake of music among users of such phones is significant: according to the data, more than half of existing smartphone users in the U.S. and 45% of their counterparts in the U.K., listened to music downloaded and stored or streamed on their handsets from services such as Apple Music and iTunes, Pandora, iHeartRadio, Deezer and Spotify, among other sources, during the month. We believe that the demand for music-related products, services and applications that are optimized for smartphones and tablets will continue to grow with the further development of these platforms. 

Focus on Continued Management of Our Cost Structure. We plan to continue to maintain a disciplined approach to cost management in our business and to pursue additional cost savings with a focus on aligning our cost structure with our strategy and optimizing the implementation of our strategy. As part of this focus, we will continue to monitor industry conditions to ensure that our business remains aligned with industry trends. We also plan to continue to aggressively shift resources from our physical sales channels to efforts focused on digital distribution and other new revenue streams. As digital revenue makes up a greater portion of total revenue, we plan to manage our cost structure accordingly. In addition, we will continue to look for opportunities to convert fixed costs to variable costs through realigning or outsourcing certain functions or leveraging more effective IT systems where these initiatives provide additional cost savings. We are constantly monitoring our costs and seeking additional cost savings. 

Contain Digital Piracy. Containing piracy is a major focus of the music industry and we, along with the rest of the industry, continue to take multiple measures through the development of new business models, technological innovation, litigation, education and the promotion of legislation and voluntary agreements to combat piracy, including filing civil lawsuits, participating in education programs, lobbying for tougher anti-piracy legislation and other initiatives to preserve the value of music copyrights. We expect that the effectiveness of technological measures to deter piracy will continue to improve including the ability to automate large-scale takedowns of infringing links, the identification of major brands advertising on rogue sites, sending notices via ISPs to repeat infringers and website/domain blocking and takedowns of infringing mobile applications. We believe these actions and technologies, in addition to the expansive growth of legitimate online and mobile music offerings, will help to limit the revenue lost to digital piracy. Research conducted by Ipsos, a recognized third-party market research firm, in conjunction with IFPI, shows that the net incidence of music piracy across 13 key countries in 2016 was contained year-over-year. However, a shift in the nature of such piracy was observed, with the incidence of downloading via file-sharing networks and cyberlockers decreasing from 25% to 19%, and the incidence of &#8216;streamripping’ increasing from 27% to 30%, across those countries over the same period. 

Recorded Music (84%, 84% and 83% of consolidated revenues, before intersegment eliminations, for fiscal years ended September 30, 2016, 2015 and 2014) 

Our Recorded Music business primarily consists of the discovery and development of artists and the related marketing, distribution and licensing of recorded music produced by such artists. We play an integral role in virtually all aspects of the recorded music value chain from discovering and developing talent to producing albums and marketing and promoting artists and their products. 

In the United States, our Recorded Music operations are conducted principally through our major record labels—Warner Bros. Records and Atlantic Records. Our Recorded Music operations also include Rhino, a division that specializes in marketing our music catalog through compilations and reissuances of previously released music and video titles. We also conduct our Recorded Music operations through a collection of additional record labels including Asylum, Big Beat, Canvasback, Eastwest, Elektra, Erato, FFRR, Fueled by Ramen, Nonesuch, Parlophone, Reprise, Roadrunner, Sire, Warner Classics and Warner Music Nashville. 

Outside the United States, our Recorded Music activities are conducted in more than 50 countries through various subsidiaries, affiliates and non-affiliated licensees. Internationally, we engage in the same activities as in the United States: discovering and signing artists and distributing, marketing and selling their recorded music. In most cases, we also market and distribute the records of those artists for whom our domestic record labels have international rights. In certain smaller markets, we license the right to distribute our records to non-affiliated third-party record labels. Our international artist services operations include a network of concert promoters through which we provide resources to coordinate tours for our artists and other artists as well as management companies that guide artists with respect to their careers. 

Our Recorded Music distribution operations include Warner-Elektra-Atlantic Corporation ("WEA Corp."), which markets and sells music and video products to retailers and wholesale distributors; Alternative Distribution Alliance ("ADA"), which distributes the products of independent labels to retail and wholesale distributors; various distribution centers and ventures operated internationally. 

In addition to our Recorded Music products being sold in physical retail outlets, our Recorded Music products are also sold in physical form to online physical retailers such as Amazon.com, barnesandnoble.com and bestbuy.com and in digital form to digital download services such as Apple’s iTunes and Google Play, and are offered by digital streaming services such as Apple Music, Deezer, Napster, Spotify and YouTube, including digital radio services such as iHeart Radio, Pandora and Sirius XM. 

We have integrated the exploitation of digital content into all aspects of our business, including artist and repertoire ("A&amp;R"), marketing, promotion and distribution. Our business development executives work closely with A&amp;R departments to ensure that while a record is being produced, digital assets are also created with all distribution channels in mind, including streaming services, social networking sites, online portals and music-centered destinations. We also work side-by-side with our online and mobile partners to test new concepts. We believe existing and new digital businesses will be a significant source of growth and will provide new opportunities to successfully monetize our assets and create new revenue streams. The proportion of digital revenues attributed to each distribution channel varies by region and proportions may change as the roll out of new technologies continues. As an owner of music content, we believe we are well positioned to take advantage of growth in digital distribution and emerging technologies to maximize the value of our assets. 

We have diversified our revenues beyond our traditional businesses by entering into expanded-rights deals with recording artists in order to partner with artists in other aspects of their careers. Under these agreements, we provide services to and participate in artists’ activities outside the traditional recorded music business such as touring, merchandising and sponsorships. We have built artist services capabilities and platforms for exploiting this broader set of music-related rights and participating more widely in the monetization of the artist brands we help create. 

We believe that entering into expanded-rights deals and enhancing our artist services capabilities in areas such as concert promotion and management has permitted us to diversify revenue streams and capitalize on other revenue opportunities. This provides for improved long-term relationships with artists and allows us to more effectively connect artists and fans. 

A&amp;R 

We have a decades-long history of identifying and contracting with recording artists who become commercially successful. Our ability to select artists who are likely to be successful is a key element of our Recorded Music business strategy and spans all music genres and all major geographies and includes artists who achieve national, regional and international success. We believe that this success is directly attributable to our experienced global team of A&amp;R executives, to the longstanding reputation and relationships that we have developed in the artistic community and to our effective management of this vital business function. 

In the U.S., our major record labels identify potentially successful recording artists, sign them to recording agreements, collaborate with them to develop recordings of their work and market and sell these finished recordings to retail stores and legitimate digital channels. Increasingly, we are also expanding our participation in image and brand rights associated with artists, including merchandising, sponsorships, touring and artist management. Our labels scout and sign talent across all major music genres, including pop, rock, jazz, classical, country, R&amp;B, hip-hop, rap, reggae, Latin, alternative, folk, blues, gospel and other Christian music. Internationally, we market and sell U.S. and local repertoire through our network of affiliates and licensees in more than 50 countries. With a roster of local artists performing in various local languages throughout the world, we have an ongoing commitment to developing local talent aimed at achieving national, regional or international success. 

Many of our recording artists continue to appeal to audiences long after we cease to release their new recordings. We have an efficient process for sustaining sales across our catalog releases. Relative to our new releases, we spend comparatively small amounts on marketing for our catalog. 

We maximize the value of our catalog of recorded music through our Rhino business unit and through activities of each of our record labels. We use our catalog as a source of material for re-releases, compilations, box sets and special package releases, which provide consumers with incremental exposure to familiar songs and artists. 

Representative Worldwide Recorded Music Artists 

3Oh!3

Death Cab for Cutie

Katherine Jenkins

Never Shout Never

Skrillex

A-ha

Deftones

Jane's Addiction

Nickelback

Slipknot

Air

Jason Derulo

Jethro Tull

Stevie Nicks

The Smiths

Airbourne

Disturbed

Johnny Hallyday

Nico and Vinz

Spandau Ballet

Andra Day

Donkeyboy

Julien Clerc

Notorious B.I.G.

Regina Spektor

Jean-Louis Aubert

The Doors

k.d. lang

Paolo Nutini

Staind

Avenged Sevenfold

Dream Theater

Kid Rock

Opeth

Rod Stewart

B.o.B

Duran Duran

Killswitch Engage

Pablo Albor&#225;n

The Streets

Frankie Ballard

Eagles

Kobukuro

Panic! At the Disco

Alain Souchon

The Baseballs

Brett Eldrege

Korn

Pantera

Stone Sour

Jeff Beck

Eliza Doolittle

Kraftwerk

Paramore

Stone Temple Pilots

Bee Gees

Missy Elliott

Jana Kramer

Laura Pausini

Superfly

Biffy Clyro

The Enemy

Larry the Cable Guy

Pendulum

Cole Swindell

Big Smo

Enya

Hugh Laurie

Christina Perri

Mariya Takeuchi

Billy Talent

Estelle

Led Zeppelin

Peter Fox

Serj Tankian

Birdy

Jimmy Fallon

Ligabue

Tom Petty

Tegan and Sara

The Black Keys

Flaming Lips

Lily Allen

Pink Floyd

Tina Turner

Black Sabbath

Fleetwood Mac

Linkin Park

Plan B

Tinie Tempah

Blur

Flo Rida

Lup&#233; Fiasco

Plies

Theory of a Deadman

Miguel Bos&#233;

Aretha Franklin

Lynyrd Skynyrd

Primal Scream

Rob Thomas

Michelle Branch

Foreigner

M. Pokora

Prince

T.I.

Bruno Mars

fun.

Machine Head

Charlie Puth

Trans-Siberian Orchestra

Michael Bubl&#233;

Kevin Gates

Christophe Ma&#233;

The Ramones

Trey Songz

Camille

Genesis

Magic System

Randy Travis

Ty Dolla $ign

The Cars

Gloriana

Man&#225;

Red Hot Chili Peppers

Jolin Tsai

Cee Lo Green

Lukas Graham

Melanie Martinez

Bebe Rexha

Twenty One Pilots

Tracy Chapman

Gojira

Mastodon

Damien Rice

Twisted Sister

Ray Charles

Goo Goo Dolls

matchbox twenty

Kenny Rogers

Uncle Kracker

Charlie XCX

Josh Groban

MC Solaar

Roxette

Van Halen

Cher

Grateful Dead

Megadeath

Rudimental

Paul Wall

Chicago

Green Day

Bette Midler

Rumer

Westernhagen

Eric Clapton

Gorillaz

Luis Miguel

Rush

Wilco

Kelly Clarkson

Gucci Mane

Kylie Minogue

Todd Rundgren

Wiz Khalifa

Coldplay

David Guetta

Janelle Mon&#225;e

Alejandro Sanz

The Wombats

Phil Collins

Gym Class Heroes

The Monkees

Seal

Yes

Alice Cooper

Halestorm

Ashley Monroe

Sean Paul

Neil Young

The Corrs

Hard-Fi

Jason Mraz

Seeed

Young the Giant

Crosby, Stills &amp; Nash

Emmylou Harris

Murderdolls

Ed Sheeran

Young Thug

Sheryl Crow

Hunter Hayes

Muse

Blake Shelton

Youssou N’Dour

Daft Punk

Faith Hill

Musiq Soulchild

Shinedown

ZZ Top

Dan + Shay

Iron Maiden

My Chemical Romance

Sigur R&#243;s

Danger Mouse

Jaheim

Nek

Simple Plan

David Bowie

James Blunt

New Order

Skillet

Recording Artists’ Contracts 

Our artists’ contracts define the commercial relationship between our recording artists and our record labels. We negotiate recording agreements with artists that define our rights to use the artists’ copyrighted recordings. In accordance with the terms of the contract, the artists receive royalties based on sales and other forms of exploitation of the artists’ recorded works. We customarily provide up-front payments to artists called advances, which are recoupable by us from future royalties otherwise payable to artists. We also typically pay costs associated with the recording and production of albums, which in certain countries are treated as advances recoupable by us from future royalties. Our typical contract for a new artist covers a single initial album and provides us with a series of options to acquire subsequent albums from the artist. Royalty rates and advances are often increased for subsequent albums for which we have exercised our options. Many of our contracts contain a commitment from the record label to fund video production costs, at least a portion of which in certain countries is treated as advances recoupable by us from future royalties. 

Our established artists’ contracts generally provide for greater advances and higher royalty rates. Typically, established artists’ contracts entitle us to fewer albums, and, of those, fewer are optional albums. In contrast to new artists’ contracts, which typically give us ownership in the artist’s work for the full term of copyright, some established artists’ contracts provide us with an exclusive license for some fixed period of time. It is not unusual for us to renegotiate contract terms with a successful artist during the term of their existing agreement, sometimes in return for an increase in the number of albums that the artist is required to deliver. 

While the duration of the contract may vary, our contracts typically grant us ownership for the duration of copyright. See "Intellectual Property-Copyrights." U.S. copyright law permits authors or their estates to terminate an assignment or license of copyright (for the U.S. only) after a set period of time in certain circumstances. See "Risk Factors—We face a potential loss of catalog to the extent that recording artists have a right to recapture rights in their recordings under the U.S. Copyright Act." 

We are also continuing to transition to other forms of business models with recording artists to adapt to changing industry conditions. The vast majority of the recording agreements we currently enter into are expanded-rights deals, in which we share in the touring, merchandising, sponsorship/endorsement, fan club or other non-traditional music revenues associated with those artists. 

Marketing and Promotion 

Our approach to marketing and promoting our artists and their recordings is comprehensive. Our goal is to maximize the likelihood of success for new releases as well as to stimulate the success of catalog releases. We seek to maximize the value of each release, and to help our artists develop an image that maximizes appeal to consumers. 

We work to raise the profile of our artists, through an integrated marketing approach that covers all aspects of their interactions with music consumers. These activities include helping the artist develop creatively in each album release, setting strategic release dates and choosing radio singles, creating concepts for videos that are complementary to the artists’ work and coordinating the promotion of albums to radio and television outlets. We also continue to experiment with ways to promote our artists through digital channels with initiatives such as windowing of content and creating product bundles by combining our existing album assets with other assets, such as bonus tracks and music videos. Digital distribution channels create greater marketing flexibility that can be more cost effective. For example, direct marketing is possible through access to consumers via websites and pre-release activity can be customized. When possible, we seek to add an additional personal component to our promotional efforts by facilitating television and radio coverage or live appearances for our key artists. Our corporate, label and artist websites provide additional marketing venues for our artists. 

Before and after the release of an album, we coordinate and execute a marketing plan that addresses specific digital and physical retail strategies to promote the album. Aspects of these promotions include in-store appearances, advertising, displays and placement in album listening stations. These activities are overseen by our label marketing staffs to ensure that maximum visibility is achieved for the artist and the release. 

Our approach to the marketing and promotion of recorded music is carefully coordinated to create the greatest sales momentum, while maintaining financial discipline. We have significant experience in our marketing and promotion departments, which we believe allows us to achieve an optimal balance between our marketing expenditure and the eventual sales of our artists’ recordings. We use a budget-based approach to plan marketing and promotions, and we monitor all expenditures related to each release to ensure compliance with the agreed-upon budget. These planning processes are regularly evaluated based on updated artist retail sales reports and radio airplay data, so that a promotion plan can be quickly adjusted if necessary. 

While marketing efforts extend to our catalog, most of the expenditure is directed toward new releases. Rhino specializes in marketing our catalog through compilations and reissues of previously released music and video titles, licensing tracks to third parties for various uses and coordinating film and television soundtrack opportunities with third-party film and television producers and studios. 

Manufacturing, Packaging and Physical Distribution 

Technicolor SA, a technology provider for the media and entertainment sectors, which acquired in 2015 the North American optical disc manufacturing and distribution assets from Cinram Group Inc. (collectively, with its affiliates and subsidiaries, "Cinram"), is currently our primary supplier of manufacturing, packaging and physical distribution services in the U.S. and Canada. We also have arrangements with other suppliers and distributors, in addition to Technicolor, as part of our manufacturing, packaging and physical distribution network throughout the rest of the world. We believe that the pricing terms of our manufacturing, packaging and physical distribution agreements reflect market rates. 

Sales and Digital Distribution 

We generate sales from the new releases of current artists and our catalog of recordings. In addition, we actively repackage music from our catalog to form new compilations. Our sales are generated in CD format, as well as through historical formats, such as vinyl albums, and digital formats including streaming and downloads. 

Most of our physical sales represent purchases by a wholesale or retail distributor. Our sale and return policies are in accordance with wholesale and retailer requirements, applicable laws and regulations, territory- and customer-specific negotiations, and industry practice. We attempt to minimize the return of unsold product by working with retailers to manage inventory and SKU counts as well as monitoring shipments and sell-through data. 

We sell our physical recorded music products through a variety of different retail and wholesale outlets including music specialty stores, general entertainment specialty stores, supermarkets, mass merchants and discounters, independent retailers and other traditional retailers. Although some of our retailers are specialized, many of our customers offer a substantial range of products other than music. The digital sales channel—both online and mobile—has become an increasingly important sales channel. Online sales include sales of traditional physical formats through both the online distribution arms of traditional retailers such as fye.com and walmart.com and traditional online physical retailers such as amazon.com, bestbuy.com and barnesandnoble.com. In addition, there has been a proliferation of legitimate online service providers, which sell digital music on a per-album or per-track basis or offer subscription and streaming services. Various mobile service providers also offer their subscribers the ability to stream or download music on mobile devices. We currently partner with a broad range of online service providers and mobile service providers, such as Amazon, Apple, Deezer, KKBox, Napster, Spotify, Telefonica, TIM, YouTube and Google, and are actively seeking to develop and grow our digital business. In digital formats, per-unit costs related directly to physical products such as manufacturing, distribution, inventory and return costs do not apply. While there are some digital-specific variable costs and infrastructure investments needed to produce, market and sell digital products, it is reasonable to expect that we will generally derive a higher contribution margin from digital sales than physical sales. 

Our agreements with online and mobile service providers generally last one to three years. We believe that the short-term nature of our agreements enables us to maintain the flexibility that we need given the continuing changes to digital business models. 

We enter into agreements with these service providers to make our masters available for access in digital formats (e.g., streaming, digital downloads, etc.). We then provide digital assets for our masters to these service providers in an accessible form. Our agreements with these service providers establish our fees for the distribution of our product, which vary based on the type of product being distributed. We typically receive accounting reports from these service providers on a monthly basis, detailing the distribution activity, with payments rendered on a monthly basis. 

Our business has historically been seasonal. In the recorded music business, purchases have historically been heavily weighted towards the last three months of the calendar year. However, since the emergence of digital sales, we have noted our business is becoming less seasonal in nature and driven more by the timing of our releases. As digital revenue increases as a percentage of our total revenue, this may continue to affect the overall seasonality of our business. However, seasonality with respect to the sale of music in new formats, such as digital, is still developing. 

Music Publishing (16%, 16% and 17% of consolidated revenues, before intersegment eliminations, for fiscal years ended September 30, 2016, 2015 and 2014) 

While recorded music is focused on exploiting a particular recording of a composition, music publishing is an intellectual property business focused on the exploitation of the composition itself. In return for promoting, placing, marketing and administering the creative output of a songwriter, or engaging in those activities for other rightsholders, our Music Publishing business garners a share of the revenues generated from use of the composition. 

Our Music Publishing operations are conducted principally through Warner/Chappell, our global music publishing company headquartered in Los Angeles with operations in over 50 countries through various subsidiaries, affiliates and non-affiliated licensees. We own or control rights to more than one million musical compositions, including numerous pop hits, American standards, folk songs and motion picture and theatrical compositions. Assembled over decades, our award-winning catalog includes over 70,000 songwriters and composers and a diverse range of genres including pop, rock, jazz, classical, country, R&amp;B, hip-hop, rap, reggae, Latin, folk, blues, symphonic, soul, Broadway, techno, alternative, gospel and other Christian music. Warner/Chappell also administers the music and soundtracks of several third-party television and film producers and studios, including Lucasfilm, Ltd., Hallmark Entertainment and Disney Music Publishing. We have an extensive production music library collectively branded as Warner/Chappell Production Music. 

Music Publishing Portfolio 

Representative Songwriters 

Steve Aoki

Ben Hayslip

Plain White T’s

Beyonc&#233;

Brett James

Cole Porter

Belly

Jay Z

The Ramones

Michelle Branch

Ian Kirkpatrick

Pricilla Renea

Brody Brown

Kool &amp; the Gang

Damien Rice

Bruno Mars

Lady Antebellum

Rihanna

Michael Bubl&#233;

Kendrick Lamar

Liz Rose

Captain Cuts

Led Zeppelin

Mort Shuman

Harry Chapin

Lil Wayne

Stephen Sondheim

Eric Clapton

Little Big Town

Staind

Dido

Tove Lo

A Thousand Horses

Sean Douglas

Madonna

Justin Trantor

Dream

Man&#225;

Twenty One Pilots

Dr. Dre

Johnny Mercer

Van Halen

Echosmith

George Michael

Kurt Weill

fun.

Julia Michaels

Barry White

Nicole Galyon

Nick Monson

Mike Will

Kenneth Gamble and Leon Huff

Van Morrison

John Williams

George and Ira Gershwin

Muse

Lucinda Williams

Barry Gibb

Kacey Musgraves

Pharrell Williams

Brantley Gilbert

Dave Mustaine

Wiz Kalifa

Ashley Gorley

Tim Nichols

Wolf Cousins

Green Day

Nickelback

Rob Zombie

Halestorm

Paramore

Jerome Harmon

Katy Perry

Representative Songs 

1950s and Prior

1960s

1970s

As Time Goes By

Build Me Up Buttercup

A Horse With No Name

Dream A Little Dream Of Me

Everyday People

Ain’t No Stopping Us Now

Frosty The Snowman

For What It’s Worth

Hot Stuff

Jingle Bell Rock

I Only Want To Be With You

Killing Me Softly

Misty

Save The Last Dance For Me

Layla

Night And Day

This Magic Moment

Listen To The Music

Summertime

Viva Las Vegas

Moondance

That's All Right

Walk On By

Stairway To Heaven

When I Fall In Love

When A Man Loves A Woman

Star Wars Theme

Winter Wonderland

Whole Lotta Love

Staying Alive

1980s

1990s

2000s

2010 and after

Celebration

Believe

American Idiot

Drunk In Love

Endless Love

Closing Time

Crazy

Firework

Eye Of The Tiger

Creep

Crazy In Love

Glad You Came

Flashdance

End Of The Road

Gotta Be Somebody

Grenade

Indiana Jones Theme

Gonna Make You Sweat

Hey There Delilah

Just The Way You Are

Jump

Livin’ La Vida Loca

Home

Let It Go

Like A Prayer

Macarena

I Kissed A Girl

See You Again

Morning Train

MMMBop

Rockstar

Somebody That I Used To Know

Slow Hand

Sunny Came Home

Umbrella

Uptown Funk

The Wind Beneath My Wings

This Kiss

White Flag

We Are Young

Music Publishing Royalties 

Warner/Chappell, as a copyright owner and/or administrator of copyrighted musical compositions, is entitled to receive royalties for the exploitation of musical compositions. We continually add new musical compositions to our catalog, and seek to acquire rights in songs that will generate substantial revenue over long periods of time. 

Music publishers generally receive royalties pursuant to mechanical, public performance, synchronization and other licenses. In the U.S., music publishers collect and administer mechanical royalties, and statutory rates are established by the U.S. Copyright Act of 1976, as amended, for the royalty rates applicable to musical compositions for sales of recordings embodying those musical compositions. In the U.S., public performance royalties are typically administered and collected by performing rights organizations and in most countries outside the U.S., collection, administration and allocation of both mechanical and performance income are undertaken and regulated by governmental or quasi-governmental authorities. Throughout the world, each synchronization license is generally subject to negotiation with a prospective licensee and, by contract, music publishers pay a contractually required percentage of synchronization income to the songwriters or their heirs and to any co-publishers. 

Warner/Chappell acquires copyrights or portions of copyrights and/or administration rights from songwriters or other third-party holders of rights in compositions. Typically, in either case, the grantor of rights retains a right to receive a percentage of revenues collected by Warner/Chappell. As an owner and/or administrator of compositions, we promote the use of those compositions by others. For example, we encourage recording artists to record and include our songs on their albums, offer opportunities to include our compositions in filmed entertainment, advertisements and digital media and advocate for the use of our compositions in live stage productions. Examples of music uses that generate publishing revenues include: 

Performance: performance of the song to the general public 

- 

Broadcast of music on television, radio and cable 

- 

Live performance at a concert or other venue (e.g., arena concerts, nightclubs) 

- 

Broadcast of music at sporting events, restaurants or bars 

- 

Performance of music in staged theatrical productions 

Digital: sale of recorded music in various digital formats

- 

Digital recordings such as digital downloads, streaming services and digital performance 

Mechanical: sale of recorded music in various physical formats 

- 

Physical recordings such as CDs, Vinyl and DVDs 

Synchronization: use of the song in combination with visual images 

- 

Films or television programs 

- 

Television commercials 

- 

Video games 

- 

Merchandising, toys or novelty items 

Other: 

- 

Licensing of copyrights for use in printed sheet music 

Composers’ and Lyricists’ Contracts 

Warner/Chappell derives its rights through contracts with composers and lyricists (songwriters) or their heirs, and with third-party music publishers. In some instances, those contracts grant either 100% or some lesser percentage of copyright ownership in musical compositions and/or administration rights. In other instances, those contracts only convey to Warner/Chappell rights to administer musical compositions for a period of time without conveying a copyright ownership interest. Our contracts grant us exclusive exploitation rights in the territories concerned excepting any pre-existing arrangements. Many of our contracts grant us rights on a worldwide basis. Warner/Chappell customarily possesses administration rights for every musical composition created by the writer or composer during the duration of the contract. 

While the duration of the contract may vary, many of our contracts grant us ownership and/or administration rights for the duration of copyright. See "Intellectual Property-Copyrights." U.S. copyright law permits authors or their estates to terminate an assignment or license of copyright (for the U.S. only) after a set period of time. See "Risk Factors—We face a potential loss of catalog to the extent that recording artists have a right to recapture rights in their recordings under the U.S. Copyright Act." 

Competition 

In both Recorded Music and Music Publishing we compete based on price (to retailers in recorded music and to various end users in music publishing), on marketing and promotion (including both how we allocate our marketing and promotion resources as well as how much we spend on a dollar basis) and on artist signings. We believe we currently compete favorably in these areas. 

Our Recorded Music business is also dependent on technological development, including access to, selection and viability of new technologies, and is subject to potential pressure from competitors as a result of their technological developments. In recent years, due to the growth in piracy, we have been forced to compete with illegal channels such as unauthorized, online, peer-to-peer filesharing and CD-R activity. See "Industry Overview—Recorded Music—Piracy." Additionally, we compete, to a lesser extent, for disposable consumer income with alternative forms of entertainment, content and leisure activities, such as cable and satellite television, pre-recorded films on DVD, the Internet, computers, mobile applications and video games. 

The recorded music industry is highly competitive based on consumer preferences, and is rapidly changing. At its core, the recorded music business relies on the exploitation of artistic talent. As such, competitive strength is predicated upon the ability to continually develop and market new artists whose work gains commercial acceptance. According to Music and Copyright, in 2015, the three largest major record companies were Universal Music, Sony Music and us, which collectively accounted for 73% of worldwide recorded music sales. There are many mid-sized and smaller players in the industry that accounted for the remaining 27%, including independent music companies. Universal Music was the market leader with a 34% worldwide market share in 2015 after absorbing the bulk of the recorded music assets of the former EMI in late 2012, followed by Sony Music with a 23% share. We held a 17% share of worldwide recorded music sales globally in 2015. 

The music publishing business is also highly competitive. The top three music publishers collectively accounted for 64% of the market. Based on Music &amp; Copyright’s most recent estimates published in April 2016, Sony/ATV was the market leader in music publishing in 2015 with a 28% share (reflecting its administration of the EMI music publishing assets). Universal Music Publishing, having acquired BMG Music Publishing Group in 2007, was the second largest music publisher with a 23% share, followed by us (Warner/Chappell) at 13%. There are many mid-sized and smaller players in the industry that represent the balance of the market, including many individual songwriters who publish their own works. 

Intellectual Property 

Copyrights 

Our business, like that of other companies involved in music publishing and recorded music, rests on our ability to maintain rights in musical works and recordings through copyright protection. In the U.S., copyright protection for works created as "works made for hire" ( e.g. , works of employees or certain specially commissioned works) on or after January 1, 1978 generally lasts for 95 years from first publication or 120 years from creation, whichever expires first. The period of copyright protection for works created on or after January 1, 1978 that are not "works made for hire" lasts for the life of the author plus 70 years. Works created and published or registered in the U.S. prior to January 1, 1978 generally enjoy a total copyright life of 95 years, subject to compliance with certain statutory provisions including notice and renewal. In the U.S., sound recordings created prior to February 15, 1972 are not subject to federal copyright protection but are protected by common law rights or state statutes, where applicable. The term of copyright in the European Union ("E.U.") for musical compositions in all member states lasts for the life of the author plus 70 years. In the E.U., the term of copyright for sound recordings lasts for 70 years from the date of release in respect of sound recordings that were still in copyright on November 1, 2013 and for 50 years from date of release in respect of sound recordings the copyright in which had expired by that date. The E.U. also recently harmonized the copyright term for joint musical works. In the case of a musical composition with words that is protected by copyright on or after November 1, 2013, E.U. member states are required to calculate the life of the author plus 70 years term from the date of death of the last surviving author of the lyrics and the composer of the musical composition, provided that both contributions were specifically created for the respective song. 

We are largely dependent on legislation in each territory in which we operate to protect our rights against unauthorized reproduction, distribution, public performance or rental. In all territories where we operate, our products receive some degree of copyright protection, although the extent of effective protection varies widely. In a number of developing countries, the protection of copyright remains inadequate. 

Technological changes have focused attention on the need for new legislation that will adequately protect the rights of producers. We actively lobby in favor of industry efforts to increase copyright protection and support the efforts of organizations such as the Recording Industry Association of America ("RIAA"), International Federation of the Phonographic Industry ("IFPI") and the World Intellectual Property Organization ("WIPO"). 

Trademarks 

We consider our trademarks to be valuable assets to our business. As such, we endeavor to register our major trademarks in every country where we believe the protection of these trademarks is important for our business. Our major trademarks include Asylum, Atlantic, Elektra, Sire, Reprise, Parlophone, Rhino, WEA and Warner/Chappell. We also use certain trademarks pursuant to royalty-free license agreements. Of these, the duration of the license relating to the WARNER and WARNER MUSIC marks and "W" logo is perpetual. The duration of the license relating to the WARNER BROS. RECORDS mark and WB &amp; Shield designs is fifteen years from February 29, 2004. Each of the licenses may be terminated under certain limited circumstances, which may include material breaches of the agreement, certain events of insolvency, and certain change of control events if we were to become controlled by a major filmed entertainment company. We actively monitor and protect against activities that might infringe, dilute, or otherwise harm our trademarks. 

Joint Ventures 

We have entered into joint venture arrangements pursuant to which we or our various subsidiary companies manufacture, distribute and market (in most cases, domestically and internationally) recordings owned by the joint ventures. An example of this arrangement is Frank Sinatra Enterprises, a joint venture established to administer licenses for use of Frank Sinatra’s name and likeness and manage all aspects of his music, film and stage content.

Employees 

As of September 30, 2016, we employed approximately 4,445 persons worldwide, including temporary and part-time employees. None of our employees in the U.S. are subject to a collective bargaining agreement, although certain employees in our non-domestic companies are covered by national labor agreements. We believe that our relationship with our employees is good. 

Financial Information About Segments 

Financial and other information by segment, and relating to foreign and domestic operations, and customer concentration for each of the last three fiscal years is set forth in Note 14 to the Consolidated Audited Financial Statements. 

INDUSTRY OVERVIEW 

Recorded Music 

Recorded music is one of the primary mediums of entertainment for consumers worldwide and in calendar year 2015, according to IFPI, generated $15.0 billion in trade value of sales. Over time, major recorded music companies have built significant recorded music catalogs, which are long-lived assets that are exploited year after year. The sale of catalog material is typically more profitable than that of new releases, given lower development costs and more limited marketing costs. Through the end of the third calendar quarter of 2016 (i.e., the week ending September 29, 2016), according to SoundScan, 56% of all calendar year-to-date U.S. album unit sales, excluding streaming sales, were from recordings more than 18 months old, with 48% from recordings more than three years old. 

According to IFPI, the top five territories (the U.S., Japan, the U.K., Germany, and France) collectively accounted for 72% of the related sales in the recorded music market in calendar year 2015. The U.S., which is the most significant exporter of music, is also the largest territory for recorded music sales, constituting 33% of total calendar year 2015 recorded music sales on a trade value basis. The U.S. and Japan are largely local music markets, with 93% and 87% of their calendar year 2015 physical music sales consisting of domestic repertoire, respectively. In contrast, markets like the U.K. have higher percentages of international sales, with international repertoire in that territory constituting 42% of physical music sales. 

There has been a major shift in distribution of recorded music from specialty shops towards mass-market and online retailers in recent years. According to RIAA, record stores’ share of U.S. music sales declined from 45% in calendar year 1999 to 30% in calendar year 2008, and according to the market research firm NPD, record/entertainment/electronics stores’ share of U.S. music sales totaled 18% in 2009. U.S. mass-market and other stores’ share grew from 38% in calendar 1999 to 54% in calendar year 2004, and with the subsequent growth of sales via online channels since that time, their share contracted to 28% in calendar year 2008. Mass-market retailers accounted for 15% of total industry unit sales calculated on a total album plus digital track equivalent (ten tracks per 

album) unit basis in the U.S. in calendar year 2015, according to SoundScan data. In recent years, online sales of physical product as well as digital downloads have grown to represent an increasing share of U.S. unit sales and combined they accounted for 71% of total industry unit sales in calendar year 2015. In addition, revenues resulting from music streaming services now represent a significant share of the overall recorded music market in the U.S. Data published by the RIAA shows that when the streaming category was taken into account, it was responsible for 34% of total estimated industry retail value in calendar year 2015. In terms of genre, rock remains the most popular style of music in the U.S. overall, representing 25% of the music purchased and consumed on streaming services in the U.S. in calendar year 2015, as captured and calculated by Nielsen Entertainment, although genres such as rap/hip-hop, R&amp;B, country, pop, electronic/dance music (EDM), and Latin music are also popular and outperform in specific formats. 

According to RIAA, from calendar years 1990 to 1999, the U.S. recorded music industry grew at a compound annual growth rate of 7.6%. This growth, largely paralleled around the world, was driven by demand for music, the replacement of vinyl LPs and cassettes with CDs, price increases and strong economic growth. The industry began experiencing negative growth rates in calendar year 1999, on a global basis, primarily driven by an increase in digital piracy. Other drivers of this decline were and are the overall recessionary economic environment, bankruptcies of record retailers and wholesalers, growing competition for consumer discretionary spending and retail shelf space and the maturation of the CD format, which has slowed the historical growth pattern of recorded music sales. Since that time, annual dollar sales of physical music product in the U.S. are estimated to have declined at a compound annual growth rate of 12%, although there was a 2.5% year-over-year increase recorded in 2004. In calendar year 2015, the physical business experienced a 10% year-over-year decline on a value basis. However, U.S. performance figures through the first half of calendar year 2016 reflected an overall 8% year-over-year increase in estimated retail revenues, suggesting that revenues from streaming services are offsetting declines in other formats and could result in overall market improvement for the industry in calendar year 2016. While the 3% year-over-year increase in global trade revenues reported by IFPI for calendar year 2015 also indicates that the climate may be improving, the experience varies by market, with some markets still being adversely impacted to varying degrees by differing penetration levels of piracy-enabling technologies, such as broadband access and CD-R technology, and economic conditions.

Notwithstanding these factors, we believe that music industry results could continue to improve based on the continued mobilization of the industry as a whole against piracy and the development and broad adoption of legitimate digital distribution channels. 

Piracy 

One of the industry’s biggest challenges is combating piracy. Music piracy exists in two primary forms: digital (which includes illegal downloading and CD-R piracy) and industrial: 

- 

Digital piracy has grown dramatically, enabled by the increasing penetration of broadband Internet access and the ubiquity of powerful microprocessors, fast optical drives (particularly with writable media, such as CD-R) and large inexpensive disk storage in personal computers. The combination of these technologies has allowed consumers to easily, flawlessly and almost instantaneously make high-quality copies of music using a home computer by "ripping" or converting musical content from CDs into digital files, stored on local disks. These digital files can then be distributed for free over the Internet through anonymous peer-to-peer filesharing networks such as BitTorrent and Frostwire ("illegal downloading"). Alternatively, these files can be burned onto multiple CDs for physical distribution ("CD-R piracy"). IFPI identified more than 40 million infringing music files for removal online in 2015, a fraction of the tens of billions of files that are estimated to be downloaded illegally. 

- 

Industrial piracy (also called counterfeiting or physical piracy) involves mass production of illegal CDs in factories. This form of piracy is largely concentrated in developing regions, and has existed for more than two decades. The sale of legitimate recorded music in these developing territories is limited by the dominance of pirated products, which are sold at substantially lower prices than legitimate products. Based upon most recent data available, the International Intellectual Property Alliance (IIPA) estimated that U.S. trade losses due to physical piracy of records and music in 39 key countries/territories around the world with copyright protection and/or enforcement deficiencies totaled $1.5 billion in 2009. At that time, the IIPA believed that piracy of records and music was most prevalent in territories such as Indonesia, China, the Philippines, Mexico, India and Argentina, where piracy levels were at 60% or above. 

In 2003, the industry launched an intensive campaign to limit piracy that focused on four key initiatives: 

- 

Technological: The technological measures against piracy are geared towards degrading the illegal filesharing process and tracking providers and consumers of pirated music. These measures include spoofing, watermarking, copy protection, the use of automated webcrawlers and access restrictions. 

- 

Educational: Led by RIAA and IFPI, the industry launched an aggressive campaign of consumer education designed to spread awareness of the illegality of various forms of piracy through aggressive print and television advertisements. These efforts have yielded positive results in impacting consumer behaviors and attitudes with regard to filesharing of music. A survey conducted by The NPD Group, a market research firm, in December 2013 showed that about 1 in 10 U.S. Internet users aged 13 or older who stopped or decreased their usage of filesharing services for music in the year covered by the survey were motivated by concerns about being sued and/or the legality of such services, as well as moral implications. Research conducted by Ipsos across 13 countries, as cited in IFPI’s Music Consumer Insight Report 2016, found that a majority (50%+) of respondents in various age groups from 13 — 64 years old agreed that "downloading/streaming music without permission is stealing." 

- 

Legal: In conjunction with its educational efforts, the industry has taken aggressive legal action against commercial file-sharing sites, as well as cooperating with law-enforcement when criminal cases are appropriate. In April 2015, the industry reached a settlement agreement with Grooveshark that completely shut down its unauthorized streaming service. In September, the file-sharing sites Sharebeast and Albumjams.com, which were sources of a large number of pre-release leaks and millions of unpaid downloads, were shut down by the FBI. In addition, the industry has been successful in obtaining blocking orders in many countries, including the U.K., France, Italy, South Korea, Belgium, Spain and Portugal, that make it more difficult for end users to access infringing sites, such as BitTorrent sites. Finally, in both China and Russia, the courts have been more willing to issue rulings to combat unauthorized distribution. Such rulings allow for the potential growth of licensed services in these countries, which have been stymied by rampant content piracy. 

- 

Development of online and mobile alternatives: We believe that the development and success of legitimate digital music channels will be an important driver of recorded music sales and monetization going forward, as they represent both revenue stream and a potential inhibitor of piracy. The music industry has been encouraged by the proliferation and success of legitimate digital music distribution options. We believe that these legitimate online distribution channels offer several advantages to illegal peer-to-peer networks, including greater ease of use, higher quality and more consistent music product, faster downloading and streaming, better search and discovery capabilities and seamless integration with portable digital music players. Legitimate online download stores and streaming music services began to be established in 2001 beginning with the launch of Rhapsody (currently known as Napster) in late 2001 and continuing through the launch of Apple’s iTunes music store in April 2003. Since then, many others (both large and small) have launched download and ad-supported and subscription streaming music services, offering a variety of models, including per-track pricing, per-album pricing and monthly subscriptions. According to IFPI in the 2016 edition of their "Global Music Report" (formerly known as the annual "Recording Industry in Numbers" report), there are almost 400 legal digital music services providing alternatives to illegal filesharing in markets around the world, with major international services operating in more than 150 territories. Devices such as smartphones and tablets that are equipped with new capabilities are increasingly offering consumers greater capability to acquire and consume full-track downloads and streaming audio and video through mobile platforms as well as online. These devices are further facilitating usage of legitimate options. 

These efforts are incremental to the long-standing push by organizations such as RIAA and IFPI to curb industrial piracy around the world. In addition to these actions, the music industry is increasingly coordinating with other similarly impacted industries (such as software and filmed entertainment) to combat piracy. 

We believe these actions have contained piracy levels. A survey conducted by MusicWatch covering activity in the second calendar quarter of 2016 showed that incidence of peer-to-peer (P2P) sharing of music among U.S. Internet users aged 13 or older was essentially flat versus earlier quarters. The survey also reflected that other types of unauthorized music sharing, such as the downloading of music via mobile apps, and exchanging of music files via email and instant messaging (IM) services, was stable compared to the fourth calendar quarter of 2015. 

Internationally, we believe governmental initiatives designed to protect intellectual property should also be helpful to the music industry and measures are being adopted in an increasing number of countries to achieve better ISP cooperation. Solutions to online piracy and making progress towards meaningful ISP cooperation against online piracy are also being adopted or pursued through government-sponsored negotiations of codes of practice or cross-industry agreements and remedies arising out of litigation, such as obtaining injunctions requiring ISPs to block access to infringing sites. We believe these actions, as well as other actions also currently being taken in many countries around the world, represent a positive trend internationally and a recognition by governments around the world that urgent action is required to reduce online piracy and in particular unlawful filesharing because of the harm caused to the creative industries. While these governmental actions have not come without some controversy, we continue to lobby for legislative change through music industry bodies and trade associations in jurisdictions where enforcement of copyright in the context of online piracy remains problematic due to existing local laws or prior court decisions. 

Music Publishing 

Background 

Music publishing involves the acquisition of rights to, and licensing of, musical compositions (as opposed to recordings) from songwriters, composers or other rightsholders. Music publishing revenues are derived from five main royalty sources: Mechanical, Performance, Synchronization, Digital and Other. 

In the U.S., mechanical royalties are collected by music publishers from recorded music companies or via The Harry Fox Agency, a non-exclusive licensing agent affiliated with SESAC, while outside the U.S., collection societies generally perform this function. Once mechanical royalties reach the publisher (either directly from record companies or from collection societies), percentages of those royalties are paid or credited to the writer or other rightsholder of the copyright in accordance with the underlying rights agreement. Mechanical royalties are paid at a penny rate of 9.1 cents per song per unit in the U.S. for physical formats (e.g., CDs and vinyl albums) and permanent digital downloads (recordings in excess of five minutes attract a higher rate). There are also rates set for interactive streaming and non-permanent downloads based on a formula that takes into account revenues paid by consumers or advertisers with certain minimum royalties that may apply depending on the type of service. "Controlled composition" provisions contained in some recording agreements may apply to the rates mentioned above pursuant to which artist/songwriters license their rights to their record companies for as little as 75% of the statutory rates. The current U.S. statutory mechanical rates will remain in effect through December 31, 2017. In most other territories, mechanical royalties are based on a percentage of wholesale prices for physical product and based on a percentage of consumer prices for digital products. In international markets, these rates are determined by multi-year collective bargaining agreements and rate tribunals. 

Throughout the world, performance royalties are typically collected on behalf of publishers and songwriters by performance rights organizations and collection societies. Key performing rights organizations and collection societies include: The American Society of Composers, Authors and Publishers (ASCAP), SESAC and Broadcast Music, Inc. (BMI) in the U.S.; Mechanical-Copyright Protection Society and The Performing Right Society ("MCPS/PRS") in the U.K.; The German Copyright Society in Germany ("GEMA") and the Japanese Society for Rights of Authors, Composers and Publishers in Japan ("JASRAC"). The societies pay a percentage (which is set in each country) of the performance royalties to the copyright owner(s) or administrators (i.e . , the publisher(s)), and a percentage directly to the songwriter(s), of the composition. Thus, the publisher generally retains the performance royalties it receives other than any amounts attributable to co-publishers. 

The music publishing market has proven to be more resilient than the recorded music market in recent years as revenue streams other than mechanical royalties are largely unaffected by piracy, and are benefiting from additional sources of income from digital exploitation of music in streaming and downloads. The worldwide professional music publishing market was estimated to have generated $4.05 billion in revenues in calendar year 2014 according to figures published in April 2015 by Music &amp; Copyright. 

In addition, major publishers have the opportunity to generate significant value by the acquisition of other music publishers by extracting cost savings (as acquired libraries can be administered with little incremental cost) and by increasing revenues through more aggressive monetization efforts. 

