 Item 1. Business 

Overview 

Immersion Corporation (&#8220;Immersion&#8221;) is a premier licensing company focused on the creation, design, development, and licensing of innovative haptic technologies that allow people to use their sense of touch more fully as they engage with cutting-edge products and experience the digital world around them. Our mission is to innovate touch technology that informs, humanizes, and excites while working with customers and partners to bring these tactile experiences to consumers. Our technologies are designed to facilitate the creation of high-quality haptic experiences, enable their widespread distribution, and ensure that their playback is optimized for end users. Our primary business is currently in the mobility, gaming, automotive and medical markets, but we believe our technology is broadly applicable and see opportunities in evolving new markets, including entertainment, social and advertising content, virtual and augmented reality, and wearables. 

We have adopted a &#8220;hybrid&#8221; business model, under which we provide advanced tactile software, related tools and technical assistance to certain customers, and offer licenses to our patented intellectual property (&#8220;IP&#8221;) to other customers. Our licenses enable our customers to deploy haptically-enabled devices, content and other offerings, which they typically sell under their own brand names. We and our wholly-owned subsidiaries hold more than 2,100 issued or pending patents worldwide, covering a wide range of digital technologies and including many of the ways in which touch-related technology can be incorporated into and between hardware products and components, systems software, application software, and digital content. 

We were incorporated in 1993 in California and reincorporated in Delaware in 1999. We consummated our initial public offering on November 12, 1999. 

Our Business Strategy 

Our goal is to continue to be the technology and market leader in haptic technologies and drive the adoption of our touch technology across markets and applications to improve user experiences in the digital realm. Key aspects of our strategy include: 

Innovate: &#32;Develop and patent our innovative technology to provide haptics in mobile, gaming, automotive, medical, wearable, content and other products and services to transform user experiences with unique and customizable tactile effects. 

Drive Adoption: &#32;Communicate the advantages of our patented innovations and technologies to the relevant industries and encourage their adoption through demonstrations and incorporation in the offerings of world-class companies. 

Expand Markets and Applications : Work closely with component suppliers, chip vendors, systems integrators, content enablers and other partners to broaden the use of haptics within our current core markets and to expand it into emerging markets, such as wearables, virtual and augmented reality, and the Internet of Things. 

Monetize: &#32;License our technology to customers for use in the creation, distribution and playback of high quality haptic experiences in various products, services and markets. 

We rely on the skills and talent of our employees to successfully execute our strategy through ongoing innovation, licensing activities, and collaboration with customers and partners to ensure that high quality tactile experiences are brought to market. Accordingly, we seek to hire and retain employees with world class haptic expertise, as well as the executive management and operating personnel required to successfully execute our business strategies. In order to attract these high caliber employees, we have created an environment and culture that fosters and supports research, development, and innovation in breakthrough technologies with significant opportunities for broad industry adoption through licensing. We believe we have created a compelling company for inventive and entrepreneurial technology professionals who are able to work within our supportive corporate environment to innovate, execute on our opportunities and drive strong growth. 

We drive substantially all of our revenue from licensing of our software and patents. Parties licensed to our IP regard that act as an investment-one which is devalued when unlicensed parties use our IP. Litigation is the primary method by which we ensure that the value licensed parties have placed on our IP is honored and protected. Litigation against unlicensed third parties as a strategy is a last step after all other avenues for resolution have been exhausted. If unlicensed parties continue to ship products without fairly remunerating us, litigation is the proper public step to protect our property as well as inform existing licensees that we are protecting their investment. As haptics gains wider acceptance in the market. the likelihood of unlicensed use of our IP increases. This could result in ongoing litigation as we seek to protect the investment that we and our valid licensees have made in the technology. 

Haptics and Its Benefits 

While the digital world offers many advanced technologies and capabilities, it often fails to provide us with the meaningful touch experiences that inform and enrich our real-world interactions. As we experience the physical world in our everyday lives, 

we rely on our sense of touch to provide us with reassuring context and confirmation, to bring us closer to one another through rich communications, and to enjoy entertainment, sports and other activities through realistic engagement. Without these tactile qualities, our digital experiences can feel flat and ineffective, pale reflections of the real world. 

Immersion haptic technologies breathe life back into digital experiences, restoring the missing elements of confirmation, realism and rich communication to the digital world: 

Confirmation: &#32;Today&#8217;s touchscreens, touch pads, and other touch surfaces can lack the physical feedback that is provided by mechanical keyboards and switches and that we need to fully understand the context of our interactions. By providing users with intuitive and unmistakable tactile confirmation as they push virtual buttons and scroll through lists, haptics can instill confidence, increase input speed, reduce errors and improve safety. This is especially important in environments that involve distractions, such as automotive and commercial applications, where audio or visual confirmation is insufficient. 

Realism: &#32;Haptics can inject a sense of realism into user experiences by exciting the senses and allowing the user to become immersed in the action and nuance of the application. For example, in haptically-enhanced videos, mobile games and simulations that integrate audio-visual content with tactile sensations, users can literally feel guns recoil, engines revving, and the crack of a baseball bat crushing a home run. As another example, medical students and doctors can practice performing cardiac procedures by using simulation systems that realistically recreate the forces that would be encountered in navigating pacing leads through a beating heart. 

Rich Communications: &#32;When humans communicate through touch, they are better able to establish emotional connections and feelings of closeness. In mobile devices and wearables, haptics can enhance voice, chat and video applications by creating a sense of physical presence, allowing for more personal and engaging communications between users. Moreover, haptics can offer users a discreet and unobtrusive way of exchanging meaningful information without disruptive audio or visual feedback. 

We believe these features of our haptic technology are broadly applicable to a number of markets and devices. By continuing to enhance these features through further research and development, we believe we will serve as a strategic partner for our customers and partners in helping them develop a more compelling user experience for consumers. 

Our Offering 

We provide software, IP and haptic expertise to our customers through a variety of different offerings, including software licenses, patent licenses, and combined licenses that cover both software and patents. In most cases, our software licenses include services, design tools and software development kits (&#8220;SDKs&#8221;), as well as licenses to our patents to the extent necessary to implement the licensed software, with the specific rights and restrictions to the applicable patents described in the license agreements. When we offer patent licenses, we provide the customer with a defined right to use our patented innovations in its own products by allowing them to use specified aspects of our broad international patent portfolio, subject to limitations by specific field of use and other restrictions. In certain cases, we also provide our patent licensees with enablement tools such as reference designs and prototypes, technical and design services as well as other assistance and support. 

Our agreements are typically structured with fixed, variable or a mix of fixed and variable royalty and/or license payments over certain defined periods, as well as, in certain cases, fees for support or other services. 

Software Offerings 

We generally license our software as part of Immersion TouchSense-branded offerings that are intended to address the needs of our target markets. Our TouchSense offerings include haptic creation, deployment and playback software, SDKs, developer and enablement tools and documentation, technical and design services, as well as support. 

TouchSense Haptic Enabling Kits: &#32;Targeted to the mobile device, wearables, and consumer electronics markets, TouchSense Haptic Enabling Kits consist of solutions enabling the design of tactile effects used in device interfaces and applications, and enhancing the playback of haptic content. Our toolkits enable original equipment manufacturers (&#8220;OEMs&#8221;) and their suppliers to easily add customized haptic experiences to their own branded devices and other products. Our offerings include TouchSense Haptic Enabling Kit for Mobile OEMs and TouchSense Haptic Enabling Kit for Wearable OEMs. 

TouchSense Haptic Development Kits: &#32;Targeted to mobile developers, platform providers, advertisers and content creators, TouchSense Haptic Development Kits consist of design tools, integration software and effect libraries that allow for the design, encoding and playback of tactile effects in mobile content, including games, ads and video. TouchSense Haptic Development Kits offer high fidelity tactile effects to augment and enhance mobile content, while ensuring quality playback within consumer devices. Our offerings include TouchSense Haptic Development Kit for Mobile Games and TouchSense Haptic Development Kit for Mobile Videos. TouchSense Haptic Development Kit offerings have not yet generated revenue for us as of December 31, 2015. 

Patent Licenses 

Through more than twenty years of innovative research, development and business activity, we have built a far-reaching and deep portfolio of patents covering many of the foundational aspects and commercial applications of haptic technology. We have implemented formal policies and procedures governing how we create, protect and maintain our IP assets, and devote substantial resources to ensure that our IP coverage of the haptic landscape is as comprehensive as possible. Our growing portfolio now includes more than 2,100 worldwide issued or pending patents, which support our TouchSense offerings, protect our business activities and prospects, and represent an important independent licensing and revenue channel for us. We believe that our IP is relevant to many of the most important and cutting-edge ways in which haptic technology is and can be deployed, including in connection with mobile interfaces and user interactions, in association with pressure and other sensing technologies, as part of video and interactive content offerings, related to virtual and augmented reality experiences, and in connection with advanced actuation technologies and techniques, to name a few. 

Haptic Expertise 

As described above, we frequently offer our expertise to licensees to help them design and integrate touch effects into their products. This expertise includes engineering and integration services, design kits for prototyping, authoring tools, and application programming interfaces (&#8220;APIs&#8221;). 

Engineering and Integration Services: We offer engineering assistance, including technical and design assistance and integration services that allow our licensees to incorporate our touch-enabling solutions and technologies into their products at a reasonable cost and within a shortened time frame, allowing them to bring products to market quickly by using our years of haptic development and solution deployment expertise. We offer product development solutions including software libraries, design, prototype creation, technology transfer, actuator selection, component sourcing, SDKs, sample source code, comprehensive documentation, and other engineering services. In addition, we help ensure a quality end-user experience by offering testing and certification services to a number of licensees and ecosystem participants such as actuator vendors. 

Design Kits for Prototyping: We offer several design kits for customers to use for technology evaluation, internal evaluation, usability testing, and focus group testing. The kits include components and documentation that designers, engineers, and system integrators need for prototyping tactile effects into existing or sample products and applications. 

Authoring Tools: In addition to TouchSense Haptic Development Kits, we license authoring tools that enable haptic designers and software developers in other markets, such as console gaming, to quickly design and incorporate customized touch feedback into their applications. Authoring tools allow designers to create, modify, experience, and save or restore haptic effects for a haptically-enabled device. 

Application Programming Interfaces : Our APIs provide haptic-effect generation capability. This allows designers and software programmers to focus on adding haptic effects to their applications instead of struggling with the mechanics of programming real-time algorithms and handling communications between computers and devices. Some of our haptic APIs are device independent (for example, they work with scroll wheels, rotary knobs, 2D joysticks, and other devices) to allow flexibility and reusability. Others are crafted to meet the needs of a particular customer or industry. 

Platform Independent Solutions: Our software driver and API technologies have been designed to be easily ported to a variety of operating systems including Android, Tizen, Linux, and Windows. 

Markets 

Mobile Communications, Wearables, and Consumer Electronics: &#32;We offer TouchSense Haptic Enabling Kits and patent licenses, as well as haptic expertise, to OEMs in the mobile device, wearables, and consumer electronics markets. In addition, certain of our integrated circuit partners preload their integrated circuits with certain of our less fully-featured TouchSense software and offer these integrated circuits to OEMs in the mobile device market. 

Our licensees currently include some of the top makers of mobile devices in the world, including Fujitsu, Gionee, HTC, Huawei, Kyocera, LG Electronics, Meizu, and Toshiba, as well as integrated circuit manufacturers such as Texas Instruments. 

In addition to working with device manufacturers, we provide our TouchSense Haptic Development Kits to application developers, advertising networks and other content ecosystem participants to enable them to easily incorporate tactile effects into mobile games, advertisements and other content. Our licensees have included Bandai Namco, iDreamSky, LeTV, Opera Mediaworks, Rovio Entertainment, Slate, Showtime, and Ubisoft. 

For the years ended December 31, 2015 , 2014 , and 2013 , respectively, 62%, 60%, and 66% of our total revenues were generated from OEMs and integrated circuit customers in the mobile communications market. 

Console and PC Gaming: We have licensed our patents directly to Microsoft and Sony Computer Entertainment for use in their console gaming products. Additionally, we have licensed our patents to third party gaming peripheral manufacturers and distributors for use in spinning mass and force feedback devices such as controllers, steering wheels and joysticks, to be used with PC platforms running on Microsoft Windows and other operating systems, as well as in connection with video game consoles 

made by Microsoft, Sony, Nintendo and others. Our gaming licensees include Bensussen Deutsch &#38; Associates, Guillemot, Logitech, Mad Catz, Microsoft, Performance Designed Products, Razer, and Sony. 

For the years ended December 31, 2015 , 2014 , and 2013 , respectively, 24%, 27%, and 21% of our total revenues were generated from customers in the PC and console gaming markets. 

Automotive: &#32;We offer patent licenses and assistance such as reference designs, prototypes and enablement services to automotive makers and suppliers. Our current licensees include ALPS Electric Co., Continental, Marquardt, Panasonic Automotive Systems, SMK Corporation, and Tokai Rika. 

For the years ended December 31, 2015 , 2014 , and 2013 , respectively, 7%, 5%, and 5% of our total revenues were from automotive customers. 

Medical: We offer patent licenses to the medical market. Our current licensees include CAE Healthcare, Laerdal Medical A/S, Simbionix, Stryker Medical (formerly MAKO Surgical), and SOFAR. 

For the years ended December 31, 2015 , 2014 , and 2013 , respectively, 7%, 8%, and 8% of our total revenues were from medical customers. 

Manufactured Products 

As of December 2013, we ceased selling manufactured products and only license our patents and software. Our 2013 product solutions, which did not represent a material part of our business, were limited to components used for design kits. All products produced were from contracted manufacturing services. 

Sales 

Our sales are somewhat seasonal, with holiday shipments of our customers&#8217; mobility and gaming products in the fourth quarter typically generating per unit royalties in our first quarter. Seasonal fluctuations have not been extremely significant to our overall revenue trends in the past. As we are increasingly entering into license agreements that include recurring fixed payments to us, we anticipate that our sales may become less seasonal over time. 

We employ a consolidated direct sales force in the United States, Europe, and Asia to license our software and patents across our target markets and augment that sales force via partnerships and licensing agreements with component suppliers and system integrators. 

Additional information about significant customers is incorporated herein by reference to Note 15 of our consolidated financial statements and related financial information in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data . 

Competition 

Our biggest source of competition derives from decisions made by internal design groups at our OEM and other customers, as well as potential customers. We expect that these internal design groups will continue to make choices regarding whether to implement haptics or not, as well as whether to develop their own haptic solutions. 

In the event we have granted or grant a license to our patent portfolio to a customer, its internal design group may design technology that is less expensive to implement or that enables products with higher performance or additional features. In some cases, the customer may elect not to include haptics in its products or other offerings due to the higher costs associated with incorporating haptics. 

In addition to licensing customers directly, we have also licensed semiconductor manufacturers to incorporate certain of our less fully-featured software into their integrated circuits for use in certain electronic devices. 

The principal competitive factors impacting our business are the strength of the patents underlying our technology, as well as the technological expertise and design innovation and the use, reliability and cost-effectiveness of our software solutions. We believe we compete favorably in all these areas. 

Our competitive position is also impacted by the competitive positions of our licensees&#8217; products and other offerings. Our licensees&#8217; markets are highly competitive. We believe that the principal competitive factors in our licensees&#8217; markets include price, performance, user-centric design, ease-of-use, quality, and timeliness of products, as well as the licensee&#8217;s responsiveness, capacity, technical abilities, established customer relationships, distribution channels and access to retail shelf space, advertising, promotional programs, and brand recognition. Touch-related benefits in some of these markets may be viewed simply as enhancements and compete with non-touch-enabled technologies. 

Research and Development 

Our success depends on our ability to invent and improve our technologies in a timely manner; to design and develop software to meet specifications based on research and our understanding of customer needs and expectations; to offer tools and technology that enable high-quality, end-to-end haptic experiences, from the time of creation to the time of playback; and to collaborate with our licensees who are integrating our technologies into theirs. 

Engineering: &#32;We have assembled a multi-disciplinary team of highly skilled engineers and scientists with the experience required for development of touch-enabling technology. The team&#8217;s experience includes skills related to mechanical engineering, electrical engineering, embedded systems and firmware, control techniques, software, quality control, haptic content design, and project and process management. This team continues to generate patents that strengthen our IP position. 

Application Engineering and Technical Support: &#32;We may provide application engineering and technical support during integration of our touch-enabling technology into customer products and other offerings, including content. To facilitate the validation and adoption of touch-enabling technology, we have developed various design kits. These kits may include actuators, mounting suggestions, controller boards, software libraries, programming examples, and documentation. Our application engineers support customer use of these design kits, including through phone and e-mail technical support and onsite training. This team continues to generate patents that strengthen our IP position. 

Research: &#32;We have multi-disciplinary expertise in usability and multimodal user interface design, actuator design, sensors, integration, material science, real-time simulation algorithms, control, and software development. Our research team works with existing and potential partners to help them assess and prove the value of haptics in their field of interest, creating main competitive differentiator and value added solutions. This team continues to generate patents, actively contributing to the strength of our IP position. 

User Experience: &#32;We have a dedicated team of user interaction specialists, focusing on user research and design to enable new and improved applications of haptics. We have unique expertise in haptics, usability, content creation, and interface design. Our team works with existing and potential partners to help them determine the best implementation of haptics in their specific application. This team works on the cutting edge of new user interface paradigms using haptics, resulting in an ongoing generation of patents, actively contributing to the development of new IP for us. 

For the years ended December 31, 2015 , 2014 , and 2013 , research and development expenses were $ 14.8 million , $ 11.8 million , and $ 10.9 million &#32;respectively. 

Intellectual Property 

We believe that IP protection is crucial to our business. We rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trade secrets, trademarks, nondisclosure agreements with employees and third parties, licensing arrangements, and other contractual agreements with third parties to protect our IP. We maintain and support an active program to protect our IP, primarily through the filing of patent applications and the defense of issued patents against infringement. 

Our failure to obtain or maintain adequate protection for our IP rights for any reason could hurt our competitive position. There is no guarantee that patents will be issued from the patent applications that we have filed or may file. Our issued patents may be challenged, invalidated, or circumvented, and claims of our patents may not be of sufficient scope or strength, or issued in the proper geographic regions, to provide meaningful protection or any commercial advantage. Our position and revenue resulting from licensing our patents can also be affected by the expiration of patents and our ability to persuade licensees that other patents in our portfolio continue to be relevant. 

At the end of 2015 , we and our wholly owned subsidiaries had over 2,100 currently issued or pending patents worldwide that cover various aspects of our technologies. The duration of our issued patents is determined by the laws of the country of issuance and for the United States is typically 17 years from the date of issuance of the patent or 20 years from the date of filing of the patent application resulting in the patent. Some of our U.S. patents began expiring in 2007. 

Financial Information about Industry Segments and Geographic Areas 

We manage our operations and allocate resources as a single reporting segment. Additional information about our business segments and geographic areas is incorporated herein by reference to Note 15 of our consolidated financial statements and related financial information in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data . 

Investor Information 

You can access financial and other information in the Investor Relations section of our web site at www.immersion.com. We make available, on our Web site, free of charge, copies of our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current 

reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after filing such material electronically or otherwise furnishing it to the SEC. 

The charters of our audit committee, our compensation committee, and our nominating/corporate governance committee, and our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics (including code of ethics provisions that apply to our principal executive officer, principal financial officer, controller, and senior financial officers) and our Corporate Governance Principles are also available at our web site under &#8220;Corporate Governance.&#8221; These items are also available to any stockholder who requests them by calling +1 408.467.1900. 

The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy, and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at www.sec.gov . 

Employees 

As of December 31, 2015 , we had 156 full-time and part-time employees, including 75 in research and development, 44 in sales and marketing, and 37 in legal, finance, and administration. We also use independent contractors. None of our employees are represented by a labor union, and we consider our employee relations to be positive. 

Executive Officers 

The following table sets forth information regarding our executive officers as of February 18, 2016 . 

Name 

Position with the Company 

Age 

Victor Viegas 

Chief Executive Officer and Member of the Board of Directors 

Paul Norris 

Chief Financial Officer 

Mahesh Sundaram 

Vice President, Worldwide Sales and Customer Support 

Victor Viegas was named our Chief Executive Officer in April 2010, and served as our Interim Chief Financial Officer from December 2011 until May 2012. He served as our Interim Chief Executive Officer from October 2009 to April 2010, and has served as a member of the board of directors since October 2002. Mr. Viegas was our Chief Executive Officer from October 2002 through April 2008, and President from February 2002 through April 2008. Mr. Viegas was also Chairman of the board of directors from October 2007 to February 2009. Mr. Viegas also served as Chief Financial Officer until February 2005, having joined us in August 1999 as Chief Financial Officer, Vice President, Finance. From June 1996 to August 1999, he served as Vice President, Finance and Administration and Chief Financial Officer of Macrovision Corporation, a developer and licensor of video and software copy protection technologies. From October 1986 to June 1996, he served as Vice President of Finance and Chief Financial Officer of Balco Incorporated, a manufacturer of advanced automotive service equipment. He holds a B.S. in Accounting and an M.B.A. from Santa Clara University. Mr. Viegas is also a Certified Public Accountant in the State of California, on inactive status. 

Paul Norris joined Immersion as Chief Financial Officer in May 2012. Prior to joining Immersion, Mr. Norris served as a partner at Accanto Partners, LLC, an investment fund focusing on technology and digital media companies from July 2011 to May 2012. Prior to that, from June 2005 to February 2011, Mr. Norris served in various executive positions at Sonic Solutions, a digital media software and entertainment solutions provider, acting as its Senior Vice President and General Counsel from June 2005 to February 2008, and its Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and General Counsel February 2008 until its acquisition by Rovi Corporation, a digital entertainment technology solutions provider in February 2011. From February 2011 through June 2011, Mr. Norris assisted Rovi in its integration activities as an Executive Advisor. Mr. Norris holds a Bachelor of Arts from Yale University and a Juris Doctor degree from Harvard Law School. 

Mahesh Sundaram joined Immersion in October 2014. He is responsible for leading our worldwide sales and customer support organization to support the growing opportunities of Immersion technology. Prior to joining Immersion, Mr. Sundaram was Vice President, Asia Pacific of Dolby Laboratories, a global innovator and developer of audio, imaging and voice technologies for cinema, home theaters, PCs, mobile phones, and games, from October 2008 to October 2014. Mr. Sundaram also served as a Director of Consumer Electronics Market Segment at Dolby Laboratories, from July 2006 to September 2008. From January 1996 to November 2003, he managed product marketing for Intel, one of the largest manufacturers of semiconductors for PCs, servers, phones, tablets, and consumer electronic devices, where he was responsible for product marketing and bringing new products and technologies to market in the Asia Pacific region. Mr. Sundaram holds a Bachelor of Engineering in electrical engineering from University of Mumbai. 

